Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.

The following discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our consolidated historical financial statements and the notes to those statements that appear elsewhere in this report. Our discussion contains forward-looking statements based upon current expectations that involve risks and uncertainties, such as our plans, objectives, expectations and intentions. Actual results and the timing of events could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of a number of factors, including those set forth under the section entitled “Risk Factors” elsewhere in this report.

Management Overview 

Net sales increased 2.2% in 2018, primarily driven by an increase in comparable store sales. We experienced improvement across all regions with stronger sales growth in our Mid-Atlantic, Midwest and Northeast regions, growth in our Professional and Canadian businesses, as well as increased sales in several product categories.

Our gross margin expansion for 2018 was primarily driven by our increase in comparable sales, an improvement in inventory management related to utilizing inventory on hand and continued material cost optimization efforts. These improvements in margin were partially offset by increased supply chain costs due to higher fuel prices and transportation costs.

Our diluted earnings per share in 2018 was $5.73 compared to $6.42 in 2017. When adjusted for the following non-operational items, our adjusted diluted earnings per share (“adjusted EPS”) in 2018 was $7.13 compared to $5.37 during 2017:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Refer to “Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures” for further details of our comparable adjustments and the usefulness of such measures to investors.

Summary of 2018 Financial Results

A high-level summary of our financial results and other highlights from 2018 includes:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Refer to “Results of Operations” and “Liquidity and Capital Resources” for further details on our results.

 16
Business Update 

We continue to make progress on the various elements of our strategic business plan, which is focused on improving the customer experience and driving consistent execution for both Professional and DIY customers. To achieve these improvements, we have undertaken planned transformation actions to help build a foundation for long-term success across the entire company. These transformation actions include:

•Improvement of our common catalog of products across our Professional and DIY businesses — AAP, Carquest (“CQ”), Worldpac (“WP”) and Autopart International (“AI”) that was completed in the first half of 2018.

•Development of a demand-based assortment, leveraging purchase and search history from the common catalog, versus our existing push-down supply approach. This technology is a first step in moving from a supply-driven to a demand-driven assortment.

•Progress in the early development of a more efficient end-to-end supply chain to deliver our broad assortment.

•Continued movement towards optimizing our footprint by market to drive share, repurposing of our in-market store and asset base and optimizing our distribution centers. 

•Creation of new Professional omni-channel capabilities to reach our customers in the manner that is most desirable for them, including the launch of MyAdvance.com, an interactive, easy-to-use, mobile-friendly platform where we have combined multiple online tools and capabilities into one place. 

•Entered into strategic partnership with Walmart.com that we expect to enable us to reach a much broader group of DIY customers and help drive our DIY market share growth.

•Continued focus on Worldpac branch openings in 2018 to drive Professional growth while investing in online and digital to drive DIY improvements.

Industry Update 

Operating within the automotive aftermarket industry, we are influenced by a number of general macroeconomic factors, many of which are similar to those affecting the overall retail industry. These factors include, but are not limited to:

•Fuel costs

•Unemployment rates

•Consumer confidence

•Competition

•Changes in new car sales

•Miles driven

•Vehicle manufacturer warranties

•Average age of vehicles in operation

•Economic and political uncertainty

•Deferral of elective automotive maintenance and improvements in new car quality

While these factors tend to fluctuate, we remain confident in the long-term growth prospects for the automotive parts industry.

 17
Results of Operations 

The following table sets forth certain of our operating data expressed as a percentage of net sales for the periods indicated. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Note: Table amounts may not foot due to rounding.

2018 Compared to 2017

Net Sales

Net sales for 2018 were $9,580.6 million, an increase of $206.8 million, or 2.2%, from net sales in 2017. This increase was primarily due to our comparable store sales growth of 2.3%. Our growth in comparable store sales was driven by an overall improvement across our business in 2018, growth in our Professional and Canadian businesses, increased sales in several product categories and strong spring and summer selling seasons, partially offset by decreased sales in the winter season resulting from extreme cold temperatures.

Gross Profit

Gross profit for 2018 was $4,219.4 million, or 44.0% of net sales, as compared to $4,085.0 million, or 43.6% of net sales, in 2017, an increase of 46 basis points. The increase in gross profit as a percentage of net sales was primarily the result of an improvement in inventory management related to utilizing inventory on hand and material cost optimization efforts, as well as a continued focus on productivity initiatives throughout the year. These improvements in margin were partially offset by increased supply chain costs due to higher fuel prices and transportation costs.

SG&A

SG&A for 2018 was $3,615.1 million, or 37.7% of net sales, as compared to $3,514.8 million, or 37.5% of net sales, for 2017, an increase of 24 basis points. This increase as a percentage of net sales was primarily due to costs incurred in connection with our transformation plan, higher bonus and increased spending related to our new marketing campaign. Partially offsetting these costs were lower GPI integration and store closure and consolidation and insurance and claims expense in 2018 compared to the prior year, as well as a continued focus on expense management throughout the year.

Income Taxes

Our effective income tax rate was 23.7% and 8.6% for 2018 and 2017. The increase in our effective tax rate for 2018 compared to 2017 was primarily related to the net tax benefit of $143.8 million related to the Act that was recorded in 2017. This was partially offset by the reduction of the federal tax rate from 35% to 21% due to the enactment of the Act, which favorably impacted our Net income for 2018 by $77.7 million, or $1.05 per diluted share. During the third quarter of 2018 in conjunction with the completion of our 2017 U.S. income tax return, we identified a change in estimate to amounts previously recorded for the remeasurement of the net deferred tax liability and nonrecurring repatriation tax on accumulated earnings of foreign subsidiaries which resulted in a net tax benefit of $5.7 million. Our accounting for the impact of the Act under Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 118 (“SAB 118”) was completed as of the third quarter of 2018.

 18
2017 Compared to 2016

Net Sales

Net sales for 2017 were $9,373.8 million, a decline of $193.9 million, or 2.0%, over net sales for 2016. This decrease was primarily due to our comparable store sales decline of 2.0% and the portion of sales that did not transfer from stores that were consolidated. During 2017, we consolidated 16 stores and closed 50 stores, which was partially offset by the opening of 60 new stores. Our decline in comparable store sales was driven by a decrease in overall transactions in 2017 and mild summer weather conditions, which was partially offset by an increase in the average transaction value and favorable weather in the fourth quarter of the year that drove a stronger demand across the business.

Gross Profit

Gross profit for 2017 was $4,085.0 million, or 43.6% of net sales, as compared to $4,255.9 million, or 44.5% of net sales, in 2016, a decrease of 90 basis points. The decrease in gross profit as a percentage of net sales was primarily the result of higher supply chain costs driven by unfavorable commodity prices and the negative impact related to the continued inventory optimization efforts, partially offset by continued material cost improvement.

SG&A

SG&A for 2017 was $3,514.8 million, or 37.5% of net sales, as compared to $3,468.3 million, or 36.3% of net sales, for 2016, an increase of 125 basis points. This increase as a percentage of net sales was primarily due to costs incurred in connection with our transformation plan and higher customer facing costs including store labor and incentives and higher medical costs. Partially offsetting these costs were lower GPI integration and store closure and consolidation expenses in 2017 compared to the prior year and continued focus on expense management throughout the year. 

Interest Expense

Interest expense for 2017 was $58.8 million, as compared to $59.9 million in 2016. The decrease in interest expense was due to lower outstanding balances of our credit facilities during 2017, as compared to 2016.

Income Taxes

Income tax expense for 2017 was $44.8 million, as compared to $279.2 million for 2016. Our effective income tax rate was 8.6% and 37.8% for 2017 and 2016. The decrease in our effective tax rate for 2017 compared to 2016 was primarily due to a net $143.8 million benefit related to the Act.

Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures

“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” includes certain financial measures not derived in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”). Non-GAAP financial measures should not be used as a substitute for GAAP financial measures, or considered in isolation, for the purpose of analyzing our operating performance, financial position or cash flows. We have presented these non-GAAP financial measures as we believe that the presentation of our financial results that exclude (1) non-operational expenses associated with the integration of GPI and store closure and consolidation; (2) non-cash charges related to the acquired GPI intangible assets; (3) transformation expenses under our strategic business plan; and (4) nonrecurring impact of the Act, is useful and indicative of our base operations because the expenses vary from period to period in terms of size, nature and significance and/or relate to the integration of GPI and store closure and consolidation activity in excess of historical levels. These measures assist in comparing our current operating results with past periods and with the operational performance of other companies in our industry. The disclosure of these measures allows investors to evaluate our performance using the same measures management uses in developing internal budgets and forecasts and in evaluating management’s compensation. Included below is a description of the expenses we have determined are not normal, recurring cash operating expenses necessary to operate our business and the rationale for why providing these measures is useful to investors as a supplement to the GAAP measures.

 19
GPI Integration and Store Closure and Consolidation Expenses—We acquired GPI in 2014 and are progressing in our multi-year plan to integrate the operations of GPI with AAP. Due to the size of the acquisition, we consider these expenses to be outside of our base business. Therefore, we believe providing additional information in the form of non-GAAP measures that exclude these costs is beneficial to the users of our financial statements in evaluating the operating performance of our base business and our sustainability once the integration is complete. In addition to integration expenses, we incur store closure and consolidation expenses that consist of expenses associated with our plans to convert and consolidate the Carquest stores acquired from GPI. While periodic store closures are common, these closures represent a significant program outside of our typical market evaluation process. We believe it is useful to provide additional non-GAAP measures that exclude these costs to provide investors greater comparability of our base business and core operating performance. We also continue to have store closures that occur as part of our normal market evaluation process and have not excluded the expenses associated with these store closures in computing our non-GAAP measures.

Transformation Expenses—We expect to recognize a significant amount of transformation expenses over the next several years as we transition from integration of our AAP/CQUS businesses to a plan that involves a more holistic and integrated transformation of the entire Company, including WP and AI. These expenses will include, but not be limited to, restructuring costs, store closure costs and third-party professional services and other significant costs to integrate and streamline our operating structure across the enterprise. We are focused on several areas throughout Advance, such as supply chain and information technology.

U.S. Tax Reform—On December 22, 2017, the Act was signed into law. The Act amends the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 by, among other things, permanently lowering the corporate tax rate to 21% from the existing maximum rate of 35%, implementing a territorial tax system and imposing a one-time repatriation tax on deemed repatriated earnings of foreign subsidiaries. During the third quarter of 2018, and in conjunction with the completion of our 2017 U.S. income tax return, we identified a change in estimate, in accordance with SAB 118, to amounts previously estimated for the remeasurement of the net deferred tax liability and nonrecurring repatriation tax on accumulated earnings foreign subsidiaries.

We have included a reconciliation of this information to the most comparable GAAP measures in the following table.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) The adjustment to Other income for 2017 relates to income recognized from an indemnification agreement associated with the acquisition of GPI.

(2) The income tax impact of non-GAAP adjustments is calculated using the estimated tax rate in effect for the respective non-GAAP adjustments. 

 20
Liquidity and Capital Resources 

Overview

Our primary cash requirements necessary to maintain our current operations include payroll and benefits, inventory purchases, contractual obligations, capital expenditures, payment of income taxes and funding of initiatives under our strategic business plan. In addition, we may use available funds for acquisitions, to repay borrowings under our credit agreement, to periodically repurchase shares of our common stock under our stock repurchase programs and for the payment of quarterly cash dividends. Historically, we have funded these requirements primarily through cash generated from operations, supplemented by borrowings under our credit facilities and debt securities as needed. We believe funds generated from our expected results of operations, available cash and cash equivalents, and available borrowing capacity under our credit facility will be sufficient to fund our primary obligations for the next year.

Capital Expenditures

Our primary capital requirements have been the funding of our investments in supply chain and information technology (“IT”), e-commerce and maintenance of existing stores. We lease approximately 84% of our stores. 

Our capital expenditures were $193.7 million in 2018, an increase of $4.0 million from 2017. This increase in capital expenditures related to several IT projects, including our Finance enterprise resource planning tool, as well as investment in supply chain and store improvements.

Our future capital requirements will depend in large part on the timing or number of the investments we make on IT and supply chain network initiatives and existing stores and new store development (leased and owned locations) within a given year. In 2019, we anticipate that our capital expenditures related to such investments will range from $250 million to $300 million, but may vary with business conditions. 

Analysis of Cash Flows

The following table summarizes our cash flows from operating, investing and financing activities:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Operating Activities

For 2018, net cash provided by operating activities increased $210.2 million to $811.0 million. The net increase in operating cash flows compared to the prior year was primarily driven by our focus on working capital management, including an increase in Accounts payable, partially offset by increases in Receivables, net and Inventories.

For 2017, net cash provided by operating activities increased $77.5 million to $600.8 million. This net increase in operating cash flow was primarily driven by the timing of payments within working capital. Our inventory balance as of December 30, 2017 decreased $157.4 million, or 3.6%, over the prior year primarily driven by the focus on inventory optimization across the Company.

 21
Investing Activities

For 2018, net cash used in investing activities increased by $13.2 million to $191.8 million compared to 2017. The increase in cash used in investing activities was primarily driven by an increase in capital expenditures related to several IT projects, including our Finance enterprise resource planning tool, as well as investments in supply chain, e-commerce and store improvements.

For 2017, net cash used in investing activities decreased by $83.4 million to $178.6 million compared to 2016. The decrease in cash used in investing activities was primarily driven by the decrease in cash used for purchases of property and equipment. 

Financing Activities

For 2018, net cash used in financing activities increased by $249.0 million to $263.9 million. This increase was primarily a result of returning cash to shareholders in the form of stock repurchases and dividends.

For 2017, net cash used in financing activities decreased by $202.3 million to $14.9 million. This decrease was primarily a result of lower net repayments on the revolving credit facility and term loan than in the prior year.

Long-Term Debt

As of December 29, 2018, we had a credit rating from Standard & Poor’s of BBB- and from Moody’s Investor Service of Baa2. The current outlooks by Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s are both stable. The current pricing grid used to determine our borrowing rate under our revolving credit facility is based on our credit ratings. If these credit ratings decline, our interest rate on outstanding balances may increase and our access to additional financing on favorable terms may become more limited. In addition, it could reduce the attractiveness of certain vendor payment programs whereby third-party institutions finance arrangements to our vendors based on our credit rating, which could result in increased working capital requirements. Conversely, if these credit ratings improve, our interest rate may decrease.

On January 29, 2019, we notified Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., as trustee, of our intent to redeem all $300.0 million aggregate principal amount of our outstanding 5.75% Notes due 2020. For detailed information refer to Note 7, Long-term Debt and Fair Value of Financial Instruments, of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included herein.

Stock Repurchases 

On August 8, 2018, the Company's Board of Directors authorized a $600 million stock repurchase program. Under this authorization, the Company repurchased 1.7 million shares of its common stock at an aggregate cost of $272.8 million during 2018. We had $327.2 million remaining under our stock repurchase program as of December 29, 2018. 

Subsequent to December 29, 2018, we have repurchased 0.8 million shares of common stock at an aggregate cost of $127.2 million through our stock repurchase program.

Off-Balance-Sheet Arrangements 

As of December 29, 2018, other than as disclosed in Note 7, Long-term Debt and Fair Value of Financial Instruments, of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included herein, we had no other off-balance-sheet arrangements. We include other off-balance-sheet arrangements in our Contractual Obligations table including operating lease payments and interest payments on our senior unsecured notes, revolving credit facility and letters of credit outstanding.

 22
Contractual Obligations

In addition to our senior unsecured notes and revolving credit facility, we utilize operating leases as another source of financing. The amounts payable under these operating leases are included in our Contractual Obligations table. Our future contractual obligations related to long-term debt, operating leases and other contractual obligations as of December 29, 2018 were as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Note: For additional information refer to Note 7, Long-term Debt and Fair Value of Financial Instruments; Note 12, Income Taxes; Note 13, Lease Commitments; Note 14, Contingencies; and Note 15, Benefit Plans, of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included herein. 

(1) Long-term debt represents the principal amount of our senior unsecured notes, which become due in 2020, 2022 and 2023. 

(2) We lease certain store locations, distribution centers, office space, equipment and vehicles. Our property leases generally contain renewal and escalation clauses and other concessions. These provisions are considered in our calculation of our minimum lease payments that are recognized as expense on a straight-line basis over the applicable lease term. Any lease payments that are based upon an existing index or rate are included in our minimum lease payment calculations. 

(3) Includes the long-term portion of deferred income taxes and other liabilities, including self-insurance reserves for which no contractual payment schedule exists. As we expect the payments to occur beyond 12 months from December 29, 2018, the related balances have not been reflected in the “Payments Due by Period” section of the table. 

(4) Purchase commitments include agreements to purchase goods or services that are enforceable, legally binding and specify all significant terms, including fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased; fixed, minimum or variable price provisions; and the approximate timing of the transaction. Included in the table above is the lesser of the remaining obligation or the cancellation penalty under the agreement. 

Critical Accounting Policies

Our financial statements have been prepared in accordance with GAAP. Our discussion and analysis of the financial condition and results of operations are based on these financial statements. The preparation of these financial statements requires the application of accounting policies in addition to certain estimates and judgments by our management. Our estimates and judgments are based on currently available information, historical results and other assumptions we believe are reasonable. Actual results could differ materially from these estimates. 

The preparation of our financial statements included the following significant estimates and exercise of judgment. 

Goodwill and Indefinite-Lived Intangible Assets

We evaluate goodwill and indefinite-lived intangibles for impairment annually as of the first day of our fourth quarter or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value of the goodwill or other intangible asset may not be recoverable. We test goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level. Effective in the third quarter of 2017, we realigned our three geographic divisions, which included the operations of the stores operating under the Advance Auto Parts, Carquest and Autopart International trade names, into two U.S. geographic divisions. As a result of this realignment and change in the operating structure of its Carquest Independent and Carquest Canada businesses, we now have five operating segments. As each operating segment represents a reporting unit, goodwill was reassigned to the affected reporting units using a relative fair value approach.

 23
Our detailed impairment testing involves comparing the fair value of each reporting unit to its carrying value, including goodwill. If a reporting unit’s fair value has historically significantly exceeded its carrying value, then a risk-based market approach of determining the reporting unit’s fair value is utilized. We use a valuation specialist to determine the fair value for the remaining reporting units. If the fair value exceeds carrying value, we conclude that no goodwill impairment has occurred. If the carrying value of the reporting unit exceeds its fair value, a second step is required to measure possible goodwill impairment loss. 

Our indefinite-lived intangible assets primarily consist of the Carquest and Worldpac brands are tested for impairment at the asset group level. Indefinite-lived intangibles are evaluated by comparing the carrying amount of the asset to the future discounted cash flows that the asset is expected to generate. If the fair value based on the future discounted cash flows exceeds the carrying value, we conclude that no intangible asset impairment has occurred. If the carrying value of the indefinite-lived intangible asset exceeds the fair value, we recognize an impairment loss.

We complete our impairment evaluations by combining information from our internal valuation analyses, considering other publicly available market information and using an independent valuation firm. We determine fair value using widely accepted valuation techniques, including discounted cash flows and market multiple analyses. These types of analyses require management to make assumptions as a marketplace participant would and to apply judgment to estimate industry economic factors and the profitability of future business strategies of our Company and our reporting units. These assumptions and estimates are a major component of the derived fair value of our reporting units. Critical assumptions include projected sales growth, gross profit rates, SG&A rates, working capital fluctuations, capital expenditures, discount rates, royalty rates and terminal growth rates. If actual results are not consistent with our estimates or assumptions, we may be exposed to an impairment charge that could be material. 

Inventory Reserves

Our inventory consists primarily of parts, batteries, accessories and other products used on vehicles that have reasonably long shelf lives. Although the risk of obsolescence is minimal, we consider whether we may have excess inventory based on our current approach for managing slower moving inventory. We establish reserves when the expected net proceeds are less than carrying value.

Future changes by vendors in their policies or willingness to accept returns of excess inventory, changes in our inventory management approach for excess and obsolete inventory or failure by us to effectively manage the life cycle of our inventory could require us to revise our estimates of required reserves and result in a negative impact on our consolidated statement of operations. A 10% difference in actual inventory reserves at December 29, 2018 would result in a change in expense of approximately $9.5 million for 2018.

Self-Insurance Reserves

Our self-insurance reserves consist of the estimated exposure for claims filed, claims incurred but not yet reported and projected future claims, and are established using actuarial methods followed in the insurance industry and our historical claims experience. Specific factors include, but are not limited to, assumptions about health care costs, the severity of accidents and the incidence of illness and the average size of claims. Generally, claims for automobile and general liability and workers’ compensation take several years to settle. We classify the portion of our self-insurance reserves that is not expected to be settled within one year in long-term liabilities.

While we do not expect the amounts ultimately paid to differ significantly from our estimates, our self-insurance reserves and corresponding SG&A could be affected if future claim experience differs significantly from historical trends and actuarial assumptions. A 10% change in our self-insurance liabilities at December 29, 2018 would result in a change in expense of approximately $15.4 million for 2018.

Vendor Incentives 

We receive incentives in the form of reductions to amounts owed and/or payments from vendors related to volume rebates and other promotional considerations. Many of these incentives are under agreements with terms in excess of one year, while others are negotiated on an annual basis or less. Volume rebates and vendor promotional allowances not offsetting in SG&A are earned based on inventory purchases and initially recorded as a reduction to inventory. These deferred amounts are included as a reduction to cost of sales as the inventory is sold.

 24
Vendor promotional allowances provided as a reimbursement of specific, incremental and identifiable costs incurred to promote a vendor’s products are included as an offset to SG&A when the cost is incurred if the fair value of that benefit can be reasonably estimated. Certain of our vendor agreements contain purchase volume incentives that provide for increased funding when graduated purchase volumes are met. Amounts accrued throughout the year could be impacted if actual purchase volumes differ from projected annual purchase volumes. 

Similarly, we recognize other promotional incentives earned under long-term agreements as a reduction to cost of sales. However, these incentives are recognized based on the cumulative net purchases as a percentage of total estimated net purchases over the life of the agreement. Short-term incentives with terms less than one year are generally recognized as a reduction to cost of sales over the duration of the agreements.

Amounts received or receivable from vendors that are not yet earned are reflected as deferred revenue. Management’s estimate of the portion of deferred revenue that will be realized within one year of the balance sheet date is included in Other current liabilities. Earned amounts that are receivable from vendors are included in Receivables, net except for that portion expected to be received after one year, which is included in Other assets, net. We regularly review the receivables from vendors to ensure they are able to meet their obligations. Historically, the change in our reserve for receivables related to vendor funding has not been significant.

New Accounting Pronouncements

For a description of recently adopted and issued accounting standards, including the expected dates of adoption and estimated effects, if any, on our consolidated financial statements, see “Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements” in Note 2, Significant Accounting Policies, of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included herein.

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risks.