ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

Interest Rate Exposure

Our interest income and expense are sensitive to changes in the general level of interest rates. In this regard, changes in interest rates affect the interest earned or paid on our marketable securities and debt, as well as the fair value of our investments and debt.

During fiscal 2019, we entered into a term loan credit agreement, under which we borrowed unsecured term loans in the aggregate principal amount of $1.25 billion, maturing March 10, 2022. Loans under the term loan agreement may be Eurodollar Rate Loans or Base Rate Loans at our option. Each Eurodollar Rate Loan will bear interest at a rate per annum equal to the Adjusted LIBO Rate plus a margin based on our debt ratings from time to time of between 0.625% and 1.500%. Each Base Rate Loan will bear interest at a rate per annum equal to the Base Rate plus a margin based on our debt ratings from time to time of between 0.000% and 0.500%. In fiscal 2019, we made principal payments on the term loans in the amount of $325.0 million. Based on the $925 million of floating rate debt outstanding as of November 2, 2019, our annual interest expense would change by approximately $9.3 million for each 100 basis point increase in interest rates. 

We utilize interest rate derivatives to manage interest rate exposure on both outstanding debt as well as future issuances. As of November 2, 2019, for each 100 basis point decrease in the ten-year U.S. Treasury rate, the fair value of our outstanding derivative instruments would change by approximately $100 million.

Based on our marketable securities outstanding as of November 2, 2019 and November 3, 2018, our annual interest income would change by approximately $6.5 million and $8.2 million, respectively, for each 100 basis point increase in interest rates.

To provide a meaningful assessment of the interest rate risk associated with our investment portfolio, we performed a sensitivity analysis to determine the impact a change in interest rates would have on the value of our investment portfolio assuming a 100 basis point parallel shift in the yield curve. Based on investment positions as of November 2, 2019 and November 3, 2018, a hypothetical 100 basis point increase in interest rates across all maturities would not materially impact the fair market value of the portfolio in either period. If significant, such losses would only be realized if we sold the investments prior to maturity.

As of November 2, 2019, we had $4.6 billion in principal amount of senior unsecured notes outstanding, with a fair value of $4.9 billion. The fair value of our notes is subject to interest rate risk, market risk, and other factors. Generally, the fair value of our notes will increase as interest rates fall and decrease as interest rates rise. The fair values of our notes as of November 2, 2019 and November 3, 2018, assuming a hypothetical 100 basis point increase in market interest rates, are as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

43

Foreign Currency Exposure

As more fully described in Note 2i, Derivative and Hedging Agreements, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we regularly hedge our non-U.S. dollar-based exposures by entering into forward foreign currency exchange contracts. The terms of these contracts are for periods matching the duration of the underlying exposure and generally range from one to twelve months. Currently, our largest foreign currency exposure is the Euro, primarily because our European operations have the highest proportion of our local currency denominated expenses. Relative to foreign currency exposures existing at November 2, 2019 and November 3, 2018, a 10% unfavorable movement in foreign currency exchange rates over the course of the year would result in approximately $12.1 million of losses and $14.1 million of losses, respectively, in changes in earnings or cash flows.

The market risk associated with our derivative instruments results from currency exchange rates that are expected to offset the market risk of the underlying transactions, assets and liabilities being hedged. The counterparties to the agreements relating to our foreign exchange instruments consist of a number of major international financial institutions with high credit ratings. Based on the credit ratings of our counterparties as of November 2, 2019, we do not believe that there is significant risk of nonperformance by them. While the contract or notional amounts of derivative financial instruments provide one measure of the volume of these transactions, they do not represent the amount of our exposure to credit risk. The amounts potentially subject to credit risk (arising from the possible inability of counterparties to meet the terms of their contracts) are generally limited to the amounts, if any, by which the counterparties’ obligations under the contracts exceed our obligations to the counterparties.

The following table illustrates the effect that a 10% unfavorable or favorable movement in foreign currency exchange rates, relative to the U.S. dollar, would have on the fair value of our forward exchange contracts as of November 2, 2019 and November 3, 2018:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The calculation assumes that each exchange rate would change in the same direction relative to the U.S. dollar. In addition to the direct effects of changes in exchange rates, such changes typically affect the volume of sales or the foreign currency sales price as competitors’ products become more or less attractive. Our sensitivity analysis of the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates does not factor in a potential change in sales levels or local currency selling prices.

44

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

The Board of Directors and Shareholders 

Analog Devices, Inc.

Opinion on the Financial Statements

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Analog Devices, Inc. (the Company) as of November 2, 2019 and November 3, 2018, the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, shareholders' equity and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended November 2, 2019, and the related notes and financial statement schedule listed in the Index at Item 15(a)(2) (collectively referred to as the “consolidated financial statements”). In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company at November 2, 2019 and November 3, 2018, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended November 2, 2019, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. 

We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB), the Company's internal control over financial reporting as of November 2, 2019, based on criteria established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013 framework), and our report dated November 26, 2019 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.

Adoption of ASU No. 2014-09

As discussed in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company changed its method of accounting for revenue in the year ended November 2, 2019 due to the adoption of Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), and the related amendments. 

Adoption of ASU No. 2016-16

As discussed in Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company changed its method of accounting for the income tax consequences of intra-entity transfers, other than inventory, in the year ended November 2, 2019 due to the adoption of ASU No. 2016-16, Income Taxes (Topic 740): Intra-Entity Transfers of Assets Other Than Inventory.

Basis for Opinion 

These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’s financial statements based on our audits. We are a public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB. 

We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement, whether due to error or fraud. Our audits included performing procedures to assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to error or fraud, and performing procedures that respond to those risks. Such procedures included examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. Our audits also included evaluating the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

Critical Audit Matters 

The critical audit matters communicated below are matters arising from the current period audit of the financial statements that were communicated or required to be communicated to the audit committee and that: (1) relate to accounts or disclosures that are material to the financial statements and (2) involved our especially challenging, subjective or complex judgments. The communication of critical audit matters does not alter in any way our opinion on the consolidated financial statements, taken as a whole, and we are not, by communicating the critical audit matters below, providing separate opinions on the critical audit matters or on the accounts or disclosures to which they relate.

45

Revenue Recognition – Measuring Variable Consideration

Description of the MatterAs described in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company's sales contracts provide certain distributors with credits for price protection and rights of return, which results in variable consideration. During 2019, sales to distributors were $3.4 billion net of expected price protection discounts and rights of return for which the liability balance as of November 2, 2019 was $227.0 million.

Auditing the Company's measurement of variable consideration under distributor contracts involved especially challenging judgment because the calculation involves subjective management assumptions about estimates of expected price protection discounts and returns. For example, estimated variable consideration included in the transaction price reflects management's evaluation of contractual terms, historical experience and assumptions about future economic conditions. Changes in those assumptions can have a material effect on the amount of variable consideration recognized.

How We Addressed the Matter in Our Audit

We obtained an understanding, evaluated the design and tested the operating effectiveness of controls over the Company's process to calculate the variable consideration. For example, we tested controls over the appropriateness of assumptions management used as well as controls over the completeness and accuracy of the data underlying estimates of expected price protection discounts and returns.

Our audit procedures included, among others, inspecting contractual terms in distributor agreements and testing the underlying data used in management’s calculation for completeness and accuracy as well as evaluating the significant assumptions used in the estimation of variable consideration. We evaluated the Company’s methods and assumptions used in the estimates, which included comparing the assumptions to historical trends. We inspected and tested the results of the Company's retrospective review analysis of actual returns and price protection discounts claimed by distributors, evaluated the estimates made based on historical experience and performed sensitivity analyses of the Company’s significant assumptions to assess the impact on the variable consideration. We also evaluated whether the Company appropriately considered new information that could significantly change the estimated future price protection discounts or returns.

Goodwill – Quantitative Impairment Assessment

Description of the Matter

The Company’s consolidated goodwill balance was $12.3 billion as of November 2, 2019. As described in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company evaluates goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level annually and performed a quantitative goodwill impairment assessment for one of its eight reporting units. The quantitative impairment assessment involves the comparison of the fair value of a reporting unit to its carrying amount. The Company used a weighting of the income and market approaches to determine the fair value of the reporting unit. 

Auditing management's quantitative goodwill impairment test involved a high degree of auditor judgment due to the significant estimation required to determine the fair value of the reporting unit. In particular, the fair value estimate was sensitive to significant assumptions, such as forecasted revenues, gross profit margins, operating income margins, long-term discount rate, perpetual growth rate, identification of comparable publicly traded companies and estimated valuation multiples.

How We Addressed the Matter in Our Audit

We obtained an understanding, evaluated the design and tested the operating effectiveness of controls over the Company's quantitative goodwill impairment assessment process. For example, we tested controls over management's review of the valuation model and the significant assumptions used. 

To test the estimated fair value of the reporting unit, our audit procedures included, among others, assessing methodologies and testing the significant assumptions discussed above and the underlying data used by the Company in its analysis. We tested significant assumptions by comparing to current and forecasted industry and economic trends, analyst reports, and forecasted peer company information. We evaluated management’s ability to accurately forecast by comparing actual results to historical forecasts. We also performed sensitivity analyses of certain assumptions to evaluate changes in the fair value that would result from changes in the assumptions. With the assistance of our valuation specialists, we evaluated the selection of the long-term discount rate and perpetual growth rate, including testing the underlying source information and the mathematical accuracy of the calculations by developing a range of independent estimates and comparing those to the rates selected by management. We also involved our valuation specialists to evaluate the market approach, including evaluating the reasonableness of the selected comparable publicly traded companies and the resulting market multiples calculation. 

46

/s/ Ernst & Young LLP

We have served as the Company’s auditor since 1967. 

Boston, Massachusetts

November 26, 2019 

47

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA