ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

FOREIGN CURRENCY EXCHANGE RISK

Our revenue, earnings, cash flows, receivables, and payables are subject to fluctuations due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Our risk management strategy utilizes foreign currency contracts to manage our exposure to foreign currency volatility that exists as part of our ongoing business operations. We utilize cash flow hedge contracts to reduce the exchange rate impact on a portion of the net revenue or operating expense of certain anticipated transactions. In addition, we use balance sheet hedge contracts to reduce the exchange rate risk associated primarily with foreign currency denominated receivables and payables. As of January 31, 2019, and 2018, we had open cash flow and balance sheet hedge contracts with future settlements within one to twelve months. Contracts were primarily denominated in euros, Japanese yen, British pounds, Canadian dollars, Australian dollars, Singapore dollars, Swiss francs, Swedish krona, and Czech krona. We do not enter into foreign exchange derivative instruments for trading or speculative purposes. The notional amount of our option and forward contracts was $1,383.3 million and $949.5 million at January 31, 2019, and 2018, respectively.

We use foreign currency contracts to reduce the exchange rate impact on the net revenue and operating expenses of certain anticipated transactions. A sensitivity analysis performed on our hedging portfolio as of January 31, 2019, indicated that a hypothetical 10% appreciation of the U.S. dollar from its value at January 31, 2019 and 2018 would increase the fair value of our foreign currency contracts by $123.4 million and $57.9 million, respectively. A hypothetical 10% depreciation of the dollar from its value at January 31, 2019, and 2018 would decrease the fair value of our foreign currency contracts by $98.3 million and $83.2 million, respectively.

INTEREST RATE RISK

Interest rate movements affect both the interest income we earn on our short-term investments and the market value of certain longer term securities. At January 31, 2019, we had $443.7 million of cash equivalents and marketable securities, including $67.6 million classified as short-term marketable securities. If interest rates were to move up by 50 or 100 basis points over a twelve month period, the market value change of our marketable securities would not have a meaningful unrealized gain or loss. 

In December 2018, we entered into a $500.0 million term loan facility, all of which was outstanding as of January 31, 2019. The term loan bears interest, at Autodesk's option, at either (i) a floating rate per annum equal to the base rate plus a margin between 0.000% and 0.625%, depending on Autodesk's Public Debt Rating or (ii) a per annum rate equal to the rate at which dollar deposits are offered in the London interbank market, plus a margin of between 0.875% and 1.625%, depending on Autodesk's Public Debt Rating. Based on Autodesk's current credit ratings the term loan bears interest at a per annum rate equal to the rate at which dollar deposits are offered in the London interbank market, plus a margin of 1.125% per annum. A hypothetical increase or decrease of 50 or 100 basis points would not have a material impact on our results of operations. The term loan facility matures in December 2020. 

OTHER MARKET RISK

From time to time we make direct investments in privately held companies. Privately held company investments generally are considered inherently risky. The technologies and products these companies have under development are typically in the early stages and may never materialize, which could result in a loss of all or a substantial part of our initial investment in these companies. The evaluation of privately held companies is based on information that we request from these companies, which is not subject to the same disclosure regulations as U.S. publicly traded companies, and as such, the basis for these evaluations is subject to the timing and accuracy of the data received from these companies. See Part II, Item 8, Note 3, "Financial Instruments" in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion regarding our privately held investments. 

For information about exposure to counter-party credit-related losses, see Part II, Item 8, Note 1, “Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies - Concentration of Credit Risk."

2019 Form 10-K 60

Table of Contents 

ITEM 8.FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA