Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

AMERICAN ELECTRIC POWER COMPANY, INC. AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES

INDEX OF ANNUAL REPORTS

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

GLOSSARY OF TERMS

When the following terms and abbreviations appear in the text of this report, they have the meanings indicated below.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

i

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

ii

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

iii

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

iv

FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION

This report made by the Registrants contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Many forward-looking statements appear in “Item 7 – Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” but there are others throughout this document which may be identified by words such as “expect,” “anticipate,” “intend,” “plan,” “believe,” “will,” “should,” “could,” “would,” “project,” “continue” and similar expressions, and include statements reflecting future results or guidance and statements of outlook. These matters are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected. Forward-looking statements in this document are presented as of the date of this document. Except to the extent required by applicable law, management undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement. Among the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements are:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

v

Other risks and unforeseen events, including wars, the effects of terrorism (including increased security costs), embargoes, naturally occurring and human-caused fires, cyber security threats and other catastrophic events.

The forward-looking statements of the Registrants speak only as of the date of this report or as of the date they are made. The Registrants expressly disclaim any obligation to update any forward-looking information. For a more detailed discussion of these factors, see “Risk Factors” in Part I of this report.

Investors should note that the Registrants announce material financial information in SEC filings, press releases and public conference calls. Based on guidance from the SEC, the Registrants may use the Investors section of AEP’s website (www.aep.com) to communicate with investors about the Registrants. It is possible that the financial and other information posted there could be deemed to be material information. The information on AEP’s website is not part of this report.

vi

AEP COMMON STOCK INFORMATION

AEP common stock is principally traded using the trading symbol “AEP” on the New York Stock Exchange. As of December 31, 2018, AEP had approximately 60,000 registered shareholders. 

vii

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a)The 2018 financial results include pretax asset impairments of $71 million. See Note 7 - Dispositions and Impairments for additional information.

(b)Includes portion due within one year.

(c)Amounts reflect the adoption of ASU 2017-07 “Compensation - Retirement Benefits.” See Note 2 - New Accounting Pronouncements for additional information.

1

AMERICAN ELECTRIC POWER COMPANY, INC. AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND 

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

EXECUTIVE OVERVIEW

Company Overview

AEP is one of the largest investor-owned electric public utility holding companies in the United States. AEP’s electric utility operating companies provide generation, transmission and distribution services to more than five million retail customers in Arkansas, Indiana, Kentucky, Louisiana, Michigan, Ohio, Oklahoma, Tennessee, Texas, Virginia and West Virginia.

AEP’s subsidiaries operate an extensive portfolio of assets including:

•Approximately 220,000 miles of distribution lines that deliver electricity to 5.4 million customers.

•Approximately 40,000 circuit miles of transmission lines, including approximately 2,200 circuit miles of 765 kV lines, the backbone of the electric interconnection grid in the Eastern United States.

•Approximately 23,000 megawatts of regulated owned generating capacity and approximately 4,900 megawatts of regulated PPA capacity in 3 RTOs as of December 31, 2018, one of the largest complements of generation in the United States. 

Customer Demand

AEP’s weather-normalized retail sales volumes for the year ended December 31, 2018 increased by 0.8% from the year ended December 31, 2017. AEP’s 2018 industrial sales volumes increased 2% compared to 2017. The growth in industrial sales was spread across all operating companies and many industries. Weather-normalized residential sales increased 0.6% driven by strong growth in customer counts. Weather-normalized commercial sales decreased by 0.5% in 2018 compared to 2017.

In 2019, AEP anticipates weather-normalized retail sales volumes will increase by 1%. The industrial class is expected to increase by 2.4% in 2019, while weather-normalized residential sales volumes are projected to decrease by 0.3%. Weather-normalized commercial sales volumes are projected to increase by 1.1%.

(a)Percentage change for the year ended December 31, 2018 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2017. 

(b)Forecasted percentage change for the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to the year ended December 31, 2018. 

2

Regulatory Matters

AEP’s public utility subsidiaries are involved in rate and regulatory proceedings at the FERC and their state commissions. Depending on the outcomes, these rate and regulatory proceedings can have a material impact on results of operations, cash flows and possibly financial condition. The following are key proceedings that AEP is currently involved in. See Note 4 - Rate Matters for additional information.

•Hurricane Harvey and Texas Storm Cost Securitization - In August 2017, Hurricane Harvey hit the coast of Texas, causing power outages in the AEP Texas service territory. In August 2018, AEP Texas filed a Determination of System Restoration Costs with the PUCT for total net storm costs, including storms previous to Hurricane Harvey, in the amount of $370 million. In November 2018, AEP Texas, the PUCT staff and intervenors filed a stipulation and settlement agreement with the PUCT that reduced the $370 million of total net storm costs to $354 million to reflect the impact of settlement agreement adjustments and additional insurance proceeds received. The net storm costs of $354 million are inclusive of a $152 million regulatory asset for deferred storm costs. AEP Texas is planning to make a filing in the first half of 2019 to request securitization of estimated distribution related assets of $247 million. The remaining $107 million of estimated transmission related assets is expected to be recovered through interim transmission filings or an upcoming base rate case. 

•Virginia Legislation Affecting Earnings Reviews - In March 2018, Virginia enacted legislation requiring APCo to file its next generation and distribution base rate case by March 31, 2020 using 2017, 2018 and 2019 test years (“triennial review”). Triennial reviews are subject to an earnings test which provides that 70% of any earnings exceeding 70 basis points over the Virginia SCC authorized return on common equity would be refunded, or may be offset by capital expenditures in approved energy distribution grid transformation projects and/or new utility-owned solar and wind generation facilities. Management has reviewed APCo’s actual and forecasted earnings for the triennial period and concluded that it is not probable but is reasonably possible that APCo will over-earn in Virginia during the 2017-2019 triennial period. Due to various uncertainties, including weather, storm restoration, weather-normalized demand and potential customer shopping during 2019, management cannot estimate a range of potential APCo Virginia over-earnings during the 2017-2019 triennial period. 

•Virginia Staff Depreciation Study Request - In November 2018, Virginia staff recommended that APCo implement new Virginia jurisdictional depreciation rates effective January 1, 2018 based on APCo’s depreciation study that was prepared at Virginia staff’s request using December 31, 2017 APCo property balances. Implementation of those depreciation rates would result in a $21 million pretax increase in annual depreciation expense with no corresponding increase in retail base rates. In December 2018, APCo submitted a response to the Virginia Staff stating that it was inappropriate for APCo to change Virginia depreciation rates in advance of APCo’s triennial review, citing the Virginia SCC’s November 2014 order to not change APCo’s Virginia depreciation rates until APCo’s next base rate case/review.

•2016 SEET Filing - Ohio law provides for the return of significantly excessive earnings to ratepayers upon PUCO review. In 2016, OPCo recorded a 2016 SEET provision of $58 million based upon projected earnings data for companies in the comparable utilities risk group. In determining OPCo’s return on equity in relation to the comparable utilities risk group, management excluded the following items resolved in OPCo’s Global Settlement that was filed at the PUCO in December 2016 and subsequently approved in February 2017: (a) gain on the deferral of RSR costs, (b) refunds to customers related to the SEET remands and (c) refunds to customers related to fuel adjustment clause proceedings. In 2017, OPCo submitted its 2016 SEET filing with the PUCO in which management indicated that OPCo did not have significantly excessive earnings in 2016. In January 2018, PUCO staff filed testimony that OPCo did not have significantly excessive earnings in 2016. Also in January 2018, an intervenor filed testimony recommending a $53 million refund to customers related to OPCo 2016 SEET earnings. In February 2018, OPCo and PUCO staff filed a stipulation agreement in which both parties agreed that OPCo did not have significantly excessive earnings in 2016. A 2016 SEET hearing was held in April 2018 and management expects to receive an order in the first half of 2019. While management 

3

believes that OPCo’s adjusted 2016 earnings were not excessive, management did not adjust OPCo’s 2016 SEET provision due to risks that the PUCO could rule against OPCo’s proposed SEET adjustments, including treatment of the Global Settlement issues described above, adjust the comparable risk group or adopt a different 2016 SEET threshold.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•FERC Transmission Complaint - AEP’s PJM Participants - In 2016, seven parties filed a complaint at the FERC that alleged the base return on common equity used by AEP’s transmission owning subsidiaries within PJM in calculating formula transmission rates under the PJM OATT is excessive and should be reduced from 10.99% to 8.32%, effective upon the date of the complaint. In March 2018, AEP’s transmission owning subsidiaries within PJM and six of the complainants filed a settlement agreement with the FERC (the seventh complainant abstained). If approved by the FERC, the settlement agreement establishes a base ROE for AEP’s transmission owning subsidiaries within PJM of 9.85% (10.35% inclusive of the RTO incentive adder of 0.5%), effective January 1, 2018 and increases the cap on the equity portion of the capital structure to 55% from 50%. In April 2018, an ALJ accepted the interim settlement rates, which were implemented effective January 1, 2018. These interim rates are subject to refund or surcharge, with interest. In April 2018, certain intervenors filed comments at the FERC recommending a base ROE of 8.48% and a one-time refund of $184 million. The FERC trial staff filed comments recommending a base ROE of 8.41% and one-time refund of $175 million. Another intervenor recommended the refund be calculated in accordance with the base ROE that will ultimately be approved by the FERC. In May 2018, management filed reply comments providing further support for the 9.85% base ROE agreed to in the settlement agreement. In February 2019, the FERC issued an order that requested additional information in order to evaluate the settlement. That order did not rule on the merits of the settlement.

•FERC Transmission Complaint - AEP’s SPP Participants - In 2017, several parties filed a complaint at the FERC that states the base return on common equity used by AEP’s transmission owning subsidiaries within SPP in calculating formula transmission rates under the SPP OATT is excessive and should be reduced from 10.7% to 8.36%, effective upon the date of the complaint through September 5, 2018. In September 2018, the same parties filed another complaint at the FERC that states the base return on common equity used should be reduced from 10.7% to 8.71%, effective upon the date of the second complaint. A hearing at the FERC is scheduled for August 2019.

4

Utility Rates and Rate Proceedings

The Registrants file rate cases with their regulatory commissions seeking increases or decreases to their electric service rates to recover their costs and earn a fair return on their investments. The outcomes of these regulatory proceedings impact the Registrants’ current and future results of operations, cash flows and financial position.

The following tables show the Registrants’ completed and pending base rate case proceedings in 2018. See Note 4 - Rate Matters for additional information.

Completed Base Rate Case Proceedings

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Pending Base Rate Case Proceedings

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Dolet Hills Lignite Company Operations

In November 2018, SWEPCo and CLECO announced that the Dolet Hills Power Station will change to a seasonal operational strategy. DHLC’s mining operation will continue year-round but will reduce its lignite output. SWEPCo’s share of the net investment in the Dolet Hills Power Station is $132 million and the maximum exposure of SWEPCo’s total investment in DHLC is $190 million. Management will continue to monitor the economic viability of the Dolet Hills Power Station and DHLC.

Wind Catcher Project

In July 2017, PSO and SWEPCo submitted filings with the OCC, LPSC, APSC and PUCT requesting various regulatory approvals needed for the companies to proceed with the Wind Catcher Project. In July 2018, the PUCT denied SWEPCo’s request for a Certificate of Public Convenience and Necessity to proceed with the Wind Catcher Project. PSO and SWEPCo subsequently cancelled the Wind Catcher Project. Total expenses incurred for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 were $41 million and $14 million, respectively.

Other Renewable Generation

The growth of AEP’s renewable generation portfolio reflects the company’s strategy to diversify generation resources to provide clean energy options to customers that meet both their energy and capacity needs.

Contracted Renewable Generation Facilities

AEP continues to develop its renewable portfolio within the Generation & Marketing segment. Activities include working directly with wholesale and large retail customers to provide tailored solutions based upon market knowledge, technology innovations and deal structuring which may include distributed solar, wind, combined heat and power, energy storage, waste heat recovery, energy efficiency, peaking generation and other forms of cost reducing energy 

5

technologies. The Generation & Marketing segment also develops and/or acquires large scale renewable generation projects that are backed with long-term contracts with creditworthy counterparties. As of December 31, 2018, subsidiaries within AEP’s Generation & Marketing segment had approximately 436 MWs of contracted renewable generation projects in-service. In addition, as of December 31, 2018, these subsidiaries had approximately 57 MWs of renewable generation projects under construction with total estimated capital costs of $80 million related to these projects.

In January 2018, AEP admitted a nonaffiliate as a member of Desert Sky Wind Farm LLC and Trent Wind Farm LLC (collectively “the LLCs”) to own and repower Desert Sky and Trent. The nonaffiliated member contributed full turbine sets to each project in exchange for a 20.1% interest in the LLCs. AEP has contributed its cash equity capital commitment of $235 million related to its 79.9% share of the LLCs, or 261 MWs. The wind farms were fully repowered and placed in-service in the third quarter of 2018. AEP is subject to a put and has a call option after certain conditions are met, either of which would liquidate the nonaffiliated member’s interest. See Note 17 - Variable Interest Entities for additional information.

In December 2018, AEP signed a Purchase and Sale Agreement with a nonaffiliate to acquire a 75% interest in a 302 MW wind generation project located in West Texas upon completion. Management expects the transaction to close and the wind generation facility to be in-service in mid-2019.

In February 2019, AEP signed an agreement to purchase Sempra Renewables LLC and its 724 MWs of wind generation and battery assets for approximately $1.1 billion, subject to closing and working capital adjustments. As part of the purchase price, AEP will pay $551 million in cash and assume $343 million of existing project debt obligations of the non-consolidated joint ventures. Additionally, the acquisition will be accompanied by the recognition of non-controlling tax equity interest of $162 million associated with certain of the acquired wind farms. The wind generation portfolio includes seven wholly or jointly-owned wind farms with long-term PPAs for 100% of their energy production. The transaction is expected to close in mid-2019 and is subject to regulatory approvals from the FERC and federal clearance pursuant to the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976.

Regulated Renewable Generation Facilities

In July 2017, APCo submitted filings with the Virginia SCC and the WVPSC requesting regulatory approval to acquire two wind generation facilities totaling approximately 225 MWs. In the second quarter of 2018, the Virginia SCC and WVPSC denied APCo’s applications to acquire the two wind generation facilities.

In September 2018, OPCo, consistent with its commitment in the previously approved PPA application, submitted a filing with the PUCO demonstrating a need for up to 900 MWs of economically beneficial renewable resources in Ohio. This filing was followed by a separate filing for two solar Renewable Energy Purchase Agreements totaling 400 MWs. In January 2019, PUCO staff recommended that the PUCO reject OPCo’s request. If approved, the solar generation facilities are expected to be operational by the end of 2021.

In January 2019, PSO and SWEPCo issued requests for proposals to acquire up to 1,000 MWs and 1,200 MWs of wind generation, respectively. The wind generation projects would be subject to regulatory approval and placed in-service by the end of 2021.

Federal Tax Reform

In December 2017, Tax Reform legislation was signed into law. Tax Reform includes significant changes to the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, including lowering the corporate federal income tax rate from 35% to 21%. As a result of this rate change, the Registrants’ deferred tax assets and liabilities were remeasured using the newly enacted rate of 21% in December 2017. In response to Tax Reform, the SEC staff issued Staff Accounting Bulletin 118 (SAB 118) in December 2017. SAB 118 provided for up to a one year period (the measurement period) in which to complete the required analyses and accounting required by Tax Reform.

6

During 2017, AEP recorded provisional amounts for the income tax effects of Tax Reform. Throughout 2018, AEP continued to assess the impacts of legislative changes in the tax code as well as interpretative changes of the tax code. The measurement period adjustments recorded during 2018 were immaterial.

The measurement period under SAB 118 ended in December 2018. However, Tax Reform uncertainties still remain and AEP will continue to monitor income tax effects that may change as a result of future legislation and further interpretation of Tax Reform based on proposed U.S. Treasury regulations and guidance from the IRS and state tax authorities.

Status of Tax Reform Regulatory Proceedings

During 2018, state utility commissions issued orders and instructions requiring public utilities, including the Registrants, to provide the benefits of Tax Reform to customers. As of December 31, 2018, the Registrants have received orders and instructions from a majority of the jurisdictions in which they operate. The table below summarizes the various regulatory jurisdictions where the regulatory effects of Tax Reform proceedings have not been fully resolved. See Note 4 - Rate Matters for additional information.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a)A portion of the Excess ADIT that is not subject to rate normalization requirements is to be addressed in a later filing.

(b)Legislation has been issued for a blanket amount that is subject to true-up and final commission approval.

(c)In October 2018, the Virginia SCC issued an order approving APCo’s request to refund a portion of the Excess ADIT that is not subject to rate normalization requirements to customers. The remainder is to be addressed in a separate pending case.

(d)Rates have been implemented through a filed formula rate plan that is subject to true-up and final commission approval.

(e)An ALJ has approved a settlement. The settlement is subject to final FERC ruling.

Merchant Coal Generation Assets

In September 2018, management announced plans to close the Oklaunion Power Station by October 2020. In the fourth quarter of 2018, management announced plans to close Conesville Plant Units 5 and 6 in May 2019 and Unit 4 in May 2020. The closures are not expected to have a material impact on net income, cash flows or financial condition.

Racine

A project to reconstruct a defective dam structure at Racine began in the first quarter of 2017. In December 2017, an impairment analysis was triggered by an increase in the expected costs of the dam reconstruction activities, resulting in a pretax impairment charge equal to Racine’s net book value of $43 million as of December 31, 2017.

Reconstruction activities at Racine continued through 2018. Due to a significant increase in estimated costs to complete the reconstruction project, in the third quarter of 2018, an impairment analysis was performed resulting in an additional impairment of $35 million, representing the total costs previously capitalized during 2018. During the fourth quarter of 2018, there were no significant increases in estimated costs to complete the reconstruction project and no other events were identified that would have triggered the need for an additional impairment analysis at Racine.

Reconstruction activities at Racine are estimated to be completed in the fourth quarter of 2019. AEP expects to incur additional capital expenditures to complete the reconstruction project, at which point the fair value of Racine, as fully operational, is expected to approximate the amount of those remaining estimated capital expenditures. Future revisions in cost estimates could result in additional losses which could reduce future net income and cash flows and impact financial condition.

7

Merchant Portion of Turk Plant

SWEPCo constructed the Turk Plant, a base load 600 MW pulverized coal ultra-supercritical generating unit in Arkansas, which was placed into service in December 2012 and is included in the Vertically Integrated Utilities segment. SWEPCo owns 73% (440 MWs) of the Turk Plant and operates the facility.

The APSC granted approval for SWEPCo to build the Turk Plant by issuing a Certificate of Environmental Compatibility and Public Need (CECPN) for the SWEPCo Arkansas jurisdictional share of the Turk Plant (approximately 20%). Following an appeal by certain intervenors, the Arkansas Supreme Court issued a decision that reversed the APSC’s grant of the CECPN. In June 2010, in response to an Arkansas Supreme Court decision, the APSC issued an order which reversed and set aside the previously granted CECPN. This share of the Turk Plant output is currently not subject to cost-based rate recovery and is being sold into the wholesale market. Approximately 80% of the Turk Plant investment is recovered under cost-based rate recovery in Texas, Louisiana and through SWEPCo’s wholesale customers under FERC-based rates. As of December 31, 2018, the net book value of Turk Plant was $1.5 billion, before cost of removal, including materials and supplies inventory and CWIP. If SWEPCo cannot ultimately recover its investment and expenses related to the Turk Plant, it could reduce future net income and cash flows and impact financial condition.

LITIGATION

In the ordinary course of business, AEP is involved in employment, commercial, environmental and regulatory litigation. Since it is difficult to predict the outcome of these proceedings, management cannot predict the eventual resolution, timing or amount of any loss, fine or penalty. Management assesses the probability of loss for each contingency and accrues a liability for cases that have a probable likelihood of loss if the loss can be estimated. Adverse results in these proceedings have the potential to reduce future net income and cash flows and impact financial condition. See Note 4 – Rate Matters and Note 6 – Commitments, Guarantees and Contingencies for additional information.

Rockport Plant Litigation

In July 2013, the Wilmington Trust Company filed a complaint in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York against AEGCo and I&M alleging that it would be unlawfully burdened by the terms of the modified NSR consent decree after the Rockport Plant, Unit 2 lease expiration in December 2022. The terms of the consent decree allow the installation of environmental emission control equipment, repowering, refueling or retirement of the unit. The plaintiffs seek a judgment declaring that the defendants breached the lease, must satisfy obligations related to installation of emission control equipment and indemnify the plaintiffs. The New York court granted a motion to transfer this case to the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Ohio.

AEGCo and I&M sought and were granted dismissal of certain of the plaintiffs’ claims, including claims for compensatory damages, breach of contract, breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing and indemnification of costs. Plaintiffs voluntarily dismissed the surviving claims that AEGCo and I&M failed to exercise prudent utility practices with prejudice, and the court issued a final judgment. The plaintiffs subsequently filed an appeal in the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit.

The U.S. Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit issued an opinion and judgment affirming the district court’s dismissal of the owners’ breach of good faith and fair dealing claim as duplicative of the breach of contract claims, reversing the district court’s dismissal of the breach of contract claims and remanding the case for further proceedings.

In July 2017, AEP filed a motion with the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Ohio in the original NSR litigation, seeking to modify the consent decree to eliminate the obligation to install certain future controls at Rockport Plant, Unit 2 if AEP does not acquire ownership of that Unit, and to modify the consent decree in other respects to preserve the environmental benefits of the consent decree. Responsive and supplemental filings have been made by all parties. In November 2017, the district court granted the owners’ unopposed motion to stay the lease litigation to afford time for resolution of AEP’s motion to modify the consent decree. In September 2018, the district court granted AEP’s unopposed motion to stay further proceedings regarding the consent decree to facilitate settlement discussions among the parties to the consent decree. See “Proposed Modification of the NSR Litigation Consent Decree” section below for additional information.

8

Management will continue to defend against the claims. Given that the district court dismissed plaintiffs’ claims seeking compensatory relief as premature, and that plaintiffs have yet to present a methodology for determining or any analysis supporting any alleged damages, management is unable to determine a range of potential losses that are reasonably possible of occurring.

ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES

AEP has a substantial capital investment program and incurs additional operational costs to comply with environmental control requirements. Additional investments and operational changes will need to be made in response to existing and anticipated requirements such as new CAA requirements to reduce emissions from fossil fuel-fired power plants, rules governing the beneficial use and disposal of coal combustion by-products, clean water rules and renewal permits for certain water discharges.

AEP is engaged in litigation about environmental issues, was notified of potential responsibility for the clean-up of contaminated sites and incurred costs for disposal of SNF and future decommissioning of the nuclear units. AEP, along with various industry groups, affected states and other parties challenged some of the Federal EPA requirements in court. Management is also engaged in the development of possible future requirements including the items discussed below. Management believes that further analysis and better coordination of these environmental requirements would facilitate planning and lower overall compliance costs while achieving the same environmental goals.

AEP will seek recovery of expenditures for pollution control technologies and associated costs from customers through rates in regulated jurisdictions. Environmental rules could result in accelerated depreciation, impairment of assets or regulatory disallowances. If AEP is unable to recover the costs of environmental compliance, it would reduce future net income and cash flows and impact financial condition.

Environmental Controls Impact on the Generating Fleet

The rules and proposed environmental controls discussed below will have a material impact on the generating units in the AEP System. Management continues to evaluate the impact of these rules, project scope and technology available to achieve compliance. As of December 31, 2018, the AEP System had a total generating capacity of approximately 25,400 MWs, of which approximately 13,200 MWs were coal-fired. Management continues to refine the cost estimates of complying with these rules and other impacts of the environmental proposals on the fossil generating facilities. Based upon management estimates, AEP’s investment to meet these existing and proposed requirements ranges from approximately $650 million to $1.5 billion through 2025.

The cost estimates will change depending on the timing of implementation and whether the Federal EPA provides flexibility in finalizing proposed rules or revising certain existing requirements. The cost estimates will also change based on: (a) the states’ implementation of these regulatory programs, including the potential for SIPs or FIPs that impose more stringent standards, (b) additional rulemaking activities in response to court decisions, (c) the actual performance of the pollution control technologies installed on the units, (d) changes in costs for new pollution controls, (e) new generating technology developments, (f) total MWs of capacity retired and replaced, including the type and amount of such replacement capacity, (g) the outcome of the pending motion to modify the NSR consent decree and (h) other factors. In addition, management is continuing to evaluate the economic feasibility of environmental investments on both regulated and competitive plants.

9

The table below represents the net book value before cost of removal, including related materials and supplies inventory, of plants or units of plants previously retired that have a remaining net book value as of December 31, 2018.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a)APCo obtained permits following the Virginia SCC’s and WVPSC’s approval to convert Clinch River Plant, Units 1 and 2 to natural gas. In 2015, APCo retired the coal-related assets of Clinch River Plant, Units 1 and 2. Clinch River Plant, Unit 1 and Unit 2 began operations as natural gas units in 2016.

Management is seeking or will seek recovery of the remaining net book value in future rate proceedings. To the extent the net book value of these generation assets is not recoverable, it could materially reduce future net income and cash flows and impact financial condition.

Proposed Modification of the New Source Review Litigation Consent Decree

In 2007, the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Ohio approved a consent decree between AEP subsidiaries in the eastern area of the AEP System and the Department of Justice, the Federal EPA, eight northeastern states and other interested parties to settle claims that the AEP subsidiaries violated the NSR provisions of the CAA when they undertook various equipment repair and replacement projects over a period of nearly 20 years. The consent decree’s terms include installation of environmental control equipment on certain generating units, a declining cap on SO2 and NOx emissions from the AEP System and various mitigation projects.

In July 2017, AEP filed a motion with the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Ohio seeking to modify the consent decree to eliminate an obligation to install future controls at Rockport Plant, Unit 2 if AEP does not acquire ownership of that unit, and to modify the consent decree in other respects to preserve the environmental benefits of the consent decree. The other parties to the consent decree opposed AEP’s motion. The district court granted AEP’s request to delay the deadline to install SCR technology at Rockport Plant, Unit 2 until June 2020.

In January 2018, AEP filed a supplemental motion proposing to install the SCR at Rockport Plant, Unit 2 and achieve the final SO2 emission cap applicable to the plant under the consent decree by the end of 2020 and later filed a detailed statement of the specific relief requested to address the changed circumstances at Rockport Plant, Unit 2. In September 2018, the district court granted AEP’s unopposed motion to stay further proceedings on the pending motion to modify the consent decree to facilitate settlement discussions among the parties.

AEP is seeking to modify the consent decree as a means to resolve or substantially narrow the issues in pending litigation with the owners of Rockport Plant, Unit 2. See “Rockport Plant Litigation” section above and Note 6 - Commitments, Guarantees and Contingencies for additional information.

Clean Air Act Requirements

The CAA establishes a comprehensive program to protect and improve the nation’s air quality and control sources of air emissions. The states implement and administer many of these programs and could impose additional or more stringent requirements. The primary regulatory programs that continue to drive investments in AEP’s existing generating units include: (a) periodic revisions to NAAQS and the development of SIPs to achieve any more stringent standards, (b) implementation of the regional haze program by the states and the Federal EPA, (c) regulation of hazardous 

10

air pollutant emissions under MATS, (d) implementation and review of CSAPR, a FIP designed to eliminate significant contributions from sources in upwind states to non-attainment or maintenance areas in downwind states and (e) the Federal EPA’s regulation of greenhouse gas emissions from fossil fueled electric generating units under Section 111 of the CAA.

In March 2017, President Trump issued a series of executive orders designed to allow the Federal EPA to review and take appropriate action to revise or rescind regulatory requirements that place undue burdens on affected entities, including specific orders directing the Federal EPA to review rules that unnecessarily burden the production and use of energy. Future changes that result from this effort may affect AEP’s compliance plans.

Notable developments in significant CAA regulatory requirements affecting AEP’s operations are discussed in the following sections.

National Ambient Air Quality Standards

The Federal EPA issued new, more stringent NAAQS for SO2 in 2010, PM in 2012 and ozone in 2015; the existing standards for NO2 were retained after review by the Federal EPA in 2018. Implementation of these standards is underway. In December 2017, the Federal EPA published final designations for certain areas’ compliance with the 2010 SO2 NAAQS. Additional designations will be made in 2020. States may develop additional requirements for AEP’s facilities as a result of these designations. In June 2018, the Federal EPA proposed to retain the current primary standard for SO2 of 75 parts per billion, without change.

In December 2016, the Federal EPA completed an integrated review plan for the 2012 PM standard. Work is currently underway on scientific, risk and policy assessments necessary to develop a proposed rule, which is anticipated in 2021.

Most areas of the country were designated attainment or unclassifiable for the 2015 ozone standard in November 2017. The Federal EPA finalized non-attainment designations for the remaining areas in 2018. The Federal EPA has also issued information to assist the states in developing plans that address their obligations under the interstate transport provisions of the CAA for the 2008 and 2015 ozone standards. The Federal EPA has confirmed that for states included in the CSAPR program, there are no additional interstate transport obligations, as all areas of the country are expected to attain the 2008 ozone standard before 2023. State implementation plans for the 2015 ozone standard were submitted in October 2018. Challenges to the 2015 ozone standard are pending in the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit. In November 2018, the Federal EPA proposed final requirements for implementing the 2015 ozone standard. Management cannot currently predict the nature, stringency or timing of additional requirements for AEP’s facilities based on the outcome of these activities.

Regional Haze

The Federal EPA issued a Clean Air Visibility Rule (CAVR), detailing how the CAA’s requirement that certain facilities install best available retrofit technology (BART) would address regional haze in federal parks and other protected areas. BART requirements apply to power plants. CAVR will be implemented through SIPs or, if SIPs are not adequate or are not developed on schedule, through FIPs. In January 2017, the Federal EPA revised the rules governing submission of SIPs to implement the visibility programs, including a provision that postpones the due date for the next comprehensive SIP revisions until 2021. Petitions for review of the final rule revisions have been filed in the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit.

In March 2012, the Federal EPA proposed disapproval of a portion of the regional haze SIP in Arkansas and finalized a FIP in September of 2016. The FIP includes revised BART determinations for the Flint Creek Plant that are consistent with the environmental controls installed to address other CAA requirements. The final rule is being challenged in the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit, but has been held in abeyance to allow the parties to engage in settlement negotiations. Arkansas issued a proposed SIP revision to allow sources to participate in the CSAPR ozone season program in lieu of the source-specific NOx BART requirements in the FIP, and the Federal EPA approved the revision. Arkansas finalized a separate action to revise the SO2 BART determinations which was challenged before the Arkansas 

11

Pollution Control and Ecology Commission. The ALJ has recommended that the challenge be dismissed. The Federal EPA proposed to approve the Arkansas SO2 BART determinations, which if the Federal EPA issues final approval, no further emission reductions will be required at the Flint Creek Plant.

The Federal EPA also disapproved portions of the Texas regional haze SIP. In January 2017, the Federal EPA proposed source-specific BART requirements for SO2 from sources in Texas, including Welsh Plant, Unit 1. The proposed source-specific approach for Welsh Plant, Unit 1 called for installation of a wet FGD system. In October 2017, the Federal EPA finalized a FIP that allows participation in the CSAPR ozone season program to satisfy the NOx regional haze obligations for electric generating units in Texas. Additionally, the Federal EPA finalized an intrastate SO2 emissions trading program based on CSAPR allowance allocations as an alternative to source-specific SO2 requirements. The opportunity to use emissions trading to satisfy the regional haze requirements for NOx and SO2 at AEP’s affected generating units provides greater flexibility and lower cost compliance options than the original proposal. A challenge to the FIP has been filed in the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit by various intervenors and the case has been held in abeyance pending the Federal EPA’s reconsideration of the final rule. In August 2018, the Federal EPA proposed to affirm its October 2017 FIP approval and requested comment on certain aspects of the FIP promulgation and specifically on the intrastate SO2 trading program. Management supports the intrastate trading program contained in the FIP as a compliance alternative to source-specific controls.

In June 2012, the Federal EPA published revisions to the regional haze rules to allow states participating in the CSAPR trading programs to use those programs in place of source-specific BART for SO2 and NOx emissions based on its determination that CSAPR results in greater visibility improvements than source-specific BART in the CSAPR states. The rule was challenged in the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit. In March 2018, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit affirmed the Federal EPA rule that found that CSAPR provides greater visibility improvements than BART. Challenges to the changes made to the scope of the program in 2016 are being held in abeyance while the Federal EPA reconsiders the Texas SO2 BART FIP.

Cross-State Air Pollution Rule

In 2011, the Federal EPA issued CSAPR as a replacement for the Clean Air Interstate Rule, a regional trading program designed to address interstate transport of emissions that contributed significantly to downwind non-attainment with the 1997 ozone and PM NAAQS. CSAPR relies on newly-created SO2 and NOx allowances and individual state budgets to compel further emission reductions from electric utility generating units. Interstate trading of allowances is allowed on a restricted sub-regional basis.

Numerous affected entities, states and other parties filed petitions to review the CSAPR in the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit. The rule was vacated, but that decision was reversed on appeal to the U.S. Supreme Court. On remand, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit allowed Phase I of CSAPR to take effect on January 1, 2015 and Phase II to take effect on January 1, 2017. In July 2015, the court found that the Federal EPA over-controlled the SO2 and/or NOx budgets of 14 states. The court remanded the rule to the Federal EPA for revision consistent with the court’s opinion while CSAPR remained in place.

In October 2016, the Federal EPA issued a final rule to address the remand and to incorporate additional changes necessary to address the 2008 ozone standard. The final rule significantly reduced ozone season budgets in many states and discounted the value of banked CSAPR ozone season allowances beginning with the 2017 ozone season. The rule has been challenged in the courts and petitions for administrative reconsideration have been filed. Management has been complying with the more stringent ozone season budgets while these petitions were pending.

Mercury and Other Hazardous Air Pollutants (HAPs) Regulation

In 2012, the Federal EPA issued a rule addressing a broad range of HAPs from coal and oil-fired power plants. The rule established unit-specific emission rates for units burning coal on a 30-day rolling average basis for mercury, PM (as a surrogate for particles of non-mercury metals) and hydrogen chloride (as a surrogate for acid gases). In addition, the rule proposed work practice standards, such as boiler tune-ups, for controlling emissions of organic HAPs and dioxin/furans. Compliance was required within three years. Management obtained administrative extensions for up to one year at several units to facilitate the installation of controls or to avoid a serious reliability problem.

12

In 2014, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit denied all of the petitions for review of the 2012 final rule. Industry trade groups and several states filed petitions for further review in the U.S. Supreme Court.

In June 2015, the U.S. Supreme Court reversed the decision of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit. The court remanded the MATS rule to the Federal EPA to consider costs in determining whether to regulate emissions of HAPs from power plants. The Federal EPA issued a supplemental finding concluding that, after considering the costs of compliance, it was appropriate and necessary to regulate HAP emissions from coal and oil-fired units. Petitions for review of the Federal EPA’s determination were filed in the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit. Oral argument was scheduled for May 2017, but in April 2017, the Federal EPA requested that oral argument be postponed to facilitate its review of the rule, which remains in effect. In December 2018, the Federal EPA released a proposed finding that the costs of reducing HAP emissions to the level in the current rule exceed the benefits of those HAP emission reductions. The Federal EPA also determined that there are no significant changes in control technologies and the remaining risks associated with HAP emissions do not justify any more stringent standards. However, the Federal EPA also proposed that it would not remove the source category or alter MATS and no further reductions are necessary. The comment period on this proposed finding has not yet commenced.

Climate Change, CO2 Regulation and Energy Policy

In October 2015, the Federal EPA published the final CO2 emissions standards for new, modified and reconstructed fossil fuel-fired steam generating units and combustion turbines, and final guidelines for the development of state plans to regulate CO2 emissions from existing sources, known as the Clean Power Plan (CPP).

The final rules are being challenged in the courts. In February 2016, the U.S. Supreme Court issued a stay on the final CPP, including all of the deadlines for submission of initial or final state plans. The stay will remain in effect until a final decision is issued by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit and the U.S. Supreme Court considers any petition for review. In March 2017, the President issued an Executive Order directing the Federal EPA to reconsider the CPP and the associated standards for new sources. The Federal EPA filed a motion to hold the challenges to the CPP in abeyance, and the cases are still pending.

In October 2017, the Federal EPA issued a proposed rule repealing the CPP. In December 2017, the Federal EPA issued an advanced notice of proposed rulemaking seeking information that should be considered by the Federal EPA in developing revised guidelines for state programs. In August 2018, the Federal EPA proposed the Affordable Clean Energy (ACE) rule to replace the CPP with new emission guidelines for regulating CO2 from existing sources. ACE would establish a framework for states to adopt standards of performance for utility boilers based on heat rate improvements for such boilers. Comments were accepted until the end of October 2018. In December 2018, the Federal EPA filed a proposed rule revising the standards for new sources and determined that partial carbon capture and storage is not the best system of emission reduction because it is not available throughout the U.S. and is not cost-effective. Management is actively monitoring rulemaking activities.

AEP has taken action to reduce and offset CO2 emissions from its generating fleet and expects CO2 emissions from its operations to continue to decline due to the retirement of some of its coal-fired generation units, and actions taken to diversify the generation fleet and increase energy efficiency where there is regulatory support for such activities. The majority of the states where AEP has generating facilities passed legislation establishing renewable energy, alternative energy and/or energy efficiency requirements that can assist in reducing carbon emissions. Management is taking steps to comply with these requirements, including increasing wind and solar installations, power purchases and broadening AEP System’s portfolio of energy efficiency programs.

In 2018, AEP announced new intermediate and long-term CO2 emission reduction goals, based on the output of the company’s integrated resource plans, which take into account economics, customer demand, grid reliability and resiliency, regulations and the company’s current business strategy. The intermediate goal is a 60% reduction from 2000 CO2 emission levels from AEP generating facilities by 2030; the long-term goal is an 80% reduction of CO2 emissions from AEP generating facilities from 2000 levels by 2050. AEP’s total estimated CO2 emissions in 2018 were approximately 69 million metric tons, a 59% reduction from AEP’s 2000 CO2 emissions of approximately 167 million metric tons.

13

Federal and state legislation or regulations that mandate limits on the emission of CO2 could result in significant increases in capital expenditures and operating costs, which in turn, could lead to increased liquidity needs and higher financing costs. Excessive costs to comply with future legislation or regulations might force AEP to close some coal-fired facilities, which could possibly lead to impairment of assets.

Coal Combustion Residual Rule

In April 2015, the Federal EPA published a final rule to regulate the disposal and beneficial re-use of coal combustion residuals (CCR), including fly ash and bottom ash generated at coal-fired electric generating units and also FGD gypsum generated at some coal-fired plants. The rule applies to new and existing active CCR landfills and CCR surface impoundments at operating electric utility or independent power production facilities. The rule imposes construction and operating obligations, including location restrictions, liner criteria, structural integrity requirements for impoundments, operating criteria and additional groundwater monitoring requirements to be implemented on a schedule spanning an approximate four-year implementation period. Certain records must be posted to a publicly available internet site. Initial groundwater monitoring reports were posted in the first quarter of 2018, and some of AEP’s facilities were required to begin assessment monitoring programs to determine if unacceptable groundwater impacts will trigger future remedial actions. Additional groundwater data has been collected and further studies to design and assess appropriate remedial measures will be undertaken at four facilities in accordance with the rule.

The final 2015 rule has been challenged in the courts. In August 2018, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit issued its decision vacating and remanding certain provisions of the 2015 rule. Remaining issues were dismissed. None of the parties filed a motion for rehearing. The provisions addressed by the court’s decision, including changes to the provisions for unlined impoundments and legacy sites, will be the subject of further rulemaking consistent with the court’s decision.

In September 2017, the Federal EPA granted industry petitions to reconsider the CCR rule. In March 2018, the Federal EPA issued a proposed rule to modify certain provisions of the solid waste management standards and provide additional flexibility to facilities regulated under approved state programs. A final rule was signed in July 2018 that modifies certain compliance deadlines and other requirements in the rule. Additional changes to the minimum performance standards that were contained in the March proposed rule, and changes to respond to the decision of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit will be addressed in future rulemakings. In December 2018, challengers filed a motion for partial stay or vacatur of the July 2018 rule. On the same day, the Federal EPA filed a motion for remand of the July 2018 rule. Vacatur of the July 2018 rule could result in significant increases in capital expenditures and operating costs. Management is monitoring these developments and supports the adoption of more flexible compliance alternatives subject to the Federal EPA or state oversight.

Other utilities and industrial sources have been engaged in litigation with environmental advocacy groups who claim that releases of contaminants from wells, CCR units, pipelines and other facilities to ground waters that have a hydrologic connection to a surface water body represent an “unpermitted discharge” under the CWA. The Federal EPA has opened a rulemaking docket to solicit information to determine whether it should provide additional clarification of the scope of CWA permitting requirements for discharges to ground water. Management is unable to predict the outcome of these cases or the Federal EPA’s rulemaking, which could impose significant additional costs on AEP’s facilities.

Because AEP currently uses surface impoundments and landfills to manage CCR materials at generating facilities, significant costs will be incurred to upgrade or close and replace these existing facilities and conduct any required remedial actions. Closure and post-closure costs have been included in ARO in accordance with the requirements in the final rule. This estimate does not include costs of groundwater remediation, if required. Management will continue to evaluate the rule’s impact on operations.

14

Clean Water Act Regulations

In 2014, the Federal EPA issued a final rule setting forth standards for existing power plants that is intended to reduce mortality of aquatic organisms pinned against a plant’s cooling water intake screen (impingement) or entrained in the cooling water. Compliance timeframes are established by the permit agency through each facility’s National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System permit as those permits are renewed and have been incorporated into permits at several AEP facilities. Petitions for review were filed by industry and environmental groups in the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit. The court denied the petitions and upheld the final rule. AEP’s facilities are reviewing these requirements as their waste water discharge permits are renewed and making appropriate adjustments to their intake structures.

In November 2015, the Federal EPA issued a final rule revising effluent limitation guidelines for electricity generating facilities. The rule establishes limits on FGD wastewater, fly ash and bottom ash transport water and flue gas mercury control wastewater to be imposed as soon as possible after November 2018 and no later than December 2023. These requirements would be implemented through each facility’s wastewater discharge permit. The rule has been challenged in the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit. In March 2017, industry associations filed a petition for reconsideration of the rule with the Federal EPA. A final rule revising the compliance deadlines for FGD wastewater and bottom ash transport water to be no earlier than 2020 was issued in September 2017, but has been challenged in the courts. Management continues to assess technology additions and retrofits to comply with the rule and the impacts of the Federal EPA’s recent actions on facilities’ wastewater discharge permitting. Management is actively participating in the reconsideration proceedings.

In June 2015, the Federal EPA and the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers jointly issued a final rule to clarify the scope of the regulatory definition of “waters of the United States” in light of recent U.S. Supreme Court cases. The final rule was challenged in both courts of appeal and district courts. In January 2018, the U.S. Supreme Court ruled that challenges to the definition of “waters of the United States” must be filed in federal district courts. Challenges to the rule are proceeding, and courts have reached different conclusions about whether the 2015 rule should be implemented, or whether action to delay the implementation date to 2020 was valid. In December 2018, the Federal EPA and the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers released a proposed rule revising the definition, which would replace the definition in the 2015 rule and could significantly alter the scope of certain CWA programs. The comment period for this proposal has not yet commenced.

15

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

SEGMENTS

AEP’s primary business is the generation, transmission and distribution of electricity. Within its Vertically Integrated Utilities segment, AEP centrally dispatches generation assets and manages its overall utility operations on an integrated basis because of the substantial impact of cost-based rates and regulatory oversight. Intersegment sales and transfers are generally based on underlying contractual arrangements and agreements.

AEP’s reportable segments and their related business activities are outlined below:

Vertically Integrated Utilities

•Generation, transmission and distribution of electricity for sale to retail and wholesale customers through assets owned and operated by AEGCo, APCo, I&M, KGPCo, KPCo, PSO, SWEPCo and WPCo.

Transmission and Distribution Utilities

•Transmission and distribution of electricity for sale to retail and wholesale customers through assets owned and operated by AEP Texas and OPCo.

•OPCo purchases energy and capacity at auction to serve SSO customers and provides transmission and distribution services for all connected load.

AEP Transmission Holdco

•Development, construction and operation of transmission facilities through investments in AEPTCo. These investments have FERC-approved returns on equity.

•Development, construction and operation of transmission facilities through investments in AEP’s transmission-only joint ventures. These investments have PUCT-approved or FERC-approved returns on equity.

Generation & Marketing

•Competitive generation in ERCOT and PJM.

•Marketing, risk management and retail activities in ERCOT, PJM, SPP and MISO.

•Contracted renewable energy investments and management services.

The remainder of AEP’s activities are presented as Corporate and Other. While not considered a reportable segment, Corporate and Other primarily includes the purchasing of receivables from certain AEP utility subsidiaries, Parent’s guarantee revenue received from affiliates, investment income, interest income, interest expense, income tax expense and other nonallocated costs. 

The following discussion of AEP’s results of operations by operating segment includes an analysis of Gross Margin, which is a non-GAAP financial measure. Gross Margin includes Total Revenues less the costs of Fuel and Other Consumables Used for Electric Generation as well as Purchased Electricity for Resale, Generation Deferrals and Amortization of Generation Deferrals as presented in the Registrants’ statements of income as applicable. Under the various state utility rate making processes, these expenses are generally reimbursable directly from and billed to customers. As a result, they do not typically impact Operating Income or Earnings Attributable to AEP Common Shareholders. Management believes that Gross Margin provides a useful measure for investors and other financial statement users to analyze AEP’s financial performance in that it excludes the effect on Total Revenues caused by volatility in these expenses. Operating Income, which is presented in accordance with GAAP in AEP’s statements of income, is the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure to the presentation of Gross Margin. AEP’s definition of Gross Margin may not be directly comparable to similarly titled financial measures used by other companies.

16

The following table presents Earnings (Loss) Attributable to AEP Common Shareholders by segment:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Note: 2018 Earnings Attributable to AEP Common Shareholders by Segment excludes Corporate and Other which is not considered a reportable segment.

17

AEP CONSOLIDATED

2018 Compared to 2017 

Earnings Attributable to AEP Common Shareholders increased $11 million from $1.91 billion in 2017 to $1.92 billion in 2018 primarily due to:

•An increase in weather-related usage.

•Recovery of incremental utility plant investment through favorable rate proceedings in AEP’s various jurisdictions. 

These increases were partially offset by:

•An increase in other operation and maintenance expenses primarily within the Vertically Integrated Utilities and Transmission and Distribution Utilities segments. 

•An increase in depreciation and amortization expenses primarily due to a higher depreciable base and approved increased depreciation rates in AEP’s various jurisdictions. 

•A decrease in earnings in the Generation & Marketing segment primarily due to the 2017 gain resulting from the sale of certain merchant generation assets.

2017 Compared to 2016 

Earnings Attributable to AEP Common Shareholders increased from $611 million in 2016 to $1.91 billion in 2017 primarily due to:

•An increase due to the impairment of certain merchant generation assets in 2016.

•An increase due to the gain on the sale of certain merchant generation assets in 2017.

•An increase in transmission investment primarily at AEP Transmission Holdco which resulted in higher revenues and income.

•Favorable rate proceedings in AEP’s various jurisdictions.

These increases were partially offset by:

•A decrease in generation revenues associated with the sale of certain merchant generation assets.

•A decrease in weather-related usage.

•A decrease in FERC wholesale municipal and cooperative revenues. 

•The prior year reversal of income tax expense for an unrealized capital loss valuation allowance. AEP effectively settled a 2011 audit issue with the IRS resulting in a change in the valuation allowance.

AEP’s results of operations by reportable segment are discussed below.

18

VERTICALLY INTEGRATED UTILITIES

(a)Other AEP Segments excludes Corporate and Other which is not considered a reportable segment.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

19

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a)Includes off-system sales, municipalities and cooperatives, unit power and other wholesale customers.

20

Heating degree days and cooling degree days are metrics commonly used in the utility industry as a measure of the impact of weather on revenues. In general, degree day changes in the eastern region have a larger effect on revenues than changes in the western region due to the relative size of the two regions and the number of customers within each region.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a)Heating degree days are calculated on a 55 degree temperature base.

(b)Normal Heating/Cooling represents the thirty-year average of degree days.

(c)Cooling degree days are calculated on a 65 degree temperature base.

21

2018 Compared to 2017 

Reconciliation of Year Ended December 31, 2017 to Year Ended December 31, 2018 

Earnings Attributable to AEP Common Shareholders from Vertically Integrated Utilities

(in millions)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The major components of the increase in Gross Margin, defined as revenues less the related direct cost of fuel, including consumption of chemicals and emissions allowances, and purchased electricity were as follows:

•Retail Margins increased $105 million primarily due to the following:

•A $251 million increase in weather-related usage across all regions primarily in the residential and commercial classes.

•The effect of rate proceedings in AEP’s service territories which included:

•A $71 million increase from base rate proceedings for I&M, inclusive of a $47 million decrease due to the impact of Tax Reform in the Indiana jurisdiction.

•A $52 million increase for PSO due to new base rates implemented in March 2018, inclusive of a $27 million decrease due to the change in the corporate federal tax rate.

•A $44 million increase for SWEPCo due to rider and base rate revenue increases in Texas, Louisiana and Arkansas.

•A $33 million increase for I&M in FERC generation wholesale municipal and cooperative revenues primarily due to the annual formula rate true-up and changes to the formula rate.

•A $22 million increase in revenue from rate riders at PSO. This increase was partially offset by corresponding increases to riders/trackers recognized in other expense items below.

These increases were partially offset by:

•A $168 million decrease due to riders and customer provisions for refund related to Tax Reform. This decrease was offset in Income Tax Expense below.

•A $91 million reduction at APCo and WPCo in deferred fuel under-recovery related to the West Virginia Tax Reform settlements. This decrease was offset in Income Tax Expense below.

22

•A $50 million decrease due to lower weather-normalized wholesale margins, primarily due to SWEPCo and I&M wholesale customer load loss from contracts that expired at the end of 2017.

•A $29 million decrease in weather-normalized retail margins primarily in the commercial class.

•A $25 million increase at APCo in net ENEC recoverable PJM expenses that were offset below.

•A $16 million decrease at PSO related to the System Reliability Rider that ended in August 2017. This decrease was partially offset by a corresponding decrease recognized in other expense items below.

•A $10 million increase at APCo in non-recoverable fuel expense related to Virginia legislation.

•Margins from Off-system Sales decreased $13 million primarily due to mid-year changes in the OSS sharing mechanism at I&M.

•Transmission Revenues increased $33 million primarily due to the following:

•A $25 million increase at SWEPCo from continued SPP transmission investments.

•A $22 million increase due to the annual formula rate true-up and decreased PJM provisions.

These increases were partially offset by:

•A $16 million decrease at SWEPCo from a 2018 provision for refund related to revenues recorded in prior periods on certain transmission assets that management believes should not have been included in the SPP formula rate.

•Other Revenues decreased $17 million primarily due to reduced rates for KPCo Demand Side Management programs beginning in 2018. This decrease was partially offset in Other Operation and Maintenance expenses below.

Expenses and Other, Income Tax Expense, Equity Earnings (Loss) of Unconsolidated Subsidiaries and Net Income Attributable to Noncontrolling Interests changed between years as follows:

•Other Operation and Maintenance expenses increased $199 million primarily due to the following:

•A $46 million increase in plant outage and maintenance expenses primarily for I&M and KPCo.

•A $42 million increase in SPP transmission services.

•A $40 million increase in expenses at APCo and WPCo due to the extinguishment of regulatory asset balances as agreed to within the West Virginia Tax Reform settlement. This increase was partially offset in Retail Margins above and Income Tax Expense below.

•A $28 million increase in vegetation management primarily for I&M and APCo. 

•A $27 million increase due to the Wind Catcher Project for SWEPCo and PSO.

•A $27 million increase in storm-related expenses primarily for APCo.

•A $26 million increase in employee-related expenses.

•A $9 million increase due to an increase in estimated expense for claims related to asbestos exposure.

•A $7 million increase in factoring expense.

These increases were partially offset by:

•A $70 million decrease in PJM transmission expenses primarily due to the annual formula rate true-up.

•Asset Impairments and Other Related Charges decreased $30 million primarily due to the following:

•A $34 million decrease at SWEPCo due to Welsh Plant, Unit 2 and Turk Plant asset impairments and other charges related to the 2016 Texas Base Rate Case and the 2017 Louisiana Turk Plant Prudence Review.

This decrease was partially offset by:

•A $4 million increase at APCo due to the impairment of assets related to capacity management projects and other investments. 

•Depreciation and Amortization expenses increased $174 million primarily due to a higher depreciable base and increased depreciation rates approved at I&M, PSO and SWEPCo.

•Taxes Other Than Income Taxes increased $20 million primarily due to:

•A $10 million increase in state and local taxes due to higher reported taxable KWh and taxable revenues and a prior period refund.

•A $9 million increase in property taxes driven by an increase in utility plant.

•Interest and Investment Income increased $5 million primarily due to an increase in interest received from the Utility Money Pool as a result of increased investment in 2018 by SWEPCo and I&M.

•Carrying Costs Income decreased $10 million primarily due to a decrease in carrying charges for certain riders at I&M.

23

•Allowance for Equity Funds Used During Construction increased $7 million primarily due to an increase in construction activity at APCo and SWEPCo.

•Non-Service Cost Components of Net Periodic Benefit Cost decreased $46 million primarily due to favorable asset returns for the funded Pension and OPEB plans, favorable OPEB cost savings arrangements and the implementation of ASU 2017-07.

•Interest Expense increased $28 million primarily due to the following:

•A $13 million increase primarily due to higher long-term debt balances at I&M.

•A $10 million increase at PSO primarily due to the 2017 deferral of the debt component of carrying charges on environmental control costs for projects at Northeastern Plant, Unit 3 and Comanche Plant. 

•A $5 million increase at SWEPCo primarily due to interest expense credits in 2017 on Welsh Plant and Flint Creek Plant environmental project deferrals and other interest expense accruals for refunds and true-ups in 2018.

•Income Tax Expense decreased $420 million primarily due to the change in the corporate federal income tax rate from 35% in 2017 to 21% in 2018 as a result of Tax Reform, amortization of Excess ADIT, other book/tax differences which are accounted for on a flow-through basis and a decrease in pretax book income.

•Equity Earnings (Loss) of Unconsolidated Subsidiaries increased $7 million primarily due to a prior period income tax adjustment recognized in 2017.

•Net Income Attributable to Noncontrolling Interests decreased $8 million primarily due to 2017 income tax benefits attributable to SWEPCo’s noncontrolling interest in Sabine. This decrease was offset by an increase in Income Tax Expense above.

24

2017 Compared to 2016 

Reconciliation of Year Ended December 31, 2016 to Year Ended December 31, 2017 

Earnings Attributable to AEP Common Shareholders from Vertically Integrated Utilities

(in millions)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The major components of the increase in Gross Margin, defined as revenues less the related direct cost of fuel, including consumption of chemicals and emissions allowances, and purchased electricity were as follows:

•Retail Margins increased $7 million primarily due to the following:

•The effect of rate proceedings in AEP’s service territories which include:

•A $74 million increase for SWEPCo primarily due to rider and base rate revenue increases in Texas and Louisiana.

•A $63 million increase for I&M from rate proceedings primarily in Indiana.

•A $22 million increase for PSO from base rate increases implemented in 2017 and revenue increases from rate riders.

•A $6 million increase for KGPCo due to revenue increases from rate riders/trackers.

For the rate increases described above, $87 million relate to riders/trackers which have corresponding increases in expense items below.

•A $24 million increase primarily due to reduced fuel and other variable production costs not recovered through fuel clauses or other trackers.

•A $9 million increase in weather-normalized margins due to higher residential and industrial sales partially offset by lower commercial sales.

These increases were partially offset by:

•A $133 million decrease in weather-related usage in the eastern and western regions.

•A $50 million decrease for I&M and SWEPCo in FERC generation wholesale municipal and cooperative revenues primarily due to an annual formula rate true-up and changes to the annual formula rate.

•A $9 million decrease for APCo primarily due to prior year recognition of deferred billing in West Virginia as approved by the WVPSC.

25

•Margins from Off-system Sales increased $12 million primarily due to higher market prices and increased sales volume.

•Transmission Revenues increased $17 million primarily due the following:

•A $43 million increase primarily due to increases in formula rates driven by continued investment in transmission assets. This increase was partially offset in Expenses and Other items below.

This increase was partially offset by:

•A $26 million decrease primarily due to I&M’s annual formula rate true-up and reduced net PJM Network Integration Transmission Service revenues resulting from increased affiliated transmission-related charges.

Expenses and Other, Income Tax Expense, Equity Earnings (Loss) of Unconsolidated Subsidiaries and Net Income Attributable to Noncontrolling Interests changed between years as follows:

•Other Operation and Maintenance expenses increased $34 million primarily due to the following:

•A $134 million increase in recoverable expenses, primarily PJM expenses, fuel support and energy efficiency expenses fully recovered in rate recovery riders/trackers within Gross Margin above.

•A $14 million increase due to the Wind Catcher Project for PSO and SWEPCo.

These increases were partially offset by:

•A $49 million decrease in employee-related expenses.

•A $36 million decrease in charitable contributions, primarily to the AEP Foundation.

•A $17 million decrease in planned plant outages and maintenance primarily in the western region.

•A $5 million decrease due to an increase in gain on sales of property in 2017.

•A $4 million decrease due to the reduction of an environmental liability at I&M.

•Asset Impairments and Other Related Charges increased $23 million primarily due to the following: 

•A $34 million increase at SWEPCo due to asset impairments of Turk Plant and Welsh Plant, Unit 2 and other charges related to the Texas base rate case.

This increase was partially offset by:

•An $11 million decrease due to the impairment of I&M’s Price River Coal reserves in 2016.

•Depreciation and Amortization expenses increased $69 million primarily due to the following:

•A $61 million increase primarily due to higher depreciable base.

•A $22 million increase due to amortization of capitalized software costs.

•Taxes Other Than Income Taxes increased $23 million primarily due to higher property taxes.

•Carrying Costs Income increased $5 million primarily due to increased deferred carrying charges at I&M for a Cook Life Cycle Management project.

•Allowance for Equity Funds Used During Construction decreased $18 million primarily due to completed environmental projects for I&M, PSO and SWEPCo.

•Interest Expense increased $18 million primarily due to the following:

•A $10 million increase primarily due to higher long-term debt balances at I&M.

•An $8 million increase due to lower AFUDC borrowed funds resulting from reduced CWIP balances.

•Income Tax Expense increased $28 million primarily due to the recording of favorable state and federal income tax adjustments in 2016, the recording of federal income tax adjustments related to Tax Reform and other book/tax differences which are accounted for on a flow-through basis, partially offset by a decrease in pretax book income. 

•Equity Earnings (Loss) of Unconsolidated Subsidiaries decreased $12 million primarily due to a prior period income tax adjustment for DHLC, a SWEPCo unconsolidated subsidiary.

•Net Income Attributable to Noncontrolling Interests increased $9 million primarily due to income tax benefits attributable to SWEPCo’s noncontrolling interest in Sabine. This increase was offset by a decrease in Income Tax Expense.

26

TRANSMISSION AND DISTRIBUTION UTILITIES

(a)Other AEP Segments excludes Corporate and Other which is not considered a reportable segment.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

27

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a)Represents energy delivered to distribution customers.

(b)Primarily Ohio’s contractually obligated purchases of OVEC power sold into PJM.

28

Heating degree days and cooling degree days are metrics commonly used in the utility industry as a measure of the impact of weather on revenues. In general, degree day changes in the eastern region have a larger effect on revenues than changes in the western region due to the relative size of the two regions and the number of customers within each region.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a)Heating degree days are calculated on a 55 degree temperature base.

(b)Normal Heating/Cooling represents the thirty-year average of degree days.

(c)Eastern Region cooling degree days are calculated on a 65 degree temperature base.

(d)Western Region cooling degree days are calculated on a 70 degree temperature base.

29

2018 Compared to 2017 

Reconciliation of Year Ended December 31, 2017 to Year Ended December 31, 2018 

Earnings Attributable to AEP Common Shareholders from Transmission and Distribution Utilities

(in millions)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The major components of the increase in Gross Margin, defined as revenues less the related direct cost of purchased electricity and amortization of generation deferrals were as follows:

•Retail Margins increased $152 million primarily due to the following:

•A $173 million net increase in Ohio Basic Transmission Cost Rider revenues and recoverable PJM expenses. This increase was partially offset by an increase in Other Operation and Maintenance below.

•A $77 million increase in Ohio revenues associated with the Universal Service Fund (USF). This increase was offset by a corresponding increase in Other Operation and Maintenance expenses below.

•A $16 million increase in Ohio rider revenues associated with the DIR. This increase was partially offset in various expenses below.

•A $12 million increase in Texas revenues associated with the Distribution Cost Recovery Factor revenue rider.

•A $10 million increase in Texas revenues associated with the Transmission Cost Recovery Factor revenue rider. This increase was offset by an increase in Other Operation and Maintenance expenses below.

•A $10 million increase in rider revenues recovering state excise taxes due to an increase in metered KWh in Ohio. This increase was offset by a corresponding increase in Taxes Other Than Income Taxes below.

These increases were partially offset by:

•A $46 million decrease due to adjustments to the distribution decoupling under-recovery balance as a result of the 2018 Ohio Tax Reform settlement. This decrease was offset in Income Tax Expense below.

•A $42 million decrease due to the 2018 provisions for customer refunds related to Tax Reform. This decrease was offset in Income Tax Expense below.

•A $41 million decrease in Ohio due to prior year over-recoveries and the recovery of lower current year losses from a power contract with OVEC. This decrease was offset by a corresponding increase in Margins from Off-system Sales below.

30

•Margins from Off-system Sales increased $63 million primarily due to the following:

•A $41 million increase due to prior year over-recoveries and lower current year losses from a power contract with OVEC in Ohio which was offset in Retail Margins above as a result of the OVEC PPA rider beginning in January 2017.

•A $22 million increase due to higher affiliated PPA revenues in Texas, which were partially offset by a corresponding increase in Other Operation and Maintenance expenses below.

•Transmission Revenues decreased $2 million primarily due to the following:

•An $11 million decrease due to the 2018 provisions for customer refunds in Texas due to Tax Reform. This decrease was offset in Income Tax Expense below.

•An $11 million decrease due to lower rates in Texas in order to pass the benefits of Tax Reform on to customers. This decrease was offset in Income Tax Expense below.

•A $10 million decrease in Ohio primarily due to the 2018 provisions for customer refunds due to Tax Reform, partially offset by increased revenues due to additional transmission investments. This decrease was offset in Income Tax Expense below.

These decreases were offset by:

•A $30 million increase due to recovery of increased transmission investment in ERCOT.

Expenses and Other and Income Tax Expense changed between years as follows:

•Other Operation and Maintenance expenses increased $342 million primarily due to the following:

•A $226 million increase primarily in transmission expenses that were fully recovered in rate riders/trackers within Gross Margins above.

•A $77 million increase in remitted USF surcharge payments to the Ohio Department of Development to fund an energy assistance program for qualified Ohio customers. This increase was offset by a corresponding increase in Retail Margins above.

•A $19 million increase in affiliated PPA expenses in Texas. This increase was offset by an increase in Margins from Off-system sales above.

These increases were partially offset by:

•A $58 million decrease in Ohio PJM expenses primarily related to the annual formula rate true-up that will be refunded in future periods.

•Depreciation and Amortization expenses increased $67 million primarily due to the following:

•A $40 million increase in depreciation expense due to an increase in the depreciable base of transmission and distribution assets.

•A $9 million increase in securitization amortizations related to Transition Funding in Texas. This increase was offset in Other Revenues and Interest Expense.

•An $8 million increase in amortization due to capitalized software.

•Taxes Other Than Income Taxes increased $32 million primarily due to the following:

•An $18 million increase in property taxes due to additional investments in transmission and distribution assets and higher tax rates.

•A $12 million increase in rider revenues recovering state excise taxes due to an increase in metered KWhs. This increase was offset in Retail Margins above.

•Allowance for Equity Funds Used During Construction increased $17 million primarily due to increased transmission projects in Texas.

•Non-Service Cost Components of Net Periodic Benefit Cost decreased $23 million primarily due to favorable asset returns for the funded Pension and OPEB plans, favorable OPEB cost savings arrangements and the implementation of ASU 2017-07. 

•Income Tax Expense decreased $85 million primarily due to the change in the corporate federal income tax rate from 35% in 2017 to 21% in 2018 as a result of Tax Reform, amortization of Excess ADIT and a decrease in pretax book income, partially offset by the benefit related to the remeasurement of deferred tax liabilities recognized in 2017 as a result of Tax Reform.

31

2017 Compared to 2016 

Reconciliation of Year Ended December 31, 2016 to Year Ended December 31, 2017 

Earnings Attributable to AEP Common Shareholders from Transmission and Distribution Utilities

(in millions)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The major components of the decrease in Gross Margin, defined as revenues less the related direct cost of purchased electricity and amortization of generation deferrals were as follows:

•Retail Margins decreased $26 million primarily due to the following:

•A $178 million decrease in Ohio revenues associated with the Universal Service Fund (USF) surcharge rate decrease. This decrease was offset by a corresponding decrease in Other Operating and Maintenance expenses below.

•An $83 million decrease due to the impact of a 2016 regulatory deferral of capacity costs related to OPCo's December 2016 Global Settlement.

•A $23 million net decrease in recovery of equity carrying charges related to the PIRR in Ohio, net of associated amortizations.

•A $21 million decrease in revenues associated with smart grid riders in Ohio. This decrease was offset in various expense items below.

•A $15 million decrease in weather-normalized margins, primarily in the residential class.

•A $9 million decrease in Energy Efficiency/Peak Demand Reduction rider revenues and associated deferrals in Ohio. This decrease was offset by a corresponding decrease in Other Operation and Maintenance expenses below.

•A $7 million decrease in state excise taxes due to a decrease in metered KWh in Ohio. This decrease was offset by a corresponding decrease in Taxes Other Than Income Taxes.

These decreases were partially offset by:

•A $150 million net increase due to the impact of 2016 provisions for refund primarily related to OPCo’s December 2016 Global Settlement.

32

•A $62 million increase in Ohio due to the recovery of losses from a power contract with OVEC. The PUCO approved a PPA rider beginning in January 2017 to recover any net margin related to the deferral of OVEC losses starting in June 2016. This increase was offset by a corresponding decrease in Margins from Off-System Sales below.

•A $45 million increase in Texas revenues associated with the Distribution Cost Recovery Factor revenue rider.

•A $31 million net increase in Ohio Basic Transmission Cost Rider revenues and recoverable PJM expenses. This increase was offset by a corresponding increase in Other Operation and Maintenance below.

•A $16 million net increase in Ohio RSR revenues less associated amortizations.

•A $7 million increase in Ohio rider revenues associated with the DIR. This increase was partially offset in other expense items below.

•Margins from Off-system Sales decreased $84 million primarily due to the following:

•A $62 million decrease in Ohio due to current year losses from a power contract with OVEC, which was offset in Retail Margins above as a result of the OVEC PPA rider beginning in January 2017.

•A $41 million decrease in Ohio due to the 2016 reversal of prior year provisions for regulatory loss.

This decrease was partially offset by:

•An $18 million increase in Ohio primarily due to the impact of prior year losses from a power contract with OVEC which was not included in the OVEC PPA rider.

•Transmission Revenues increased $32 million primarily due to recovery of increased transmission investment in ERCOT.

•Other Revenues increased $7 million primarily due the following:

•A $12 million increase in securitization revenue in Texas. This increase was offset below in Depreciation and Amortization and in Interest Expense.

This increase was partially offset by:

•A $4 million decrease in Texas performance bonus revenues and true-ups related to energy efficiency programs.

Expenses and Other and Income Tax Expense changed between years as follows:

•Other Operation and Maintenance expenses decreased $196 million primarily due to the following:

•A $178 million decrease in remitted USF surcharge payments to the Ohio Department of Development to fund an energy assistance program for qualified Ohio customers. This decrease was offset by a corresponding decrease in Retail Margins above.

•A $29 million decrease primarily due to charitable donations in 2016, including the AEP Foundation.

•A $17 million decrease in employee-related expenses.

These decreases were partially offset by:

•A $19 million increase in recoverable expenses primarily in PJM as well as increased ERCOT transmission expenses, partially offset by energy efficiency expenses that were fully recovered in rate recovery riders/trackers within Gross Margins above.

•A $14 million increase in PJM expenses related to the annual formula rate true-up that will be recovered in 2018.

•A $6 million increase in non-deferred storm expenses, primarily in the Texas region. 

•Depreciation and Amortization expenses increased $18 million primarily due to the following:

•A $21 million increase due to securitization amortizations related to Texas securitized transition funding. This increase was offset in Other Revenues above and in Interest Expense below.

•A $15 million increase in depreciation expense primarily due to an increase in depreciable base of transmission and distribution assets.

•An $8 million increase due to amortization of capitalized software costs. 

These increases were partially offset by:

•An $8 million decrease due to recoveries of transmission cost rider carrying costs in Ohio. This decrease was partially offset in Retail Margins above.

•An $8 million decrease in recoverable DIR depreciation expense in Ohio.

•A $7 million decrease in recoverable smart grid rider depreciation expenses in Ohio. This decrease was partially offset in Retail Margins above. 

33

•Taxes Other Than Income Taxes increased $19 million primarily due to the following: 

•A $26 million increase in property taxes due to additional investments in transmission and distribution assets and higher tax rates. 

This increase was partially offset by:

•A $7 million decrease in state excise taxes due to a decrease in metered KWhs in Ohio. This decrease was offset in Retail Margins above.

•Interest and Investment Income decreased $7 million primarily due to a prior year tax adjustment in Texas.

•Carrying Costs Income decreased $16 million primarily due to the impact of a 2016 regulatory deferral of capacity related carrying costs in Ohio.

•Interest Expense decreased $13 million primarily due to the following:

•A $10 million decrease primarily due to the maturity of a senior unsecured note in June 2016 in Ohio.

•A $9 million decrease in the Texas securitization transition assets due to the final maturity of the first Texas securitization bond. This decrease was offset above in Other Revenues and in Depreciation and Amortization.

These decreases were partially offset by:

•A $7 million increase due to the issuance of long-term debt in September 2017 in Texas.

•Income Tax Expense decreased $78 million primarily due to the following:

•A $138 million decrease due to the recording of federal income tax adjustments related to Tax Reform.

This decrease was partially offset by:

•A $60 million increase in pretax book income and by the recording of federal and state income tax adjustments.

34

AEP TRANSMISSION HOLDCO

(a)Other AEP Segments excludes Corporate and Other which is not considered a reportable segment.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

35

Summary of Investment in Transmission Assets for AEP Transmission Holdco

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

36

2018 Compared to 2017 

Reconciliation of Year Ended December 31, 2017 to Year Ended December 31, 2018 

Earnings Attributable to AEP Common Shareholders from AEP Transmission Holdco

(in millions)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The major components of the increase in transmission revenues, which consists of wholesale sales to affiliates and nonaffiliates were as follows:

•Transmission Revenues increased $37 million primarily due to:

•A $101 million increase in revenues driven by an increase in the formula rate revenue requirement primarily driven by continued investment in transmission assets. This increase includes the impact of the reduction in revenue related to Tax Reform, which was offset by a decrease in Income Tax Expense below.

This increase was partially offset by:

•A $64 million decrease in revenues due to a lower annual formula rate true-up in 2018 driven by implementing forward looking formula rates in 2017.

Expenses and Other, Income Tax Expense and Equity Earnings of Unconsolidated Subsidiaries changed between years as follows:

•Other Operation and Maintenance expenses increased $31 million primarily due to increased transmission investment.

•Depreciation and Amortization expenses increased $36 million primarily due to a higher depreciable base.

•Taxes Other Than Income Taxes increased $28 million primarily due to higher property taxes as a result of increased transmission investment.

•Allowance for Equity Funds Used During Construction increased $15 million primarily due to increased transmission investment resulting in a higher CWIP balance.

•Interest Expense increased $18 million primarily due to the following:

•A $23 million increase primarily due to higher long-term debt balances.

This increase was partially offset by:

•A $5 million decrease due to higher AFUDC borrowed funds resulting from a higher CWIP balance.

37

•Income Tax Expense decreased $95 million primarily due to the change in the corporate federal income tax rate from 35% in 2017 to 21% in 2018 as a result of Tax Reform, amortization of Excess ADIT and a decrease in pretax book income.

•Equity Earnings of Unconsolidated Subsidiaries decreased $20 million primarily due to lower pretax equity earnings at ETT due to decreased revenues driven by Tax Reform and an ETT rate reduction implemented in March 2017.

38

2017 Compared to 2016 

Reconciliation of Year Ended December 31, 2016 to Year Ended December 31, 2017 

Earnings Attributable to AEP Common Shareholders from AEP Transmission Holdco

(in millions)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The major components of the increase in transmission revenues, which consists of wholesale sales to affiliates and non-affiliates were as follows:

•Transmission Revenues increased $254 million primarily due to:

•A $246 million increase in formula rates driven by the favorable impact of the modification of the PJM OATT formula combined with an increase driven by continued investments in transmission assets.

•A $7 million increase due to rental revenue related to various AEPTCo facilities.

Expenses and Other, Income Tax Expense and Equity Earnings of Unconsolidated Subsidiaries changed between years as follows:

•Other Operation and Maintenance expenses increased $19 million primarily due to increased transmission investment.

•Depreciation and Amortization expenses increased $35 million primarily due to higher depreciable base.

•Taxes Other Than Income Taxes increased $25 million primarily due to increased property taxes as a result of additional transmission investment.

•Interest Expense increased $23 million primarily due to higher outstanding long-term debt balances.

•Income Tax Expense increased $56 million primarily due to an increase in pretax book income.

•Equity Earnings of Unconsolidated Subsidiaries decreased $11 million primarily due to lower earnings at ETT resulting from increased property taxes, depreciation expense, and decreased AFUDC, partially offset by increased revenues. The revenue increase is primarily due to interim rate increases in the third quarter of 2016 and higher loads, partially offset by an ETT rate reduction that went into effect in March 2017.

39

GENERATION & MARKETING

(a)Other AEP Segments excludes Corporate and Other which is not considered a reportable segment.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

40

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

41

2018 Compared to 2017 

Reconciliation of Year Ended December 31, 2017 to Year Ended December 31, 2018 

Earnings Attributable to AEP Common Shareholders from Generation & Marketing

(in millions)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The major components of the decrease in Gross Margin, defined as revenues less the related direct cost of fuel, including consumption of chemicals and emissions allowances, purchased electricity and certain cost of service for retail operations were as follows:

•Generation decreased $86 million primarily due to reduced energy margins in 2018 and the reduction of revenues associated with the sale of certain merchant generation assets in 2017.

•Retail, Trading and Marketing decreased $21 million primarily due to lower retail margins due to higher market costs and increased competition combined with decreased marketing volumes in 2018.

•Other Revenue increased $12 million primarily due to renewable projects placed in-service.

Expenses and Other and Income Tax Expense (Benefit) changed between years as follows:

•Other Operation and Maintenance expenses decreased $50 million primarily due to the following: 

•A $38 million decrease in the Stuart Plant asset retirement obligation.

•A $24 million decrease in expenses due to the closure of the Stuart Plant in 2018.

•A $9 million decrease in expenses due to the sale of merchant generation assets in 2017.

These decreases were partially offset by:

•A $17 million increase due to severance accruals related to announced merchant generation plant retirements.

•Asset Impairments and Other Related Charges decreased $6 million primarily due to an $8 million decrease in impairment charges related to Racine partially offset by a $2 million increase in impairment charges related to merchant coal-fired generation assets in 2017.

•Gain on Sale of Merchant Generation Assets decreased $226 million due to the sale of certain merchant generation assets in 2017.

42

•Depreciation and Amortization expenses increased $17 million primarily due to a higher depreciable base from increased investments in renewable energy sources. 

•Non-Service Cost Components of Net Periodic Benefit Cost decreased $6 million primarily due to favorable asset returns for funded Pension and OPEB plans, favorable OPEB cost savings arrangement and the implementation of ASU 2017-07.

•Income Tax Expense (Benefit) decreased $239 million primarily due to a decrease in pretax book income driven by the gain on sale of certain merchant generation assets in 2017, the change in the corporate federal income tax rate from 35% in 2017 to 21% in 2018 as a result of Tax Reform and the utilization of a $47 million tax capital loss benefit.

43

2017 Compared to 2016 

Reconciliation of Year Ended December 31, 2016 to Year Ended December 31, 2017 

Earnings Attributable to AEP Common Shareholders from Generation & Marketing

(in millions)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The major components of the decrease in Gross Margin, defined as revenues less the related direct cost of fuel, including consumption of chemicals and emissions allowances, purchased electricity and certain cost of service for retail operations were as follows:

•Generation decreased $505 million primarily due to the reduction of revenues associated with the sale of certain merchant generation assets.

•Retail, Trading and Marketing decreased $49 million primarily due to lower retail margins in 2017 combined with the impact of favorable wholesale trading and marketing performance in 2016.

•Other Revenue increased $14 million primarily due to renewable projects placed in-service.

Expenses and Other and Income Tax Expense (Benefit) changed between years as follows:

•Other Operation and Maintenance expenses decreased $147 million primarily due to decreased plant expenses as a result of the sale of certain merchant generation assets.

•Asset Impairments and Other Related Charges decreased $2.2 billion due to the impairment of certain merchant generation assets in 2016, partially offset by a $43 million impairment of Racine in 2017.

•Gain on Sale of Merchant Generation Assets increased $226 million due to the sale of certain merchant generation assets.

•Depreciation and Amortization expenses decreased $130 million primarily due to the sale and impairment of certain merchant generation assets.

•Taxes Other Than Income Taxes decreased $26 million primarily due to the sale of certain merchant generation assets.

•Interest and Investment Income increased $9 million primarily due to additional cash invested as a result of the sale of certain merchant generation assets.

44

•Interest Expense decreased $17 million primarily due to reduced debt as a result of the sale of certain merchant generation assets.

•Income Tax Expense (Benefit) increased $856 million primarily due to an increase in pretax book income as a result of the impairment of certain merchant generation assets recorded in 2016, a gain on the sale of certain merchant generation assets recorded in 2017 and the recording of federal income tax adjustments related to Tax Reform.

45

CORPORATE AND OTHER

2018 Compared to 2017 

Earnings attributable to AEP Common Shareholders from Corporate and Other decreased from a loss of $32 million in 2017 to a loss of $99 million in 2018 primarily due to:

•A $59 million increase in interest expense as a result of increased debt outstanding.

•A $26 million decrease in business development and other revenues.

•A $20 million impairment of an equity investment and related assets in 2018.

•A $12 million gain recognized on the sale of an equity investment in the third quarter of 2017.

These items were partially offset by:

•A $21 million decrease in general corporate expenses.

•A $16 million decrease in income tax expense primarily related to an $18 million favorable impact resulting from the enactment of Kentucky state tax legislation in the second quarter of 2018, the change in the corporate federal income tax rate from 35% in 2017 to 21% in 2018 as a result of Tax Reform and a decrease in pretax book income. These decreases were partially offset by a $47 million tax capital loss benefit allocated to the Generation & Marketing segment.

2017 Compared to 2016 

Earnings attributable to AEP Common Shareholders from Corporate and Other decreased from $81 million in 2016 to a loss of $32 million in 2017 primarily due to the prior year reversal of capital loss valuation allowances related to effectively settling a 2011 audit issue with the IRS and the impact of the pending sale of certain merchant generation assets as well as 2015 tax return adjustments related to the disposition of AEP’s commercial barging operations. Earnings attributable to AEP Common Shareholders also decreased due to increased income tax expense in 2017 as a result of federal income tax adjustments related to Tax Reform. These decreases were offset by an increase in pretax book income primarily due to lower operating expenses. 

AEP SYSTEM INCOME TAXES

2018 Compared to 2017 

Income Tax Expense decreased $854 million primarily due to the change in the corporate federal income tax rate from 35% in 2017 to 21% in 2018 as a result of Tax Reform, amortization of Excess ADIT and a decrease in pretax book income.

2017 Compared to 2016 

Income Tax Expense increased $1 billion primarily due to an increase in pretax book income in 2017 driven by the impairment of certain merchant generation assets in 2016. The increase in Income Tax Expense is also due to the prior year reversal of a $66 million capital loss valuation allowance related to the pending sale of certain merchant generation assets, the prior year reversal of a $56 million unrealized capital loss valuation allowance where AEP effectively settled a 2011 audit issue with the IRS as well as 2015 tax return adjustments recorded in 2016 related to the disposition of AEP’s commercial barging operations.

46

FINANCIAL CONDITION

AEP measures financial condition by the strength of its balance sheet and the liquidity provided by its cash flows.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

Debt and Equity Capitalization

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

AEP’s ratio of debt-to-total capital increased from 55.5% as of December 31, 2017 to 57.0% as of December 31, 2018 primarily due to an increase in debt to support increased distribution and transmission investments.

Liquidity

Liquidity, or access to cash, is an important factor in determining AEP’s financial stability. Management believes AEP has adequate liquidity under its existing credit facilities. As of December 31, 2018, AEP had a $4 billion revolving credit facility to support its commercial paper program. Additional liquidity is available from cash from operations and a receivables securitization agreement. Management is committed to maintaining adequate liquidity. AEP generally uses short-term borrowings to fund working capital needs, property acquisitions and construction until long-term funding is arranged. Sources of long-term funding include issuance of long-term debt, sale-and-leaseback or leasing agreements or common stock.

Net Available Liquidity

AEP manages liquidity by maintaining adequate external financing commitments. As of December 31, 2018, available liquidity was $3.1 billion as illustrated in the table below:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

AEP uses its commercial paper program to meet the short-term borrowing needs of its subsidiaries. The program funds a Utility Money Pool, which funds AEP’s utility subsidiaries; a Nonutility Money Pool, which funds certain AEP nonutility subsidiaries; and the short-term debt requirements of subsidiaries that are not participating in either money pool for regulatory or operational reasons, as direct borrowers. The maximum amount of commercial paper outstanding during 2018 was $2.3 billion. The weighted-average interest rate for AEP’s commercial paper during 2018 was 2.33%.

Other Credit Facilities

An uncommitted facility gives the issuer of the facility the right to accept or decline each request made under the facility. AEP issues letters of credit on behalf of subsidiaries under four uncommitted facilities totaling $305 million. The Registrants’ maximum future payments for letters of credit issued under the uncommitted facilities as of December 31, 2018, were $61 million with maturities ranging from January 2019 to December 2019.

47

Financing Plan

As of December 31, 2018, AEP had $1.7 billion of long-term debt due within one year. This included $457 million of Pollution Control Bonds with mandatory tender dates and credit support for variable interest rates that requires the debt be classified as current and $400 million of securitization bonds and DCC Fuel notes. Management plans to refinance the majority of the other maturities due within one year on a long-term basis.

Securitized Accounts Receivables

AEP receivables securitization agreement provides a commitment of $750 million from bank conduits to purchase receivables and includes a $125 million and a $625 million facility which expire in July 2020 and 2021, respectively.

Debt Covenants and Borrowing Limitations

AEP’s credit agreements contain certain covenants and require it to maintain a percentage of debt-to-total capitalization at a level that does not exceed 67.5%. The method for calculating outstanding debt and capitalization is contractually-defined in AEP’s credit agreements. Debt as defined in the revolving credit agreements excludes securitization bonds and debt of AEP Credit. As of December 31, 2018, this contractually-defined percentage was 55.4%. Non-performance under these covenants could result in an event of default under these credit agreements. In addition, the acceleration of AEP’s payment obligations, or the obligations of certain of AEP’s major subsidiaries, prior to maturity under any other agreement or instrument relating to debt outstanding in excess of $50 million, would cause an event of default under these credit agreements. This condition also applies in a majority of AEP’s non-exchange traded commodity contracts and would similarly allow lenders and counterparties to declare the outstanding amounts payable. However, a default under AEP’s non-exchange traded commodity contracts would not cause an event of default under its credit agreements.

The revolving credit facility does not permit the lenders to refuse a draw on any facility if a material adverse change occurs.

Utility Money Pool borrowings and external borrowings may not exceed amounts authorized by regulatory orders and AEP manages its borrowings to stay within those authorized limits.

Dividend Policy and Restrictions

The Board of Directors declared a quarterly dividend of $0.67 per share in January 2019. Future dividends may vary depending upon AEP’s profit levels, operating cash flow levels and capital requirements, as well as financial and other business conditions existing at the time. Parent’s income primarily derives from common stock equity in the earnings of its utility subsidiaries. Various financing arrangements and regulatory requirements may impose certain restrictions on the ability of the subsidiaries to transfer funds to Parent in the form of dividends. Management does not believe these restrictions will have any significant impact on its ability to access cash to meet the payment of dividends on its common stock. See “Dividend Restrictions” section of Note 14 for additional information.

Credit Ratings

AEP and its utility subsidiaries do not have any credit arrangements that would require material changes in payment schedules or terminations as a result of a credit downgrade, but its access to the commercial paper market may depend on its credit ratings. In addition, downgrades in AEP’s credit ratings by one of the rating agencies could increase its borrowing costs. Counterparty concerns about the credit quality of AEP or its utility subsidiaries could subject AEP to additional collateral demands under adequate assurance clauses under its derivative and non-derivative energy contracts.

48

CASH FLOW

AEP relies primarily on cash flows from operations, debt issuances and its existing cash and cash equivalents to fund its liquidity and investing activities. AEP’s investing and capital requirements are primarily capital expenditures, repaying of long-term debt and paying dividends to shareholders. AEP uses short-term debt, including commercial paper, as a bridge to long-term debt financing. The levels of borrowing may vary significantly due to the timing of long-term debt financings and the impact of fluctuations in cash flows.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Operating Activities

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a)Non-Cash Adjustments to Income from Continuing Operations includes Depreciation and Amortization, Deferred Income Taxes, Asset Impairments and Other Related Charges, Allowance for Equity Funds Used During Construction, Amortization of Nuclear Fuel, Pension and Postemployment Benefit Reserves, and Gain on Sale of Merchant Generation Assets.

49

2018 Compared to 2017

Net Cash Flows from Continuing Operating Activities increased by $953 million primarily due to the following:

•A $679 million increase in cash from Changes in Certain Components of Continuing Working Capital. This increase is primarily due to lower employee-related payments, increased accrued taxes, increased provisions for refund related to Tax Reform and timing of receivables and payables.

•A $544 million increase in Noncurrent Assets primarily due to changes in regulatory assets as a result of fewer storm deferrals, the impact of the FERC settlement on regulated AEP subsidiaries with rider recovery mechanisms in addition to the settlement of certain regulatory assets as a result of Ohio and West Virginia jurisdictional orders related to Tax Reform. See Note 4 - Rate Matters for additional information.

•A $105 million increase in cash from Deferred Fuel Over/Under Recovery, Net primarily due to fluctuations of fuel and purchase power costs at PSO and I&M and the reduction of ENEC balances at APCo and WPCo as a result of the West Virginia Tax Reform Order. See Note 4 - Rate Matters for additional information relating to the reduction of ENEC balances.

•A $93 million increase in cash due to refunds to customers in 2017 as a result of the 2016 Global Settlement in Ohio.

•A $93 million increase in cash due to Pension Contributions to Qualified Plan Trust in 2017 not made in 2018. 

These increases in cash were partially offset by:

•A $420 million decrease in cash from Income from Continuing Operations, after non-cash adjustments. See Results of Operations for further detail.

2017 Compared to 2016

Net Cash Flows from Continuing Operating Activities decreased by $251 million primarily due to the following:

•A $189 million decrease in cash from Changes in Certain Components of Continuing Working Capital. This decrease in cash is primarily due to higher employee-related payments and increased revenue refunds.

•A $98 million decrease in cash due to refunds to customers as a result of the 2016 Global Settlement in Ohio.

•An $86 million decrease in cash from Income from Continuing Operations, after non-cash adjustments. See Results of Operations for further detail.

These decreases in cash were partially offset by:

•A $150 million increase in cash from Deferred Fuel Over/Under Recovery, Net. The increase in cash is primarily due to fluctuations of fuel and purchase power costs at PSO and collections in the Ohio Phase-in-Recovery Rider.

Investing Activities

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

50

2018 Compared to 2017

Net Cash Flows Used for Continuing Investing Activities increased by $2.7 billion primarily due to the following:

•A $2.2 billion decrease in cash due to the sale of certain merchant generation assets in 2017. See Note 7 - Dispositions and Impairments for additional information.

•A $620 million decrease in cash due to increased construction expenditures, primarily due to increases in Transmission and Distribution Utilities of $598 million.

These increases in cash were partially offset by:

•$62 million increase in cash due to reduced nuclear fuel purchases. The reduction in purchases is primarily due to variations from year to year in the timing and pricing of fuel reload requirements, material and services deliveries and the timing of cash payments during the nuclear fuel cycle.

2017 Compared to 2016

Net Cash Flows Used for Continuing Investing Activities decreased by $1.4 billion primarily due to the following:

•A $2.2 billion increase in cash due to the sale of certain merchant generation assets in 2017. See Note 7 - Dispositions and Impairments for additional information.

•A $101 million increase in cash primarily due to lower cost of acquisitions in 2017. 

•A $21 million increase in cash due to reduced nuclear fuel purchases. Reduction in purchases is primarily due to variations from year to year in the timing and pricing of fuel reload requirements, material and services deliveries, and the timing of cash payments during the nuclear fuel cycle.

These increases in cash were partially offset by:

•A $910 million decrease in cash due to increased construction expenditures, primarily due to increases in Transmission and Distribution Utilities of $499 million, AEP Transmission Holdco of $275 million and Generation & Marketing of $95 million.

Financing Activities

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

2018 Compared to 2017

Net Cash Flows from Continuing Financing Activities increased by $1.8 billion primarily due to the following:

•A $1.1 billion increase in cash due to increased issuances of long-term debt. See Note 14 - Financing Activities for additional information.

•A $346 million increase in cash from short-term debt primarily due to increased borrowings of commercial paper. See Note 14 - Financing Activities for additional information. 

•A $306 million increase in cash due to decreased retirements of long-term debt. See Note 14 - Financing Activities for additional information.

•A $61 million increase in cash due to increased proceeds from issuances of common stock. 

These increases in cash were partially offset by:

•A $64 million decrease in cash due to increased common stock dividend payments primarily due to increased dividends per share from 2017 to 2018.

51

2017 Compared to 2016

Net Cash Flows Used for Continuing Financing Activities increased by $1.1 billion primarily due to the following:

•A $1.3 billion decrease in cash due to increased retirements of long-term debt. See Note 14 - Financing Activities for additional information.

•A $987 million decrease in cash from short-term debt primarily due to increased repayments of commercial paper. See Note 14 - Financing Activities for additional information. 

•A $71 million decrease in cash due to increased common stock dividend payments primarily due to increased dividends per share from 2016 to 2017.

•A $22 million decrease in cash due to reduced proceeds from issuances of common stock. 

These decreases in cash were partially offset by:

•A $1.3 billion increase in cash due to increased issuances of long-term debt. See Note 14 - Financing Activities for additional information.

The following financing activities occurred during 2018:

AEP Common Stock:

•During 2018, AEP issued 1.2 million shares of common stock under the incentive compensation, employee saving and dividend reinvestment plans and received net proceeds of $74 million.

Debt:

•During 2018, AEP issued approximately $5 billion of long-term debt, including $4.1 billion of senior unsecured notes at interest rates ranging from 3.65% to 4.3%, $369 million of pollution control bonds at interest rates ranging from 2.625% to 3.05% and $550 million of other debt at variable interest rates. The proceeds from these issuances were used to fund long-term debt maturities and construction programs.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

In 2019:

In January and February 2019, I&M retired $15 million and $2 million, respectively, of Notes Payable related to DCC Fuel.

In January and February 2019, Transource Energy issued $3 million and $3 million, respectively, of variable rate Other Long-term Debt due in 2020.

In January 2019, AEP Texas retired $104 million of Securitization Bonds.

In January 2019, OPCo retired $23 million of Securitization Bonds.

In January 2019, SWEPCo retired $54 million of 1.60% Pollution Control Bonds due in 2019.

In February 2019, APCo retired $12 million of Securitization Bonds.

52

BUDGETED CAPITAL EXPENDITURES

Management forecasts approximately $7.8 billion of capital expenditures in 2019. For the four year period, 2020 through 2023, management forecasts capital expenditures of $25.1 billion. The expenditures are generally for transmission, generation, distribution, regulated and contracted renewables, and required environmental investment to comply with the Federal EPA rules. Estimated capital expenditures are subject to periodic review and modification and may vary based on the ongoing effects of regulatory constraints, environmental regulations, business opportunities, market volatility, economic trends, weather, legal reviews and the ability to access capital. Management expects to fund these capital expenditures through cash flows from operations and financing activities. Generally, the Registrant Subsidiaries use cash or short-term borrowings under the money pool to fund these expenditures until long-term funding is arranged. The 2019 estimated capital expenditures include generation, transmission and distribution related investments, as well as expenditures for compliance with environmental regulations as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a)Amount primarily consists of facilities, software and telecommunications.

(b)Amount includes $1.1 billion for the acquisition of Sempra Renewables LLC, which includes 724 MWs of wind generation and battery assets and is funded through $551 million in cash, assumption of $343 million of existing project debt obligations of the non-consolidated joint ventures and recognition of non-controlling tax equity interest of $162 million.

53

The 2019 estimated capital expenditures by Registrant Subsidiary include distribution, transmission and generation related investments, as well as expenditures for compliance with environmental regulations as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

 (a) Amount primarily consists of facilities, software and telecommunications.

OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS

AEP’s current guidelines restrict the use of off-balance sheet financing entities or structures to traditional operating lease arrangements that AEP enters in the normal course of business. The following identifies significant off-balance sheet arrangements.

Rockport Plant, Unit 2

AEGCo and I&M entered into a sale-and-leaseback transaction in 1989 with Wilmington Trust Company (Owner Trustee), an unrelated unconsolidated trustee for Rockport Plant, Unit 2 (the Plant). The Owner Trustee was capitalized with equity from six owner participants with no relationship to AEP or any of its subsidiaries and debt from a syndicate of banks and certain institutional investors. The future minimum lease payments for AEGCo and I&M were $295 million each as of December 31, 2018.

The gain from the sale was deferred and is being amortized over the term of the lease, which expires in 2022. The Owner Trustee owns the Plant and leases it to AEGCo and I&M. AEP’s subsidiaries account for the lease as an operating lease with the future payment obligations included in Note 13 - Leases. The lease term is for 33 years with potential renewal options. At the end of the lease term, AEGCo and I&M have the option to renew the lease or the Owner Trustee can sell the Plant. AEP, as well as AEP’s subsidiaries, have no ownership interest in the Owner Trustee and do not guarantee its debt. See “Rockport Plant Litigation” section of Note 6 for additional information.

54

CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATION INFORMATION

AEP’s contractual cash obligations include amounts reported on the balance sheets and other obligations disclosed in the footnotes. The following table summarizes AEP’s contractual cash obligations as of December 31, 2018 and does not reflect AEP’s planned 2019 acquisition of Sempra Renewables, LLC. See “Other Renewable Generation” section of Executive Overview for additional information.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a)Represents principal only, excluding interest.

(b)Interest payments are estimated based on final maturity dates of debt securities outstanding as of December 31, 2018 and do not reflect anticipated future refinancing, early redemptions or debt issuances.

(c)See “Long-term Debt” section of Note 14. Represents principal only, excluding interest.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(e)See Note 13 - Leases.

(f)Represents contractual obligations to purchase coal, natural gas, uranium and other consumables as fuel for electric generation along with related transportation of the fuel.

(g)Represents only capital assets for which there are signed contracts. Actual payments are dependent upon and may vary significantly based upon the decision to build, regulatory approval schedules, timing and escalation of project costs. 

AEP’s $18 million liability related to uncertain tax positions is not included above because management cannot reasonably estimate the cash flows by period.

AEP’s pension funding requirements are not included in the above table. As of December 31, 2018, AEP expects to make contributions to the pension plans totaling $99 million in 2019. Estimated contributions of $105 million in 2020 and $108 million in 2021 may vary significantly based on market returns, changes in actuarial assumptions and other factors. Based upon the projected benefit obligation and fair value of assets available to pay pension benefits, the pension plans were 97.6% funded as of December 31, 2018. See “Estimated Future Benefit Payments and Contributions” section of Note 8. 

55

In addition to the amounts disclosed in the contractual cash obligations table above, additional commitments are made in the normal course of business. These commitments include standby letters of credit, guarantees for the payment of obligation performance bonds and other commitments. As of December 31, 2018, the commitments outstanding under these agreements are summarized in the table below: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a)Standby letters of credit are entered into with third-parties. These letters of credit are issued in the ordinary course of business and cover items such as natural gas and electricity risk management contracts, construction contracts, insurance programs, security deposits and debt service reserves. There is no collateral held in relation to any guarantees in excess of the ownership percentages. In the event any letters of credit are drawn, there is no recourse to third-parties. See “Letters of Credit” section of Note 6.

(b)See “Guarantees of Third-Party Obligations” section of Note 6.

(c)Performance guarantees and indemnifications issued for energy trading and various sale agreements.

SIGNIFICANT TAX LEGISLATION

In December 2017, Tax Reform legislation was signed into law. Tax Reform includes significant changes to the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, including lowering the corporate federal income tax rate from 35% to 21%. As a result of this rate change, the Registrants’ deferred tax assets and liabilities were remeasured using the newly enacted rate of 21% in December 2017. In response to Tax Reform, the SEC staff issued Staff Accounting Bulletin 118 (SAB 118) in December 2017. SAB 118 provided for up to a one year period (the measurement period) in which to complete the required analyses and accounting required by Tax Reform.

During 2017, AEP recorded provisional amounts for the income tax effects of Tax Reform. Throughout 2018, AEP continued to assess the impacts of legislative changes in the tax code as well as interpretative changes of the tax code. The measurement period adjustments recorded during 2018 were immaterial.

The measurement period under SAB 118 ended in December 2018. However, Tax Reform uncertainties still remain and AEP will continue to monitor income tax effects that may change as a result of future legislation and further interpretation of Tax Reform based on proposed U.S. Treasury regulations and guidance from the IRS and state tax authorities.

The IRS has proposed new regulations that provide guidance regarding the additional first-year depreciation deduction under Section 168(k). The proposed regulations reflect changes as a result of Tax Reform and affect taxpayers with qualified depreciable property acquired and placed in service after September 27, 2017. Generally, AEP’s regulated utilities will not be eligible for any bonus depreciation for property acquired and placed in service after January 1, 2018 and AEP’s competitive businesses will be eligible for 100% expensing. However, for self-constructed property and other property placed in service in 2018 for which construction began prior to January 1, 2018, taxpayers are required to evaluate the contractual terms to determine if these additions qualify for 100% expensing under Tax Reform or 50% bonus depreciation as provided under prior tax law.

56

During the fourth quarter of 2018, the IRS proposed new regulations that reflect changes as a result of Tax Reform concerning potential limitations on the deduction of business interest expense. These regulations require an allocation of net interest expense between regulated and competitive businesses within the consolidated tax return. This allocation is based upon net tax basis, and the proposed regulations provide a de minimis test under which all interest is deductible if less than 10% is allocable to the competitive businesses. Management continues to review and evaluate the proposed regulations and at this time expect to be able to deduct materially all business interest expense under this de minimis provision.

Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code generally limits the amount of compensation a company can deduct annually to $1 million for certain executive officers. The exemption from Section 162(m)’s deduction limit for performance-based compensation was repealed by Tax Reform, effective for taxable years ending after December 31, 2017. Management continues to evaluate whether any of its compensation plans qualify for transitional relief, such that payments made pursuant to these plans might be deductible.

57

CYBER SECURITY

The electric utility industry is an identified critical infrastructure function with mandatory cyber security requirements under the authority of FERC. The North American Electric Reliability Corporation (NERC), which FERC certified as the nation’s Electric Reliability Organization, developed mandatory critical infrastructure protection cyber security reliability standards. AEP began participating in the NERC grid security and emergency response exercises, GridEx, in 2013 and continues to participate in the bi-yearly exercises. These efforts, led by NERC, test and further develop the coordination, threat sharing and interaction between utilities and various government agencies relative to potential cyber and physical threats against the nation’s electric grid. The operations of AEP’s electric utility subsidiaries are subject to extensive and rigorous mandatory cyber and physical security requirements that are developed and enforced by NERC to protect grid security and reliability. AEP’s Enterprise Security program uses the National Institute of Standards and Technology Cybersecurity Framework as a guideline.

Critical cyber assets, such as data centers, power plants, transmission operations centers and business networks are protected using multiple layers of cyber security and authentication. Cyber hackers have been successful in breaching a number of very secure facilities, including federal agencies, banks and retailers. As understanding of these events develop, AEP has adopted a defense in depth approach to cyber security and continually assesses its cyber security tools and processes to determine where to strengthen its defenses. These strategies include monitoring, alerting and emergency response, forensic analysis, disaster recovery and criminal activity reporting. This approach allows AEP to deal with threats in real time.

AEP has undertaken a variety of actions to monitor and address cyber related risks. Cyber security and the effectiveness of AEP’s cyber security processes are reviewed annually with the Board of Directors and at several meetings with the Audit Committee throughout the year. AEP’s strategy for managing cyber related risks is integrated within its enterprise risk management processes. AEP enterprise security continually adjusts staff and resources in response to the evolving threat landscape. In addition, AEP maintains cyber liability insurance to cover certain damages caused by cyber incidents.

AEP’s Chief Security Officer (CSO) leads the cyber security and physical security teams and is responsible for the design, implementation and execution of AEP’s security risk management strategy, which includes cyber security. AEP operates a 24/7 Cyber Security Intelligence and Response Center (cyber security team) responsible for monitoring the AEP System for cyber risks and threats. Among other things, the CSO and the cyber security team actively monitor best practices, perform penetration testing, lead response exercises and internal campaigns and provide training and communication across the organization.

The cyber security team constantly scans the AEP System for risks and threats. AEP also continually reviews its business continuity plan to develop an effective recovery strategy that seeks to decrease response times, limit financial impacts and maintain customer confidence during any business interruption. AEP has implemented a third-party risk governance program to identify potential risks introduced through third-party relationships, such as vendors, software and hardware manufacturers or professional service providers. As warranted, AEP obtains certain contractual security guarantees and assurances with these third-party relationships to help ensure the security and safety of our information. The cyber security team works closely with a broad range of departments, including legal, regulatory, corporate communications and audit services and information technology.

The cyber security team collaborates with partners from both industry and government, and routinely participates in industry-wide programs that exchange knowledge of threats with utility peers, industry and federal agencies. AEP is an active member of a number of industry specific threat and information sharing communities including the Department of Homeland Security and the Electricity Information Sharing and Analysis Center. AEP continues to work with nonaffiliated entities to do penetration testing and to design and implement appropriate remediation strategies.

58

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES AND ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES

The preparation of financial statements in accordance with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect reported amounts and related disclosures, including amounts related to legal matters and contingencies. Management considers an accounting estimate to be critical if: 

•It requires assumptions to be made that were uncertain at the time the estimate was made; and

•Changes in the estimate or different estimates that could have been selected could have a material effect on net income or financial condition.

Management discusses the development and selection of critical accounting estimates as presented below with the Audit Committee of AEP’s Board of Directors and the Audit Committee reviews the disclosures relating to them.

Management believes that the current assumptions and other considerations used to estimate amounts reflected in the financial statements are appropriate. However, actual results can differ significantly from those estimates.

The sections that follow present information about critical accounting estimates, as well as the effects of hypothetical changes in the material assumptions used to develop each estimate.

Regulatory Accounting

Nature of Estimates Required

The Registrants’ financial statements reflect the actions of regulators that can result in the recognition of revenues and expenses in different time periods than enterprises that are not rate-regulated.

The Registrants recognize regulatory assets (deferred expenses to be recovered in the future) and regulatory liabilities (deferred future revenue reductions or refunds) for the economic effects of regulation. Specifically, the timing of expense and income recognition is matched with regulated revenues. Liabilities are also recorded for refunds, or probable refunds, to customers that have not been made.

Assumptions and Approach Used

When incurred costs are probable of recovery through regulated rates, regulatory assets are recorded on the balance sheet. Management reviews the probability of recovery at each balance sheet date and whenever new events occur. Similarly, regulatory liabilities are recorded when a determination is made that a refund is probable or when ordered by a commission. Examples of new events that affect probability include changes in the regulatory environment, issuance of a regulatory commission order or passage of new legislation. The assumptions and judgments used by regulatory authorities continue to have an impact on the recovery of costs as well as the return of revenues, rate of return earned on invested capital and timing and amount of assets to be recovered through regulated rates. If recovery of a regulatory asset is no longer probable, that regulatory asset is written-off as a charge against earnings. A write-off of regulatory assets or establishment of a regulatory liability may also reduce future cash flows since there will be no recovery through regulated rates.

Effect if Different Assumptions Used

A change in the above assumptions may result in a material impact on net income. Refer to Note 5 - Effects of Regulation for further detail related to regulatory assets and regulatory liabilities.

59

Revenue Recognition – Unbilled Revenues

Nature of Estimates Required

AEP recognizes revenues from customers as the performance obligations of delivering energy to customers are satisfied. The determination of sales to individual customers is based on the reading of their meters, which is performed on a systematic basis throughout the month. At the end of each month, amounts of energy delivered to customers since the date of the last meter reading are estimated and the corresponding unbilled revenue accrual is recorded. This estimate is reversed in the following month and actual revenue is recorded based on meter readings. PSO and SWEPCo do not include the fuel portion in unbilled revenue in accordance with the applicable state commission regulatory treatment in Arkansas, Louisiana, Oklahoma and Texas.

Accrued unbilled revenues for the Vertically Integrated Utilities segment were $255 million and $278 million as of December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. The changes in unbilled electric utility revenues for AEP’s Vertically Integrated Utilities segment were $(23) million, $37 million and $50 million for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively. The changes in unbilled electric revenues are primarily due to changes in weather and rates. 

Accrued unbilled revenues for the Transmission and Distribution Utilities segment were $178 million and $202 million as of December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. The changes in unbilled electric utility revenues for AEP’s Transmission and Distribution Utilities segment were $(24) million, $11 million and $40 million for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively. The changes in unbilled electric revenues are primarily due to changes in weather and rates. 

Accrued unbilled revenues for the Generation & Marketing segment were $59 million and $54 million as of December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. The changes in unbilled electric utility revenues for AEP’s Generation & Marketing segment were $5 million, $5 million and $2 million for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively. 

Assumptions and Approach Used

For each Registrant except AEPTCo, the monthly estimate for unbilled revenues is based upon a primary computation of net generation (generation plus purchases less sales) less the current month’s billed KWh and estimated line losses, plus the prior month’s unbilled KWh. However, due to the potential for meter reading issues, meter drift and other anomalies, a secondary computation is made, based upon an allocation of billed KWh to the current month and previous month, on a billing cycle-by-cycle basis, and by dividing the current month aggregated result by the billed KWh. The two methodologies are evaluated to confirm that they are not statistically different. 

For AEP’s Generation & Marketing segment, management calculates unbilled revenues by contract using the most recent historic daily activity adjusted for significant known changes in usage.

Effect if Different Assumptions Used

If the two methodologies used to estimate unbilled revenue are statistically different, a limiter adjustment is made to bring the primary computation within one standard deviation of the secondary computation. Additionally, significant fluctuations in energy demand for the unbilled period, weather, line losses or changes in the composition of customer classes could impact the estimate of unbilled revenue. 

60

Accounting for Derivative Instruments

Nature of Estimates Required

Management considers fair value techniques, valuation adjustments related to credit and liquidity and judgments related to the probability of forecasted transactions occurring within the specified time period to be critical accounting estimates. These estimates are considered significant because they are highly susceptible to change from period to period and are dependent on many subjective factors.

Assumptions and Approach Used

The Registrants measure the fair values of derivative instruments and hedge instruments accounted for using MTM accounting based primarily on exchange prices and broker quotes. If a quoted market price is not available, the fair value is estimated based on the best market information available including valuation models that estimate future energy prices based on existing market and broker quotes, supply and demand market data and other assumptions. Fair value estimates, based upon the best market information available, involve uncertainties and matters of significant judgment. These uncertainties include projections of macroeconomic trends and future commodity prices, including supply and demand levels and future price volatility.

The Registrants reduce fair values by estimated valuation adjustments for items such as discounting, liquidity and credit quality. Liquidity adjustments are calculated by utilizing bid/ask spreads to estimate the potential fair value impact of liquidating open positions over a reasonable period of time. Credit adjustments on risk management contracts are calculated using estimated default probabilities and recovery rates relative to the counterparties or counterparties with similar credit profiles and contractual netting agreements.

With respect to hedge accounting, management assesses hedge effectiveness and evaluates a forecasted transaction’s probability of occurrence within the specified time period as provided in the original hedge documentation.

Effect if Different Assumptions Used

There is inherent risk in valuation modeling given the complexity and volatility of energy markets. Therefore, it is possible that results in future periods may be materially different as contracts settle.

The probability that hedged forecasted transactions will not occur by the end of the specified time period could change operating results by requiring amounts currently classified in Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) to be classified into operating income.

For additional information regarding derivatives, hedging and fair value measurements, see Note 10 - Derivatives and Hedging and Note 11 - Fair Value Measurements. See “Fair Value Measurements of Assets and Liabilities” section of Note 1 for AEP’s fair value calculation policy.

61

Long-Lived Assets

Nature of Estimates Required

In accordance with the requirements of “Property, Plant and Equipment” accounting guidance and “Regulated Operations” accounting guidance, the Registrants evaluate long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of any such assets may not be recoverable. Such events or changes in circumstance include planned abandonments, probable disallowances for rate-making purposes of assets determined to be recently completed plant and assets that meet the held-for-sale criteria. The Registrants utilize a group composite method of depreciation to estimate the useful lives of long-lived assets. 

An impairment evaluation of a long-lived, held and used asset may result from an abandonment, significant decreases in the market price of an asset, a significant adverse change in the extent or manner in which an asset is being used or in its physical condition, a significant adverse change in legal factors or in the business climate that could affect the value of an asset, as well as other economic or operations analyses. If the carrying amount of the asset is not recoverable, the Registrants record an impairment to the extent that the fair value of the asset is less than its book value. Performing an impairment evaluation involves a significant degree of estimation and judgment in areas such as identifying circumstances that indicate an impairment may exist, identifying and grouping affected assets and developing the undiscounted and discounted future cash flows (used to estimate fair value in the absence of market-based value, in some instances) associated with the asset. For assets held for sale, an impairment is recognized if the expected net sales price is less than its book value. Any impairment charge is recorded as a reduction to earnings.

Assumptions and Approach Used

The fair value of an asset is the amount at which that asset could be bought or sold in a current transaction between willing parties other than in a forced or liquidation sale. Quoted market prices in active markets are the best evidence of fair value and are used as the basis for the measurement, if available. In the absence of quoted prices for identical or similar assets in active markets, the Registrants estimate fair value using various internal and external valuation methods including cash flow projections or other market indicators of fair value such as bids received, comparable sales or independent appraisals. Cash flow estimates are based on relevant information available at the time the estimates are made. Estimates of future cash flows are, by nature, highly uncertain and may vary significantly from actual results. Also, when measuring fair value, management evaluates the characteristics of the asset or liability to determine if market participants would take those characteristics into account when pricing the asset or liability at the measurement date. Such characteristics include, for example, the condition and location of the asset or restrictions on the use of the asset. The Registrants perform depreciation studies that include a review of any external factors that may affect the useful life to determine composite depreciation rates and related lives which are subject to periodic review by state regulatory commissions for regulated assets. The fair value of the asset could be different using different estimates and assumptions in these valuation techniques.

Effect if Different Assumptions Used

In connection with the evaluation of long-lived assets in accordance with the requirements of “Property, Plant and Equipment” accounting guidance, the fair value of the asset can vary if different estimates and assumptions are used in the applied valuation techniques. Estimates for depreciation rates contemplate the history of interim capital replacements and the amount of salvage expected. In cases of impairment, the best estimate of fair value was made using valuation methods based on the most current information at that time. Fluctuations in realized sales proceeds versus the estimated fair value of the asset are generally due to a variety of factors including, but not limited to, differences in subsequent market conditions, the level of bidder interest, the timing and terms of the transactions and management’s analysis of the benefits of the transaction.

62

Pension and OPEB

AEP maintains a qualified, defined benefit pension plan (Qualified Plan), which covers substantially all nonunion and certain union employees, and unfunded, nonqualified supplemental plans (Nonqualified Plans) to provide benefits in excess of amounts permitted under the provisions of the tax law for participants in the Qualified Plan (collectively the Pension Plans). Additionally, AEP entered into individual employment contracts with certain current and retired executives that provide additional retirement benefits as a part of the Nonqualified Plans. AEP also sponsors OPEB plans to provide health and life insurance benefits for retired employees. The Pension Plans and OPEB plans are collectively referred to as the Plans.

For a discussion of investment strategy, investment limitations, target asset allocations and the classification of investments within the fair value hierarchy, see “Investments Held in Trust for Future Liabilities” and “Fair Value Measurements of Assets and Liabilities” sections of Note 1. See Note 8 - Benefit Plans for information regarding costs and assumptions for the Plans.

The following table shows the net periodic cost (credit) of the Plans:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The net periodic benefit cost is calculated based upon a number of actuarial assumptions, including expected long-term rates of return on the Plans’ assets. In developing the expected long-term rate of return assumption for 2019, management evaluated input from actuaries and investment consultants, including their reviews of asset class return expectations as well as long-term inflation assumptions. Management also considered historical returns of the investment markets and tax rates which affect a portion of the OPEB plans’ assets. Management anticipates that the investment managers employed for the Plans will invest the assets to generate future returns averaging 6.25% for the Qualified Plan and 6.25% for the OPEB plans.

The expected long-term rate of return on the Plans’ assets is based on management’s targeted asset allocation and expected investment returns for each investment category. Assumptions for the Plans are summarized in the following table:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Management regularly reviews the actual asset allocation and periodically rebalances the investments to the targeted allocation. Management believes that 6.25% for both the Qualified Plan and OPEB plans are reasonable estimates of the long-term rate of return on the Plans’ assets. The Pension Plans’ assets had an actual loss of 2.10% for the year ended December 31, 2018 and an actual gain of 12.86% for the year ended December 31, 2017. The OPEB plans’ assets had an actual loss of 6.38% for the year ended December 31, 2018 and an actual gain of 18.38% for the year ended December 31, 2017. Management will continue to evaluate the actuarial assumptions, including the expected rate of return, at least annually, and will adjust the assumptions as necessary.

63

AEP bases the determination of pension expense or income on a market-related valuation of assets, which reduces year-to-year volatility. This market-related valuation recognizes investment gains or losses over a five-year period from the year in which they occur. Investment gains or losses for this purpose are the difference between the expected return calculated using the market-related value of assets and the actual return based on the market-related value of assets. Since the market-related value of assets recognizes gains or losses over a five-year period, the future value of assets will be impacted as previously deferred gains or losses are recorded. As of December 31, 2018, AEP had cumulative losses of approximately $173 million that remain to be recognized in the calculation of the market-related value of assets. These unrecognized market-related net actuarial losses may result in increases in the future pension costs depending on several factors, including whether such losses at each measurement date exceed the corridor in accordance with “Compensation – Retirement Benefits” accounting guidance.

The method used to determine the discount rate that AEP utilizes for determining future obligations is a duration-based method in which a hypothetical portfolio of high quality corporate bonds is constructed with cash flows matching the benefit plan liability. The composite yield on the hypothetical bond portfolio is used as the discount rate for the plan. The discount rate as of December 31, 2018 under this method was 4.3% for the Qualified Plan, 4.2% for the Nonqualified Plans and 4.3% for the OPEB plans. Due to the effect of the unrecognized actuarial losses and based on an expected rate of return on the Pension Plans’ assets of 6.25%, discount rates of 4.3% and 4.2% and various other assumptions, management estimates that the pension costs for the Pension Plans will approximate $57 million, $67 million and $62 million in 2019, 2020 and 2021, respectively. Based on an expected rate of return on the OPEB plans’ assets of 6.25%, a discount rate of 4.3% and various other assumptions, management estimates OPEB plan credits will approximate $81 million, $81 million and $83 million in 2019, 2020 and 2021, respectively. Future actual costs will depend on future investment performance, changes in future discount rates and various other factors related to the populations participating in the Plans. The actuarial assumptions used may differ materially from actual results. The effects of a 50 basis point change to selective actuarial assumptions are included in the “Effect if Different Assumptions Used” section below.

The value of AEP’s Pension Plans’ assets decreased to $4.7 billion as of December 31, 2018 from $5.2 billion as of December 31, 2017 primarily due to lower investment returns and benefit payments made in 2018. During 2018, the Qualified Plan paid $374 million and the Nonqualified Plans paid $11 million in benefits to plan participants. The value of AEP’s OPEB plans’ assets decreased to $1.5 billion as of December 31, 2018 from $1.7 billion as of December 31, 2017 primarily due to lower investment returns and benefit payments made in 2018. The OPEB plans paid $134 million in benefits to plan participants during 2018.

Nature of Estimates Required

AEP sponsors pension and OPEB plans in various forms covering all employees who meet eligibility requirements. These benefits are accounted for under “Compensation” and “Plan Accounting” accounting guidance. The measurement of pension and OPEB obligations, costs and liabilities is dependent on a variety of assumptions.

Assumptions and Approach Used

The critical assumptions used in developing the required estimates include the following key factors:

•Discount rate

•Compensation increase rate

•Cash balance crediting rate

•Health care cost trend rate

•Expected return on plan assets

Other assumptions, such as retirement, mortality and turnover, are evaluated periodically and updated to reflect actual experience.

64

Effect if Different Assumptions Used

The actuarial assumptions used may differ materially from actual results due to changing market and economic conditions, higher or lower withdrawal rates, longer or shorter life spans of participants or higher or lower lump sum versus annuity payout elections by plan participants. These differences may result in a significant impact to the amount of pension and OPEB expense recorded. If a 50 basis point change were to occur for the following assumptions, the approximate effect on the financial statements would be as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

NANot applicable.

ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS

See Note 2 - New Accounting Pronouncements for information related to accounting pronouncements adopted in 2018 and pronouncements effective in the future.

QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

Market Risks

The Vertically Integrated Utilities segment is exposed to certain market risks as a major power producer and through transactions in power, coal, natural gas and marketing contracts. These risks include commodity price risks which may be subject to capacity risk, credit risk as well as interest rate risk. In addition, this segment is exposed to foreign currency exchange risk from occasionally procuring various services and materials used in its energy business from foreign suppliers. These risks represent the risk of loss that may impact this segment due to changes in the underlying market prices or rates.

The Transmission and Distribution Utilities segment is exposed to energy procurement risk and interest rate risk.

The Generation & Marketing segment conducts marketing, risk management and retail activities in ERCOT, PJM, SPP and MISO. This segment is exposed to certain market risks as a marketer of wholesale and retail electricity. These risks include commodity price risks which may be subject to capacity risk, credit risk as well as interest rate risk. These risks represent the risk of loss that may impact this segment due to changes in the underlying market prices or rates. In addition, the Generation & Marketing segment is also exposed to certain market risks as a power producer and through transactions in wholesale electricity, natural gas and marketing contracts.

Management employs risk management contracts including physical forward and financial forward purchase-and-sale contracts. Management engages in risk management of power, capacity, coal, natural gas and, to a lesser extent, heating oil, gasoline and other commodity contracts to manage the risk associated with the energy business. As a result, AEP is subject to price risk. The amount of risk taken is determined by the Commercial Operations, Energy Supply and 

65

Finance groups in accordance with established risk management policies as approved by the Finance Committee of the Board of Directors. AEPSC’s market risk oversight staff independently monitors risk policies, procedures and risk levels and provides members of the Commercial Operations Risk Committee (Regulated Risk Committee) and the Energy Supply Risk Committee (Competitive Risk Committee) various reports regarding compliance with policies, limits and procedures. The Regulated Risk Committee consists of AEPSC’s Chief Financial Officer, Executive Vice President of Generation, Senior Vice President of Commercial Operations and Chief Risk Officer. The Competitive Risk Committee consists of AEPSC’s Chief Financial Officer and Chief Risk Officer in addition to Energy Supply’s President and Vice President. When commercial activities exceed predetermined limits, positions are modified to reduce the risk to be within the limits unless specifically approved by the respective committee.

The following table summarizes the reasons for changes in total MTM value as compared to December 31, 2017:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a)Reflects fair value on primarily long-term structured contracts which are typically with customers that seek fixed pricing to limit their risk against fluctuating energy prices. The contract prices are valued against market curves associated with the delivery location and delivery term. A significant portion of the total volumetric position has been economically hedged.

(b)Market fluctuations are attributable to various factors such as supply/demand, weather, etc.

(c)Relates to the net gains (losses) of those contracts that are not reflected on the statements of income. These net gains (losses) are recorded as regulatory liabilities/assets or accounts payable.

See Note 10 – Derivatives and Hedging and Note 11 – Fair Value Measurements for additional information related to risk management contracts. The following tables and discussion provide information on credit risk and market volatility risk.

Credit Risk

Credit risk is mitigated in wholesale marketing and trading activities by assessing the creditworthiness of potential counterparties before entering into transactions with them and continuing to evaluate their creditworthiness on an ongoing basis. Management uses credit agency ratings and current market-based qualitative and quantitative data as well as financial statements to assess the financial health of counterparties on an ongoing basis.

66

AEP has risk management contracts with numerous counterparties. Since open risk management contracts are valued based on changes in market prices of the related commodities, exposures change daily. As of December 31, 2018, credit exposure net of collateral to sub investment grade counterparties was approximately 6.4%, expressed in terms of net MTM assets, net receivables and the net open positions for contracts not subject to MTM (representing economic risk even though there may not be risk of accounting loss). As of December 31, 2018, the following table approximates AEP’s counterparty credit quality and exposure based on netting across commodities, instruments and legal entities where applicable:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

In addition, AEP is exposed to credit risk related to participation in RTOs. For each of the RTOs in which AEP participates, this risk is generally determined based on the proportionate share of member gross activity over a specified period of time.

Value at Risk (VaR) Associated with Risk Management Contracts

Management uses a risk measurement model, which calculates VaR, to measure AEP’s commodity price risk in the risk management portfolio. The VaR is based on the variance-covariance method using historical prices to estimate volatilities and correlations and assumes a 95% confidence level and a one-day holding period. Based on this VaR analysis, as of December 31, 2018, a near term typical change in commodity prices is not expected to materially impact net income, cash flows or financial condition.

Management calculates the VaR for both a trading and non-trading portfolio. The trading portfolio consists primarily of contracts related to energy trading and marketing activities. The non-trading portfolio consists primarily of economic hedges of generation and retail supply activities. The following tables show the end, high, average and low market risk as measured by VaR for the periods indicated:

VaR Model

Trading Portfolio

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

VaR Model

Non-Trading Portfolio

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

67

Management back-tests VaR results against performance due to actual price movements. Based on the assumed 95% confidence interval, the performance due to actual price movements would be expected to exceed the VaR at least once every 20 trading days.

As the VaR calculation captures recent price movements, management also performs regular stress testing of the trading portfolio to understand AEP’s exposure to extreme price movements. A historical-based method is employed whereby the current trading portfolio is subjected to actual, observed price movements from the last several years in order to ascertain which historical price movements translated into the largest potential MTM loss. Management then researches the underlying positions, price movements and market events that created the most significant exposure and reports the findings to the Risk Executive Committee, Regulated Risk Committee, or Competitive Risk Committee as appropriate.

Interest Rate Risk

AEP is exposed to interest rate market fluctuations in the normal course of business operations. AEP has outstanding short and long-term debt which is subject to a variable rate. AEP manages interest rate risk by limiting variable rate exposures to a percentage of total debt, by entering into interest rate derivative instruments and by monitoring the effects of market changes in interest rates. For the twelve months ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, a 100 basis point change in the benchmark rate on AEP’s variable rate debt would impact pretax interest expense annually by $25 million, $28 million and $37 million, respectively.

68

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM