ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS

GENERAL RISKS OF REGULATED OPERATIONS

AEP may not be able to recover the costs of substantial planned investment in capital improvements and additions. (Applies to all Registrants)

AEP’s business plan calls for extensive investment in capital improvements and additions, including the installation of environmental upgrades and retrofits, construction of additional transmission facilities, modernizing existing infrastructure as well as other initiatives. AEP’s public utility subsidiaries currently provide service at rates approved by one or more regulatory commissions. If these regulatory commissions do not approve adjustments to the rates charged, affected AEP subsidiaries would not be able to recover the costs associated with their investments. This would cause financial results to be diminished.

Regulated electric revenues and earnings are dependent on federal and state regulation that may limit AEP’s ability to recover costs and other amounts. (Applies to all Registrants)

The rates customers pay to AEP regulated utility businesses are subject to approval by the FERC and the respective state utility commissions of Arkansas, Indiana, Kentucky, Louisiana, Michigan, Ohio, Oklahoma, Tennessee, Texas, Virginia and West Virginia. In certain instances, AEP’s applicable regulated utility businesses may agree to negotiated settlements related to various rate matters that are subject to regulatory approval. AEP cannot predict the ultimate outcomes of any settlements or the actions by the FERC or the respective state commissions in establishing rates.

If regulated utility earnings exceed the returns established by the relevant commissions, retail electric rates may be subject to review and possible reduction by the commissions, which may decrease future earnings. Additionally, if regulatory bodies do not allow recovery of costs incurred in providing service on a timely basis, it could reduce future net income and cash flows and negatively impact financial condition. Similarly, if recovery or other rate relief authorized in the past is overturned or reversed on appeal, future earnings could be negatively impacted. Any regulatory action or litigation outcome that triggers a reversal of a regulatory asset or deferred cost generally results in an impairment to the balance sheet and a charge to the income statement of the company involved. See Note 4 – Rate Matters included in the 2018 Annual Report for additional information. 

AEP’s transmission investment strategy and execution are dependent on federal and state regulatory policy. (Applies to all Registrants)

A significant portion of AEP’s earnings is derived from transmission investments and activities. FERC policy currently favors the expansion and updating of the transmission infrastructure within its jurisdiction. If the FERC were to adopt a different policy, if states were to limit or restrict such policies, or if transmission needs do not continue or develop as projected, AEP’s strategy of investing in transmission could be impacted. Management believes AEP’s experience with transmission facilities construction and operation gives AEP an advantage over other competitors in securing authorization to install, construct and operate new transmission lines and facilities. However, there can be no assurance that PJM, SPP, ERCOT or other RTOs will authorize new transmission projects or will award such projects to AEP. 

Certain elements of AEP’s transmission formula rates have been challenged, which could result in lowered rates and/or refunds of amounts previously collected and thus have an adverse effect on AEP’s business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. (Applies to all Registrants other than AEP Texas)

AEP provides transmission service under rates regulated by the FERC. The FERC has approved the cost-based formula rate templates used by AEP to calculate its respective annual revenue requirements, but it has not expressly approved the amount of actual capital and operating expenditures to be used in the formula rates. All aspects of AEP’s rates accepted or approved by the FERC, including the formula rate templates, the rates of return on the actual equity portion of its respective capital structures and the approved targeted capital structures, are subject to challenge by interested parties at the FERC, or by the FERC on its own initiative. In addition, interested parties may challenge the annual 

32

implementation and calculation by AEP of its projected rates and formula rate true up pursuant to its approved formula rate templates under AEP’s formula rate implementation protocols. If a challenger can establish that any of these aspects are unjust, unreasonable, unduly discriminatory or preferential, then the FERC will make appropriate prospective adjustments to them and/or disallow any of AEP’s inclusion of those aspects in the rate setting formula.

Parties have challenged AEP’s formula rates in proceedings at the FERC. If the FERC orders revenue reductions as a result of these or other complaints, including refunds from the date of any complaint filing, it could reduce future net income and cash flows and impact financial condition.

End-use consumers and entities supplying electricity to end-use consumers may also attempt to influence government and/or regulators to change the rate setting methodologies that apply to AEP, particularly if rates for delivered electricity increase substantially.

Changes in technology and regulatory policies may lower the value of electric utility facilities and franchises. (Applies to all Registrants)

AEP primarily generates electricity at large central facilities and delivers that electricity to customers over its transmission and distribution facilities to customers usually situated within an exclusive franchise. This method results in economies of scale and generally lower costs than newer technologies such as fuel cells and microturbines, and distributed generation using either new or existing technology. Other technologies, such as light emitting diodes (LEDs), increase the efficiency of electricity and, as a result, lower the demand for it. Changes in regulatory policies and advances in batteries or energy storage, wind turbines and photovoltaic solar cells are reducing costs of new technology to levels that are making them competitive with some central station electricity production and delivery. These developments can challenge AEP’s competitive ability to maintain relatively low cost, efficient and reliable operations, to establish fair regulatory mechanisms and to provide cost-effective programs and services to customers. Further, in the event that alternative generation resources are mandated, subsidized or encouraged through legislation or regulation or otherwise are economically competitive and added to the available generation supply, such resources could displace a higher marginal cost generating units, which could reduce the price at which market participants sell their electricity.

AEP may not recover costs incurred to begin construction on projects that are canceled. (Applies to all Registrants)

AEP’s business plan for the construction of new projects involves a number of risks, including construction delays, nonperformance by equipment and other third-party suppliers, and increases in equipment and labor costs. To limit the risks of these construction projects, AEP’s subsidiaries enter into equipment purchase orders and construction contracts and incur engineering and design service costs in advance of receiving necessary regulatory approvals and/or siting or environmental permits. If any of these projects are canceled for any reason, including failure to receive necessary regulatory approvals and/or siting or environmental permits, significant cancellation penalties under the equipment purchase orders and construction contracts could occur. In addition, if any construction work or investments have been recorded as an asset, an impairment may need to be recorded in the event the project is canceled.

AEP is exposed to nuclear generation risk. (Applies to AEP and I&M)

I&M owns the Cook Plant, which consists of two nuclear generating units for a rated capacity of 2,278 MWs, or about 7% of the generating capacity in the AEP System. AEP and I&M are, therefore, subject to the risks of nuclear generation, which include the following:

•The potential harmful effects on the environment and human health due to an adverse incident/event resulting from the operation of nuclear facilities and the storage, handling and disposal of radioactive materials such as SNF.

•Limitations on the amounts and types of insurance commercially available to cover losses that might arise in connection with nuclear operations.

33

•Uncertainties with respect to contingencies and assessment amounts triggered by a loss event (federal law requires owners of nuclear units to purchase the maximum available amount of nuclear liability insurance and potentially contribute to the coverage for losses of others).

•Uncertainties with respect to the technological and financial aspects of decommissioning nuclear plants at the end of their licensed lives.

There can be no assurance that I&M’s preparations or risk mitigation measures will be adequate if these risks are triggered.

The NRC has broad authority under federal law to impose licensing and safety-related requirements for the operation of nuclear generation facilities. In the event of non-compliance, the NRC has the authority to impose fines or shut down a unit, or both, depending upon its assessment of the severity of the situation, until compliance is achieved. Revised safety requirements promulgated by the NRC could necessitate substantial capital expenditures at nuclear plants. In addition, although management has no reason to anticipate a serious nuclear incident at the Cook Plant, if an incident did occur, it could harm results of operations or financial condition. A major incident at a nuclear facility anywhere in the world could cause the NRC to limit or prohibit the operation or licensing of any domestic nuclear unit. Moreover, a major incident at any nuclear facility in the U.S. could require AEP or I&M to make material contributory payments.

Costs associated with the operation (including fuel), maintenance and retirement of nuclear plants continue to be more significant and less predictable than costs associated with other sources of generation, in large part due to changing regulatory requirements and safety standards, availability of nuclear waste disposal facilities and experience gained in the operation of nuclear facilities. Costs also may include replacement power, any unamortized investment at the end of the useful life of the Cook Plant (whether scheduled or premature), the carrying costs of that investment and retirement costs. The ability to obtain adequate and timely recovery of costs associated with the Cook Plant is not assured.

AEP subsidiaries are exposed to risks through participation in the market and transmission structures in various regional power markets that are beyond their control. (Applies to all Registrants)

Results are likely to be affected by differences in the market and transmission structures in various regional power markets. The rules governing the various RTOs, including SPP and PJM, may also change from time to time which could affect costs or revenues. Existing, new or changed rules of these RTOs could result in significant additional fees and increased costs to participate in those structures, including the cost of transmission facilities built by others due to changes in transmission rate design. In addition, these RTOs may assess costs resulting from improved transmission reliability, reduced transmission congestion and firm transmission rights. As members of these RTOs, AEP’s subsidiaries are subject to certain additional risks, including the allocation among existing members, of losses caused by unreimbursed defaults of other participants in these markets and resolution of complaint cases that may seek refunds of revenues previously earned by members of these markets.

AEP could be subject to higher costs and/or penalties related to mandatory reliability standards. (Applies to all Registrants)

Owners and operators of the bulk power transmission system are subject to mandatory reliability standards promulgated by the North American Electric Reliability Corporation and enforced by the FERC. The standards are based on the functions that need to be performed to ensure the bulk power system operates reliably and are guided by reliability and market interface principles. Compliance with new reliability standards may subject AEP to higher operating costs and/or increased capital expenditures. While management expects to recover costs and expenditures from customers through regulated rates, there can be no assurance that the applicable commissions will approve full recovery in a timely manner. If AEP were found not to be in compliance with the mandatory reliability standards, AEP could be subject to sanctions, including substantial monetary penalties, which likely would not be recoverable from customers through regulated rates.

34

A substantial portion of the receivables of AEP Texas is concentrated in a small number of REPs, and any delay or default in payment could adversely affect its cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. (Applies to AEP and AEP Texas)

AEP Texas collects receivables from the distribution of electricity from REPs that supply the electricity it distributes to its customers. As of December 31, 2018, AEP Texas did business with approximately 124 REPs. Adverse economic conditions, structural problems in the market served by ERCOT or financial difficulties of one or more REPs could impair the ability of these REPs to pay for these services or could cause them to delay such payments. AEP Texas depends on these REPs to remit payments on a timely basis. Applicable regulatory provisions require that customers be shifted to another REP or a provider of last resort if a REP cannot make timely payments. Applicable PUCT regulations significantly limit the extent to which AEP Texas can apply normal commercial terms or otherwise seek credit protection from firms desiring to provide retail electric service in its service territory, and AEP Texas thus remains at risk for payments related to services provided prior to the shift to another REP or the provider of last resort. In 2018, AEP Texas’ first, second and third largest REPs accounted for 19%, 15% and 11%, respectively, of its operating revenue. Any delay or default in payment by REPs could adversely affect cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. If a REP were unable to meet its obligations, it could consider, among various options, restructuring under the bankruptcy laws, in which event such REP might seek to avoid honoring its obligations, and claims might be made by creditors involving payments AEP Texas had received from such REP.

RISKS RELATED TO MARKET, ECONOMIC OR FINANCIAL VOLATILITY AND OTHER RISKS

AEP’s financial performance may be adversely affected if AEP is unable to successfully operate facilities or perform certain corporate functions. (Applies to all Registrants)

Performance is highly dependent on the successful operation of generation, transmission and/or distribution facilities. Operating these facilities involves many risks, including:

•Operator error and breakdown or failure of equipment or processes.

•Operating limitations that may be imposed by environmental or other regulatory requirements.

•Labor disputes.

•Compliance with mandatory reliability standards, including mandatory cyber security standards.

•Information technology failure that impairs AEP’s information technology infrastructure or disrupts normal business operations.

•Information technology failure that affects AEP’s ability to access customer information or causes loss of confidential or proprietary data that materially and adversely affects AEP’s reputation or exposes AEP to legal claims.

•Fuel or water supply interruptions caused by transportation constraints, adverse weather such as drought, non-performance by suppliers and other factors.

•Catastrophic events such as fires, earthquakes, explosions, hurricanes, tornados, ice storms, terrorism (including cyber-terrorism), floods or other similar occurrences.

•Fuel costs and related requirements triggered by financial stress in the coal industry.

Physical attacks or hostile cyber intrusions could severely impair operations, lead to the disclosure of confidential information and damage AEP’s reputation. (Applies to all Registrants)

AEP and its regulated utility businesses face physical security and cybersecurity risks as the owner-operators of generation, transmission and/or distribution facilities and as participants in commodities trading. AEP and its regulated utility businesses own assets deemed as critical infrastructure, the operation of which is dependent on information technology systems. Further, the computer systems that run these facilities are not completely isolated from external networks. Parties that wish to disrupt the U.S. bulk power system or AEP operations could view these computer systems, software or networks as targets for cyber attack. In addition, the electric utility business requires the collection of sensitive customer data, as well as confidential employee and shareholder information, which is subject to electronic theft or loss.

35

A security breach of AEP or its regulated utility businesses’ physical assets or information systems, interconnected entities in RTOs, or regulators could impact the operation of the generation fleet and/or reliability of the transmission and distribution system or subject AEP and its regulated utility businesses to financial harm associated with theft or inappropriate release of certain types of information, including sensitive customer, vendor, employee, trading or other confidential data. A successful cyber attack on the systems that control generation, transmission, distribution or other assets could severely disrupt business operations, preventing service to customers or collection of revenues. The breach of certain business systems could affect the ability to correctly record, process and report financial information. A major cyber incident could result in significant expenses to investigate and repair security breaches or system damage and could lead to litigation, fines, other remedial action, heightened regulatory scrutiny and damage to AEP’s reputation. In addition, the misappropriation, corruption or loss of personally identifiable information and other confidential data could lead to significant breach notification expenses and mitigation expenses such as credit monitoring. For these reasons, a significant cyber incident could reduce future net income and cash flows and negatively impact financial condition.

If AEP is unable to access capital markets on reasonable terms, it could reduce future net income and cash flows and negatively impact financial condition. (Applies to all Registrants)

AEP relies on access to capital markets as a significant source of liquidity for capital requirements not satisfied by operating cash flows. Volatility, increased interest rates and reduced liquidity in the financial markets could affect AEP’s ability to raise capital on reasonable terms to fund capital needs, including construction costs and refinancing maturing indebtedness. Certain sources of debt and equity capital expressed increasing unwillingness to invest in companies, such as AEP, that rely on fossil fuels. If sources of capital for AEP are reduced, capital costs could increase materially. Restricted access to capital markets and/or increased borrowing costs could reduce future net income and cash flows and negatively impact financial condition.

The potential phasing out of LIBOR after 2021 may adversely affect the costs and availability of financing. (Applies to all Registrants)

A portion of the Registrants’ indebtedness bears interest at fluctuating interest rates, primarily based on the London interbank offered rate (“LIBOR”) for deposits of U.S. dollars. LIBOR tends to fluctuate based on general interest rates, rates set by the U.S. Federal Reserve and other central banks, the supply of and demand for credit in the London interbank market and general economic conditions. AEP has not hedged its interest rate exposure with respect to its floating rate debt. Accordingly, Registrants’ interest expense for any particular period will fluctuate based on LIBOR and other variable interest rates. On July 27, 2017, the Financial Conduct Authority (the authority that regulates LIBOR) announced that it intends to stop compelling banks to submit rates for the calculation of LIBOR after 2021. It is unclear whether new methods of calculating LIBOR will be established such that it continues to exist after 2021. The U.S. Federal Reserve, in conjunction with the Alternative Reference Rates Committee, is considering replacing U.S. dollar LIBOR with a newly created index, calculated based on repurchase agreements backed by treasury securities. It is not possible to predict the effect of these changes, other reforms or the establishment of alternative reference rates in the United Kingdom, the United States or elsewhere. To the extent these interest rates increase, interest expense will increase. If sources of capital for the Registrants are reduced, capital costs could increase materially. Restricted access to capital markets and/or increased borrowing costs could reduce future net income and cash flows and negatively impact financial condition and/or liquidity. 

Downgrades in AEP’s credit ratings could negatively affect its ability to access capital. (Applies to all Registrants)

The credit ratings agencies periodically review AEP’s capital structure and the quality and stability of earnings and cash flows. Any negative ratings actions could constrain the capital available to AEP and could limit access to funding for operations. AEP’s business is capital intensive, and AEP is dependent upon the ability to access capital at rates and on terms management determines to be attractive. If AEP’s ability to access capital becomes significantly constrained, AEP’s interest costs will likely increase and could reduce future net income and cash flows and negatively impact financial condition.

36

AEP has no income or cash flow apart from dividends paid or other payments due from its subsidiaries. (Applies to AEP)

AEP is a holding company and has no operations of its own. Its ability to meet its financial obligations associated with its indebtedness and to pay dividends on its common stock is primarily dependent on the earnings and cash flows of its operating subsidiaries, primarily its regulated utilities, and the ability of its subsidiaries to pay dividends to, or repay loans from, AEP. Its subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities that have no obligation (apart from loans from AEP) to provide AEP with funds for its payment obligations, whether by dividends, distributions or other payments. Payments to AEP by its subsidiaries are also contingent upon their earnings and business considerations. AEP indebtedness and common stock dividends are structurally subordinated to all subsidiary indebtedness.

AEP’s operating results may fluctuate on a seasonal or quarterly basis and with general economic and weather conditions. (Applies to all Registrants)

Electric power consumption is generally seasonal. In many parts of the country, demand for power peaks during the hot summer months, with market prices also peaking at that time. In other areas, power demand peaks during the winter. As a result, overall operating results in the future may fluctuate substantially on a seasonal basis. In addition, AEP has historically sold less power, and consequently earned less income, when weather conditions are milder. Unusually mild weather in the future could reduce future net income and cash flows and negatively impact financial condition. In addition, unusually extreme weather conditions could impact AEP’s results of operations in a manner that would not likely be sustainable.

Further, deteriorating economic conditions generally result in reduced consumption by customers, particularly industrial customers who may curtail operations or cease production entirely, while an expanding economic environment generally results in increased revenues. As a result, prevailing economic conditions may reduce future net income and cash flows and negatively impact financial condition.

Volatility in the securities markets, interest rates, and other factors could substantially increase defined benefit pension and other postretirement plan costs and the costs of nuclear decommissioning. (Applies to all Registrants and to AEP and I&M with respect to the costs of nuclear decommissioning)

The costs of providing pension and other postretirement benefit plans are dependent on a number of factors, such as the rates of return on plan assets, discount rates, the level of interest rates used to measure the required minimum funding levels of the plan, changes in actuarial assumptions, future government regulation, changes in life expectancy, and the frequency and amount of AEP’s required or voluntary contributions made to the plans. Changes in actuarial assumptions and differences between the assumptions and actual values, as well as a significant decline in the value of investments that fund the pension and other postretirement plans, if not offset or mitigated by a decline in plan liabilities, could increase pension and other postretirement expense, and AEP could be required from time to time to fund the pension plan with significant amounts of cash. Such cash funding obligations could have a material impact on liquidity by reducing cash flows and could negatively affect results of operations. 

Additionally, I&M holds a significant amount of assets in its nuclear decommissioning trusts to satisfy obligations to decommission its nuclear plant. The rate of return on assets held in those trusts can significantly impact both the costs of decommissioning and the funding requirements for the trusts.

37

AEP’s results of operations and cash flows may be negatively affected by a lack of growth or slower growth in the number of customers, or decline in customer demand. (Applies to all Registrants)

Growth in customer accounts and growth of customer usage each directly influence demand for electricity and the need for additional power generation and delivery facilities. Customer growth and customer usage are affected by a number of factors outside the control of AEP, such as mandated energy efficiency measures, demand-side management goals, distributed generation resources and economic and demographic conditions, such as population changes, job and income growth, housing starts, new business formation and the overall level of economic activity.

Certain regulatory and legislative bodies have introduced or are considering requirements and/or incentives to further reduce energy consumption. Additionally, technological advances or other improvements in or applications of technology could lead to declines in per capita energy consumption. Some or all of these factors, could impact the demand for electricity.

Failure to attract and retain an appropriately qualified workforce could harm results of operations. (Applies to all Registrants)

Certain events, such as an aging workforce without appropriate replacements, mismatch of skillset or complement to future needs, or unavailability of contract resources may lead to operating challenges and increased costs. The challenges include lack of resources, loss of knowledge and a lengthy time period associated with skill development. In this case, costs, including costs for contractors to replace employees, productivity costs and safety costs, may rise. Failure to hire and adequately train replacement employees, including the transfer of significant internal historical knowledge and expertise to the new employees, or the future availability and cost of contract labor may adversely affect the ability to manage and operate the business. If AEP is unable to successfully attract and retain an appropriately qualified workforce, future net income and cash flows may be reduced.

Changes in the price of commodities, emission allowances for criteria pollutants and the costs of transport may increase AEP’s cost of producing power, impacting financial performance. (Applies to all Registrants except AEP Texas, AEPTCo and OPCo)

AEP is exposed to changes in the price and availability of fuel (including coal and gas) and the price and availability to transport fuel. AEP has existing contracts of varying durations for the supply of fuel, but as these contracts end or if they are not honored, AEP may not be able to purchase fuel on terms as favorable as the current contracts. Similarly, AEP is exposed to changes in the price and availability of emission allowances. AEP uses emission allowances based on the amount of fuel used and reductions achieved through emission controls and other measures. Based on current environmental programs remaining in effect, AEP has sufficient emission allowances to cover the majority of the projected needs for the next two years and beyond. If the Federal EPA attempts to further reduce interstate transport, and it is acceptable by the courts, additional costs may be incurred either to acquire additional allowances or to achieve further reductions in emissions. If AEP needs to obtain allowances, those purchases may not be on as favorable terms as those under the current environmental programs. AEP’s risks relative to the price and availability to transport coal include the volatility of the price of diesel which is the primary fuel used in transporting coal by barge.

Prices for coal, natural gas and emission allowances have shown material swings in the past. Changes in the cost of fuel, emission allowances or natural gas and changes in the relationship between such costs and the market prices of power could reduce future net income and cash flows and negatively impact financial condition.

In addition, actual power prices and fuel costs will differ from those assumed in financial projections used to value trading and marketing transactions, and those differences may be material. As a result, as those transactions are marked to market, they may impact future results of operations and cash flows and impact financial condition.

38

AEP is subject to physical and financial risks associated with climate change. (Applies to all Registrants)

Climate change creates physical and financial risk. Physical risks from climate change may include an increase in sea level and changes in weather conditions, such as changes in precipitation and extreme weather events, such as fires. Customers’ energy needs vary with weather conditions, primarily temperature and humidity. For residential customers, heating and cooling represent their largest energy use. To the extent weather conditions are affected by climate change, customers’ energy use could increase or decrease depending on the duration and magnitude of the changes.

Increased energy use due to weather changes may require AEP to invest in additional generating assets, transmission and other infrastructure to serve increased load. Decreased energy use due to weather changes may affect financial condition through decreased revenues. Extreme weather conditions in general require more system backup, adding to costs, and can contribute to increased system stress, including service interruptions. Weather conditions outside of the AEP service territory could also have an impact on revenues. AEP buys and sells electricity depending upon system needs and market opportunities. Extreme weather conditions creating high energy demand on AEP’s own and/or other systems may raise electricity prices as AEP buys short-term energy to serve AEP’s own system, which would increase the cost of energy AEP provides to customers.

Severe weather and weather-related events impact AEP’s service territories, primarily when thunderstorms, tornadoes, hurricanes, fires, floods and snow or ice storms occur. To the extent the frequency and intensity of extreme weather events and storms increase, AEP’s cost of providing service will increase, and these costs may not be recoverable. Changes in precipitation resulting in droughts, water shortages or floods could adversely affect operations, principally the fossil fuel generating units. A negative impact to water supplies due to long-term drought conditions or severe flooding could adversely impact AEP’s ability to provide electricity to customers, as well as increase the price they pay for energy. AEP may not recover all costs related to mitigating these physical and financial risks.

To the extent climate change impacts a region’s economic health, it may also impact revenues. AEP’s financial performance is tied to the health of the regional economies AEP serves. The price of energy, as a factor in a region’s cost of living as well as an important input into the cost of goods and services, has an impact on the economic health of the communities within the AEP System.

Management cannot predict the outcome of the legal proceedings relating to AEP’s business activities. (Applies to all Registrants)

AEP is involved in legal proceedings, claims and litigation arising out of its business operations, the most significant of which are summarized in Note 6 - Commitments, Guarantees and Contingencies included in the 2018 Annual Report. Adverse outcomes in these proceedings could require significant expenditures that could reduce future net income and cash flows and negatively impact financial condition.

Disruptions at power generation facilities owned by third-parties could interrupt the sales of transmission and distribution services. (Applies to AEP and AEP Texas)

AEP Texas transmits and distributes electric power that the REPs obtain from power generation facilities owned by third-parties. If power generation is disrupted or if power generation capacity is inadequate, sales of transmission and distribution services may be diminished or interrupted, and results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be adversely affected.

39

Hazards associated with high-voltage electricity transmission may result in suspension of AEP’s operations or the imposition of civil or criminal penalties. (Applies to all Registrants)

AEP operations are subject to the usual hazards associated with high-voltage electricity transmission, including explosions, fires, inclement weather, natural disasters, mechanical failure, unscheduled downtime, equipment interruptions, remediation, chemical spills, discharges or releases of toxic or hazardous substances or gases and other environmental risks. The hazards can cause personal injury and loss of life, severe damage to or destruction of property and equipment and environmental damage, and may result in suspension of operations and the imposition of civil or criminal penalties. AEP maintains property and casualty insurance, but AEP is not fully insured against all potential hazards incident to AEP’s business, such as damage to poles, towers and lines or losses caused by outages.

AEPTCo depends on its affiliates in the AEP System for a substantial portion of its revenues. (Applies to AEPTCo)

AEPTCo’s principal transmission service customers are its affiliates in the AEP System. Management expects that these affiliates will continue to be AEPTCo’s principal transmission service customers for the foreseeable future. For the year ended December 31, 2018, its affiliates were responsible for approximately 77% of the consolidated transmission revenues of AEPTCo.

Most of the real property rights on which the assets of AEPTCo are situated result from affiliate license agreements and are dependent on the terms of the underlying easements and other rights of its affiliates. (Applies to AEPTCo)

AEPTCo does not hold title to the majority of real property on which its electric transmission assets are located. Instead, under the provisions of certain affiliate contracts, it is permitted to occupy and maintain its facilities upon real property held by the respective AEP System utility affiliate that overlay its operations. The ability of AEPTCo to continue to occupy such real property is dependent upon the terms of such affiliate contracts and upon the underlying real property rights of these utility affiliates, which may be encumbered by easements, mineral rights and other similar encumbrances that may affect the use of such real property. AEP can give no assurance that (a) the relevant AEP System utility affiliates will continue to be affiliates of AEPTCo, (b) suitable replacement arrangements can be obtained in the event that the relevant AEP System utility affiliates are not its affiliates and (c) the underlying easements and other rights are sufficient to permit AEPTCo to operate its assets in a manner free from interruption.

RISKS RELATED TO OWNING AND OPERATING GENERATION ASSETS AND SELLING POWER

Costs of compliance with existing environmental laws are significant. (Applies to all Registrants except AEP Texas, AEPTCo and OPCo)

Operations are subject to extensive federal, state and local environmental statutes, rules and regulations relating to air quality, water quality, waste management, natural resources and health and safety. A majority of the electricity generated by the AEP System is produced by the combustion of fossil fuels. Emissions of nitrogen and sulfur oxides, mercury and particulates from fossil fueled generation plants are subject to increased regulations, controls and mitigation expenses. Compliance with these legal requirements requires AEP to commit significant capital toward environmental monitoring, installation of pollution control equipment, emission fees and permits at all AEP facilities and could cause AEP to retire generating capacity prior to the end of its estimated useful life. Costs of compliance with environmental regulations could reduce future net income and negatively impact financial condition, especially if emission and/or discharge limits are tightened, more extensive permitting requirements are imposed or additional substances become regulated. Although AEP typically recovers expenditures for pollution control technologies, replacement generation, undepreciated plant balances and associated operating costs from customers, there can be no assurance that AEP will recover the remaining costs associated with such plants. Failure to recover these costs could reduce future net income and cash flows and possibly harm financial condition. 

40

Regulation of CO2 emissions could materially increase costs to AEP and its customers or cause some electric generating units to be uneconomical to operate or maintain. (Applies to all Registrants except AEP Texas, AEPTCo and OPCo)

In 2014, the Federal EPA issued standards for new, modified and reconstructed units, and a guideline for the development of SIPs that would reduce carbon emissions from existing utility units. The standards and guidelines were finalized in 2015, and have been challenged by several dozen states as well as industry groups and other stakeholders. The U.S. Supreme Court has stayed the implementation of the guidelines for existing sources, known as the Clean Power Plan, until a final decision is issued by the courts. In 2017, the Federal EPA issued a proposal to repeal the Clean Power Plan, and an advance notice of proposed rulemaking seeking information that should be considered in the development of new emission guidelines. In 2018, the Federal EPA issued proposed guidelines that would allow states to establish unit-specific performance standards based on their evaluation of past performance and whether certain efficiency improvement measures could be applied at existing coal-fired units. The Federal EPA also proposed to change the new source performance standard for new coal-fired utility units to 1,900 - 2,000 pounds per MWh depending on the size of the unit, an increase from the current standard of 1,400 pounds per MWh, based on its determination that carbon capture and storage is not available everywhere and is not sufficiently cost-effective to be considered the best available control technology for coal-fired units.

CO2 standards could require significant increases in capital expenditures and operating costs and could impact the dates for retirement of AEP’s coal-fired units. While AEP typically recovers costs of complying with new requirements, such as the potential CO2 and other greenhouse gases emission standards from customers, there can be no assurance that AEP would recover such costs.

Courts adjudicating nuisance and other similar claims in the future may order AEP to pay damages or to limit or reduce emissions. (Applies to all Registrants except AEP Texas, AEPTCo and OPCo)

In the past, there have been several cases seeking damages based on allegations of federal and state common law nuisance in which AEP, among others, were defendants. In general, the actions allege that emissions from the defendants’ power plants constitute a public nuisance. The plaintiffs in these actions generally seek recovery of damages and other relief. If future actions are resolved against AEP, substantial modifications of AEP’s existing coal-fired power plants could be required and AEP might be required to limit or reduce emissions. Such remedies could require AEP to purchase power from third-parties to fulfill AEP’s commitments to supply power to AEP customers. This could have a material impact on costs. In addition, AEP could be required to invest significantly in additional emission control equipment, accelerate the timing of capital expenditures, pay damages or penalties and/or halt operations. Unless recovered, those costs could reduce future net income and cash flows and harm financial condition. Moreover, results of operations and financial position could be reduced due to the timing of recovery of these investments and the expense of ongoing litigation.

Commodity trading and marketing activities are subject to inherent risks which can be reduced and controlled but not eliminated. (Applies to all Registrants except AEP Texas, AEPTCo and OPCo)

AEP routinely has open trading positions in the market, within guidelines set by AEP, resulting from the management of AEP’s trading portfolio. To the extent open trading positions exist, fluctuating commodity prices can improve or diminish financial results and financial position.

AEP’s power trading activities also expose AEP to risks of commodity price movements. To the extent that AEP’s power trading does not hedge the price risk associated with the generation it owns, or controls, AEP would be exposed to the risk of rising and falling spot market prices.

In connection with these trading activities, AEP routinely enters into financial contracts, including futures and options, OTC options, financially-settled swaps and other derivative contracts. These activities expose AEP to risks from price movements. If the values of the financial contracts change in a manner AEP does not anticipate, it could harm financial position or reduce the financial contribution of trading operations.

41

Parties with whom AEP has contracts may fail to perform their obligations, which could harm AEP’s results of operations. (Applies to all Registrants)

AEP sells power from its generation facilities into the spot market and other competitive power markets on a contractual basis. AEP also enters into contracts to purchase and sell electricity, natural gas, emission allowances and coal as part of its power marketing and energy trading operations. AEP is exposed to the risk that counterparties that owe AEP money or the delivery of a commodity, including power, could breach their obligations. Should the counterparties to these arrangements fail to perform, AEP may be forced to enter into alternative hedging arrangements or honor underlying commitments at then-current market prices that may exceed AEP’s contractual prices, which would cause financial results to be diminished and AEP might incur losses. Although estimates take into account the expected probability of default by a counterparty, actual exposure to a default by a counterparty may be greater than the estimates predict.

AEP relies on electric transmission facilities that AEP does not own or control. If these facilities do not provide AEP with adequate transmission capacity, AEP may not be able to deliver wholesale electric power to the purchasers of AEP’s power. (Applies to all Registrants)

AEP depends on transmission facilities owned and operated by other nonaffiliated power companies to deliver the power AEP sells at wholesale. This dependence exposes AEP to a variety of risks. If transmission is disrupted, or transmission capacity is inadequate, AEP may not be able to sell and deliver AEP wholesale power. If a region’s power transmission infrastructure is inadequate, AEP’s recovery of wholesale costs and profits may be limited. If restrictive transmission price regulation is imposed, the transmission companies may not have sufficient incentive to invest in expansion of transmission infrastructure.

The FERC has issued electric transmission initiatives that require electric transmission services to be offered unbundled from commodity sales. Although these initiatives are designed to encourage wholesale market transactions, access to transmission systems may not be available if transmission capacity is insufficient because of physical constraints or because it is contractually unavailable. Management also cannot predict whether transmission facilities will be expanded in specific markets to accommodate competitive access to those markets.

OVEC may require additional liquidity and other capital support. (Applies to AEP, APCo, I&M and OPCo) 

AEP and several nonaffiliated utility companies own OVEC. The Inter-Company Power Agreement (ICPA) defines the rights and obligations and sets the power participation ratio of the parties to it. Under the ICPA, parties are entitled to receive and are obligated to pay for all OVEC capacity (approximately 2,400 MWs) in proportion to their respective power participation ratios. The aggregate power participation ratio of APCo, I&M and OPCo is 43.47%. If a party fails to make payments owed by it under the ICPA, OVEC may not have sufficient funds to honor its payment obligations, including its ongoing operating expenses as well as its indebtedness. As of December 31, 2018, OVEC has outstanding indebtedness of approximately $1.4 billion, of which APCo, I&M, and OPCo are collectively responsible for $604 million through the ICPA. Although they are not an obligor or guarantor, APCo, I&M, and OPCo are responsible for their respective ratio of OVEC’s outstanding debt through the ICPA.

FirstEnergy Solutions (“FES”), a nonaffiliated party, whose aggregate power participation ratio is 4.85% under the ICPA, has filed a petition seeking protection under bankruptcy law. The bankruptcy court has granted the motion of FES to reject the ICPA. Litigation related to these filings continues. In addition, as a result of these and prior related developments, OVEC’s credit ratings have been adversely impacted.

If OVEC does not have sufficient funds to honor its payment obligations, there is risk that APCo, I&M and/or OPCo may need to make payments in addition to their power participation ratio payments. Further, if OVEC’s indebtedness is accelerated for any reason, there is risk that APCo, I&M and/or OPCo may be required to pay some or all of such accelerated indebtedness in amounts equal to their aggregate power participation ratio of 43.47%. Also, as a result of the credit rating agencies’ actions, OVEC’s ability to access capital markets on terms as favorable as previously may diminish and its financing costs will increase.

42

ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS

None.

ITEM 2. PROPERTIES