Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Executive Overview

We are focused on the ownership, management, redevelopment and limited development of quality apartment communities located in several of the largest markets in the United States. 

Our principal financial objective is to provide predictable and attractive returns to our equity holders. We measure our long-term total return using Economic Income, defined as Net Asset Value, or NAV, growth plus dividends. NAV is used by many investors because the value of company assets can be readily estimated, even for non-earning assets such as land or properties under development. NAV has the advantage of incorporating the investment decisions of thousands of real estate investors, enhancing comparability among companies that have differences in their accounting, avoiding disparity that can result from application of GAAP to investment properties and various ownership structures. Some investors focus on multiples of Adjusted Funds From Operations, or AFFO, and Funds From Operations, or FFO. Our disclosure of AFFO, a measure of current return, complements our focus on Economic Income. We also use Pro forma Funds From Operations, or Pro forma FFO, as a secondary measure of operational performance. Over the last five years, our Economic Income grew at a compound annual return of 11.5% 

18
as of September 30, 2018, comprised of a 8.5% compounded annual growth in net asset value, or NAV, per share and $6.36 in cash dividends per share paid over the period. In 2018, AFFO grew by 1.9% to $2.16 per share. 

Our business and five areas of strategic focus are described in more detail within the Business Overview in Item 1. The results from execution of our business plan in 2018 are further described in the sections that follow. 

Net income attributable to common stockholders per common share increased by $2.25 for the year ended December 31, 2018, as compared to 2017, primarily due to gains on the sale of the Asset Management Business and lower-rated apartment communities.

For the year ended December 31, 2018, our NAV per share increased by about 6%, which, with our cash dividend, provided Economic Income of 8.5%.

Pro forma FFO per share increased $0.02, or 0.8%, for the year ended December 31, 2018, as compared to 2017 due to the following items:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•$0.16 net operating income contribution from redevelopment communities and lease-up communities; partially offset by

•A reduction of $0.14 from apartment communities sold to fund our investment activities; 

•A reduction of $0.03 from the sale of the Asset Management business, net of the contribution from the reinvestment of the proceeds in 2018 acquisitions and repayment of debt;

•A reduction of $0.05 from lower tax benefits and other items, net.

The $0.02 increase in year-over-year Pro forma FFO per share plus $0.02 in lower capital replacement spending due to fewer apartment homes increased AFFO by $0.04, or 1.9% per share. 

Operational Excellence

We own and operate a portfolio of market rate apartment communities diversified by both geography and price point, which we refer to as our Real Estate portfolio. At December 31, 2018, our Real Estate portfolio included 134 apartment communities with 36,549 apartment homes in which we held an average ownership of approximately 99%. This portfolio was divided about two-thirds by value to our “Same Store” portfolio of stabilized apartment communities and about one-third by value to “Other Real Estate,” which includes recently acquired communities and communities under redevelopment or development whose long-term financial contribution is not yet stabilized. 

Our property operations team produced solid results for our Real Estate portfolio for the year ended December 31, 2018. Highlights include: 

•Average daily occupancy of 96.5%, 50 basis points higher than the year ended 2017;[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Our focus on efficient operations through productivity initiatives such as centralization of administrative tasks, optimization of economies of scale at the corporate level, and investment in more durable, longer-lived materials has helped us control operating expenses. These and other innovations contributed to limiting growth in controllable operating expense (defined as property expenses less taxes, insurance and utility expenses) compounding for the past decade at an annual rate of 0.1%.

For the year ended December 31, 2018, our Real Estate portfolio provided 72% net operating income margins and 67% Free Cash Flow margins. 

Redevelopment

Our second line of business is the redevelopment and limited development of apartment communities. Through these activities, we expect to create value by repositioning communities within our portfolio. We measure the rate and quality of financial returns by NAV creation, an important component of Economic Income, our primary measure of long-term financial performance. Over the past five years, we have spent approximately $1.0 billion on redevelopment and development, resulting in estimated value creation of approximately $400.0 million. We also undertake limited ground-up development when warranted by risk-adjusted 

19
investment returns, either directly or in connection with the redevelopment of an existing apartment community. When warranted, we rely on the expertise and credit of a third-party developer familiar with the local market to limit our exposure to construction risk.

We invest to earn risk-adjusted returns in excess of those expected from the apartment communities sold in paired trades to fund the redevelopment or development. Of these two activities, we favor redevelopment because it permits adjustment to the scope and timing of spending to align with changing market conditions and customer preferences.

During the year ended December 31, 2018, we invested $175.9 million in redevelopment and development.

In Boulder, Colorado, we have invested $68.9 million in the development of Parc Mosaic, a 226-unit apartment home community. The site is two miles from the new Google campus and is across the street from Ball Aerospace’s Technology Campus and Foothills Hospital. Building in Boulder is highly regulated and new supply is limited, notwithstanding higher enrollment at the University of Colorado and increased employment generally. 

At the University of Colorado Anschutz Medical Campus, we exercised our option to acquire approximately two acres of land adjacent to our 21 Fitzsimons apartment community, and broke ground on the development of The Fremont, a 253-apartment home community. We expect to invest approximately $87.0 million to construct the community, which is expected to be ready for occupancy in late 2020.

We also commenced the next phase of redevelopment at our Flamingo community, located in Miami Beach, bringing our potential net investment to $39.7 million. This phase includes extensive redevelopment of retail, leasing, and common areas, including major enhancements to the entryway.

In Center City, Philadelphia, we completed the redevelopment of Park Towne Place, and as of December 31, 2018, we had leased 95.6% of the apartment homes at the community. This multi-year redevelopment of 940 apartment homes, amenities, and common area spaces, was executed on plan and leased-up in-line with expectations with expected free cash flow returns of greater than 9%.

In San Jose, California we completed the redevelopment of Saybrook Pointe, a 324-apartment home, garden-style community. Construction was completed on time and in-line with underwritten costs, and lease-up of the community finished ahead of schedule and at rates above underwriting, increasing the expected free cash flow return to greater than 14%, a 100 basis point outperformance to underwriting.

As of December 31, 2018, our total estimated net investment in redevelopment and development activities is $571.2 million, with a projected weighted average net operating income yield on these investments of 6.1%, assuming untrended rents. As of December 31, 2018, $361.0 million of this total has been funded.

During the year ended December 31, 2018, we leased 457 apartment homes at our redevelopment and development communities. At December 31, 2018, our exposure to lease-up at active redevelopment and development communities was approximately 366 apartment homes, of which 208 were being constructed at Parc Mosaic, and 158 were located in four other communities. Additionally, we expect to acquire One Ardmore in 2019 upon its completion as part of the Philadelphia portfolio acquisition announced in April 2018. This acquisition will increase our exposure to lease-up risk by approximately 100 apartment homes.

See below under the Liquidity and Capital Resources – Redevelopment/Development heading for additional information regarding our redevelopment and development investment during the year ended December 31, 2018.

Portfolio Management

Our portfolio of apartment communities is diversified across “A,” “B,” and “C+” price points, averaging “B/B+” in quality and is diversified across several of the largest markets in the U.S. We measure the quality of apartment communities in our Real Estate portfolio based on average rents of our apartment homes compared to local market average rents as reported by a third-party provider of commercial real estate performance and analysis. Under this rating system, we classify as “A” quality apartment communities those earning rents greater than 125% of the local market average; as “B” quality apartment communities those earning rents between 90% and 125% of the local market average; as “C+” quality apartment communities those earning rents greater than $1,100 per month, but lower than 90% of local market average; and as “C” quality apartment communities those earning rents less than $1,100 per month and lower than 90% of local market average. We classify as “B/B+” quality a portfolio that on average earns rents between 100% and 125% of the local market average rents where the portfolio is located. Although some companies and analysts within the multifamily real estate industry use apartment community quality ratings of “A,” “B,” and “C,” some of which are tied to local market rent averages, the metrics used to classify apartment community quality as well as the period for which local market rents are calculated may vary from company to company. Accordingly, our rating system for measuring apartment community quality is neither broadly nor consistently used in the multifamily real estate industry.

20
 As part of our portfolio strategy, we seek to sell up to 10% of our portfolio annually and to reinvest the proceeds from such sales in accretive uses such as capital enhancements, redevelopments, limited developments and selective acquisitions with projected Free Cash Flow internal rates of return higher than expected from the communities being sold. Through this disciplined approach to capital recycling, we have significantly increased the quality and expected growth rate of our portfolio. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The quality of our portfolio improved through value created by our redevelopment and transaction activities, contributing to the increase in average revenue per apartment home. Our average revenue per apartment home was $2,126 for the three months ended December 31, 2018, a 6.4% compounded annual growth rate compared to 2015. This increase is due to growth in Same Store revenue as well as our acquisition activities, lease-up of redevelopment and acquisition communities, and the sale of communities with average monthly revenues per apartment home lower than those of the retained portfolio.

As we execute our portfolio strategy, we expect to increase average revenue per Aimco apartment home at a rate greater than market rent growth; increase Free Cash Flow margins; and maintain sufficient geographic and price point diversification to limit volatility and concentration risk.

Apartment Community Acquisitions

We evaluate potential acquisitions with an eye for unique and opportunistic investments, and fund acquisitions pursuant to our “paired trade” discipline.

During the year ended December 31, 2018, we acquired six apartment communities. We acquired for $307.9 million four apartment communities in the Philadelphia area including 665 apartment homes and 153,000 square feet of office and retail space. We also acquired for $160.0 million Bent Tree Apartments, a 748-apartment home community in Fairfax County, Virginia, and for $29.7 million Avery Row, a 67-apartment home community in Arlington, Virginia. 

In addition to the four communities in Philadelphia that were acquired in 2018, we also agreed last year to purchase a fifth community, One Ardmore, upon completion of its construction in the first half of 2019.

Dispositions

During the year ended December 31, 2018, we sold for $590.0 million our Asset Management business and four affordable apartment communities located in the Hunters Point area of San Francisco. After payment of transaction costs and repayment of property-level debt encumbering the Hunters Point apartment communities, net proceeds to us were $512.2 million. 

During the year ended December 31, 2018, we also sold for $242.3 million four apartment communities with 1,334 apartment homes, which were previously included in our Real Estate segment. Net proceeds to us were $230.1 million. Two of these apartment communities were located in southern Virginia, one was located in suburban Maryland, and one was located in northern Philadelphia. 

During the year ended December 31, 2018, we sold our interests in the entities owning the La Jolla Cove property in settlement of legal actions filed in 2014 by a group of disappointed buyers who had hoped to acquire the property. We provided seller financing with a stated value of $48.6 million and received net cash proceeds of approximately $5.0 million upon the sale.

In January 2019, we sold two apartment communities with 782 apartment homes for gross proceeds of $141.2 million. One community was located in Schaumberg, Illinois and the other located in Virginia Beach, Virginia.

Proceeds from the 2018 and 2019 sales were used to fund accretive investments in community acquisitions, capital enhancements, redevelopments and share repurchases, representing continued execution of our paired trade strategy. This reallocation of $1.1 billion in capital increased expected Free Cash Flow internal rates of return by 420 basis points.

21
Balance Sheet

Leverage

Our leverage strategy seeks to increase financial returns while using leverage with appropriate caution. We limit risk through balance sheet structure, employing low leverage, primarily non-recourse and long-dated property debt; build financial flexibility by maintaining ample unused and available credit as well as holding properties with substantial value unencumbered by property debt; and use partners’ capital when it enhances financial returns or reduces investment risk.

Our leverage includes our share of long-term, non-recourse property debt encumbering apartment communities, outstanding borrowings on the revolving credit facility and outstanding preferred equity. For additional information regarding our leverage, please see the discussion under the Liquidity and Capital Resources heading.

Leverage Ratios

We target the ratio of Proportionate Debt and Preferred Equity to Adjusted EBITDA to be below 7.0x and we target the ratio of Adjusted EBITDA to Adjusted Interest Expense and Preferred Dividends to be greater than 2.5x. Our leverage ratios for the three months ended December 31, 2018, are presented below:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Our Adjusted EBITDA has been calculated on a pro forma basis to adjust for significant items impacting the three months ended December 31, 2018 for which annualization would distort the results. Leverage ratios are elevated by 0.5x due to the use of debt to fund temporarily the Aimco common share repurchases completed during the three months ended December 31, 2018. We intend to reduce our Proportionate Debt and Preferred Equity to Adjusted EBITDA to 6.9x by the end of 2019 from earnings growth, primarily due to increasing contribution from Same Store apartment communities and reduction of debt balances due to regularly-scheduled debt amortization and apartment community sales, partially offset by the loss of earnings from communities sold. As used in the ratios above, Preferred Equity represents Aimco’s preferred stock and the Aimco Operating Partnership’s preferred OP units. 

Refinancing Activity

During the year ended December 31, 2018, we addressed approximately half of our property loans maturing in 2019, 2020, and 2021. We placed $867.4 million of new loans, $740.4 million of fixed-rate loans at a weighted average interest rate of 4.20% and a weighted average term of 9.3 years, and $127.0 million of variable-rate loans with rates floating at 115 basis points over 30-day LIBOR and a weighted average term of 5.1 years. This refinancing activity results in an annual interest savings of $13.0 million. 

Liquidity

Our liquidity consists of cash balances and available capacity on our revolving line of credit. During the year ended December 31, 2018, we exercised our option to expand our revolving credit facility by $200.0 million, bringing the total borrowing capacity to $800.0 million. As of December 31, 2018, we had cash and restricted cash of $72.6 million and had the capacity to borrow up to $632.5 million on our revolving credit facility, after consideration of $7.1 million letters of credit backed by the facility. We use our credit facility primarily for working capital and other short-term purposes and to secure letters of credit.

We manage our financial flexibility by maintaining an investment grade rating and holding apartment communities that are unencumbered by property debt. At December 31, 2018, we held unencumbered apartment communities with an estimated fair market value of approximately $2.7 billion, up 50% from December 31, 2017.

Two credit rating agencies rate our creditworthiness, using different methodologies and ratios for assessing our credit, and both have rated our credit and outlook as BBB- (stable), an investment grade rating. Although some of the ratios they use are similar to those we use to measure our leverage, there are differences in our methods of calculation and therefore our leverage ratios disclosed above are not indicative of the ratios that may be calculated by these agencies.

22
Equity Capital Activities

During the year ended December 31, 2018, we repurchased 8.7 million shares of common stock, of which 0.5 million settled in January 2019, all for $394.1 million, at a weighted average price of $45.33 per share, approximately a 20% discount to our published NAV per share. Approximately half of the repurchases were funded with proceeds from 2018 and January 2019 property sales at a premium to the values ascribed to these communities in our published NAV. The remaining half of repurchases are temporarily funded with borrowings on our credit facility. We expect to repay these borrowings with proceeds from the sale of communities now under contract, again at prices greater than those used in our published NAV. With the completion of these transactions, we will have increased NAV by an estimated $0.67 per share.

The 2019 property sales necessary to fund our share repurchases are expected to generate taxable gains of $285 million, which is in excess of our regular quarterly dividend. Accordingly, on February 3, 2019, Aimco’s Board of Directors declared a special dividend on the common stock that consists of $67.1 million in cash and 4.5 million shares of common stock. The special dividend will be payable on March 22, 2019, to stockholders of record as of February 22, 2019. The special dividend also includes the regular quarterly cash dividend, which for 2019 is expected to be $0.39 per share, which represents an increase of 3% compared to cash dividends paid during 2018.

Stockholders will have the opportunity to elect to receive the special dividend in the form of all cash or all stock, subject to proration if either option is oversubscribed. Based on Aimco’s closing share price on February 15, 2019, we estimate the aggregate value of the special dividend to be approximately $290.3 million. However, the actual value will vary depending on the price of Aimco common stock on the dividend valuation dates (March 11 and 12, 2019). 

In order to neutralize the dilutive impact of the stock issued in the special dividend, Aimco’s Board also authorized a reverse stock split, effective on February 20, 2019. As a result, total shares outstanding following completion of both the special dividend and the reverse stock split are expected to be unchanged from the total shares outstanding immediately prior to the transactions. Some stockholders may have more Aimco shares and some may have fewer based on their individual elections. The reverse split will facilitate comparability of Aimco per share results before and after these transactions. 

In aggregate, these transactions:

•Increase NAV per share by 1%;

•Do not affect Aimco’s regular quarterly cash dividend;

•Reduce the number of Aimco shares outstanding by 6% (as a result of the share repurchases);

•Minimize the aggregate tax paid by Aimco and its stockholders;

•Are leverage neutral; and

•Result in no change in the number of shares outstanding (as a result of the special dividend and the reverse stock split), thereby improving comparability of per share results.

Team and Culture

Our team and culture are keys to our success. Our intentional focus on a collaborative and productive culture based on respect for others and personal responsibility is reinforced by a preference for promotion from within based on succession planning and talent development to produce a strong, stable team that is the enduring foundation of our success. In 2018, we were recognized by the Denver Post as a Top Work Place for the sixth consecutive year, an accomplishment shared with only seven other companies in Colorado. 

Key Financial Indicators

The key financial indicators that we use in managing our business and in evaluating our operating performance are Economic Income, our measure of long-term total return, and AFFO, our measure of current return. In addition to these indicators, we evaluate our operating performance and financial condition using: Pro forma FFO; Free Cash Flow; Same Store property net operating income; proportionate property net operating income; average revenue per effective apartment home; leverage ratios; and net leverage. 

23
Results of Operations

Because our operating results depend primarily on income from our apartment communities, the supply of and demand for apartments influences our operating results. Additionally, the level of expenses required to operate and maintain our apartment communities and the pace and price at which we redevelop, acquire and dispose of our apartment communities affect our operating results. 

The following discussion and analysis of the results of our operations and financial condition should be read in conjunction with the accompanying consolidated financial statements in Item 8. 

Overview

2018 compared to 2017 

Net income attributable to Aimco and net income attributable to the Aimco Operating Partnership increased by $350.5 million and $370.4 million, respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2018 as compared to 2017. The increase in income was primarily due to an increase in gain on dispositions of real estate, including the 2018 sale of our Asset Management business, and results of operations described more fully below, partially offset by an increase in depreciation and amortization resulting from redeveloped and developed apartment homes placed into service.

2017 compared to 2016 

Net income attributable to Aimco and net income attributable to the Aimco Operating Partnership decreased by $114.6 million and $120.0 million, respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2017 as compared to 2016. The decrease in income was principally due to a decrease in gain on dispositions of real estate and an increase in depreciation and amortization resulting from redeveloped apartment homes placed into service and the completion of One Canal and the acquisition of Indigo in 2016, partially offset by improved operating results.

The following paragraphs discuss these and other items affecting the results of operations of Aimco and the Aimco Operating Partnership in more detail.

Property Operations

As described under the preceding Executive Overview heading, we have a single reportable segment, Real Estate, which consists of market rate apartment communities in which we hold a substantial equity ownership interest.

We use proportionate property net operating income to assess the operating performance of our Real Estate portfolio. Proportionate property net operating income reflects our share of rental and other property revenues, excluding resident utility reimbursement, less direct property operating expenses, net of resident utility reimbursement, and including real estate taxes, for consolidated apartment communities we manage. Accordingly, the results of operations of our Real Estate segment discussed below are presented on a proportionate basis and exclude the results of four apartment communities with 142 apartment homes that we neither manage nor consolidate. Beginning in 2018, our segment results below reflect utility reimbursements as a reduction of the corresponding expense. We have revised the 2017 and 2016 amounts to conform to this presentation. 

We do not include offsite costs associated with property management or casualty-related amounts in our assessment of segment performance. Accordingly, these items are not allocated to our segment results discussed below. 

Refer to Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 for further discussion regarding our reportable segment, including a reconciliation of these proportionate amounts to consolidated rental and other property revenues and property operating expenses.

Real Estate Proportionate Property Net Operating Income

We classify apartment communities within our Real Estate segment as Same Store and Other Real Estate. Same Store communities are those that have reached a stabilized level of operations as of the beginning of a two-year comparable period and maintained it throughout the current and comparable prior year, and are not expected to be sold within 12 months. Other Real Estate includes apartment communities that do not meet the Same Store definition, including, but not limited to: redevelopment and development apartment communities, which are those currently under construction that have not achieved a stabilized level of operations and those that have been completed in recent years that have not achieved and maintained stabilized operations for both the current and comparable prior year; acquisition apartment communities, which are those we have acquired since the beginning of a two-year comparable period; and communities that we expect to sell within 12 months but do not yet meet the criteria to be classified as held for sale.

24
As of December 31, 2018, our Real Estate segment consisted of 93 Same Store communities with 25,905 apartment homes and 35 Other Real Estate communities with 9,720 apartment homes.

From December 31, 2017 to December 31, 2018, on a net basis, our Same Store portfolio increased by one community and decreased by 481 apartment homes. These changes consisted of:

•the addition of one developed apartment community with 91 apartment homes and one redeveloped apartment community with 104 apartment homes that were classified as Same Store upon maintaining stabilized operations for the entirety of the periods presented;

•the addition of one acquired apartment community with 115 apartment homes that was classified as Same Store because we have now owned it for the entirety of the periods presented;

•the addition of one apartment community with 492 apartment homes which we no longer expect to sell within 12 months; 

•the reduction of one apartment community with 821 apartment homes sold during the period; 

•the reduction of one apartment community with 94 apartment homes we expect to sell during 2019; and

•the reduction of one apartment community with 368 apartment homes classified as held for sale at December 31, 2018. 

As of December 31, 2018, our Other Real Estate communities included: 

•13 apartment communities with 6,294 apartment homes in redevelopment or development; 

•7 apartment communities with 1,943 apartment homes recently acquired; and

•15 apartment communities with 1,483 apartment homes that do not meet the definition of Same Store because they are either subject to agreements that limit the amount by which we may increase rents or have not reached or maintained a stabilized level of occupancy as of the beginning of a two-year comparable period, often due to a casualty event. 

Our Real Estate segment results for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, as presented below, are based on the apartment community classifications as of December 31, 2018.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

For the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to 2017, our Real Estate segment’s proportionate property net operating income increased $56.9 million, or 10.2%.

Same Store proportionate property net operating income increased by $12.8 million, or 3.1%. This increase was primarily attributable to a $17.5 million, or 3.1%, increase in rental and other property revenues due to higher average monthly revenues of $50 per Aimco apartment home comprised of increases in rental rates and a 50 basis point increase in average daily occupancy. Renewal rents, which is the rent paid by an existing resident who renewed a lease compared to the rent paid prior to renewal, were up 4.5% for the year ended December 31, 2018, and new lease rents, which is the rent paid by a new resident compared to the rent paid by the previous resident of the same apartment home, were up 1.5%, resulting in a weighted average increase of 3.0%. The increase in Same Store rental and other property revenues was partially offset by a $4.7 million, or 3.3%, increase in property operating expenses, primarily due to increases in real estate taxes and repairs and maintenance costs. During the year ended 

25
December 31, 2018 compared to 2017, controllable operating expenses, which exclude utility costs, real estate taxes and insurance, increased by $1.5 million, or 2.0%.

The proportionate property net operating income of Other Real Estate communities increased by $44.2 million, or 31.4%, for the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to 2017 primarily due to:

•a $24.1 million increase in property net operating income due to the 2018 acquisition of the four Philadelphia communities, Bent Tree Apartments and Avery Row, as well as the stabilization of Indigo;

•an $11.0 million increase in property net operating income due to leasing activities at redevelopment and development communities, partially offset by decreases due to apartment homes taken out of service for redevelopment; and

•higher property net operating income of $9.1 million from other communities, primarily the effect of our increased ownership interest in the Palazzo communities from our June 2017 reacquisition of a 47% limited partner interest in the related joint venture.

As of December 31, 2017, as defined by our segment performance metrics, our Real Estate portfolio consisted of 90 Same Store apartment communities with 25,197 apartment homes and 32 Other Real Estate communities with 8,845 apartment homes.

As of December 31, 2017, our Other Real Estate communities included: 

•15 apartment communities with 6,386 apartment homes in redevelopment or development; 

•2 apartment communities with 578 apartment homes recently acquired; and

•15 apartment communities with 1,881 apartment homes that do not meet the definition of Same Store because they are either subject to agreements that limit the amount by which we may increase rents or have not reached or maintained a stabilized level of occupancy as of the beginning of a two-year comparable period, often due to a casualty event. 

Our Real Estate segment results for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, as presented below, are based on the apartment community classifications as of December 31, 2017, and exclude amounts related to apartment communities sold or classified as held for sale during 2018. The results of operations for these communities are reflected in the comparable periods in the tables below.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

For the year ended December 31, 2017 compared to 2016, our Real Estate segment’s proportionate property net operating income increased $48.6 million, or 9.5%.

Same Store proportionate property net operating income increased by $15.5 million, or 4.0%. This increase was primarily attributable to a $17.3 million, or 3.3%, increase in rental and other property revenues due to higher average revenues of approximately $59 per effective home, comprised primarily of increases in rental rates. Renewal rents, which is the rent paid by an existing resident who renewed a lease compared to the rent paid prior to renewal, were up 4.6% for the year ended December 31, 2017, and new lease rents, which is the rent paid by a new resident compared to the rent paid by the previous resident of the same apartment home, were up 0.6%, resulting in a weighted average increase of 2.5%. The increase in Same Store rental and other property revenues was partially offset by a $1.8 million, or 1.3%, increase in property operating expenses, primarily due to 

26
increases in real estate taxes. During the year ended December 31, 2017 compared to 2016, controllable operating expenses, which exclude utility costs, real estate taxes and insurance, decreased by $1.6 million, or 2.1%.

The proportionate property net operating income of Other Real Estate communities increased by $33.1 million, or 27.7%, for the year ended December 31, 2017 compared to 2016 primarily due to:

•redevelopment and lease-up activities during the year ended December 31, 2017, which helped contribute to incremental property net operating income of $20.9 million compared to 2016; and 

•higher property net operating income of $12.0 million from other communities, including the effect of our increased ownership interest in the Palazzo communities from our June 2017 reacquisition of the 47% limited partner interest in the related joint venture.

Non-Segment Real Estate Operations

Operating income amounts not attributed to our Real Estate segment include offsite costs associated with property management, casualty losses, and the results of apartment communities sold or held for sale, reported in consolidated amounts, which we do not allocate to our Real Estate segment for purposes of evaluating segment performance, as described in Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8. 

For the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, casualty losses totaled $4.0 million, $8.2 million and $5.6 million, respectively. Casualty losses during the year ended December 31, 2018 included several claims, primarily due to storm and fire damage, partially offset by recovery from insurance carriers for insured losses in excess of policy limits. Casualty losses were elevated during the year ended December 31, 2017, primarily due to hurricane damage.

For the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, apartment communities previously in our Real Estate portfolio that were sold or classified as held for sale generated net operating income of $22.3 million, $59.6 million and $79.7 million, respectively.

Asset Management Results

Prior to the July 2018 sale of our Asset Management business, we provided asset management and other services to certain consolidated partnerships owning apartment communities that qualify for low-income housing tax credits and are structured to provide for the pass-through of tax credits and tax deductions to their partners.

Contribution from Asset Management in our consolidated financial statements included: fees and other amounts paid to us from the net operating income of partnerships served by our Asset Management business, less interest expense incurred on non-recourse property debt obligations of the partnerships; income associated with delivery of tax credits to the third-party investors in the partnerships; and transactional revenue and other income less asset management expenses, which included certain allocated offsite costs related to the operation of this business.

For the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to 2017, contribution from Asset Management decreased $19.3 million due to its July 2018 sale.

For the year ended December 31, 2017 compared to 2016, contribution from Asset Management decreased $8.8 million due to decreases in tax credit income as the result of delivering final credits and acquiring certain partners’ interests in the partnerships, as well as transactional revenues.

Depreciation and Amortization

For the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to 2017, depreciation and amortization expense increased by $11.6 million primarily due to apartment homes acquired in 2018 and renovated apartment homes placed in service after their completion, partially offset by decreases associated with apartment communities sold.

For the year ended December 31, 2017 compared to 2016, depreciation and amortization expense increased by $33.1 million primarily due to renovated apartment homes placed in service after their completion, a full year of depreciation following the 2016 completion of our One Canal development and 2016 acquisition of Indigo, and other capital additions, partially offset by decreases associated with apartment communities sold. 

General and Administrative Expenses

In recent years, we have worked toward simplifying our business, including the sale of our Asset Management Business, which allowed us to reduce overhead and other costs. This simplification and our scale reductions have allowed us to reduce our offsite 

27
costs, which consist of general and administrative expenses, property management expenses and investment management expenses, by $6.4 million, or 8.6%, over the last three years. 

For the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to 2017, general and administrative expenses increased $2.6 million, primarily due to higher variable incentive compensation cost.

For the year ended December 31, 2017 compared to 2016, general and administrative expenses decreased $3.1 million, primarily due to lower personnel and related costs including incentive compensation, professional services, technology costs and other corporate costs.

Other Expenses, Net

Other expenses, net includes costs associated with our risk management activities, partnership administration expenses and certain non-recurring items.

For the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to 2017, other expenses, net decreased by $7.4 million, primarily due to the resolution of our litigation against Airbnb, and settlement of litigation related to the challenge to the title of the La Jolla Cove property which we acquired in 2014.

 For the year ended December 31, 2017 compared to 2016, other expenses, net decreased by $3.1 million. The decrease was primarily due to the 2016 recognition of estimated future environmental clean-up and abatement costs associated with the matters discussed in Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8, partially offset by legal costs we incurred related to a challenge to the title of the La Jolla Cove property.

Provision for Real Estate Impairment Loss

We recognized no provisions for impairment losses during the years ended December 31, 2018 or 2016.

During the year ended December 31, 2018, we agreed to sell our interests in the entities owning the La Jolla Cove property in settlement of legal actions filed in 2014 by a group of disappointed buyers who had hoped to acquire the property. As a result of the settlement, we recognized in our 2017 results a gross impairment loss of $35.8 million, $25.6 million of which related to the establishment of a deferred tax liability assumed in connection with our acquisition of the business entities. The tax liability was assumed by the buyer, resulting in no economic loss to us. The remaining $10.2 million loss was offset by cash distributions paid to us during our ownership and avoided legal costs for continued litigation. On an economic basis, we agreed to sell these entities at roughly our purchase price, adjusted for retained cash distributions and avoided legal costs.

Interest Income

For the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to 2017, interest income increased $2.6 million, primarily due to interest earned on the seller financing notes received as consideration in the sale of the La Jolla Cove property.

Interest Expense

For the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to 2017, interest expense, which includes the amortization of debt issuance costs and amortization of deferred financing costs, increased by $6.0 million, or 3.1%. The increase was primarily due to debt prepayment penalties of $14.9 million incurred in connection with 2018 property-level debt refinancing activity undertaken to refinance property-level debt that was scheduled to mature in 2019, 2020, and 2021, partially offset by a decrease in mortgage interest expense for communities sold and the sale of the Asset Management business in July 2018, and lower corporate-level interest.

For the year ended December 31, 2017 compared to 2016, interest expense decreased by $1.8 million, or 0.9%. The decrease was primarily due to lower average outstanding balances on non-recourse property debt for our Real Estate apartment communities and lower interest rates, resulting in an $11.9 million reduction in interest expense. These decreases were partially offset by higher amounts outstanding on corporate borrowings (including our term loan and incremental line borrowings used to temporarily fund the reacquisition of the Palazzo limited partner interests) and a decrease in capitalized interest associated with our redevelopment and development activities.

Other, Net

Other, net includes our equity in the income or loss of unconsolidated real estate partnerships, and the results of operations related to the NAPICO business, which we accounted for under the profit sharing method prior to the derecognition of the final property during 2017. 

28
For the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to 2017, other, net decreased by $7.4 million, primarily due to the derecognition of the final NAPICO property in 2017, which resulted in a gain. For the year ended December 31, 2017 compared to 2016, other, net increased by $2.1 million, also attributed to gain recognized upon the derecognition of a NAPICO property. 

Gain on Dispositions of Real Estate

The table below summarizes dispositions of apartment communities from our Real Estate portfolio during the years ended 2018, 2017 and 2016 (dollars in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Net proceeds are after repayment of debt, if any, net working capital settlements, payment of transaction costs and debt prepayment penalties, if applicable.

The apartment communities sold from our Real Estate portfolio during 2018, 2017 and 2016 were primarily located outside of our primary markets or in lower-rated locations within our primary markets and had average revenues per apartment home significantly below those of our retained portfolio. 

During the year ended December 31, 2018, we sold for $590 million our Asset Management business and our four Hunters Point communities. Please refer to Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 for further details regarding this sale.

Income Tax Benefit

Certain of our operations, including property management and risk management, are conducted through taxable REIT subsidiaries, or TRS entities. Additionally, some of our apartment communities are owned through TRS entities.

Our income tax benefit calculated in accordance with GAAP includes: (a) income taxes associated with the income or loss of our TRS entities, for which the tax consequences have been realized or will be realized in future periods; (b) low income housing tax credits generated prior to the sale of our Asset Management business that offset REIT taxable income, primarily from retained capital gains; and (c) historic tax credits that offset income tax obligations of our TRS entities. Income taxes related to these items, as well as changes in valuation allowance and the establishment of incremental deferred tax items in conjunction with intercompany asset transfers (if applicable), are included in income tax benefit in our consolidated statements of operations.

For the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to 2017, income tax benefit decreased by $17.8 million, from $30.8 million to $13.0 million. The decrease is primarily due to the reversal of a $19.3 million net tax benefit we recognized as a result of the December 2017 tax reform legislation in 2017 (as further discussed in Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8) and higher tax expense related to gains on sale of real estate for communities held through TRS entities. 

For the year ended December 31, 2017 compared to 2016, income tax benefit increased by $12.0 million, from $18.8 million to $30.8 million. The increase is primarily due to lower tax expense on the gains of sale of apartment communities, higher net operating losses at the TRS entities (including the La Jolla Cove impairment loss discussed above), higher tax benefit associated with low-income housing tax credits, and the $0.5 million net tax benefit we recognized for December 2017 tax reform legislation (as further discussed in Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8).

Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Real Estate Partnerships

Noncontrolling interests in consolidated real estate partnerships reflects the results of our consolidated real estate partnerships allocated to the owners who are not affiliated with Aimco. The amounts of income or loss of our consolidated real estate partnerships that we allocate to owners not affiliated with Aimco include their share of property management fees, interest on notes and other amounts that we charge to these partnerships. 

For the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, we allocated net income of $8.2 million, $9.1 million, and $25.3 million, respectively, to noncontrolling interests in consolidated real estate partnerships. The amount of net income allocated to noncontrolling interests was driven by three primary factors: the operations of the consolidated apartment communities; gains on 

29
the sale of apartment communities with noncontrolling interest holders; and the results of operations of the NAPICO business, as further discussed below.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•We derecognized the NAPICO business in two transactions, which occurred in 2017 and 2016. We allocated an $8.1 million gain on sale and a $0.6 million net loss, respectively, to the noncontrolling interest holders in connection with the 2017 and 2016 transactions.

Net Income Attributable to Aimco Preferred Stockholders and the Aimco Operating Partnership’s Preferred Unitholders

Net income attributable to Aimco preferred stockholders and the Aimco Operating Partnership’s preferred unitholders decreased by $3.4 million and $2.9 million, respectively, during the year ended December 31, 2017 as compared to 2016. These decreases were primarily due to Aimco’s redemption of its Class Z Preferred Stock in 2016. 

Noncontrolling Interests in Aimco Operating Partnership

In Aimco’s consolidated financial statements, noncontrolling interests in the Aimco Operating Partnership reflects the results of the Aimco Operating Partnership that are allocated to the OP Unit holders. Allocations to noncontrolling interests in the Aimco Operating Partnership fluctuate in proportion to variations in net income, as described above. For the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to 2017, net income allocated to noncontrolling interests in the Aimco Operating Partnership increased $20.0 million primarily due to the increase in net income, as well as an increase in the percentage allocated following the issuance of OP Units as partial consideration for the acquisition of the four Philadelphia properties, discussed further in Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements. Net income allocated to noncontrolling interests in the Aimco Operating Partnership for the year ended December 31, 2017 decreased $5.9 million as compared to 2016 due to the decrease in net income between the periods.

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates

We prepare our consolidated financial statements in accordance with GAAP, which requires us to make estimates and assumptions. We believe that the following critical accounting policies involve our more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements.

Capitalized Costs

We capitalize costs, including certain indirect costs, incurred in connection with our capital additions activities, including redevelopments and developments, other tangible apartment community improvements and replacements of existing apartment community components. Included in these capitalized costs are payroll costs associated with time spent by site employees in connection with the planning, execution and control of all capital additions activities at the apartment community level. We characterize as “indirect costs” an allocation of certain department costs, including payroll, at the area operations and corporate levels that clearly relate to capital additions activities. We also capitalize interest, property taxes and insurance during periods in which redevelopments and developments are in progress. We commence capitalization of costs, including certain indirect costs, incurred in connection with our capital addition activities, at the point in time when activities necessary to get apartment communities ready for their intended use begin. These activities include when apartment communities or apartment homes are undergoing physical construction, as well as when apartment homes are held vacant in advance of planned construction, provided that other activities such as permitting, planning and design are in progress. We cease the capitalization of costs when the apartment communities or components thereof are substantially complete and ready for their intended use, which is typically when construction has been completed and apartment homes are available for occupancy. We charge costs including ordinary repairs, maintenance and resident turnover costs to property operating expense, as incurred. Refer to the discussion of investing activities within the Liquidity and Capital Resources section for a summary of costs capitalized during the periods presented.

Impairment of Long-Lived Assets

Real estate and other long-lived assets to be held and used are stated at cost, less accumulated depreciation and amortization, unless the carrying amount of the asset is not recoverable. If events or circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an apartment community may not be recoverable, we make an assessment of its recoverability by comparing the carrying amount to our estimate of the undiscounted future cash flows, excluding interest charges, of the apartment community. If the carrying amount exceeds the estimated aggregate undiscounted future cash flows, we recognize an impairment loss to the extent the carrying amount exceeds the estimated fair value of the apartment community. 

30
As part of our portfolio strategy, we seek to sell up to 10% of our portfolio annually and to reinvest the proceeds from such sales in accretive uses such as capital enhancements, redevelopments, occasional developments, and selective acquisitions with projected Free Cash Flow internal rates of return higher than expected from the communities being sold. As we execute this strategy, we evaluate alternatives to sell or reduce our interest in apartment communities that do not align with our long-term investment strategy, although there is no assurance that we will sell or reduce our investment in such apartment communities during the desired time frame. For any apartment communities that are sold or meet the criteria to be classified as held for sale during the next 12 months, the reduction in the estimated holding period for these apartment communities may result in impairment losses. 

Non-GAAP Measures

Various of the key financial indicators we use in managing our business and in evaluating our financial condition and operating performance are non-GAAP measures. Key non-GAAP measures we use are defined and described below, and for those non-GAAP measures used or disclosed within this annual report, reconciliations of the non-GAAP financial measures to the most comparable financial measure computed in accordance with GAAP are provided.

We measure our long-term total return using Economic Income, which is a non-GAAP financial measure and is defined and further described below under the Economic Income heading.

Funds from Operations, or FFO, Pro forma FFO and Adjusted FFO, or AFFO, are non-GAAP financial measures, which are defined and further described below under the Funds From Operations, Pro forma Funds From Operations and Adjusted Funds From Operations heading. 

Net Asset Value, or NAV, Free Cash Flow, or FCF, as calculated for our retained portfolio, represents an apartment community’s property net operating income, or NOI, less spending for Capital Replacements, which represents our estimation of the capital additions made to replace capital assets consumed during our ownership period (further discussed under the Funds From Operations, Pro forma Funds From Operations and Adjusted Funds From Operations heading and the Liquidity and Capital Resources heading). FCF margin as calculated for apartment communities sold represents the sold apartment community’s NOI less $1,200 per apartment home of assumed annual capital replacement spending, as a percentage of the apartment community’s rental and other property revenues. Capital replacement spending represents a measure of capital asset usage during the period; therefore, we believe that FCF is useful to investors as a supplemental measure of apartment community performance because it takes into consideration costs incurred during the period to replace capital assets that have been consumed during our ownership. 

Economic Income

Economic Income represents stockholder value creation as measured by the change in estimated NAV per share plus cash dividends per share. We believe Economic Income is important to investors as it represents a measure of the total return we have earned for our stockholders. NAV, as used in our calculation of Economic Income, is a non-GAAP measure and represents the estimated fair value of assets net of liabilities attributable to Aimco’s common stockholders and the Aimco Operating Partnership’s common unitholders on a diluted basis. We believe NAV is considered useful by some investors in real estate companies because the value of company assets can be readily estimated, even for non-earning assets such as land or properties under development. NAV has the advantage of incorporating the investment decisions of thousands of real estate investors. We believe it enhances comparability among companies that have differences in their accounting. While NAV is not identical to liquidation value in that some costs and benefits are disregarded, it is often considered a floor with upside for value ascribed to the operating platform. NAV also provides an objective basis for the perceived quality and predictability of future cash flows as well as their expected growth as these are factors considered by real estate investors. 

Our estimated NAV per share and the quoted share price of Aimco Common Stock are not necessarily equal. Although we use Economic Income and NAV for comparability in assessing our value creation compared to other REITs, not all REITs publish these measures and those who do may not compute them in the same manner. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that our basis for computing these measures is comparable with that of other REITs.

We report NAV on a semiannual basis, as of the end of the first and third quarters. Economic Income for 2018 was calculated using the change in NAV per share between September 30, 2017 and 2018. NAV will fluctuate over time. This NAV information should not be relied upon as representative of the amount a stockholder could expect to receive in a liquidation event, now or in the future. Certain assets are excluded as are certain liabilities, such as taxes and transaction costs associated with a liquidation. In addition, NAV is based on management’s subjective judgments, assumptions and opinions as of the date of determination. We assume no obligation to revise or update NAV to reflect subsequent or future events or circumstances. Our NAV estimate is subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond our control, including, without limitation, those described in Item 1A. Risk Factors. 

31
A reconciliation of NAV to Aimco’s total equity, which we believe is the most directly comparable GAAP measure, as of September 30, 2018, is provided below (in millions, except per share data):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) We compute NAV by estimating the value of our communities, using methods we believe are appropriate based on the characteristics of the communities. For purposes of estimating NAV, real estate at fair value disclosed above includes wholly owned apartment communities plus our proportionate share of communities held by non-wholly owned entities (both consolidated and unconsolidated). A reconciliation of our consolidated apartment communities to those communities included in total real estate at fair value in the table above is as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

For valuation purposes at September 30, 2018, we segregated these 133 communities into the following categories: stabilized portfolio and non-stabilized portfolio. [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(3)The non-stabilized portfolio includes six apartment communities under redevelopment or development at September 30, 2018. We valued these communities by discounting projected future cash flows. Key assumptions used to estimate the value of these communities include: revenues, which are based on in-place rents, projected submarket rent growth to community stabilization based on projections published by third parties and adjusted for the impacts of redevelopment; expenses, which are based on estimated operating costs adjusted for inflation and a management fee equal to 2% of projected revenue; estimated remaining costs to complete construction; and a terminal value based on current market capitalization rates plus five basis points per year from September 30, 2018 to community stabilization. Discount rates applied to estimated future cash flows of these communities ranged between 6.30% and 6.40% depending on construction and lease-up progress as of September 30, 2018. We used this valuation method for approximately 12% of the real estate fair value at September 30, 2018. The non-stabilized portfolio also included five recently acquired apartment communities valued at purchase price and certain land investments at Aimco’s carrying value that represent approximately 4% of real estate fair value at September 30, 2018. Our calculation of NAV does not include such future values as air rights, the potential for increased density, nor the potential for completion of future phases of redevelopments.

(4)We calculate the fair value of indebtedness related to real estate as the carrying value of our non-recourse property debt adjusted for the mark-to-market asset on our fixed-rate property debt as of September 30, 2018, plus the outstanding balances on the revolving line of credit and term loan, which approximate their fair value as of September 30, 2018. The fair value of debt takes into account the duration of the existing property debt, as well as its loan to value ratio and debt service coverage. For purposes of estimating NAV, the fair value of debt includes our proportionate share of debt related to non-wholly owned entities (both consolidated and unconsolidated).

32
(5)Other tangible assets consist of cash, restricted cash, accounts receivable and other assets for which we reasonably expect to receive cash through the normal course of operations or another future event. Other tangible liabilities consist of accounts payable, accrued liabilities and other tangible liabilities we reasonably expect to settle in cash through the normal course of operations or another future event. Other tangible assets and liabilities were generally valued at their carrying amounts and reduced by the noncontrolling interests’ portion of these amounts and exclude intangible assets and liabilities reflected on our consolidated balance sheet. The fair value of our preferred stock is estimated as the closing share price on September 30, 2018, less accrued dividends. Such accrued dividends are assumed to be accounted for in the closing share price and these amounts are also included in other tangible liabilities. For purposes of this NAV calculation, no realizable value has been assigned to goodwill or other intangible assets. Deferred income, which includes below market lease liabilities, recognized in accordance with GAAP in connection with the purchase of the related apartment communities, and cash received in prior periods and required to be deferred under GAAP, is excluded from this NAV calculation.

 (6)Total shares, units and dilutive share equivalents represents Common Stock, OP Units, participating unvested restricted shares and the dilutive effect of common stock equivalents outstanding as of September 30, 2018. 

Funds From Operations, Pro forma Funds From Operations and Adjusted Funds From Operations

FFO is a non-GAAP financial measure that we believe, when considered with the financial statements determined in accordance with GAAP, is helpful to investors in understanding our performance because it captures features particular to real estate performance by recognizing that real estate generally appreciates over time or maintains residual value to a much greater extent than do other depreciable assets such as machinery, computers or other personal property. The National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts, or Nareit, defines FFO as net income computed in accordance with GAAP, excluding: depreciation and amortization related to real estate; gains and losses from sales and impairment of depreciable assets and land used in our primary business; and income taxes, current or deferred, directly associated with a gain or loss on sale of real estate, and including our share of the FFO of unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures. Adjustments for unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures are calculated on the same basis to determine FFO. We calculate FFO attributable to Aimco common stockholders (diluted) by subtracting dividends on preferred stock and amounts allocated from FFO to participating securities.

In addition to FFO, we compute Pro forma FFO and AFFO, which are also non-GAAP financial measures that we believe are helpful to investors in understanding our performance. Pro forma FFO represents FFO attributable to Aimco common stockholders (diluted), excluding preferred equity redemption-related amounts and certain other income or costs, adjusted for noncontrolling interests. Preferred equity redemption-related amounts (gains or losses) are items that periodically affect our operating results and we exclude these items from our calculation of Pro forma FFO because such amounts are not representative of our operating performance. 

In computing 2018 Pro forma FFO, we made a number of adjustments. We were engaged in litigation with Airbnb, which was resolved during the year. Due to the unpredictable nature of these proceedings, related amounts recognized, net of income tax effect, have been excluded from Pro forma FFO. In connection with the sale of our Asset Management business, we incurred severance costs during 2018. We exclude such costs from Pro forma FFO because we believe these costs incurred are closely related to the sale of the business. We also excluded from Pro forma FFO the tax benefit due to the release of a valuation allowance. Due to the sale of the Asset Management business, we expect to realize our deferred tax benefits. As a result, we determined the valuation allowance recorded in connection with recognizing the effect of the 2017 tax reform is no longer necessary. We excluded the effect of the establishment of the valuation allowance from Pro forma FFO and as such have excluded the benefit from its release. We have also excluded the impact of tax reform. Finally, we addressed approximately half of our property loans maturing in 2019, 2020 and 2021. In connection with this activity, we incurred debt extinguishment costs, which we have excluded from Pro forma FFO.

AFFO represents Pro forma FFO reduced by Capital Replacements, which represents our estimation of the actual capital additions made to replace capital assets consumed during our ownership period. When we make capital additions at an apartment community, we evaluate whether the additions extend the useful life of an asset as compared to its condition at the time we purchased the apartment community. We classify as Capital Improvements those capital additions that meet these criteria, and we classify as Capital Replacements those that do not. AFFO is a key financial indicator we use to evaluate our operational performance and is one of the factors that we use to determine the amounts of our dividend payments.

FFO, Pro forma FFO and AFFO should not be considered alternatives to net income, as determined in accordance with GAAP, as indications of our performance. Although we use these non-GAAP measures for comparability in assessing our performance compared to other REITs, not all REITs compute these same measures and those who do may not compute them in the same manner. Additionally, computation of AFFO is subject to our definition of Capital Replacement spending. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that our basis for computing these non-GAAP measures is comparable with that of other REITs. 

33
For the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, Aimco’s FFO, Pro forma FFO and AFFO are calculated as follows (in thousands): 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Represents the numerator for calculating Aimco’s earnings per common share in accordance with GAAP (see Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8).

(2)For the year ended December 31, 2018, income taxes related to gain on dispositions and other items includes tax on the gain on the sale of the Asset Management business, as well as tax on the gain on the sale of apartment communities during the year ended December 31, 2018.

(3)In connection with the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act signed into law in December 2017, we recognized income tax benefit during 2017 and adjusted the estimated impact of tax reform upon the conclusion of our analysis of the effects during 2018. We have excluded such amounts from Pro forma FFO.

(4)Due to the sale of the Asset Management business, we expect to realize our deferred tax benefits. As a result, we have determined that a valuation allowance is no longer necessary. We excluded the effect of the establishment of the valuation allowance from Pro forma FFO and as such have excluded the benefit from its release. 

(5)During 2018, we were engaged in litigation with Airbnb, which was resolved during the year. Due to the unpredictable nature of these proceedings, related amounts recognized, net of income tax effect, have been excluded from Pro forma FFO.

(6)We incurred severance costs in connection with the sale of our Asset Management business. We exclude such costs from Pro forma FFO because we believe these costs are closely related to the sale of the business.

(7)In connection with 2018 refinancing activity undertaken related to property-level debt scheduled to mature in 2019, 2020 and 2021, we incurred debt extinguishment costs, net of income tax effect, which have been excluded from Pro forma FFO.

(8)Represents the denominator for Aimco’s earnings per common share – diluted, calculated in accordance with GAAP.

Refer to the Executive Overview for discussion of our Pro forma FFO and AFFO results for 2018, as compared to their comparable periods in 2017.

34
Refer to the Liquidity and Capital Resources section for further information regarding our capital investing activities, including Capital Replacements.

The Aimco Operating Partnership does not separately compute or report FFO, Pro forma FFO or AFFO. However, based on Aimco’s method for allocation of such amounts to noncontrolling interests in the Aimco Operating Partnership, as well as limited differences between the amounts of net income attributable to Aimco’s common stockholders and the Aimco Operating Partnership’s unit holders during the periods presented, FFO, Pro forma FFO and AFFO amounts on a per unit basis for the Aimco Operating Partnership would be expected to be substantially the same as the corresponding per share amounts for Aimco.

Leverage Ratios

As discussed under the Balance Sheet and Liquidity heading, as part of our leverage strategy, we target the ratio of Proportionate Debt and Preferred Equity to Adjusted EBITDA to be below 7.0x and we target the ratio of Adjusted EBITDA to Adjusted Interest Expense and Preferred Dividends to be greater than 2.5x. We believe these ratios are important measures as they are commonly used by investors and analysts to assess the relative financial risk associated with balance sheets of companies within the same industry, and they are believed to be similar to measures used by rating agencies to assess entity credit quality. 

We calculate Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted Interest Expense used in our leverage ratios based on the most recent three month amounts, annualized.

Proportionate Debt, as used in our leverage ratios, is a non-GAAP measure and includes our share of the long-term, non-recourse property debt secured by apartment communities in the Real Estate portfolio and outstanding borrowings under our revolving credit facility, reduced by our share of the cash and restricted cash of our consolidated and unconsolidated partnerships owning communities in our Real Estate portfolio, and also by our investment in the subordinate tranches of a securitization trust that holds certain of our property debt, which is essentially an investment in our own non-recourse property loans. 

In our Proportionate Debt computation, we increase our recorded debt by unamortized debt issue costs because these amounts represent cash expended in earlier periods and do not reduce our contractual obligations, and we reduce our recorded debt by the amounts of cash and restricted cash on-hand which are primarily restricted under the terms of our property debt agreements, assuming these amounts would be used to reduce our outstanding leverage. We further reduce our recorded debt by the value of our investment in a securitization trust that holds certain of our property debt, as our payments of principal and interest associated with such property debt will ultimately repay our investments in the trust. 

We believe Proportionate Debt is useful to investors as it is a measure of our net exposure to debt obligations. Proportionate Debt, as used in our leverage ratios, is calculated as set forth in the table below. 

Preferred Equity, as used in our leverage ratios, represents the redemption amounts for Aimco’s preferred stock and the Aimco Operating Partnership’s preferred OP Units. Preferred Equity, although perpetual in nature, is another component of our overall leverage.

Adjusted EBITDA is a non-GAAP measure. We believe Adjusted EBITDA provides investors relevant and useful information because it allows investors to view income from our operations on an unleveraged basis, before the effects of taxes, depreciation and amortization, gains or losses on sales of and impairment losses related to real estate, and various other items described below. Adjusted EBITDA represents Aimco’s share of the consolidated amount of our net income, adjusted to exclude the effect of the following items for the reasons set forth below: 

•Adjusted Interest Expense, defined below, to allow investors to compare a measure of our earnings before the effects of our indebtedness with that of other companies in the real estate industry;

•preferred dividends, to allow investors to compare a measure of our performance before the effects of our capital structure with that of other companies in the real estate industry; 

•income taxes, to allow investors to measure our performance independent of income taxes, which may vary significantly from other companies within our industry due to leverage and tax planning strategies, among other factors;

•depreciation and amortization, gains or losses on dispositions and impairment losses related to real estate, for similar reasons to those set forth in our discussion of FFO, Pro forma FFO and AFFO in the preceding section; and 

•other items, including gains on dispositions of non-depreciable assets, as these are items that periodically affect our operations but that are not necessarily representative of our ability to service our debt obligations.

35
While Adjusted EBITDA is a relevant measure of performance and is commonly used in leverage ratios, it does not represent net income as defined by GAAP, and should not be considered as an alternative to net income in evaluating our performance. Further, our definition and computation of Adjusted EBITDA may not be comparable to similar measures reported by other companies. 

Adjusted Interest Expense, as calculated in our leverage ratios, is a non-GAAP measure that we believe is meaningful for investors and analysts as it presents our share of current recurring interest requirements associated with leverage. Adjusted Interest Expense represents our proportionate share of interest expense on non-recourse property debt encumbering apartment communities in the Real Estate portfolio and interest expense on our term loan and revolving credit facility borrowings. We exclude from our calculation of Adjusted Interest Expense:

•debt prepayment penalties, which are items that, from time to time, affect our operating results, but are not representative of our scheduled interest obligations; 

•the amortization of debt issue costs, as these amounts have been expended in previous periods and are not representative of our current or prospective debt service requirements; and

•the income we receive on our investment in the securitization trust that holds certain of our property debt, as this income is being generated indirectly from interest we pay with respect to property debt held by the trust.

Preferred Dividends represents the preferred dividends paid on Aimco’s preferred stock and the preferred distributions paid on the Aimco Operating Partnership’s preferred OP Units, exclusive of preferred equity redemption related amounts. We add Preferred Dividends to Adjusted Interest Expense for a more complete picture of the interest and dividend requirements of our leverage, inclusive of perpetual preferred equity.

36
Reconciliations of the most closely related GAAP measures to our calculations of Proportionate Debt, Preferred Equity, Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted Interest Expense and Preferred Dividends, as used in our leverage ratios, are as follows (in thousands):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Our Adjusted EBITDA has been calculated on a pro forma basis to adjust for significant items impacting the three months ended December 31, 2018 for which annualization would distort the results.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

37
Liquidity and Capital Resources

Liquidity

Liquidity is the ability to meet present and future financial obligations. Our primary source of liquidity is cash flow from operations. Additional sources are proceeds from sales of apartment communities, proceeds from refinancings of existing property debt, borrowings under new property debt, borrowings under our revolving credit facility and proceeds from equity offerings.

Our principal uses for liquidity include normal operating activities, payments of principal and interest on outstanding property debt, capital expenditures, dividends paid to stockholders, distributions paid to noncontrolling interest partners and acquisitions of apartment communities. We use our cash and cash equivalents and our cash provided by operating activities to meet short-term liquidity needs. In the event that our cash and cash equivalents and cash provided by operating activities are not sufficient to cover our short-term liquidity needs, we have additional means, such as short-term borrowing availability and proceeds from apartment community sales and refinancings. We may use our revolving credit facility for working capital and other short-term purposes, such as funding investments on an interim basis. We expect to meet our long-term liquidity requirements, such as debt maturities, redevelopment spending and apartment community acquisitions, through primarily non-recourse, long-term borrowings, the issuance of equity securities (including OP Units), the sale of apartment communities and cash generated from operations.

As of December 31, 2018, our primary sources of liquidity were as follows:

•$36.9 million in cash and cash equivalents;

•$35.7 million of restricted cash, which consists primarily of escrows related to resident security deposits and reserves and escrows held by lenders for capital additions, property taxes and insurance; and

•$632.5 million of available capacity to borrow under our revolving credit facility after consideration of $7.1 million of letters of credit backed by the facility.

At December 31, 2018, we also held unencumbered apartment communities with an estimated fair market value of approximately $2.7 billion, up 50.0% from December 31, 2017.

Leverage and Capital Resources

The availability of credit and its related effect on the overall economy may affect our liquidity and future financing activities, both through changes in interest rates and access to financing. Currently, interest rates are low compared to historical levels and many lenders are active in the market. However, any adverse changes in the lending environment could negatively affect our liquidity. We believe we have mitigated much of this exposure by reducing our short and intermediate term maturity risk through refinancing such loans with long-dated, fixed-rate property debt. However, if property financing options become unavailable for our further debt needs, we may consider alternative sources of liquidity, such as reductions in capital spending or proceeds from apartment community dispositions.

Two credit rating agencies rate our creditworthiness and both have rated our credit and outlook as BBB- (stable), an investment grade rating. Our investment grade rating would be useful in accessing capital through the sale of bonds in private or public transactions. However, our intention and historical practice has been to raise debt capital in the form of property-level, non-recourse, long-dated, fixed-rate, amortizing debt, the cost of which is generally less than that of recourse debt and the terms of which also provide for greater balance sheet safety.

As of December 31, 2018, approximately 91.0% of our leverage consisted of property-level, non-recourse, long-dated, amortizing debt. Approximately 93.4% of our property-level debt is fixed-rate, which provides a hedge against increases in interest rates, capitalization rates and inflation. The weighted average maturity of our property-level debt was 8.0 years.

Of our property-level debt, $167.5 million of our unpaid principal balances mature during 2019. On average, 7.6% of our unpaid principal balances will mature each year from 2020 through 2022.

While our primary source of leverage is property-level, non-recourse, long-dated, fixed-rate, amortizing debt, we also have a credit facility with a syndicate of financial institutions. During the year ended December 31, 2018, we exercised our $200.0 million expansion option on the credit facility, increasing the total capacity to $800.0 million. As of December 31, 2018, we had $160.4 million of outstanding borrowings under our revolving credit facility, which represented 3.7% of our total leverage.

As of December 31, 2018, our outstanding perpetual preferred equity represented approximately 5.2% of our total leverage. Our preferred securities are perpetual in nature; however, for illustrative purposes, we compute the weighted average maturity of our total leverage assuming a 40-year maturity on our preferred securities.

38
The combination of non-recourse property level debt, borrowings under our revolving credit facility and perpetual preferred equity that comprises our total leverage, reduces our refunding and re-pricing risk. The weighted average maturity for our total leverage described above was 9.5 years as of December 31, 2018. 

Under the revolving credit facility, we have agreed to maintain a Fixed Charge Coverage ratio of 1.40x, as well as other covenants customary for similar revolving credit arrangements. For the year ended December 31, 2018, our Fixed Charge Coverage ratio was 2.05x, compared to ratio of 2.01x for the year ended December 31, 2017. We expect to remain in compliance with this covenant during the next 12 months. 

Changes in Cash, Cash Equivalents and Restricted Cash

 The following discussion relates to changes in consolidated cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash due to operating, investing and financing activities, which are presented in our consolidated statements of cash flows in Item 8 of this report.

Operating Activities

For the year ended December 31, 2018, our net cash provided by operating activities was $396.4 million. Our operating cash flow is affected primarily by rental rates, occupancy levels and operating expenses related to our portfolio of apartment communities. Cash provided by operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2018, increased by $4.3 million compared to 2017, due to improved operating results of our Same Store communities, contribution from acquired communities and increased contribution from redevelopment and lease-up communities, partially offset by a decrease in the net operating income associated with apartment communities we sold during 2018 and our sale of the Asset Management business. 

Investing Activities

For the year ended December 31, 2018, net cash provided by investing activities of $121.8 million consisted primarily of $708.8 million in proceeds from the disposition of the Asset Management business, four apartment communities located in the Hunters Point area of San Francisco, and four other apartment communities, partially offset by the acquisitions of Bent Tree Apartments, Avery Row, four apartment communities in Philadelphia, and capital expenditures. 

Capital additions for our Real Estate segment totaled $338.8 million, $321.9 million and $312.8 million during the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively. We generally fund capital additions with cash provided by operating activities and cash proceeds from sales of apartment communities. 

We categorize capital spending for communities in our Real Estate portfolio broadly into six primary categories: 

•capital replacements, which represent capital additions made to replace the portion of acquired apartment communities consumed during our period of ownership;

•capital improvements, which represent capital additions made to replace the portion of acquired apartment communities consumed prior to our period of ownership; 

•capital enhancements, which may include kitchen and bath remodeling, energy conservation projects and investments in longer-lived materials designed to reduce turnover and maintenance costs, all of which are generally lesser in scope than redevelopment additions and do not significantly disrupt property operations; 

•redevelopment additions, which represent capital additions intended to enhance the value of the apartment community through the ability to generate higher average rental rates, and may include costs related to entitlement, which enhance the value of a community through increased density, and costs related to renovation of exteriors, common areas or apartment homes; 

•development additions, which represent construction and related capitalized costs associated with development of apartment communities; and 

•casualty capital additions, which represent construction and related capitalized costs incurred in connection with the restoration of an apartment community after a casualty event such as a severe snow storm, hurricane, tornado, flood or fire.

We exclude the amounts of capital spending related to apartment communities sold or classified as held for sale at the end of the period from the foregoing measures. 

39
A summary of the capital spending for these categories, along with a reconciliation of the total for these categories to the capital expenditures reported in the accompanying consolidated statements of cash flows for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, are presented below (dollars in thousands):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

For the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, we capitalized $7.6 million, $7.6 million and $9.6 million of interest costs, respectively, and $36.8 million, $36.0 million and $32.9 million of other direct and indirect costs, respectively.

Redevelopment/Development

We execute redevelopments using a range of approaches. We prefer to limit risk by executing redevelopments using a phased approach, in which we renovate an apartment community in stages. Smaller phases provide us the flexibility to maintain current earnings while aligning the timing of the completed apartment homes with market demand. The following table summarizes ongoing redevelopments of this nature at December 31, 2018 (dollars in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

40
We also undertake ground-up development when warranted by risk-adjusted investment returns, either directly or in connection with the redevelopment of an existing apartment community. When smaller redevelopment phases are not possible, we may engage in redevelopment activities where an entire building or community is vacated. The following table summarizes our investments related to these developments and redevelopments at December 31, 2018 (dollars in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Net investment represents the total actual or estimated investment, net of tax and other credits earned as a direct result of our redevelopment or development of the community. For phased redevelopments, potential net investment relates to the current phase of the redevelopment.

Stabilized Occupancy represents the period in which we expect to achieve stabilized occupancy, generally greater than 90%.

NOI Stabilization represents the period in which we expect the communities to achieve stabilized rents and operating costs, generally five quarters after occupancy stabilization.

Our total estimated or potential net investment in redevelopment and development is $571.2 million with a projected weighted average net operating income yield on these investments of 6.1%, assuming untrended rents. Of this total, $361.0 million has been funded. We expect to fund the remaining redevelopment and development investment through a combination of leverage and proceeds from community sales.

During the year ended December 31, 2018, we invested $175.9 million in redevelopment and development activities.

In Boulder, Colorado, we have invested $68.9 million in the development of Parc Mosaic, a 226-unit apartment home community. The site is two miles from the new Google campus and is across the street from Ball Aerospace’s Technology Campus and Foothills Hospital. Building in Boulder is highly regulated and new supply is limited, notwithstanding higher enrollment at the University of Colorado and increased employment generally. 

At the University of Colorado Anschutz Medical Campus, we exercised our option to acquire approximately two acres of land adjacent to our 21 Fitzsimons apartment community, and broke ground on the development of The Fremont, a 253-apartment home community. We expect to invest approximately $87.0 million to construct the community, which is expected to be ready for occupancy in late 2020.

We also commenced the next phase of redevelopment at our Flamingo community, located in Miami Beach, bringing our potential net new investment to $39.7 million. This phase includes extensive redevelopment of retail, leasing, and common areas, including major enhancements to the entryway.

In Center City, Philadelphia, we completed the redevelopment of Park Towne Place, and as of December 31, 2018, we had leased 95.6% of the apartment homes at the community. This multi-year redevelopment of 940 apartment homes, amenities, and common area spaces, was executed on plan and leased-up in-line with expectations with expected free cash flow returns of 9.2%.

In San Jose, we completed the redevelopment of Saybrook Pointe, a 324-apartment home, garden-style community. Construction was completed on-time and in-line with underwritten costs, and lease-up of the community finished ahead of schedule and at rates above underwriting, increasing the expected free cash flow return to 14.3%, a 100 basis point outperformance to underwriting.

During the year ended December 31, 2018, we leased 457 apartment homes at our redevelopment and development communities. At December 31, 2018, our exposure to lease-up at active redevelopment and development communities was approximately 366 apartment homes, of which 208 were being constructed at Parc Mosaic, and 158 were located in four other communities. Additionally, we expect to acquire One Ardmore in 2019 upon its completion, as part of the Philadelphia portfolio acquisition announced in April 2018. This acquisition will increase our exposure to lease-up risk by approximately 100 apartment homes.

41
We expect our total development and redevelopment spending to range from $225 million to $275 million for the year ending December 31, 2019.

Financing Activities

For the year ended December 31, 2018, our net cash used in financing activities of $588.2 million was attributed to the items discussed below.

Net borrowings on our revolving credit facility primarily relate to the timing of short-term working capital needs. During the year ended December 31, 2018, we repaid the $250.0 million term loan in full.

Proceeds from non-recourse property debt borrowings during the year consisted of the closing of 14 fixed-rate, amortizing, non-recourse property loans totaling $982.4 million. On a weighted basis, the term of these loans averaged 9.4 years and their interest rates averaged 4.03%, 112 basis points more than the corresponding Treasury rate at the time of pricing. The net effect of 2018 fixed-rate property debt refinancing activities has been to lower our weighted average fixed interest rate by 42 basis points since December 31, 2017, to 4.22%.

Proceeds from non-recourse property debt borrowing during the period also included the closing of four non-recourse, variable-rate property loans totaling $245.6 million. On a weighted basis, the term of these loans averaged 5 years and the loans bear interest at a weighted average rate of 30-day LIBOR plus 1.20%. The five-year terms fill a void in our laddered maturities and, taken together with the repayment of the variable-rate term loan, reduce our exposure to changing short-term interest rates to approximately 9.75% of our leverage.

Principal payments on property loans during the year totaled $976.1 million, consisting of $82.4 million of scheduled principal amortization and repayments of $893.7 million.

Aimco common share repurchase, and OP unit and preferred partnership unit redemptions during the year totaled $373.6 million (plus an additional $20.7 million, which settled in January 2019) and $9.9 million, respectively.

Net cash used in financing activities also includes $275.3 million of dividend and distribution payments to equity holders, as further detailed in the table below.

Equity and Partners’ Capital Transactions

The following table presents the Aimco Operating Partnership’s distribution activity (including distributions paid to Aimco) during the year ended December 31, 2018 (dollars in thousands): 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)$8.6 million represented distributions to Aimco, and $7.7 million represented distributions paid to holders of OP Units.

(2)$237.5 million represented distributions to Aimco, and $11.9 million represented distributions paid to holders of OP Units.

The following table presents Aimco’s dividend activity during the year ended December 31, 2018 (dollars in thousands):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

During the year ended December 31, 2018, we repurchased 8.2 million shares of common stock and initiated trades that settled in the month ended January 31, 2019, for an additional 0.5 million shares, all for $394.1 million, approximately a 20% discount to Aimco’s estimated NAV at the time of repurchase. The unsettled shares are included in Class A Common Stock outstanding at December 31, 2018.

42
Contractual Obligations

This table summarizes information contained elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K regarding payments due under contractual obligations and commitments as of December 31, 2018 (in thousands):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Includes scheduled principal amortization and maturity payments related to our non-recourse property debt secured by communities in our Real Estate portfolio.

(2)Includes outstanding borrowings on our revolving credit facility assuming repayment at the contractual maturity date. Our revolving credit facility is subject to an annual commitment fee (0.25% of aggregate commitments), which is not included in the amounts above.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(5)Represents estimated obligations pursuant to construction contracts related to our redevelopment, development and other capital spending. Refer to Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 for additional information regarding these obligations.

In addition to the amounts presented in the table above, at December 31, 2018, we had $125.0 million (liquidation value) of Aimco’s perpetual preferred stock outstanding with an annual dividend yield of 6.9%, which we expect to, but are not obligated to, redeem during 2019, and $101.3 million (liquidation value) of redeemable preferred OP Units of the Aimco Operating Partnership outstanding with annual distribution yields ranging from 1.92% to 8.8%. The dividends and distributions that accrue on the perpetual preferred stock and redeemable preferred OP Units are cumulative and are paid quarterly.

Additionally, we may enter into commitments to purchase goods and services in connection with the operations of our apartment communities. Those commitments generally have terms of one year or less and reflect expenditure levels comparable to our historical expenditures.

Future Capital Needs

In addition to the items set forth in “Contractual Obligations” above, we expect to fund any future acquisitions, redevelopment, development and other capital spending principally with proceeds from apartment community sales, short-term borrowings, debt and equity financing and operating cash flows. Our near-term business plan does not contemplate the issuance of equity.

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk