Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

Our chief market risks are refunding risk, that is the availability of property debt or other cash sources to refund maturing property debt, and re-pricing risk, that is the possibility of increases in base interest rates and credit risk spreads. We use predominantly long-dated, fixed-rate, amortizing, non-recourse property debt in order to avoid the refunding and repricing risks of short-term borrowings. We use short-term debt financing and working capital primarily to fund short-term uses and generally expect to refinance such borrowings with cash from operating activities, proceeds from apartment community sales, long-term debt or equity financings. We make limited use of derivative financial instruments and we do not use them for trading or other speculative purposes. 

Market Risk Associated with Loans Secured by Our Real Estate Portfolio

As of December 31, 2018, on a consolidated basis, we had approximately $260.1 million of variable-rate property-level debt outstanding and $160.4 million of variable-rate borrowings under our revolving credit facility. We estimate that a change in 30-day LIBOR of 100 basis points with constant credit risk spreads would reduce or increase net income attributable to Aimco common stockholders and the Aimco Operating Partnership’s common unitholders by approximately $4.2 million on an annual basis.

At December 31, 2018, we had approximately $72.6 million in cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash, a portion of which bears interest at variable rates, which may offset somewhat a change in rates on our variable-rate debt discussed above. 

43
We estimate the fair value of debt instruments as described in Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8. The estimated fair value of total indebtedness was approximately $4.1 billion at December 31, 2018, inclusive of a $43.8 million mark-to-market liability. The mark-to-market liability at December 31, 2017 was $92.1 million.

If market rates for consolidated fixed-rate debt in our Real Estate segment were higher by 100 basis points with constant credit risk spreads, the estimated fair value of consolidated debt discussed above would decrease from $4.1 billion in the aggregate to $4.0 billion. If market rates for consolidated debt discussed above were lower by 100 basis points with constant credit risk spreads, the estimated fair value of consolidated fixed-rate debt would increase from $4.1 billion in the aggregate to $4.2 billion.

Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data