ITEM 7 – MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

OVERVIEW

Bed Bath & Beyond Inc. and subsidiaries (the “Company”) is an omnichannel retailer selling a wide assortment of domestics merchandise and home furnishings which operates under the names Bed Bath & Beyond (“BBB”), Christmas Tree Shops, Christmas Tree Shops andThat! or andThat! (collectively, “CTS”), Harmon, Harmon Face Values, or Face Values (collectively, “Harmon”), buybuy BABY (“Baby”) and World Market, Cost Plus World Market or Cost Plus (collectively, “Cost Plus World Market”). Customers can purchase products either in-store, online, with a mobile device or through a customer contact center. The Company generally has the ability to have customer purchases picked up in-store or shipped direct to the customer from the Company’s distribution facilities, stores or vendors. In addition, the Company operates Of a Kind, an e-commerce website that features specially commissioned, limited edition items from emerging fashion and home designers; One Kings Lane, an authority in home décor and design, offering a unique collection of select home goods, designer and vintage items; PersonalizationMall.com (“PMall”), an industry-leading online retailer of personalized products; Chef Central, a retailer of kitchenware, cookware and homeware items catering to cooking and baking enthusiasts; and Decorist, an online interior design platform that provides personalized home design services. The Company also operates Linen Holdings, a provider of a variety of textile products, amenities and other goods to institutional customers in the hospitality, cruise line, healthcare and other industries. Additionally, the Company is a partner in a joint venture which operates retail stores in Mexico under the name Bed Bath & Beyond.

The Company accounts for its operations as two operating segments: North American Retail and Institutional Sales. The Institutional Sales operating segment, which is comprised of Linen Holdings, does not meet the quantitative thresholds under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles and therefore is not a reportable segment.

The Company’s mission is to be the trusted expert for the home and heart-felt life events. These include certain life events that evoke strong emotional connections such as getting married, moving to a new home, having a baby, going to college and decorating a room, which the Company supports through its wedding and baby registries, mover and student life programs, and its design consultation services. 

To advance its mission, the Company is executing on a comprehensive plan to transform its business and position the Company for long-term success. The strategic focus of the transformational initiatives include: product assortment, shopping experience, services and solutions, and operational excellence. The Company’s ongoing efforts to implement and execute on these organization-wide foundational initiatives are intended to drive four key strategic objectives including mid-and-long-term revenue growth, near-term and ongoing gross margin improvements, near-term and ongoing selling, general and administrative expenses ("SG&A) improvements, and current and sustainable world-class operational support.

The integration of retail store and customer facing digital channels allows the Company to provide its customers with a seamless shopping experience. In-store purchases are primarily fulfilled from that store’s inventory, or may also be shipped to a customer from one of the Company’s distribution facilities, a vendor, or another store. Purchases, including web and mobile, can be shipped to a customer from the Company’s distribution facilities, directly from vendors, or from a store. The Company’s customers can also choose to pick up online orders in a store, as well as return online purchases to a store. Customers can also make purchases through one of the Company’s customer contact centers and in-store through The Beyond Store, the Company’s proprietary, web-based platform. These capabilities allow the Company to better serve customers across various channels.

Operating in the highly competitive retail industry, the Company, along with other retail companies, is influenced by a number of factors including, but not limited to, general economic conditions including the housing market, unemployment levels and commodity prices; the overall macroeconomic environment and related changes in the retailing environment; consumer preferences, spending habits and adoption of new technologies; unusual weather patterns and natural disasters; competition from existing and potential competitors across all channels; potential supply chain disruption; the ability to find suitable locations at acceptable occupancy costs and other terms to support the Company’s plans for new stores; and the ability to assess and implement technologies in support of the Company’s development of its omnichannel capabilities. The Company cannot predict whether, when or the manner in which these factors could affect the Company’s operating results.

The results of operations for the fiscal year ended March 3, 2018 include Decorist since the date of acquisition, March 6, 2017. The results of operations for the fiscal year ended February 25, 2017 include One Kings Lane since the date of acquisition, June 13, 2016, and PMall since the date of acquisition, November 23, 2016. 

16
The following represents an overview of the Company’s financial performance for the periods indicated:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Comparable sales include sales consummated through all retail channels which have been operating for twelve full months following the opening period (typically four to six weeks). The Company is an omnichannel retailer with capabilities that allow a customer to use more than one channel when making a purchase, including in-store, online, with a mobile device or through a customer contact center, and have it fulfilled, in most cases, either through in-store customer pickup or by direct shipment to the customer from one of the Company’s distribution facilities, stores or vendors.

Sales consummated on a mobile device while physically in a store location are recorded as customer facing digital channel sales. Customer orders taken in-store by an associate through The Beyond Store, the Company’s proprietary, web-based platform are recorded as in-store sales. Customer orders reserved online and picked up in a store are recorded as in-store sales. Sales originally consummated from customer facing digital channels and subsequently returned in-store are recorded as a reduction of in-store sales.

Stores relocated or expanded are excluded from comparable sales if the change in square footage would cause meaningful disparity in sales over the prior period. In the case of a store to be closed, such store’s sales are not considered comparable once the store closing process has commenced. Stores impacted by unusual and unexpected events outside the Company’s control, including severe weather, fire or floods, are excluded from comparable sales for the period of time that such event would cause a meaningful disparity in sales over the prior period. Of a Kind was excluded from the comparable sales calculations through the end of the first fiscal half of 2016, and is included beginning with the fiscal third quarter of 2016. PMall is included in the comparable sales calculation beginning in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2017. One Kings Lane, Chef Central and Decorist are included in the comparable sales calculation beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2018. Linen Holdings is excluded from the comparable sales calculations and will continue to be excluded on an ongoing basis as it represents non-retail activity.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

For fiscal 2018, 2017 and 2016, the effective tax rate included net benefits of approximately $12.1 million, net expense of approximately $7.1 million which included the impacts of the comprehensive tax legislation, commonly referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the "Tax Act"), enacted by the U.S. government on December 22, 2017 and net benefits of approximately $18.5 million, respectively. The effective tax rates for fiscal 2018, 2017 and 2016 included net benefits due to the recognition of favorable discrete federal and state tax items.

The Company’s effective tax rate for fiscal 2017 included a net increase of approximately 1.5%, resulting from the impacts of the Tax Act. The Tax Act significantly revised the U.S. tax code by, among other things, (i) reducing the federal corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21%, effective January 1, 2018, (ii) imposing a one-time transition tax on earnings of foreign subsidiaries deemed to be repatriated and (iii) implementing a modified territorial tax system. The net unfavorable tax impact included the following: (1) re-measurement of the Company’s net deferred tax assets that existed on December 22, 

17
2017; (2) deferred taxes that were created after December 22, 2017 that were deducted at the federal statutory rate of 32.66%, but will reverse at the newly enacted 21% federal statutory rate; (3) the transition tax on accumulated foreign earnings; and (4) the decrease in the federal statutory tax rate in fiscal 2017.

Additionally in fiscal 2017, the effective tax rate included the effect of the adoption of Accounting Standards Update 2016-09, Compensation – Stock Compensation (Topic 718): Improvements to Share-Based Payment Accounting, (“ASU 2016-09, Stock Compensation”), which increased the effective tax rate by approximately 1.4%. The effective rate also included approximately 1.9% of favorable tax benefits occurring during fiscal 2017.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

For the fiscal year ended March 2, 2019, the decrease in net earnings per diluted share is a result of the decrease in net earnings due to the items described above, partially offset by the impact of the Company's repurchase of its common stock. 

For the fiscal year ended March 3, 2018, the decrease in net earnings per diluted share is the result of the decrease in net earnings due to the items described above, partially offset by an estimated $0.05 benefit related to the fifty-third week in fiscal 2017 and the benefit of the Company’s repurchases of its common stock. In addition, fiscal 2017 net earnings per diluted share included the net unfavorable impact of the Tax Act of approximately $0.08, the unfavorable impact of the adoption of ASU 2016-09, Stock Compensation of approximately $0.07 and the cash restructuring charges associated with the acceleration of the realignment of its store management structure of approximately $0.04.

Capital expenditures for fiscal 2018, 2017, and 2016 were $325.4 million, $375.8 million and $373.6 million, respectively. Approximately 60% of the current year capital expenditures were for technology projects, including investments in the Company’s digital capabilities, and the development and deployment of new systems and equipment in its stores. The remaining capital expenditures were primarily related to new store openings and investments in existing stores. 

The Company continues to review and prioritize its capital needs and remains committed to making the required investments in its infrastructure, including adding resources, to help position the Company for continued growth and success. Key areas of investment include: continuing to improve the presentation and content as well as the functionality, general search and navigation across its customer facing digital channels; improving customer data integration and customer relations management capabilities; continuing to enhance service offerings to its customers; continuing to strengthen and deepen its information technology, analytics, marketing and e-commerce groups; and creating more flexible fulfillment options that will improve the Company’s delivery capabilities and lower the Company’s shipping costs. These and other investments are expected to, among other things, provide a seamless and compelling customer experience across the Company’s omnichannel retail platform.

During fiscal 2018, the Company opened a total of 17 new stores and closed 37 stores. The Company plans to continue to actively manage its real estate portfolio in order to permit store sizes, layouts, locations and offerings to evolve over time to optimize market profitability and will renovate or reposition stores within markets when appropriate. Over the past several years, the Company’s pace of its store openings has slowed, and the Company has increased the number of store closings. The Company expects to close a minimum of approximately 40 stores in fiscal 2019, unless it is able to negotiate more favorable lease terms with its landlords. These expected closures are primarily Bed Bath & Beyond stores. In fiscal 2019, the Company expects to open approximately 15 new stores. Additionally, the Company expects to continue to invest in technology related projects, including the deployment of new systems and equipment in its stores, enhancements to the Company’s customer facing digital channels, ongoing investment in its data warehouse and data analytics and the continued deployment of a new point of sale system.

During fiscal 2016, the Company’s Board of Directors authorized a quarterly dividend program. During fiscal 2018, 2017 and 2016, total cash dividends of $86.3 million, $80.9 million and $55.6 million were paid, respectively. Subsequent to the end of the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018, on April 10, 2019, the Company’s Board of Directors declared a quarterly dividend increase to $0.17 per share to be paid on July 16, 2019 to shareholders of record at the close of business on June 14, 2019. The Company expects to pay quarterly cash dividends on its common stock in the future, subject to the determination by the Board of Directors, based on an evaluation of the Company’s earnings, financial condition and requirements, business conditions and other factors.

During fiscal 2018, 2017 and 2016, the Company repurchased 9.1 million, 8.0 million, and 12.3 million shares, respectively, of its common stock at a total cost of approximately $148.1 million, $252.4 million and $547.0 million, respectively. The Company’s share repurchase program may be influenced by several factors, including business and market conditions. The Company reviews its alternatives with respect to its capital structure on an ongoing basis.

18
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

The following table sets forth for the periods indicated (i) selected statement of operations data of the Company expressed as a percentage of net sales and (ii) the percentage change in dollar amounts from the prior year in selected statement of operations data:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Net Sales

Since fiscal 2017 was a fifty-three week year, fiscal 2018 started one calendar week later than fiscal 2017. The comparable sales calendar compares the same calendar weeks. 

Net sales in fiscal 2018 (fifty-two weeks) decreased $320.5 million to $12.029 billion, representing a decrease of 2.6% compared to $12.349 billion of net sales in fiscal 2017 (fifty-three weeks), which increased $133.5 million or 1.1% over the $12.216 billion of net sales in fiscal 2016 (fifty-two weeks). For fiscal 2018, the decrease was attributable to one less week in sales compared to fiscal 2017 and a decrease in comparable sales. For fiscal 2017, the increase was attributable to an increase of approximately 1.8% due to the fifty-third week and approximately 0.8% in the Company’s non-comparable sales, partially offset by a decrease of approximately 1.5% in comparable sales, adjusted to compare fifty-two weeks to fifty-two weeks. 

The decrease in comparable sales for fiscal 2018 (fifty-two weeks) was approximately 1.1% as compared with a decrease of approximately 1.3% for fiscal 2017 (fifty-three weeks). Comparable sales percentages are calculated based on an equivalent number of weeks in each annual period. The decrease in comparable sales for fiscal 2018 and 2017 was due to a decrease in the number of transactions in stores, partially offset by an increase in the average transaction amount. 

The Company’s comparable sales metric considers sales consummated through all retail channels – in-store, online, with a mobile device or through a customer contact center. Customers today may take advantage of the Company’s omnichannel environment by using more than one channel when making a purchase. The Company believes in an integrated and seamless customer experience. A few examples are: a customer may be assisted by an in-store associate to create a wedding or baby registry, while the guests may ultimately purchase a gift from the Company’s websites; or a customer may research a particular item, and read other customer 

19
reviews on the Company’s websites before visiting a store to consummate the actual purchase; or a customer may reserve an item online for in-store pick up; or while in a store, a customer may make the purchase on a mobile device for in home delivery from either a distribution facility, a store or directly from a vendor. In addition, the Company accepts returns in-store without regard to the channel in which the purchase was consummated, therefore resulting in reducing store sales by sales originally consummated through customer facing digital channels. As the Company’s retail operations are integrated and it cannot reasonably track the channel in which the ultimate sale is initiated, the Company can however provide directional information on where the sale was consummated.

For fiscal 2018 and 2017, comparable sales consummated through customer facing digital channels continued the trend of year over year strong growth, while comparable sales consummated in-store declined in the mid-single-digit percentage range from the corresponding period in the prior year. 

Comparable sales represented $11.604 billion, $11.813 billion, and $11.701 billion of net sales for fiscal 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively. Comparable sales dollars are calculated based on an equivalent number of weeks in each annual period.

Domestics merchandise includes categories such as bed linens and related items, bath items and kitchen textiles. Home furnishings include categories such as kitchen and tabletop items, fine tabletop, basic housewares, general home furnishings (including furniture and wall décor), consumables and certain juvenile products. Sales of domestics merchandise accounted for approximately 35.4%, 35.5%, and 36.8% of net sales in fiscal 2018, 2017, and 2016, respectively, of which the Company estimates that bed linens accounted for approximately 11% of net sales in fiscal 2018, 2017, and 2016. The remaining net sales in fiscal 2018, 2017, and 2016 of 64.6%, 64.5%, and 63.2%, respectively, represented sales of home furnishings. No other individual product category accounted for 10% or more of net sales during fiscal 2018, 2017, and 2016.

Gross Profit

Gross profit in fiscal 2018, 2017, and 2016 was $4.104 billion or 34.1% of net sales, $4.443 billion or 36.0% of net sales, and $4.576 billion or 37.5% of net sales, respectively. The decrease in the gross profit margin as a percentage of net sales between fiscal 2018 and 2017 was primarily attributed to, in order of magnitude: an increase in coupon expense, resulting from an increase in the average coupon amount partially offset by a decrease in the number of redemptions; a decrease in merchandise margin; and an increase in net direct to customer shipping expense. The decrease in the gross profit margin as a percentage of net sales between fiscal 2017 and 2016 was primarily attributed to, in order of magnitude: a decrease in merchandise margin; an increase in coupon expense, resulting from increases in redemptions and the average coupon amount; and an increase in net direct to customer shipping expense. 

In addition, the Company is investing in the lifetime value of its customers through its annual Beyond Plus membership and College Savings Pass programs. The richer benefits of these programs, including twenty percent off entire purchase and free shipping, are realized immediately upon sale and had, and will continue to have, an impact on the Company's gross margin during the period of increasing enrollment. The Beyond Plus membership fee of $29 is currently amortized over the one-year membership period. The Company estimated that the impact of these programs reduced gross margin as a percentage of net sales by approximately 40 basis points for fiscal 2018.

Selling, General and Administrative Expenses

SG&A was $3.681 billion or 30.6% of net sales in fiscal 2018, $3.682 billion or 29.8% of net sales in fiscal 2017, and $3.441 billion or 28.2% of net sales in fiscal 2016. The percentage of net sales increase in SG&A between fiscal 2018 and 2017 was primarily attributable to an increase in technology expenses, including related depreciation. The percentage of net sales increase in SG&A between fiscal 2017 and 2016 was primarily attributable to, in order of magnitude: an increase in payroll and payroll related items (including salaries and store management restructuring charges); an increase in advertising expenses, due in part to the growth in digital advertising; and an increase in technology expenses and related depreciation. 

Goodwill and other impairments

Goodwill and other impairments were $509.9 million in fiscal 2018. Goodwill impairments were $325.2 million, tradename impairments were $161.7 million and long-lived assets impairments were $23.0 million. The non-cash pre-tax goodwill impairment charges were primarily the result of a sustained decline in the Company's market capitalization. There were no goodwill or other impairments in fiscal 2017.

Operating (Loss) Profit

Operating loss for fiscal 2018 was $87.1 million or 0.7% of net sales and operating profit was $761.3 million or 6.2% of net sales for fiscal 2017, and $1.135 billion or 9.3% of net sales in fiscal 2016. The change in operating (loss) profit as a percentage of net sales between fiscal 2018 and 2017 were the result of the reductions in gross profit margin, the increase in SG&A as a percentage 

20
of net sales and goodwill and other impairments as described above. The change in operating profit as a percentage of net sales between fiscal 2017 and 2016 were result of the reductions in gross profit margin and the increases in SG&A as a percentage of net sales as described above.

The Company believes operating margin, as a percentage of net sales, in fiscal 2019 will be in range of 3.4% to 3.8%, as it continues to focus on its ongoing initiatives and the review of its overall expense structure across the organization.

Interest Expense, net

Interest expense, net was $69.5 million, $65.7 million, and $69.6 million in fiscal 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively. For fiscal 2018, 2017 and 2016, interest expense, net primarily related to interest on the senior unsecured notes issued in July 2014. Included in interest expense, net was an expense of $2.7 million for fiscal 2018, and net benefits of $13.3 million and $11.5 million for fiscal 2017 and fiscal 2016, respectively, related to changes in the Company’s nonqualified deferred compensation plan (“NQDC”) investments. These favorable changes were fully offset by corresponding unfavorable changes in the NQDC liability recorded in SG&A and resulted in no net impact to the consolidated statement of earnings.

Income Taxes

The effective tax rate was 12.4% for fiscal 2018, 38.9% for fiscal 2017, and 35.7% for fiscal 2016. For fiscal 2018, 2017 and 2016, the effective tax rate included net benefits of approximately $12.1 million, net expense of approximately $7.1 million which included the impacts of the Tax Act and net benefits of approximately $18.5 million, respectively. The effective tax rates for fiscal 2018, 2017 and 2016 included net benefits due to the recognition of favorable discrete federal and state tax items. 

The Company’s effective tax rate for fiscal 2017 included a net increase of approximately 1.5%, resulting from the Tax Act. The fiscal 2017 effective tax rate also included the effect of the adoption of ASU 2016-09, Stock Compensation, which increased the effective tax rate by approximately 1.4%. The adoption of the standard did not affect the Company’s cash outflows for income taxes. Additionally, the fiscal 2017 effective rate included approximately 1.9% of net benefits primarily due to the recognition of favorable discrete federal and state tax items. 

Potential volatility in the effective tax rate from year to year may occur as the Company is required each year to determine whether new information changes the assessment of both the probability that a tax position will effectively be sustained and the appropriateness of the amount of recognized benefit.

GROWTH

The Company has undertaken significant change to adapt to the dynamic retail environment and the evolving needs of its customers to improve its competitive position. To support this change, the Company appointed new leaders to bring expertise in the areas of data analytics, supply chain, customer fulfillment, merchandising, life stages, e-commerce, portfolio management and information technology. As a result, the Company believes that it has the necessary management depth to drive growth.

The Company's ongoing transformation plan is expected to improve mid-and-long-term revenue growth, enhance gross and operating margins and create sustainable shareholder value. The strategic focus of the plan includes product assortment, shopping experience, services and solutions, and operational excellence, and the key financial objectives are: mid-and-long-term revenue growth; near-term and ongoing gross margin improvements; near-term and ongoing SG&A improvements; and current and sustainable world-class operational support.

The continued growth of the Company is dependent, in part, upon the Company’s ability to execute its transformation strategy successfully.

From the beginning of fiscal 1992 to the end of fiscal 2018, the Company has grown from 34 stores to 1,533 stores, plus its interactive platforms, including websites and applications, and distribution facilities. Total store square footage, net of openings and closings, grew from approximately 0.9 million square feet at the beginning of fiscal 1992 to approximately 43.1 million square feet at the end of fiscal 2018, and included 17 store openings and 37 closures during fiscal 2018. In fiscal 2019, the Company expects company-wide to open approximately 15 new stores, and close a minimum of approximately 40 stores, unless it can negotiate more favorable lease terms with landlords. Over the past several years, sales from the Company’s customer facing digital channels have continued to experience strong growth.

As of March 2, 2019, the Company had distribution facilities totaling approximately 7.2 million square feet, supporting the growth of its customer facing digital channels as well as its stores and its institutional sales segment. 

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

21
The Company has been able to finance its operations, including its growth and acquisitions, substantially through internally generated funds. The Company ended fiscal 2018 in a strong cash position, which it anticipates maintaining, to provide the Company the flexibility to fund its ongoing initiatives and act upon other opportunities that may arise. As of March 2, 2019, the Company had approximately $1.015 billion in cash and investment securities, an increase of approximately $271 million compared with $744 million as of March 3, 2018. For fiscal 2019, the Company believes that it can continue to finance its operations, including its growth, planned capital expenditures, debt service obligations, cash dividends, and share repurchases, through existing and internally generated funds. In addition, if necessary, the Company could borrow under its $250 million revolving credit facility or the available balances under its lines of credit. Capital expenditures for fiscal 2019 are modeled to be in the range of approximately $350 million to $375 million, subject to the timing and composition of projects. In addition, the Company reviews its alternatives with respect to its capital structure on an ongoing basis.

Fiscal 2018 compared to Fiscal 2017 

Net cash provided by operating activities in fiscal 2018 was $918.3 million, compared with $859.7 million in fiscal 2017. Year over year, the Company experienced an increase in cash provided by the net components of working capital (primarily prepaid expenses and other current assets, largely due to the prepayment in the prior fiscal year of certain operating expenses associated with tax planning strategies, partially offset by accounts payable) and a decrease in net earnings, as adjusted for non-cash expenses (primarily goodwill and other impairments and deferred income taxes).

Retail inventory, which includes inventory in the Company’s distribution facilities for direct to customer shipments, was approximately $2.6 billion, a decrease of approximately 4.7% compared to retail inventory at March 3, 2018. The Company continues to focus on its inventory optimization strategies.

Net cash used in investing activities in fiscal 2018 was $509.7 million, compared with $674.4 million in fiscal 2017. In fiscal 2018, net cash used in investing activities was primarily due to $325.4 million of capital expenditures and $195.5 million of purchases of investment securities, net of redemptions. In fiscal 2017, net cash used in investing activities was primarily due to $375.8 million of capital expenditures and $292.5 million of purchases of investment securities.

Net cash used in financing activities for fiscal 2018 was $238.6 million, compared with $323.4 million in fiscal 2017. The decrease in net cash used in financing activities was primarily due to a decrease in common stock repurchases of $104.4 million partially offset by a decrease in proceeds from the exercise of stock options. 

Fiscal 2017 compared to Fiscal 2016 

Net cash provided by operating activities in fiscal 2017 was $859.7 million, compared with $1.043 billion in fiscal 2016. Year over year, the Company experienced a decrease in net earnings, as adjusted for non-cash expenses (primarily deferred income taxes), and an increase in cash used in the net components of working capital (primarily prepaid expenses and other current assets, largely due to the prepayment of certain operating expenses associated with tax planning strategies, partially offset by merchandise inventories).

Retail inventory, which includes inventory in the Company’s distribution facilities for direct to customer shipments, was approximately $2.7 billion at March 3, 2018, a decrease of approximately 6.0% compared to retail inventory at February 25, 2017. The percentage decrease was due, in part, to the favorable impact of the Company’s inventory optimization strategies.

Net cash used in investing activities in fiscal 2017 was $674.4 million, compared with $491.9 million in fiscal 2016. In fiscal 2017, net cash used in investing activities was primarily due to $375.8 million of capital expenditures and $292.5 million of purchases of investment securities. In fiscal 2016, net cash used in investing activities was primarily due to $373.6 million of capital expenditures and $201.3 million of payments related to acquisitions, net of acquired cash, partially offset by $86.2 million of redemptions of investment securities.

Net cash used in financing activities for fiscal 2017 was $323.4 million, compared with $582.2 million in fiscal 2016. The decrease in net cash used in financing activities was primarily due to a decrease in common stock repurchases of $294.6 million partially offset by an increase of $25.3 million for the payment of dividends.

Other Fiscal 2018 Information

At March 2, 2019, the Company maintained two uncommitted lines of credit of $100 million each, with expiration dates of August 30, 2019 and February 23, 2020, respectively. These uncommitted lines of credit are currently and are expected to be used for letters of credit in the ordinary course of business. During fiscal 2018, the Company did not have any direct borrowings under the uncommitted lines of credit. Although no assurances can be provided, the Company intends to renew both uncommitted lines of credit before the respective expiration dates.

22
On November 14, 2017, the Company replaced its existing $250 million five year senior unsecured revolving credit facility agreement with various lenders with a new $250 million five year senior unsecured revolving credit facility agreement ("Revolver") with various lenders maturing November 14, 2022. The new Revolver has essentially the same terms and requirements as the prior revolving credit facility agreement. For fiscal 2018 and 2017, the Company did not have any borrowings under the Revolver.

Between December 2004 and September 2015, the Company’s Board of Directors authorized, through several share repurchase programs, the repurchase of $11.950 billion of its common stock. Since 2004 through the end of fiscal 2018, the Company has repurchased approximately $10.6 billion of its common stock through share repurchase programs. The Company has approximately $1.3 billion remaining of authorized share repurchases as of March 2, 2019. The Company has authorization to make repurchases from time to time in the open market or through other parameters approved by the Board of Directors pursuant to existing rules and regulations. The Company’s share repurchase program could change, and would be influenced by several factors, including business and market conditions.

During fiscal 2016, the Company’s Board of Directors authorized a quarterly dividend program. During fiscal 2018 and 2017, total cash dividends of $86.3 million and $80.9 million were paid, respectively. Subsequent to the end of the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018, on April 10, 2019, the Company’s Board of Directors declared a quarterly dividend increase to $0.17 per share to be paid on July 16, 2019 to shareholders of record at the close of business on June 14, 2019. The Company expects to pay quarterly cash dividends on its common stock in the future, subject to the determination by the Board of Directors, based on an evaluation of the Company’s earnings, financial condition and requirements, business conditions and other factors.

The Company has contractual obligations consisting mainly of principal and interest related to the senior unsecured notes, operating leases for stores, offices, distribution facilities and equipment, purchase obligations, long-term sale/leaseback and capital lease obligations and other long-term liabilities which the Company is obligated to pay as of March 2, 2019 as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) On July 17, 2014, the Company issued $300 million aggregate principal amount of 3.749% senior unsecured notes due August 1, 2024, $300 million aggregate principal amount of 4.915% senior unsecured notes due August 1, 2034 and $900 million aggregate principal amount of 5.165% senior unsecured notes due August 1, 2044. In fiscal 2018, the Company purchased and retired $4.6 million of senior unsecured notes due August 1, 2024.

(2) The amounts presented represent the future minimum lease payments under non-cancelable operating leases. In addition to minimum rent, certain of the Company's leases require the payment of additional costs for insurance, maintenance and other costs. These additional amounts are not included in the table of contractual commitments as the timing and/or amounts of such payments are not known. As of March 2, 2019, the Company has leased sites for 14 new or relocated locations planned for opening in fiscal 2018 or 2019, for which aggregate minimum rental payments over the term of the leases are approximately $101.5 million and are included in the table above.

(3) Purchase obligations primarily consist of purchase orders for merchandise.

(4) Long-term sale/leaseback and capital lease obligations represent future minimum lease payments under the sale/leaseback and capital lease agreements.

(5) Other long-term liabilities are primarily comprised of income taxes payable, deferred rent, workers' compensation and general liability reserves and various other accruals and are recorded as Deferred Rent and Other Liabilities and Income Taxes Payable in the consolidated balance sheet as of March 2, 2019. The amounts associated with these other long-term liabilities have been reflected only in the Total Column in the table above as the timing and / or amount of any cash payment is uncertain.

SEASONALITY

The Company’s business is subject to seasonal influences. Generally, its sales volumes are higher in the calendar months of August, November, and December, and lower in February.

23
INFLATION

The Company does not believe that its operating results have been materially affected by inflation during the past year. There can be no assurance, however, that the Company’s operating results will not be affected by inflation in the future.

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES

The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles requires the Company to establish accounting policies and to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities as of the date of the consolidated financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. The Company bases its estimates on historical experience and on other assumptions that it believes to be relevant under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying value of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. In particular, judgment is used in areas such as inventory valuation, impairment of long-lived assets, goodwill and other indefinite lived intangible assets, accruals for self-insurance and income and certain other taxes. Actual results could differ from these estimates.

Inventory Valuation: Merchandise inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market. Inventory costs are primarily calculated using the weighted average retail inventory method.

Under the retail inventory method, the valuation of inventories at cost and the resulting gross margins are calculated by applying a cost-to-retail ratio to the retail values of inventories. The cost associated with determining the cost-to-retail ratio includes: merchandise purchases, net of returns to vendors, discounts and volume and incentive rebates; inbound freight expenses; duty, insurance and commissions.

At any one time, inventories include items that have been written down to the Company’s best estimate of their realizable value. Judgment is required in estimating realizable value and factors considered are the age of merchandise and anticipated demand. Actual realizable value could differ materially from this estimate based upon future customer demand or economic conditions.

The Company estimates its reserve for shrinkage throughout the year based on historical shrinkage and any current trends, if applicable. Actual shrinkage is recorded at year end based upon the results of the Company’s physical inventory counts for locations at which counts were conducted. For locations where physical inventory counts were not conducted in the fiscal year, an estimated shrink reserve is recorded based on historical shrinkage and any current trends, if applicable. Historically, the Company’s shrinkage has not been volatile.

The Company accrues for merchandise in transit once it takes legal ownership and title to the merchandise; as such, an estimate for merchandise in transit is included in the Company’s merchandise inventories.

Impairment of Long-Lived Assets: The Company reviews long-lived assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value of these assets may exceed their current fair values. Recoverability of assets to be held and used is measured by a comparison of the carrying amount of an asset to the estimated undiscounted future cash flows expected to be generated by the asset. If the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its estimated future cash flows, an impairment charge is recognized for the amount by which the carrying amount of the asset exceeds the fair value of the assets. Assets to be disposed of would be separately presented in the balance sheet and reported at the lower of the carrying amount or fair value less costs to sell, and are no longer depreciated. The assets and liabilities of a disposal group classified as held for sale would be presented separately in the appropriate asset and liability sections of the balance sheet. In fiscal 2018, the Company recorded a $23.0 million non-cash pre-tax impairment charge within goodwill and other impairments in the consolidated statement of operations for certain store-level assets. There were no impairments to long-lived assets in fiscal 2017 or 2016. In the future, if events or market conditions affect the estimated fair value to the extent that a long-lived asset is impaired, the Company will adjust the carrying value of these long-lived assets in the period in which the impairment occurs.

Goodwill and Other Indefinite Lived Intangible Assets: The Company reviews goodwill and other intangibles that have indefinite lives for impairment annually as of the end of the fiscal year or when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value of these assets might exceed their current fair values. Impairment testing is based upon the best information available including estimates of fair value which incorporate assumptions marketplace participants would use in making their estimates of fair value. Significant assumptions and estimates are required, including, but not limited to, projecting future cash flows, determining appropriate discount rates and terminal growth rates, and other assumptions, to estimate the fair value of goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets. Although the Company believes the assumptions and estimates made are reasonable and appropriate, different assumptions and estimates could materially impact its reported financial results. In addition, sustained declines in the Company's stock price and related market capitalization could impact key assumptions in the overall estimated fair values of its reporting units and could result 

24
in non-cash impairment charges that could be material to the Company's consolidated balance sheet or result of operations. Prior to March 2, 2019, the Company has not historically recorded an impairment to its goodwill and other indefinite lived intangible assets.

As of March 2, 2019, the Company completed a quantitative impairment analysis of goodwill related to its reporting units by comparing the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount. The Company performed a discounted cash flow analysis and market multiple analysis for each reporting unit. Based upon the analysis performed, the Company recognized goodwill impairment charges of $285.1 million and $40.1 million for the North American Retail and Institutional Sales reporting units, respectively. The non-cash pre-tax impairment charges were primarily the result of a sustained decline in the Company's market capitalization.

Other indefinite lived intangible assets were recorded as a result of acquisitions and primarily consist of tradenames. The Company values its tradenames using a relief-from-royalty approach, which assumes the value of the tradename is the discounted cash flows of the amount that would be paid by a hypothetical market participant had they not owned the tradename and instead licensed the tradename from another company. As of March 2, 2019, for certain other indefinite lived intangible assets, the Company completed a quantitative impairment analysis by comparing the fair value of the tradenames to their carrying value and recognized a non-cash pre-tax tradename impairment charge of $161.7 million, within goodwill and other impairments in the consolidated statement of operations, for certain of the tradenames within the North American Retail reporting unit. As of March 2, 2019, for the remaining other indefinite lived intangibles assets, the Company assessed qualitative factors in order to determine whether any events and circumstances existed which indicated that it was more likely than not that the fair value of these other indefinite lived assets did not exceed their carrying values and concluded no such events or circumstances existed which would require an impairment test be performed. In the future, if events or market conditions affect the estimated fair value to the extent that an asset is impaired, the Company will adjust the carrying value of these assets in the period in which the impairment occurs.

Self Insurance: The Company utilizes a combination of insurance and self insurance for a number of risks including workers’ compensation, general liability, cyber liability, property liability, automobile liability and employee related health care benefits (a portion of which is paid by its employees). Liabilities associated with the risks that the Company retains are estimated by considering historical claims experience, demographic factors, severity factors and other actuarial assumptions. Although the Company’s claims experience has not displayed substantial volatility in the past, actual experience could materially vary from its historical experience in the future. Factors that affect these estimates include but are not limited to: inflation, the number and severity of claims and regulatory changes. In the future, if the Company concludes an adjustment to self insurance accruals is required, the liability will be adjusted accordingly.

Taxes: The Company accounts for its income taxes using the asset and liability method. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax consequences attributable to the differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases and operating loss and tax credit carry-forwards. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the year in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates is recognized in earnings in the period that includes the enactment date.

On December 22, 2017, the U.S. government enacted comprehensive tax legislation commonly referred to as the Tax Act. The Tax Act included a mandatory one-time tax on accumulated earnings of foreign subsidiaries, and as a result, all previously unremitted earnings for which no U.S. deferred tax liability had been previously accrued has now been subject to U.S. tax. Notwithstanding the U.S. taxation of these amounts, the Company intends to continue to reinvest the unremitted earnings of its Canadian subsidiary. Accordingly, no additional provision has been made for U.S. or additional non-U.S. taxes with respect to these earnings, except for the transition tax resulting from the Tax Act. In the event of repatriation to the U.S., it is expected that such earnings would be subject to non-U.S. withholding taxes offset, in whole or in part, by U.S. foreign tax credits.

The Company recognizes the tax benefit from an uncertain tax position only if it is at least more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained on examination by the taxing authorities based on the technical merits of the position. The tax benefits recognized in the financial statements from such a position are measured based on the largest benefit that has a greater than fifty percent likelihood of being realized upon settlement with the taxing authorities.

Potential volatility in the effective tax rate from year to year may occur as the Company is required each year to determine whether new information changes the assessment of both the probability that a tax position will effectively be sustained and the appropriateness of the amount of recognized benefit.

The Company also accrues for certain other taxes as required by its operations.

Judgment is required in determining the provision for income and other taxes and related accruals, and deferred tax assets and liabilities. In the ordinary course of business, there are transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax outcome is uncertain. 

25
Additionally, the Company’s various tax returns are subject to audit by various tax authorities. Although the Company believes that its estimates are reasonable, actual results could differ from these estimates.

FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

This Form 10-K and Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Forward-looking statements include statements related to future, not past, events. In this context, forward-looking statements often address the Company’s expected future business, financial performance and financial condition, and often contain words such as may, will, expect, anticipate, approximate, estimate, assume, continue, model, project, plan, goal, and similar words and phrases. The Company’s actual results and future financial condition may differ materially from those expressed in any such forward-looking statements as a result of many factors. Such factors include, without limitation: general economic conditions including the housing market, a challenging overall macroeconomic environment and related changes in the retailing environment; consumer preferences, spending habits and adoption of new technologies; demographics and other macroeconomic factors that may impact the level of spending for the types of merchandise sold by the Company; civil disturbances and terrorist acts; unusual weather patterns and natural disasters; competition from existing and potential competitors across all channels; pricing pressures; liquidity; the ability to achieve anticipated cost savings, and to not exceed anticipated costs, associated with organizational changes and investments; the ability to attract and retain qualified employees in all areas of the organization; the cost of labor, merchandise and other costs and expenses; potential supply chain disruption due to trade restrictions, political instability, labor disturbances, product recalls, financial or operational instability of suppliers or carriers, and other items; the ability to find suitable locations at acceptable occupancy costs and other terms to support the Company’s plans for new stores; the ability to establish and profitably maintain the appropriate mix of digital and physical presence in the markets it serves; the ability to assess and implement technologies in support of the Company’s development of its omnichannel capabilities; uncertainty in financial markets; volatility in the price of the Company’s common stock and its effect, and the effect of other factors, on the Company’s capital allocation strategy; the impact of goodwill and intangible asset impairments; disruptions to the Company’s information technology systems including but not limited to security breaches of systems protecting consumer and employee information or other types of cybercrimes or cybersecurity attacks; reputational risk arising from challenges to the Company’s or a third party product or service supplier’s compliance with various laws, regulations or standards, including those related to labor, health, safety, privacy or the environment; reputational risk arising from third-party merchandise or service vendor performance in direct home delivery or assembly of product for customers; changes to statutory, regulatory and legal requirements, including without limitation proposed changes affecting international trade, changes to, or new, tax laws or interpretation of existing tax laws; new, or developments in existing, litigation, claims or assessments; changes to, or new, accounting standards; foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; the integration of acquired businesses; and potential continuing uncertainty arising in connection with the announced intention by certain shareholders to seek control of the Company's Board of Directors. The Company does not undertake any obligation to update its forward-looking statements.

ITEM 7A – QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK