ITEM 1 – BUSINESS

Overview

Bed Bath & Beyond Inc. is an omnichannel retailer offering high quality and differentiated products, services and solutions for the home and heart-felt life events. The Company sells a wide assortment of domestic merchandise and home furnishings and operates under the names Bed Bath & Beyond (“BBB”), Christmas Tree Shops, Christmas Tree Shops andThat! or andThat! (collectively, “CTS”), Harmon, Harmon Face Values, or Face Values (collectively, “Harmon”), buybuy BABY (“Baby”) and World Market, Cost Plus World Market or Cost Plus (collectively, “Cost Plus World Market”). Customers can purchase products either in-store, online, with a mobile device or through a customer contact center. The Company generally has the ability to have customer purchases picked up in-store or shipped direct to the customer from the Company’s distribution facilities, stores or vendors. In addition, the Company operates Of a Kind, an e-commerce website that features specially commissioned, limited edition items from emerging fashion and home designers; One Kings Lane, an authority in home décor and design, offering a unique collection of select home goods, designer and vintage items; PersonalizationMall.com (“PMall”), an industry-leading online retailer of personalized products; Chef Central, a retailer of kitchenware, cookware and homeware items catering to cooking and baking enthusiasts; and Decorist, an online interior design platform that provides personalized home design services. The Company also operates Linen Holdings, a provider of a variety of textile products, amenities and other goods to institutional customers in the hospitality, cruise line, healthcare and other industries, which operates under the names of Harbor Linen and T-Y Group. 

The Company operates a robust ecommerce platform consisting of various websites and applications including bedbathandbeyond.com, bedbathandbeyond.ca, harmondiscount.com, facevalues.com, christmastreeshops.com, andthat.com, buybuybaby.com, buybuybaby.ca, harborlinen.com, t-ygroup.com, worldmarket.com, ofakind.com, onekingslane.com, personalizationmall.com, chefcentral.com and decorist.com. The Company also operates an established retail store base which consists of 1,533 stores, as of March 2, 2019, and includes 994 Bed Bath & Beyond (“BBB”) stores in all 50 states, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico and Canada, 277 stores under the names of World Market, Cost Plus World Market or Cost Plus (collectively, “Cost Plus World Market”), 124 buybuy BABY (“Baby”) stores in 36 states and Canada, 81 stores under the names Christmas Tree Shops, Christmas Tree Shops andThat! or andThat! (collectively, “CTS”), 55 stores under the names Harmon, Harmon Face Values or Face Values (collectively, “Harmon”), and two One Kings Lane stores. In addition, the Company is a partner in a joint venture which operates ten stores in Mexico under the name Bed Bath & Beyond.

The integration of retail store and customer facing digital channels allows the Company to provide its customers with a seamless shopping experience. In-store purchases are primarily fulfilled from that store’s inventory, or may also be shipped to a customer from one of the Company’s distribution facilities, a vendor, or another store. Purchases, including web and mobile, can be shipped to a customer from the Company’s distribution facilities, directly from vendors, or from a store. The Company’s customers can also choose to pick up online orders in a store, as well as return online purchases to a store. Customers can also make purchases through one of the Company’s customer contact centers and in-store through The Beyond Store, the Company’s proprietary, web-based platform. These capabilities allow the Company to better serve customers across various channels.

The Company accounts for its operations as two operating segments: North American Retail and Institutional Sales. The Institutional Sales operating segment, which is comprised of Linen Holdings, does not meet the quantitative thresholds under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles and therefore is not a reportable segment. Net sales outside of the U.S. for the Company were not material for 2018, 2017 and 2016.

Strategy

Bed Bath & Beyond's mission is to be the trusted expert for the home and heart-felt life events. These include certain life events that evoke strong emotional connections such as getting married, moving to a new home, having a baby, going to college and decorating a room, which the Company supports through its wedding and baby registries, mover and student life programs, and its design consultation services. 

To advance its mission, the Company is executing on a comprehensive plan to transform its business and position Bed Bath & Beyond for long-term success. The strategic focus of the transformational initiatives include: product assortment, shopping experience, 

4
services and solutions, and operational excellence. The Company’s ongoing efforts to implement and execute on these organization-wide foundational initiatives are intended to drive four key strategic objectives:

•Mid-and-long-term revenue growth from portfolio strategy alignment across product assortment, customer experience and customer engagement, including greater focus on growing destinational categories (such as bed, bath, kitchen, windows and tabletop) and proprietary and private-label brands; enhance in-store customer experiences; an enhanced online experience; as well as efforts to assure that the Company’s customers are getting the right value for the products they want and need most.

•Near-term and ongoing gross margin improvements through changes in assortment mix to drive sales to better margin categories; modifications in pricing algorithms; further optimization of coupon strategy; and supply chain improvements.

•Near-term and ongoing SG&A improvements from improvements in store labor model; marketing efficiencies; and reductions in occupancy expense relating to ongoing store lease negotiations.

•Current and sustainable world-class operational support through investments in human capital, data and analytics and process improvements; repositioning and articulating the Bed Bath & Beyond brand in the marketplace across all customer interactions including assortment, store and digital experience and marketing; and enhancements in global sourcing capabilities.

To continue the transformational work necessary to execute its comprehensive plan, the Company has been making significant investments in people, processes and technology. The Company's strategy also remains rooted in a customer-first approach and commitment to customer service, while maintaining strong financial discipline. The Company believes it will achieve its mission to be the trusted expert for the home and heart-felt life events.

Pricing. The Company believes in offering its customers high quality and differentiated products, services and solutions at the right price and value. The Company regularly monitors price levels at its competitors in order to ensure that its prices are in accordance with its pricing philosophy. The Company believes that the application of its pricing philosophy is a significant factor in its ability to establish trust among customers as the expert for the home and heart-felt life events.

Merchandising. The Company sells a wide assortment of domestics merchandise and home furnishings. Domestics merchandise includes categories such as bed linens and related items, bath items and kitchen textiles. Home furnishings include categories such as kitchen and tabletop items, fine tabletop, basic housewares, general home furnishings (including furniture and wall décor), consumables and certain juvenile products. The Company strives to present an exciting and engaging assortment of products to its customers, including name brands, proprietary and exclusive brands, as well as personalized products. The Company pursues product differentiation in several ways, including its own product development, and exclusivity and limited distribution with its vendor partners. Some examples of the Company’s proprietary brands include Bee & Willow Home, Wamsutta, Olivia & Oliver, SALT and Artisanal Kitchen Supply. The Company, on an ongoing basis, tests new merchandise categories and adjusts the categories of merchandise carried in-store and online and may add new product categories or expand its merchandise assortment as appropriate. Additionally, the Company has and continues to integrate its merchandise assortments among its concepts.

The Company has been evolving its merchandise mix to provide a more inspirational and personal shopping experience with an expanded offering, which includes a more differentiated product mix, and enhanced services and solutions for customers, both in-store and across its customer facing digital channels.

As consumer shopping preferences continue to shift to customer facing digital channels, the Company believes its investments are driving a better omnichannel experience. The Company continues to improve the presentation and content as well as the functionality, general search and navigation features across its customer facing digital channels. The Company is also adapting its physical channels to further integrate its omnichannel capabilities to enhance the in-store customer experience by bringing products, services and solutions, as well as the Company’s brand, to life. This includes services such as reserve online and pickup in-store, purchase online and return in-store, and online appointment scheduling for one of the Company’s various registry services. 

Marketing. The Company’s marketing efforts include a full-range of online and off-line vehicles, including email, mobile SMS, social, search, digital display, content and influencer marketing, online affiliate programs, and public relations efforts, as well as traditional print media such as postcards, newspaper inserts, circulars, and catalogs, all of which sometimes include coupon offers. The Company is making significant investments to further develop and integrate its expansive customer data with other relevant third-party data and technology tools to develop and scale tailored and personalized marketing communications, and strengthen its position as the expert for the home and heart-felt life events.

5
Customer Service. The Company’s customer-first approach is rooted in creating a noticeably better shopping experience for each and every customer. The Company invests in its people and in delivering high-quality products, services and solutions. As part of its objective to take care of its customers, the Company strives to make returns and exchanges hassle-free, whether in store or online. The Company’s best-in-class registry services for wedding, baby, college and other heart-felt life events provide a unique opportunity to deepen customer relationships by demonstrating a high level of customer service during important life stages. Also, the Company continues to invest in the technology necessary to enable a more seamless interaction between its associates and its customers wherever, whenever and however they wish to interact with the Company. The Company’s customer contact centers provide 24/7 customer service and provide support by phone, email or live chat. During the second quarter of fiscal 2017, the Company opened its newest customer contact center in the Orlando, Florida area. The Company continues to focus its efforts and investments to strengthen its position as a leader in customer service.

Suppliers

The Company purchases substantially all of its merchandise in the United States, the majority from domestic sources (who may manufacture overseas) and the balance from importers. The Company purchases a small amount of its merchandise directly from overseas sources. In fiscal 2018, the Company purchased its merchandise from approximately 11,200 suppliers with its largest supplier accounting for approximately 3% of its merchandise purchases with the 10 largest suppliers accounting for approximately 15% of such purchases. The Company has no long term contracts for the purchases of merchandise. The Company believes that most merchandise, other than brand name goods, is available from a variety of sources and that most brand name goods can be replaced with comparable merchandise. 

The Company is in the early stages of expanding its direct importing and direct sourcing capabilities, including the establishment of a second sourcing office in Asia, which opened during fiscal 2018. The Company believes that its expanding global sourcing capabilities will be able to sustain a higher penetration of its own sourced and developed proprietary product in its merchandise assortment.

Distribution

A substantial portion of the Company’s merchandise is shipped to stores through a combination of third party facilities, including cross dock locations, or Company operated distribution facilities which are located throughout the United States. The remaining merchandise for stores is shipped directly from vendors. Merchandise is shipped directly to customers from one of the Company’s operated distribution facilities, stores or from vendors. The majority of the Company’s shipments are made by contract carriers depending upon location.

See “Item 2 – Properties” for additional information regarding the Company’s distribution facilities.

Associates

As of March 2, 2019, the Company employed approximately 62,000 regular full-time and part-time associates. The Company believes that its employee relations are very good and that the labor turnover rate among its management employees is lower than that generally experienced within the industry.

Seasonality

The Company’s business is subject to seasonal influences. Generally, its sales volumes are higher in the calendar months of August, November and December, and lower in February.

Growth

The Company has undertaken significant change to adapt to the dynamic retail environment and the evolving needs of its customers to improve its competitive position. To support this change, the Company appointed new leaders to bring expertise in the areas of data analytics, supply chain, customer fulfillment, merchandising, life stages, e-commerce, portfolio management and information technology. As a result, the Company believes that it has the necessary management depth to drive growth.

The Company's ongoing transformation plan is expected to improve mid-and-long-term revenue growth, enhance gross and operating margins and create sustainable shareholder value. The strategic focus of the plan includes product assortment, shopping experience, services and solutions, and operational excellence, and the key financial objectives are: mid-and-long-term revenue growth; near-term and ongoing gross margin improvements; near-term and ongoing selling, general and administrative expenses improvements; and current and sustainable world-class operational support.

6
The continued growth of the Company is dependent, in part, upon the Company’s ability to execute its transformation strategy successfully.

From the beginning of fiscal 1992 to the end of fiscal 2018, the Company has grown from 34 stores to 1,533 stores, plus its interactive platforms, including websites and applications, and distribution facilities. Total store square footage, net of openings and closings, grew from approximately 0.9 million square feet at the beginning of fiscal 1992 to approximately 43.1 million square feet at the end of fiscal 2018, and included 17 store openings and 37 closures in fiscal 2018. In fiscal 2019, the Company expects company-wide to open approximately 15 new stores, and close a minimum of approximately 40 stores, unless it can negotiate more favorable lease terms with landlords. Over the past several years, sales from the Company’s customer facing digital channels have continued to experience strong growth.

As of March 2, 2019, the Company had distribution facilities totaling approximately 7.2 million square feet, supporting the growth of its customer facing digital channels as well as its stores and its institutional sales segment. 

Competition

The Company operates in a highly competitive business environment and competes with other national, regional, local and online retailers that may carry similar lines of merchandise, including department stores, specialty stores, off-price stores, mass merchandise stores and online only retailers. The Company believes the key to competing in its industry is to provide best-in-class customer service and customer experiences in stores and online, which includes a compelling price and value; high-quality and differentiated products, services and solutions; convenience; technology; personalization; and appealing and experiential store environments.

Tradenames and Service Marks

The Company uses the service marks “Bed Bath & Beyond,” “buybuy BABY,” “Christmas Tree Shops,” “andThat!,” “Harmon,” “Face Values,” “Cost Plus,” “World Market,” “Cost Plus World Market,” “Of a Kind,” “One Kings Lane,” “PersonalizationMall.com,” “PMall,” “Chef Central,” and “Decorist,” in connection with its retail services. The Company also uses the service marks “Harbor Linen” and “TY Group” in connection with its institutional sales segment. The Company has registered trademarks and service marks or is seeking registrations for these and other trademarks and service marks with the United States Patent and Trademark Office. In addition, the Company has registered or has applications pending with the trademark registries of several foreign countries, including having registered the “Bed Bath & Beyond” name and logo in Canada and Mexico and having registered the “buybuy BABY” name and logo in Canada. The Company also owns a number of product trademarks. The Company files patent applications and seeks copyright registrations where it deems such to be advantageous to the business. The Company believes that its name recognition and service marks are important elements of the Company’s merchandising strategy.

Available Information

The Company makes available as soon as reasonably practicable after filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”), free of charge, through its website, www.bedbathandbeyond.com, the Company’s annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports, electronically filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.

ITEM 1A – RISK FACTORS