Item 7A.Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk. 

In the normal course of business, our financial position is subject to market risk, including, but not limited to, potential loss due to changes in the value of financial instruments including those resulting from adverse changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and market valuation. Financial instruments include, but are not limited to, investment securities and debt obligations. Management is responsible for managing market risk. Our Enterprise Risk Management Committee is responsible for providing a framework to assist management to identify, assess and manage market and other risks. 

Our market risk from assets and liabilities of CIPs is limited to that of our direct equity investments in them and investment management fees earned from them. Accordingly, the assets and liabilities of CIPs are excluded from the discussion below.

AUM Market Price Risk

We are exposed to market risk through our investment management and distribution fees, which are generally calculated as a percentage of AUM. Changes in equity market prices, interest rates, credit spreads, foreign exchange rates, or a combination of these factors could cause the value of AUM to decline, which would result in lower investment management and distribution fees. Our exposure to these risks is minimized as we sponsor a broad range of investment products in various global jurisdictions, which serves to mitigate the impact of changes in any particular market or region. 

Assuming the respective effective fee rates remain unchanged, a proportional 10% change in the value of our average AUM would result in corresponding 10% changes in our investment management fees and asset-based distribution fee revenues and expenses, excluding performance-based investment management fees. Such a change for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2019 would have resulted in an increase or decrease in pre-tax earnings of $364.5 million.

Interest Rate Risk

We are exposed to changes in interest rates primarily through our investments in sponsored funds that invest in debt securities, which were $1,691.4 million at September 30, 2019. Our exposure to interest rate risks from these investments is minimized by the low average duration exposure mandate of a substantial majority of the funds. The investment mandates of the remaining funds consist of a broad range of products in various global jurisdictions, mitigating the impact of changes in any particular market or region. We had no exposure to changes in interest rates from debt obligations at September 30, 2019 as all of our outstanding debt was issued at fixed rates. 

As of September 30, 2019, we have considered the potential impact of a 100 basis point movement in market interest rates on our portfolio of sponsored funds that invest in debt securities. Based on our analysis, we do not expect that such a change would have a material impact on our earnings in the next twelve months. 

Foreign Currency Exchange Risk

We are subject to foreign currency exchange risk through our international operations. While the majority of our revenues are earned in the U.S., we also provide services and earn revenues in Europe, the Middle East and Africa, Asia-Pacific, Canada, The Bahamas and Latin America. Our exposure to foreign currency exchange risk is minimized in relation to our results of operations since a significant portion of these revenues is denominated in U.S. dollars. This situation may change in the future as our business continues to grow outside the U.S. and expenses incurred denominated in foreign currencies increase. 

The exposure to foreign currency exchange risk in our consolidated balance sheet mostly relates to cash and cash equivalents and investments that are denominated in foreign currencies, primarily in the Euro, Indian Rupee, Pound Sterling and Canadian dollar. These assets accounted for 11% of the total cash and cash equivalents and investments at September 30, 2019. Changes in the values of these assets resulting from changes in U.S. dollar exchange rates are recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), except for cash and cash equivalents held by subsidiaries for which the U.S. dollar is the functional currency, for which the changes are recorded in earnings. We also have exposure to foreign exchange revaluation of cash and cash equivalents and investments that are denominated in U.S. dollars and held by non-U.S. subsidiaries for which their local currency is the functional currency. These assets accounted for 4% of the total cash and cash equivalents and investments at September 30, 2019. Changes in the values of these assets resulting from changes in U.S. dollar exchange rates are recorded in earnings. 

 55
A 10% weakening of the U.S. dollar against the various foreign currencies to which we had exposure as described above would result in corresponding 10% increases in the U.S. dollar values of the foreign currency assets and 10% decreases in the foreign currency values of the U.S. dollar assets. Such a weakening as of September 30, 2019 would result in a $67.1 million decrease in accumulated other comprehensive loss and a $19.2 million decrease in pre-tax earnings. We generally do not use derivative financial instruments to manage foreign currency exchange risk exposure. As a result, both positive and negative currency fluctuations against the U.S. dollar may affect our results of operations and accumulated other comprehensive income (loss).

Market Valuation Risk

We are exposed to market valuation risks related to securities we hold that are carried at fair value. To mitigate the risks we maintain a diversified investment portfolio and, from time to time, we may enter into derivative agreements. 

The following is a summary of the effect of a 10% increase or decrease in the carrying values of our financial instruments subject to market valuation risks at September 30, 2019. If such a 10% increase or decrease in carrying values were to occur, the changes from equity securities measured at fair value, debt securities and direct investments in CIPs would result in a $171.0 million increase or decrease in our pre-tax earnings.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

 56
Item 8.Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.