Item 7.Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 

FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS 

The following discussion and analysis of the results of operations and financial condition of Franklin Resources, Inc. (“Franklin”) and its subsidiaries (collectively, the “Company”) should be read in conjunction with the “Forward-looking Statements” disclosure set forth in Part I and the “Risk Factors” set forth in Item 1A of Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10‑K and in any more recent filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”), each of which describe these risks, uncertainties and other important factors in more detail. 

OVERVIEW 

We are a global investment management organization and derive our operating revenues and net income from providing investment management and related services in jurisdictions worldwide for investors in our investment products, which include our sponsored funds, as well as institutional and high-net-worth separate accounts. In addition to investment management, our services include fund administration, sales and distribution and shareholder servicing. We may perform services directly or through third parties. We offer our services and products under our various distinct brand names, including, but not limited to, Franklin®, Templeton®, Balanced Equity Management®, Benefit Street Partners®, Darby®, Edinburgh Partners™, Fiduciary Trust™, Franklin Bissett®, Franklin Mutual Series®, K2® and LibertyShares®. We offer a broad product mix of equity, multi-asset/balanced, fixed income and cash management investment objectives and solutions which meet a wide variety of specific investment goals and needs for individual and institutional investors. We also provide sub-advisory services to certain investment products sponsored by other companies which may be sold to investors under the brand names of those other companies or on a co-branded basis.

The level of our revenues depends largely on the level and relative mix of assets under management (“AUM”). As noted in the “Risk Factors” section set forth above in Item 1A of Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10‑K, the amount and mix of our AUM are subject to significant fluctuations and can negatively impact our revenues and income. The level of our revenues also depends on mutual fund sales, the number of shareholder transactions and accounts, and the fees charged for our services, which are based on contracts with our funds and our clients. These arrangements could change in the future. 

During the fiscal year ended September 30, 2019 (“fiscal year 2019”), the global equity markets experienced volatility but provided overall positive returns, reflecting, among other things, ongoing growth concerns, expectations for central banks to continue their accommodative monetary policies and hopes for progress in global trade tensions, as the S&P 500 Index and MSCI World Index increased 4.3% and 2.4%. The global bond markets were positively impacted by lower interest rates and the Bloomberg Barclays Global Aggregate Index increased 7.6% for the fiscal year. 

Our total AUM was $692.6 billion at September 30, 2019, 3% lower than at September 30, 2018 as $31.8 billion of net outflows and $19.1 billion of net market change, distributions and other were partially offset by $26.4 billion from an acquisition. Simple monthly average AUM (“average AUM”) decreased 6% during fiscal year 2019.

The business and regulatory environments in which we operate globally remain complex, uncertain and subject to change. We are subject to various laws, rules and regulations globally that impose restrictions, limitations, registration, reporting and disclosure requirements on our business, and add complexity to our global compliance operations.

Uncertainties regarding the global economy remain for the foreseeable future. As we continue to confront the challenges of the current economic and regulatory environments, we remain focused on the investment performance of our products and on providing high quality service to our clients. We continuously perform reviews of our business model. While we remain focused on expense management, we will also seek to attract, retain and develop employees and invest strategically in systems and technology that will provide a secure and stable environment. We will continue to seek to protect and further our brand recognition while developing and maintaining broker-dealer and client relationships. The success of these and other strategies may be influenced by the factors discussed in the “Risk Factors” section in Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10‑K. 

 33
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] ___________________ 

1 Defined as operating income divided by total operating revenues.

Operating income decreased $561.2 million in fiscal year 2019 as operating revenues decreased 9% while operating expenses were unchanged. Net income attributable to Franklin Resources, Inc. increased $431.3 million primarily due to a prior-year estimated income tax charge of $968.8 million resulting from enactment of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (the “Tax Act”), partially offset by the decrease in operating income.

Operating income decreased $145.7 million in the fiscal year ended September 30, 2018 (“fiscal year 2018”) due to a 1% decrease in operating revenues and a 2% increase in operating expenses. Net income attributable to Franklin Resources, Inc. decreased $932.3 million primarily due to the estimated income tax charge of $968.8 million resulting from enactment of the Tax Act.

Diluted earnings per share increased in fiscal year 2019 and decreased in fiscal year 2018, consistent with the changes in net income and the impacts of 6% and 4% decreases in diluted average common shares outstanding primarily resulting from repurchases of shares of our common stock. 

ASSETS UNDER MANAGEMENT 

AUM by investment objective was as follows: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

AUM at September 30, 2019 decreased 3% from September 30, 2018 as $31.8 billion of net outflows and $19.1 billion of net market change, distributions and other were partially offset by $26.4 billion from an acquisition. Average AUM decreased 6% during fiscal year 2019.

 34
AUM at September 30, 2018 decreased 5% from September 30, 2017 as $38.0 billion of net outflows and $7.9 billion of net market change, distributions and other were partially offset by $9.8 billion from an acquisition. Average AUM increased slightly during fiscal year 2018.

Average AUM is generally more indicative of trends in revenue for providing investment management services than the year-over-year change in ending AUM. 

Average AUM and the mix of average AUM by investment objective are shown below. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

 35
Components of the change in AUM are shown below. Net market change, distributions and other includes appreciation (depreciation), distributions to investors that represent return on investments and return of capital, foreign exchange revaluation and net cash management.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Components of the change in AUM by investment objective were as follows: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

 36
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

AUM decreased $24.5 billion or 3% during fiscal year 2019 due to $31.8 billion of net outflows and $19.1 billion of net market change, distributions and other, partially offset by $26.4 billion from an acquisition. The net outflows included outflows of $7.0 billion from six institutional clients, of which $2.9 billion was from Canadian mandates and $2.1 billion was due to two clients’ mandatory redemption policies following portfolio manager departures; $4.3 billion from two global/international equity funds; $2.7 billion from a global/international fixed income fund; $1.4 billion from an institutional U.S. fixed income product; $1.3 billion from a multi-asset/balanced fund; $1.2 billion from two sub-advised institutional products and $1.0 billion from a sub-advised variable annuity client. The outflows were partially offset by inflows of $1.9 billion in a global/international fixed income fund and $1.8 billion in a U.S. equity fund. Long-term sales decreased 4% to $100.6 billion from the prior year due to lower sales in global/international equity and multi-asset/balanced products, partially offset by higher sales in tax-free and global/international fixed income products. Long-term redemptions decreased 4% to $155.9 billion due to lower redemptions in global/international equity, tax-free fixed income and multi-asset/balanced products, partially offset by higher redemptions of global/international fixed income products. Net market change, distributions and other primarily consists of $30.5 billion of long-term distributions and a $2.9 billion decrease from foreign exchange revaluation, partially offset by $14.1 billion of market appreciation. The foreign exchange revaluation resulted from AUM in products that are not U.S. dollar denominated, which represented 14% of total AUM as of September 30, 2019, and was primarily due to strengthening of the U.S. dollar against the Euro, Canadian dollar, Australian dollar and Pound Sterling. The market appreciation occurred in all long-term investment objectives except global/international equity, and reflected positive returns in global fixed income markets as evidenced by a 7.6% increase in the Bloomberg Barclays Global Aggregate Index and in the U.S. equity market as evidenced by a 4.3% increase in the S&P 500 Index.

AUM decreased $36.1 billion or 5% during fiscal year 2018 due to $38.0 billion of net outflows and $7.9 billion of net market change, distributions and other, partially offset by $9.8 billion from an acquisition. The net outflows included outflows of $7.6 billion from seven institutional products, $6.0 billion from three global/international fixed income funds, $4.5 billion from two global/international equity funds, $4.1 billion from a multi-asset/balanced fund and $0.9 billion from a fixed income tax-free fund, and were partially offset by inflows of $3.3 billion in a global/international fixed income fund, $3.0 billion in two institutional products and $1.2 billion in a multi-asset/balanced fund. Long-term sales decreased 7% to $105.0 billion from the prior year due to lower sales in all long-term investment objectives with the exception of U.S. equity. Long-term redemptions decreased 4% to $162.1 billion due to lower redemptions in all long-term investment objectives with the exception of tax-free fixed income. Net market change, distributions and other primarily consists of $25.3 billion of long-term distributions and a $4.7 billion decrease from foreign exchange revaluation, partially offset by $19.1 billion of market appreciation. The foreign exchange revaluation resulted from AUM in products that are not U.S. dollar denominated, which represented 15% of total AUM as of September 30, 2018, and was primarily due to strengthening of the U.S. dollar against the Indian Rupee, Canadian dollar and Australian dollar. The market appreciation occurred primarily in equity and multi-asset/balanced products, partially offset by depreciation in global/international fixed income products, and reflected positive returns in global equity markets as evidenced by increases of 11.8% and 17.9% in the MSCI World Index and S&P 500 Index and negative returns in global fixed income markets as evidenced by a 1.3% decrease in the Bloomberg Barclays Global Aggregate Index.

 37
Average AUM by sales region was as follows: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] ______________ 

1 Includes North America-based advisers serving non-resident clients. 

The percentage of average AUM in the United States sales region was 68%, 66% and 67% for fiscal years 2019, 2018 and 2017.

The region in which investment products are sold may differ from the geographic area in which we provide investment management and related services to the products.

Investment Performance Overview

A key driver of our overall success is the long-term investment performance of our investment products. A standard measure of the performance of these products is the percentage of AUM exceeding benchmarks and peer group medians. Our U.S. equity products generated notable long-term results with at least 67% of AUM exceeding the peer group medians during the periods presented, although they generally lagged against the benchmarks. Our global/international fixed income products had at least 74% of AUM exceed the benchmark and peer group median comparisons for the three- and ten-year periods ended September 30, 2019. The performance of our multi-asset/balanced products significantly exceeded the peer group medians for the one- and ten-year periods, but has lagged in the other comparisons and against the benchmarks during the periods presented, reflecting the performance of a fund that represents 68% of this category. The performance of our tax-free and U.S. taxable fixed income, as well as of our global/international equity products, has mostly lagged the benchmarks and peer group medians during the periods presented.

 38
The performance of our products against benchmarks and peer group medians is presented in the table below.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

 _______________ 

1 AUM measured in the 1-year benchmark and peer group rankings represents 85% of our total AUM as of September 30, 2019.

2 The benchmark comparisons are based on each fund’s return as compared to a market index that has been selected to be generally consistent with the investment objectives of the fund. 

3 The peer group rankings are sourced from Lipper, a Thomson Reuters Company, Morningstar or eVestment and various international third-party providers in each fund’s market and were based on an absolute ranking of returns. © 2019 Morningstar, Inc. All rights reserved. The information herein: (1) is proprietary to Morningstar and/or its content providers; (2) may not be copied or distributed; and (3) is not warranted to be accurate, complete or timely. Neither Morningstar nor its content providers are responsible for any damages or losses arising from any use of this information.

 For products with multiple share classes, rankings for all share classes with applicable history in their respective time periods are included. Rankings for most institutional separate accounts are as of the prior quarter-end due to timing of availability of information. Private equity and debt funds, certain privately-offered emerging market and real estate funds, cash management funds and certain hedge and other funds are not included. Certain other funds and products were also excluded because of limited benchmark or peer group data. Had this data been available, the results may have been different. These results assume the reinvestment of dividends, are based on data available as of October 16, 2019 and are subject to revision. While we remain focused on achieving strong long-term performance, our future benchmark and peer group rankings may vary from our past performance. 

OPERATING REVENUES 

The table below presents the percentage change in each operating revenue category. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

 39
Investment Management Fees 

Investment management fees are generally calculated under contractual arrangements with our investment products and the products for which we provide sub-advisory services as a percentage of AUM. Annual fee rates vary by investment objective and type of services provided. Fee rates for products sold outside of the U.S. are generally higher than for U.S. products.

Investment management fees decreased $382.3 million in fiscal year 2019 primarily due to a 6% decrease in average AUM, a $59.6 million decrease from a change in presentation of certain fees from investment management fees to distribution fees upon adoption of new revenue recognition accounting guidance on October 1, 2018, and a lower effective investment management fee rate, partially offset by higher performance fees. The decrease in average AUM occurred primarily in the global/international and multi-asset/balanced investment objectives, partially offset by an increase in the U.S. taxable fixed income investment objective, and across all sales regions, most significantly in the U.S. and Europe, Middle East and Africa.

Investment management fees increased $8.3 million in fiscal year 2018 primarily due to a slight increase in average AUM partially offset by lower performance fees. Average AUM increases in the Asia-Pacific and Europe, Middle East and Africa sales regions were largely offset by a decrease in the U.S.

Our effective investment management fee rate excluding performance fees (investment management fees excluding performance fees divided by average AUM) was 56.4 basis points for fiscal year 2019 and 58.7 basis points for both fiscal years 2018 and 2017. The rate decrease in fiscal year 2019 was primarily due to lower weighting of AUM in the global/international equity investment objective, which generally has the highest fee rates, along with a higher mix of AUM in lower fee products within the U.S. and Europe, Middle East and Africa sales regions for this investment objective, and the $59.6 million decrease from the change in presentation of certain fees discussed above, partially offset by higher rates and mix of AUM in the U.S. taxable fixed income investment objective. 

Performance-based investment management fees were $52.9 million, $21.2 million and $35.5 million for fiscal years 2019, 2018 and 2017. The increase in fiscal year 2019 was primarily due to performance fees earned from a private debt fund, separate accounts and a real estate fund, while the decrease in fiscal year 2018 was primarily due to lower fees from separate accounts.

U.S. industry asset-weighted average management fee rates were as follows: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] ________________[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

 40
The declines in U.S. industry average management fee rates for long-term investment objectives generally reflect increased investor demand for lower-fee passive funds. Our actual effective investment management fee rates are generally higher than the U.S. industry average rates as we actively manage substantially all of our products and have a higher level of international AUM, both of which generate higher fees. Our fiscal year 2019 effective fee rates in the U.S. were generally comparable with the prior year, except for a higher effective fee rate for U.S. taxable fixed income products resulting from the acquisition of Benefit Street Partners L.L.C. (“BSP”), a U.S. alternative credit manager, in February 2019. Our U.S. effective fee rates decreased during fiscal year 2018 to a lesser extent than the average industry rates.

Our product offerings and global operations are diverse. As such, the impact of future changes in AUM on investment management fees will be affected by the relative mix of investment objective, geographic region, distribution channel and investment vehicle of the assets.

Sales and Distribution Fees 

Sales and distribution fees primarily consist of upfront sales commissions and ongoing distribution fees. Sales commissions are earned from the sale of certain classes of sponsored funds at the time of purchase (“commissionable sales”) and may be reduced or eliminated depending on the amount invested and the type of investor. Therefore, sales fees will change with the overall level of gross sales, the size of individual transactions, and the relative mix of sales between different share classes and types of investors. 

Our sponsored mutual funds generally pay us distribution fees in return for sales, marketing and distribution efforts on their behalf. The majority of U.S.-registered mutual funds, with the exception of certain money market funds, have adopted distribution plans under Rule 12b-1 (the “Rule 12b-1 Plans”) promulgated under the Investment Company Act of 1940. The Rule 12b-1 Plans permit the funds to pay us for marketing, marketing support, advertising, printing and sales promotion services relating to the distribution of their shares, subject to the Rule 12b-1 Plans’ limitations on amounts based on daily average AUM. Similar arrangements exist for the distribution of non-U.S. funds. 

We pay substantially all of our sales and distribution fees to the financial advisers and other intermediaries who sell our funds on our behalf. See the description of sales, distribution and marketing expenses below. 

Sales and distribution fees by revenue driver are presented below.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Asset-based distribution fees decreased $126.1 million in fiscal year 2019 primarily due to decreases of $120.5 million from a 9% decrease in the related average AUM and $67.6 million from a lower mix of U.S. Class C assets which have higher fee rates than other share classes, partially offset by a $59.6 million increase from a change in presentation of certain fees to distribution fees from investment management fees upon adoption of new revenue recognition accounting guidance on October 1, 2018. Asset-based distribution fees decreased $30.8 million in fiscal year 2018 as a $60.3 million decrease in U.S. product fees primarily due to a 5% decrease in the related average U.S. AUM was partially offset by a $29.5 million increase in non-U.S. product fees primarily due to a 4% increase in the related average international AUM. 

Sales-based fees decreased $26.3 million in fiscal year 2019 primarily due to decreases of $18.2 million from a 5% decrease in total commissionable sales and $5.3 million from a lower mix of U.S. product commissionable sales. Sales-based fees decreased $80.5 million in fiscal year 2018 primarily due to an $84.6 million decrease from a 26% decrease in total commissionable sales. Commissionable sales represented 9% of total sales for both fiscal years 2019 and 2018, and 11% for fiscal year 2017.

Contingent sales charges are earned from investor redemptions within a contracted period of time. Substantially all of these charges are levied on certain shares sold without a front-end sales charge, and vary with the mix of redemptions of these shares. Contingent sales charges decreased $2.8 million in fiscal year 2019 and increased $5.5 million in fiscal year 2018 primarily due to changes in redemptions of non-U.S. products.

 41
Shareholder Servicing Fees 

Substantially all shareholder servicing fees are earned from our sponsored funds for providing transfer agency services, which include providing shareholder statements, transaction processing, customer service and tax reporting. These fees are primarily determined based on a percentage of AUM and either the number of transactions in shareholder accounts or the number of shareholder accounts, while fees from certain funds are based only on AUM. In addition, fund reimbursements of expenses incurred while providing transfer agency services are recognized as revenue effective October 1, 2018 under new revenue recognition guidance. Prior to November 1, 2017, the fees for U.S. funds were based on a fixed charge per shareholder account that varied by fund type and service provided. 

Shareholder servicing fees decreased $5.6 million in fiscal year 2019 primarily due to lower levels of related AUM and transactions, partially offset by $8.6 million of fund expense reimbursement revenue. Shareholder servicing fees decreased $3.8 million in fiscal year 2018 primarily due to a $4.9 million decrease from U.S. funds which reflects lower levels of transactions and AUM under the new fee structure, partially offset by a $1.0 million increase from funds in Europe resulting from higher levels of related AUM.

Other 

Other revenue decreased $1.5 million in fiscal year 2019 primarily due to lower interest and dividend income from consolidated investment products (“CIPs”), largely offset by higher miscellaneous fee revenues. Other revenue increased $28.2 million in fiscal year 2018 primarily due to higher interest and dividend income from CIPs. 

OPERATING EXPENSES 

The table below presents the percentage change in each operating expense category.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Sales, Distribution and Marketing 

Sales, distribution and marketing expenses primarily relate to services provided by financial advisers, broker-dealers and other third parties to our sponsored funds, including marketing support services. Substantially all sales expenses are incurred from the same commissionable sales transactions that generate sales fee revenues and are determined as a percentage of sales. Substantially all distribution expenses are incurred from assets that generate distribution fees and are determined as a percentage of AUM. Marketing support expenses are based on AUM, sales or a combination thereof. Also included is the amortization of deferred sales commissions related to upfront commissions on shares sold without a front-end sales charge. The deferred sales commissions are amortized over the periods in which commissions are generally recovered from related revenues.

Sales, distribution and marketing expenses by cost driver are presented below.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

 42
Asset-based expenses decreased $227.9 million in fiscal year 2019 primarily due to decreases of $161.4 million from a 10% decrease in the related average AUM, and $64.3 million from a lower mix of U.S. Class C assets which have higher expense rates than other share classes. Asset-based expenses decreased $31.9 million in fiscal year 2018 as a $60.8 million decrease in U.S. product expenses primarily due to a 5% decrease in the related average U.S. AUM was partially offset by a $28.9 million increase in non-U.S. product expenses primarily due to a 2% increase in the related average international AUM. Distribution expenses, which are typically higher for non-U.S. products, are generally not directly correlated with distribution fee revenues due to certain international fee structures that do not provide full recovery of distribution costs.

Sales-based expenses increased $2.7 million in fiscal year 2019 primarily due to increases of $22.6 million from the recognition of sales commissions on U.S. Class C shares as expense at the time of sale and $10.0 million from revised U.S. dealer commission pricing effective September 2018, partially offset by decreases of $14.2 million from a 5% decrease in total commissionable sales and $12.6 million in India primarily related to regulatory-driven changes in fee structure. The recognition of sales commissions on U.S. Class C shares as expense at the time of sale is consistent with the treatment of contract costs with a useful life of one year or less under new revenue recognition accounting guidance adopted on October 1, 2018. The commissions relate to shares sold without a front-end sales charge and were deferred and amortized over one year in prior years. 

Sales-based expenses decreased $68.0 million in fiscal year 2018 primarily due to a $75.0 million decrease from a 26% decrease in total commissionable sales, partially offset by a $4.4 million increase from a higher average commission rate resulting from a higher mix of U.S. product commissionable sales. U.S. products typically generate higher sales commissions than non-U.S. products.

Amortization of deferred sales commissions increased $5.1 million in fiscal year 2019, as the impact of higher sales of shares sold without a front-end sales charge was largely offset by the change in accounting for U.S. Class C shares discussed above, which resulted in no further deferral and amortization. The unamortized deferred Class C commission balance of $9.1 million at September 30, 2018 was reversed against retained earnings upon adoption of the new accounting guidance. Amortization of deferred sales commissions increased $8.7 million in fiscal year 2018 primarily due to a $21.0 million increase from higher sales of non-U.S. shares sold without a front-end sales charge, partially offset by a $12.0 million decrease from lower such sales of U.S. shares. 

Compensation and Benefits 

Compensation and benefit expenses increased $194.1 million in fiscal year 2019 due to increases of $162.6 million in salaries, wages and benefits and $31.5 million in variable compensation. Salaries, wages and benefits increased primarily due to increases of $60.7 million from acquisition-related retention compensation, $60.1 million in termination benefits, $24.5 million for annual salary increases that were effective December 1, 2018 and 2017, and $23.8 million from higher average staffing levels primarily due to acquisitions, partially offset by a $12.5 million decrease from favorable foreign currency impacts. The increase in termination benefits was primarily due to special benefits related to the voluntary separation of approximately 250 employees, which was 2.5% of our global workforce, and an additional 2.0% workforce reduction. Variable compensation increased primarily due to a $46.6 million increase for acquired firms’ performance bonus plans, partially offset by an $18.0 million decrease in bonus expense based on our lower performance.

We expect to incur additional acquisition-related retention expenses of approximately $80 million during the fiscal year ending September 30, 2020 (“fiscal year 2020”), and amounts that decrease by approximately $10 million per year in the following four fiscal years. We also expect to incur termination benefit expenses of approximately $6 million during fiscal year 2020 related to outsourcing our fund administration services. 

Compensation and benefit expenses increased $56.9 million in fiscal year 2018 due to a $69.1 million increase in salaries, wages and benefits, partially offset by a $12.2 million decrease in variable compensation. The increase in salaries, wages and benefits was primarily due to increases of $25.1 million from higher average staffing levels, $21.9 million for annual merit salary adjustments that were effective December 1, 2017 and 2016, $14.2 million in termination benefits and $6.5 million from unfavorable foreign currency impacts. The decrease in variable compensation was primarily due to decreases of $24.0 million related to unvested mutual fund awards and $5.5 million in stock and stock unit award amortization, partially offset by a $14.2 million increase in bonus expense primarily due to higher staffing levels.

Variable compensation as a percentage of compensation and benefits was 31%, 33% and 36% for fiscal years 2019, 2018 and 2017. At September 30, 2019, our global workforce had decreased to approximately 9,600 employees from approximately 9,700 at September 30, 2018.

 43
We continue to place a high emphasis on our pay for performance philosophy. As such, any changes in the underlying performance of our investment products or changes in the composition of our incentive compensation offerings could have an impact on compensation and benefit expenses going forward. However, in order to attract and retain talented individuals, our level of compensation and benefit expenses may increase more quickly or decrease more slowly than our revenue. 

Information Systems and Technology 

Information systems and technology expenses increased $14.6 million in fiscal year 2019 primarily due to higher external data service and software costs, and increased $24.1 million in fiscal year 2018 primarily due to higher technology consulting and software costs. 

Details of capitalized information systems and technology costs are shown below. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Occupancy 

We conduct our worldwide operations using a combination of leased and owned facilities. Occupancy expenses include rent and other facilities-related costs including depreciation and utilities.

Occupancy expenses increased $5.0 million in fiscal year 2019 primarily due to higher levels of rent expense and building depreciation and maintenance, partially offset by a $6.3 million decrease in equipment impairment. Occupancy expenses increased $7.3 million in fiscal year 2018 primarily due to $6.6 million of equipment impairment.

During the second half of fiscal year 2019 we completed construction of two new buildings at our corporate headquarters campus in San Mateo, California and purchased an office building in Poznan, Poland. The additions of these new properties will result in increased annual depreciation and other occupancy expenses of approximately $12 million beginning in fiscal year 2020.

General, Administrative and Other 

General, administrative and other operating expenses primarily consist of fund-related service fees payable to external parties, professional fees, advertising and promotion, travel and entertainment, and other miscellaneous expenses. 

General, administrative and other operating expenses increased $23.0 million in fiscal year 2019 primarily due to a $13.9 million litigation settlement and higher third-party service fees, intangible asset amortization and professional fees. Third-party fees primarily for sub-advisory and fund administration services increased $13.7 million, including $8.6 million from the recognition of certain payments reimbursed by funds as expense upon adoption of new revenue recognition accounting guidance on October 1, 2018. Intangible asset amortization increased $12.9 million and professional fees increased $10.6 million, both primarily related to the current year acquisition of Benefit Street Partners, L.L.C. The increases were partially offset by decreases of $11.1 million in contingent consideration expense for the K2 Advisors Holdings, LLC (“K2”) acquisition, $9.7 million in CIPs expenses and $8.6 million in advertising and promotion. The total consideration for the K2 acquisition was finalized during fiscal year 2019.

General, administrative and other operating expenses increased $75.5 million in fiscal year 2018 primarily due to higher contingent consideration expense, third-party service fees, professional fees, advertising and promotion, and travel and entertainment expenses. Contingent consideration expense increased $26.9 million due to revised estimates of future revenues and profits from K2 and a prior-year decline in other acquisition-related AUM. Third-party fees primarily for sub-advisory and fund administration services increased $17.6 million, professional fees increased $16.6 million related to various corporate activities, and advertising and promotion and travel and entertainment expenses increased $7.3 million and $6.6 million due to higher activity levels.

 44
We are committed to investing in advertising and promotion in response to changing business conditions, and to advance our products where we see continued or potential new growth opportunities. As a result of potential changes in our strategic marketing campaigns, the level of advertising and promotion expenses may increase more rapidly, or decrease more slowly, than our revenues.

OTHER INCOME (EXPENSES) 

Other income (expenses) consisted of the following:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Investment and other income, net consists primarily of dividend and interest income, income (losses) from equity method investees, gains (losses) on investments held by the Company and investments of CIPs, rental income and foreign currency exchange gains (losses). 

Other income, net decreased $6.2 million in fiscal year 2019 primarily due to losses from equity method investees, as compared to income in the prior year, lower interest income and losses on investments held by the Company, as compared to gains in the prior year. These decreases were largely offset by higher dividend income, lower losses on investments held by CIPs, lower interest expense and higher foreign exchange gains. Equity method investees generated losses of $10.4 million as compared to income of $44.4 million in the prior year primarily due to changes in market valuations of investments held by two global equity funds. Interest income decreased $45.5 million primarily due to lower levels of cash equivalents and debt securities, partially offset by higher interest rates. Investments held by the Company generated net losses of $9.7 million primarily due to $9.0 million of other-than-temporary impairment of an available-for-sale debt security, as compared to net gains of $6.0 million in the prior year. The decreases were partially offset by a $45.9 million increase in dividend income primarily due to higher yields on, and investments in, money market funds, and a $28.7 million decrease in net losses on investments held by CIPs primarily from holdings of various global/international funds and a U.S. fixed income fund. Interest expense decreased $24.0 million primarily due to $12.5 million of prior-year costs related to early redemption of senior notes and lower debt balances. Net foreign currency exchange gains increased $12.5 million primarily from the impact of strengthening of the U.S. dollar against the Euro on cash and cash equivalents denominated in U.S. dollars held in Europe. 

Other income, net decreased $188.2 million in fiscal year 2018 primarily due to losses on investments held by CIPs, lower income from equity method investees and lower net gains on trading investment securities, partially offset by higher dividend income and foreign exchange gains. Investments held by CIPs generated net losses of $55.0 million, as compared to net gains of $118.2 million in the prior year. The losses were primarily from lower market valuations of holdings by an emerging markets equity fund with a significant exposure in Turkey, several global/international fixed income funds and a U.S. fixed income fund. Income from equity method investees decreased $63.5 million primarily due to lower gains and losses on investments held by three global equity funds, one of which incurred losses on Turkish holdings, and a global macro hedge fund. Net gains on trading investment securities decreased $11.1 million primarily due to losses and lower gains from fixed income funds and other debt and equity securities. The decreases were partially offset by a $37.2 million increase in dividend income primarily due to higher investments in, and yields on, money market funds, and net foreign currency exchange gains of $0.6 million, as compared to net losses of $16.0 million in the prior year, primarily from the impact of strengthening of the U.S. dollar against the Euro on cash and cash equivalents denominated in U.S. dollars held in Europe.

Significant portions of the net gains (losses) of CIPs are offset in noncontrolling interests in our consolidated statements of income. 

Our investments in sponsored funds include initial cash investments made in the course of launching mutual fund and other investment product offerings, as well as investments for other business reasons. The market conditions that impact our AUM similarly affect the investment income earned or losses incurred on our investments in sponsored funds. 

We lease excess owned space in our San Mateo, California corporate headquarters and various other office buildings to third parties, from which we earned rental income of $19.8 million and $15.9 million in fiscal years 2019 and 2018. Additional leases taking effect in fiscal year 2020 are expected to increase annual rental income by approximately $9 million.

 45
Our cash, cash equivalents and investments portfolio by investment objective and accounting classification at September 30, 2019, excluding third-party assets of CIPs, was as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 ______________ [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

TAXES ON INCOME 

The Tax Act, which was enacted into law in the U.S. in December 2017, includes various changes to the tax law, including a permanent reduction in the corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21% effective January 1, 2018 and assessment of a one-time transition tax on the deemed repatriation of post-1986 undistributed foreign subsidiaries’ earnings. We completed our analysis of the Tax Act impact during the quarter ended December 31, 2018 with no significant adjustment to the provisional amounts previously recorded. The transition tax expense recognized in fiscal year 2018 was net of an $87.6 million tax benefit related to U.S. taxation of deemed foreign dividends. This benefit was reversed in fiscal year 2019 upon issuance of final regulations by the U.S. Department of Treasury. 

Our effective income tax rate for fiscal year 2019 was 26.8% as compared to 66.5% in fiscal year 2018 and 29.8% in fiscal year 2017. The rate decrease in fiscal year 2019 was primarily due to the prior year impact of the transition tax, net of the tax benefit from the revaluation of net deferred tax liabilities at the lower statutory rate, and the current year impact of the lower 21% statutory rate as compared to the prior-year blended statutory rate of 24.5%, partially offset by the reversal of the tax benefit related to the U.S. taxation of deemed foreign dividends. The rate increase in fiscal year 2018 was primarily due to the impact of the transition tax, partially offset by the lower federal statutory rate and the net tax benefit from the revaluation of net deferred tax liabilities. Our effective income tax rate excluding the one-time impacts of the Tax Act was 21.6% and 22.7% for fiscal years 2019 and 2018.

Our effective income tax rate reflects the relative contributions of earnings in the jurisdictions in which we operate, which have varying tax rates. Changes in our pre-tax income mix, tax rates or tax legislation in the jurisdictions may affect our effective income tax rate and net income.

 46
LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES 

Cash flows were as follows: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Net cash provided by operating activities decreased in fiscal year 2019 primarily due to activities of CIPs which had net purchases of investments as compared to net liquidations in the prior year. Net cash used in investing activities increased primarily due to cash paid for the BSP acquisition and higher net additions of property and equipment primarily related to construction of two new buildings at our corporate headquarters campus in San Mateo, California and a purchased office building in Poznan, Poland. Net cash used in financing activities decreased primarily due to lower dividends paid on, and repurchases of, common stock, higher net subscriptions in CIPs by noncontrolling interests, and a prior-year debt payment.

Net cash provided by operating activities increased in fiscal year 2018 primarily due to activities of CIPs which had net liquidations of investments as compared to net purchases in the prior year, partially offset by an increase in our investments as compared to a decrease in the prior year. Net cash used in investing activities, as compared to net cash provided in the prior year, primarily resulted from net purchases of other investments by CIPs, as compared to net liquidations in the prior year, and higher cash paid for acquisitions. Net cash used in financing activities increased primarily due to higher dividends paid on common stock, lower net subscriptions in CIPs by noncontrolling interests and higher repurchases of common stock, partially offset by lower payments on debt by CIPs.

The assets and liabilities of CIPs attributable to third-party investors do not impact our liquidity and capital resources. We have no right to the CIPs’ assets, other than our direct equity investment in them and investment management and other fees earned from them. The debt holders of the CIPs have no recourse to our assets beyond the level of our direct investment, therefore we bear no other risks associated with the CIPs’ liabilities. Accordingly, the assets and liabilities of CIPs, other than our direct investments in them, are excluded from the amounts and discussion below.

Our liquid assets and debt consisted of the following: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Liquidity 

Liquid assets consist of cash and cash equivalents, receivables and certain investments. Cash and cash equivalents at September 30, 2019 primarily consist of money market funds and deposits with financial institutions. Liquid investments consist of investments in sponsored and other funds, direct investments in redeemable CIPs, other equity and debt securities, and time deposits with maturities greater than three months.

 47
We utilize a significant portion of our liquid assets to satisfy operational and regulatory requirements and fund capital contributions to sponsored and other products. Certain of our subsidiaries are required by our internal policy or regulation to maintain minimum levels of capital, and may be restricted in their ability to transfer cash to their parent companies. Liquid assets used to satisfy these purposes were $3,429.0 million at September 30, 2019 and $3,382.6 million at September 30, 2018, including $263.3 million and $252.6 million that was restricted by regulatory requirements. Should we require more capital than is available for use, we could elect to reduce the level of discretionary activities, such as share repurchases or investments in sponsored and other products, or we could raise capital through debt or equity issuance. These alternatives could result in increased interest expense, decreased dividend or interest income, or other dilution to our earnings.

Capital Resources 

We believe that we can meet our present and reasonably foreseeable operating cash needs and future commitments through existing liquid assets, continuing cash flows from operations, the ability to issue debt or equity securities and borrowing capacity under our uncommitted private placement program. 

In prior fiscal years, we issued senior unsecured unsubordinated notes for general corporate purposes, to redeem outstanding notes and to finance an acquisition. At September 30, 2019, $699.4 million of the notes were outstanding with an aggregate face value of $700.0 million. The notes were issued at fixed interest rates and consist of $300.0 million at 2.80% per annum which mature in 2022 and $400.0 million at 2.85% per annum which mature in 2025.

Interest on the notes is payable semi-annually. The notes contain an optional redemption feature that allows us to redeem each series of notes prior to maturity in whole or in part at any time, at a make-whole redemption price. The indentures governing the notes contain limitations on our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to pledge voting stock or profit participating equity interests in our subsidiaries to secure other debt without similarly securing the notes equally and ratably. The indentures also include requirements that must be met if we consolidate or merge with, or sell all of our assets to, another entity. We were in compliance with all debt covenants at September 30, 2019. 

At September 30, 2019, we had $500.0 million of short-term commercial paper available for issuance under an uncommitted private placement program which has been inactive since 2012 and is unrated. 

Our ability to access the capital markets in a timely manner depends on a number of factors, including our credit rating, the condition of the global economy, investors’ willingness to purchase our securities, interest rates, credit spreads and the valuation levels of equity markets. If we are unable to access capital markets in a timely manner, our business could be adversely impacted. 

Uses of Capital 

We expect that our main uses of cash will be to invest in and grow our business, repurchase shares of our common stock, invest in our products, fund property and equipment purchases, pay operating expenses of the business, enhance technology infrastructure and business processes, pay stockholder dividends and income taxes, and repay and service debt. 

We repatriate the earnings in excess of regulatory, capital or operational requirements for substantially all non-U.S. subsidiaries. Prior to January 1, 2018, we indefinitely reinvested the undistributed earnings of all non-U.S. subsidiaries, except for income previously taxed in the U.S. or subject to regulatory or legal repatriation restrictions or requirements.

We declare dividends on a quarterly basis. We declared regular dividends of $1.04 per share ($0.26 per share per quarter) in fiscal year 2019, and regular dividends of $0.92 per share ($0.23 per share per quarter) and a special dividend of $3.00 per share in fiscal year 2018. We currently expect to continue paying comparable regular dividends on a quarterly basis to holders of our common stock depending upon earnings and other relevant factors. 

We maintain a stock repurchase program to manage our equity capital with the objective of maximizing shareholder value. Our stock repurchase program is effected through regular open-market purchases and private transactions in accordance with applicable laws and regulations, and is not subject to an expiration date. The size and timing of these purchases will depend on price, market and business conditions and other factors. During fiscal years 2019 and 2018, we repurchased 24.6 million and 39.9 million shares of our common stock at a cost of $756.3 million and $1,426.7 million. At September 30, 2019, 47.2 million shares remained available for repurchase under the authorization of 80.0 million shares approved by our Board of Directors in April 2018.

 48
We invested $128.0 million, net of redemptions, in our sponsored products during fiscal year 2019, and redeemed $105.9 million, net of investments, during fiscal year 2018.

On February 1, 2019, we acquired all of the outstanding ownership interests in Benefit Street Partners L.L.C., a U.S. alternative credit manager, for a purchase consideration of $720.1 million in cash. During fiscal year 2018, we paid $86.8 million, net of cash acquired, and issued 0.8 million shares of our common stock related to acquisitions. 

During fiscal year 2019, we completed construction of two new buildings at our corporate headquarters campus in San Mateo, California with a total cost of approximately $130 million and purchased an office building in Poznan, Poland with a total cost of approximately $86 million. The buildings are used in our business operations, and portions of the space may be leased to third parties.

On May 21, 2018, we redeemed our outstanding $350.0 million 4.625% senior notes due in May 2020 at a make-whole redemption price of $361.9 million.

The funds that we manage have their own resources available for purposes of providing liquidity to meet shareholder redemptions, including securities that can be sold or provided to investors as in-kind redemptions, and lines of credit. While we have no legal or contractual obligation to do so, we may voluntarily elect to provide the funds with direct or indirect financial support based on our business objectives. We did not provide financial or other support to our sponsored funds during fiscal year 2019. During fiscal year 2018, we purchased $32.6 million of certain equity and debt securities from two sponsored funds.

CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS AND COMMITMENTS 

The following table summarizes our contractual obligations and commitments. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

 __________________ 

1 Debt principal represents maturity amount.

2 Purchase obligations include contractual amounts that will be due to purchase goods and services to be used in our operations and may be canceled at earlier times than those indicated under certain conditions that may include termination fees.

3 Committed capital contributions relate to discretionary commitments to invest in sponsored funds and other investment products and entities. Generally, the timing of the funding of these commitments is unknown as they are callable on demand at any time prior to the expiration of the commitment periods.

4 Transition tax on the deemed repatriation of post-1986 undistributed foreign subsidiaries’ earnings under the Tax Act.

The debt holders of CIPs have no recourse to our assets beyond the level of our direct investments, therefore we bear no risks associated with these entities’ liabilities and have not included them in the table above. See Note 11 – Consolidated Investment Products in the notes to consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of Part II of this Form 10‑K.

At September 30, 2019, our consolidated balance sheet included liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits of $202.6 million and related accrued interest of $11.9 million (see Note 13 – Taxes on Income in the notes to consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of Part II of this Form 10‑K). Because of the high degree of uncertainty regarding the timing and amounts of future cash outflows, unrecognized tax benefits and related accrued interest are not included in the table above. 

 49
CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES 

Our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, which require the use of estimates, judgments and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the periods presented. These estimates, judgments and assumptions are affected by our application of accounting policies. Actual results could differ from the estimates. Described below are the accounting policies that we believe are most critical to understanding our financial position and results of operations. For additional information about our accounting policies, see Note 1 – Significant Accounting Policies in the notes to consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of Part II of this Form 10‑K. 

Consolidation 

We consolidate our subsidiaries and investment products in which we have a controlling financial interest. We have a controlling financial interest when we own a majority of the voting interest in a voting interest entity (“VOE”) or are the primary beneficiary of a variable interest entity (“VIE”).

A VIE is an entity in which the equity investment holders have not contributed sufficient capital to finance its activities or do not have defined rights and obligations normally associated with an equity investment. The assessment of whether an entity is a VIE or VOE involves judgment and analysis on a structure-by-structure basis. When performing the assessment we consider factors such as the entity’s legal organization and capital structure, the rights of the equity investment holders and our contractual involvement with and ownership interest in the entity. Substantially all of our VIEs are investment products and our variable interests consist of our equity ownership interests in and investment management fees earned from these products.

We are the primary beneficiary of a VIE if we have the power to direct the activities that most significantly impact the VIE’s economic performance and the obligation to absorb losses of or right to receive benefits from the VIE that could potentially be significant to the VIE. Investment management fees earned from VIEs are excluded from the primary beneficiary determination if they are deemed to be at market and commensurate with service. The key estimates and assumptions used in the analyses include the amount of AUM and the life of the investment product. These estimates and assumptions are subject to variability. For example, AUM is impacted by market volatility and the level of sales, redemptions, distributions to investors and reinvested distributions. There is judgment involved in assessing whether we have the power to direct the activities that most significantly impact VIEs’ economic performance and the obligation to absorb losses of or right to receive benefits from VIEs that could potentially be significant to the VIEs. As of September 30, 2019, we were the primary beneficiary of 37 investment product VIEs.

Business Combinations 

Business combinations are accounted for by recognizing the acquired assets, including separately identifiable intangible assets, and assumed liabilities at their acquisition-date estimated fair values. Any excess of the purchase consideration over the acquisition-date fair values of these identifiable assets and liabilities is recognized as goodwill. Determining the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed involves the use of significant estimates and assumptions. During the measurement period, which is not to exceed one year from the acquisition date, we may record adjustments to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed, with the corresponding offset to goodwill. Upon the conclusion of the measurement period, any subsequent adjustments are recorded in earnings.

Intangible assets acquired in business combinations consist of investment management contracts. The fair values of the acquired intangible assets are based on the net present value of estimated future cash flows attributable to the contracts, which include significant assumptions about forecasts of the AUM growth rate, pre-tax profit margin, average effective fee rate, effective tax rate and discount rate. Our estimates are based on assumptions believed to be reasonable, but are inherently uncertain and unpredictable and, as a result, may differ from actual results. The intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful lives, which range from three to 15 years, using the straight-line method, unless the asset is determined to have an indefinite useful life. Indefinite-lived intangible assets represent contracts to manage investment assets for which there is no foreseeable limit on the contract period. 

Goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are tested for impairment annually and when an event occurs or circumstances change that more likely than not reduce the fair value of the related reporting unit or indefinite-lived intangible asset below its carrying value. We have one reporting unit, investment management and related services, consistent with our single operating segment, to which all goodwill has been assigned. We make significant estimates and assumptions when evaluating goodwill and other intangible assets for impairment.

 50
We may first assess goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets for qualitative factors to determine whether it is necessary to perform a quantitative impairment test. The qualitative analysis considers entity-specific and macroeconomic factors and their potential impact on the key assumptions used in the determination of the fair value of the reporting unit or indefinite-lived intangible asset. A quantitative impairment test is performed if the results of the qualitative assessment indicate that it is more likely than not that the fair value of the reporting unit is less than its carrying value or an indefinite-lived intangible asset is impaired, or if a qualitative assessment is not performed. Quantitative tests compare the fair value of the asset to its carrying value. 

The fair values of the reporting unit and indefinite-lived intangible assets are based on the net present value of estimated future cash flows, which include significant assumptions about the AUM growth rate, pre-tax profit margin, average effective fee rate, effective tax rate and discount rate. The most relevant of these assumptions to the determination of estimated fair value are the AUM growth rate, pre-tax profit margin and the discount rate. 

We performed our annual impairment tests for goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets as of August 1, 2019. We performed a quantitative test for goodwill and the majority of indefinite-lived intangible assets, and recognized $9.3 million of impairment of intangible assets related to Canadian management contracts due to revised estimates of future pre-tax profit margins and AUM growth rates for the associated fund products. The estimated fair values of the reporting unit and substantially all of the other indefinite-lived intangible assets exceeded their carrying values by more than 55%. We estimated the discounted future cash flows for goodwill using compounded annual AUM growth rates ranging from (3.0%) to 4.0%, and for indefinite-lived intangible assets from (0.1%) to 12.7%, which were developed taking into account ongoing volatility in the capital markets, and a discount rate of 9.3%, which is based on our weighted average cost of capital. A hypothetical 500 basis point decline in the AUM growth rates or a 500 basis point increase in the discount rate would not reduce the estimated fair values of the reporting unit or other indefinite-lived intangible assets below their carrying values.

We performed a qualitative assessment for 37% of the indefinite-lived intangible assets and concluded it is more likely than not that the fair value of the specific intangible assets exceeds their carrying value. 

We subsequently monitored market conditions and their potential impact on the assumptions used in the annual calculations of fair value to determine whether circumstances have changed that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of the reporting unit below its carrying value, or indicate that the other indefinite-lived intangible assets might be impaired. We considered, among other things, changes in our AUM and weighted-average cost of capital by assessing whether these changes would impact the reasonableness of the assumptions used in the impairment tests as of August 1, 2019. We also monitored fluctuations of our common stock per share price to evaluate our market capitalization relative to the reporting unit as a whole. Subsequent to August 1, 2019, there were no impairments of goodwill or indefinite-lived intangible assets as no events occurred or circumstances changed that would indicate these assets might be impaired. 

We test definite-lived intangible assets for impairment quarterly. Impairment is indicated when the carrying value of an asset is not recoverable and exceeds its fair value. Recoverability is evaluated based on estimated undiscounted future cash flows using assumptions about the AUM growth rate, pre-tax profit margin, average effective fee rate and expected useful life. The most relevant of these assumptions to determine future cash flows is the AUM growth rate. If the carrying value of an asset is not recoverable through undiscounted cash flows, impairment is recognized in the amount by which the carrying value exceeds the asset’s fair value, as determined by discounted cash flows or other methods as appropriate for the asset type. We recognized $4.0 million of impairment of definite-lived intangible assets during fiscal year 2019 primarily due to lower AUM growth rate assumptions.

While we believe that the assumptions used to estimate fair value in our impairment tests are reasonable and appropriate, future changes in the assumptions could result in recognition of impairment.

Fair Value Measurements 

A substantial amount of our investments is recorded at fair value or amounts that approximate fair value on a recurring basis. We use a three-level fair value hierarchy that prioritizes the inputs to valuation techniques used to measure fair value based on whether the inputs to those valuation techniques are observable or unobservable. The assessment of the hierarchy level of the assets or liabilities measured at fair value is determined based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement in its entirety. See Note 1 – Significant Accounting Policies in the notes to consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of Part II of this Form 10‑K for more information on the fair value hierarchy.

 51
 As of September 30, 2019, Level 3 assets represented 22% of total assets measured at fair value, substantially all of which related to CIPs’ investments in equity and debt securities, and real estate. There were $36.1 million of transfers out of, and insignificant transfers into, Level 3 during fiscal year 2019.

Following are descriptions of the significant assets measured at fair value and their fair value methodologies.

Equity Securities, at fair value consist primarily of nonconsolidated sponsored funds and to a lesser extent, other equity securities. Changes in the fair value of the investments are recognized as gains and losses in earnings. The fair values of funds are determined based on their published NAV or estimated using NAV as a practical expedient. The fair values of equity securities other than funds are determined using independent third-party broker or dealer price quotes or based on discounted cash flows using significant unobservable inputs.

Debt Securities consist of trading and available-for-sale securities and are carried at fair value. Changes in the fair value of trading securities are recognized as gains and losses in earnings. Unrealized gains and losses on available-for-sale securities are recorded net of tax as part of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) until realized, at which time they are recognized in earnings using the average cost method. The fair values of debt securities are determined using independent third-party broker or dealer price quotes or based on discounted cash flows using significant unobservable inputs.

Investments of CIPs consist of marketable debt and equity securities and other investments that are not generally traded in active markets, and are carried at fair value. Changes in the fair value of the investments are recognized as gains and losses in earnings. The fair values of marketable securities are determined using quoted market prices, or independent third-party broker or dealer price quotes if quoted market prices are not available. The investments that are not generally traded in active markets consist of equity and debt securities of entities in emerging markets, fund products, other equity and debt instruments, real estate and loans. The fair values are determined using significant unobservable inputs in either a market-based or income-based approach, except for fund products, for which fair values are estimated using NAV as a practical expedient.

Revenues 

We earn revenue primarily from providing investment management and related services to our customers. In addition to investment management, services include fund administration, sales and distribution, and shareholder servicing. Revenues are recognized when our obligations related to the services are satisfied and it is probable that a significant reversal of the revenue amount would not occur in future periods. The obligations are satisfied over time as the services are rendered, except for the sales and distribution obligations for the sale of shares of sponsored funds, which are satisfied on trade date. Multiple services included in customer contracts are accounted for separately when the obligations are determined to be distinct. Management judgement is involved in assessing the probability of significant revenue reversal and in the identification of distinct services.

Fees from providing investment management and fund administration services (“investment management fees”), other than performance-based investment management fees, are determined based on a percentage of AUM, primarily on a monthly basis using daily average AUM, and are recognized as the services are performed over time. Performance-based investment management fees are generated when investment products’ performance exceeds targets established in customer contracts. These fees are recognized when the amount is no longer probable of significant reversal and may relate to investment management services that were provided in prior periods. 

Sales and distribution fees primarily consist of upfront sales commissions and ongoing distribution fees. Sales commissions are based on contractual rates for sales of certain classes of sponsored funds and are recognized on trade date. Distribution service fees are determined based on a percentage of AUM, primarily on a monthly basis using daily average AUM. As the fee amounts are uncertain on trade date, they are recognized over time as the amounts become known and may relate to sales and distribution services provided in prior periods.

AUM is generally based on the fair value of the underlying securities held by investment products and is calculated using fair value methods derived primarily from unadjusted quoted market prices, unadjusted independent third-party broker or dealer price quotes in active markets, or market prices or price quotes adjusted for observable price movements after the close of the primary market. The fair values of securities for which market prices are not readily available are valued internally using various methodologies which incorporate significant unobservable inputs as appropriate for each security type. Pricing of the securities is governed by our global valuation and pricing policy, which defines valuation and pricing conventions for each security type, including practices for responding to unexpected or unusual market events. As of September 30, 2019, our total AUM by fair value hierarchy level was 50% Level 1, 45% Level 2 and 5% Level 3.

 52
As substantially all of our AUM is valued based on observable market prices or inputs, market risk is the most significant risk underlying the valuation of our AUM. 

Income Taxes 

Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recorded for temporary differences between the tax basis of assets and liabilities and the reported amounts in the consolidated financial statements using the statutory tax rates in effect for the year when the reported amount of the asset or liability is expected to be recovered or settled, respectively. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates is recognized in income tax expense in the period that includes the enactment date. A valuation allowance is recorded to reduce the carrying values of deferred tax assets to the amount that is more likely than not to be realized. For each tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return, we determine whether it is more likely than not that the position will be sustained upon examination based on the technical merits of the position, including resolution of any related appeals or litigation. A tax position that meets the more likely than not recognition threshold is measured at the largest amount of benefit that is greater than 50% likely of being realized upon settlement. 

As a multinational corporation, we operate in various locations outside the U.S. and generate earnings worldwide. We repatriate earnings in excess of regulatory, capital or operational requirements for substantially all our non-U.S. subsidiaries.

Loss Contingencies 

We are involved in various lawsuits and claims encountered in the normal course of business. When such a matter arises and periodically thereafter, we consult with our legal counsel and evaluate the merits of the claims based on the facts available at that time. In management’s opinion, an adequate accrual has been made as of September 30, 2019 to provide for any probable losses that may arise from such matters for which we could reasonably estimate an amount. See also Note 14 – Commitments and Contingencies in the notes to consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of Part II of this Form 10‑K. 

NEW ACCOUNTING GUIDANCE 

See Note 2 – New Accounting Guidance in the notes to consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of Part II of this Form 10‑K. 

 53
Selected Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited) 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

 __________________ [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Risk Factors 

For a description of certain risk factors and other important factors that may affect us, our subsidiaries and our business, please see the description of the risk factors set forth under Item 1A of Part I of this Form 10‑K, which is incorporated herein by reference. 

 54
Item 7A.Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.