Item 1A. Risk Factors

Actual results in future periods for CMS Energy and Consumers could differ materially from historical results and the forward-looking statements contained in this report. Factors that might cause or contribute to these differences include those discussed in the following sections. CMS Energy’s and Consumers’ businesses are influenced by many factors that are difficult to predict, that involve uncertainties that may materially affect results, and that are often beyond their control. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known or that management believes to be immaterial may also adversely affect CMS Energy or Consumers. The risk factors described in the following sections, as well as the other information included in this report and in other documents filed with the SEC, should be considered carefully before making an investment in securities of CMS Energy or Consumers. Risk factors of Consumers are also risk factors of CMS Energy. All of these risk factors are potentially significant.

CMS Energy depends on dividends from its subsidiaries to meet its debt service obligations.

Due to its holding company structure, CMS Energy depends on dividends from its subsidiaries to meet its debt service and other payment obligations. If sufficient dividends were not paid to CMS Energy by its subsidiaries, CMS Energy might not be able to generate the funds necessary to fulfill its payment obligations, which could have a material adverse effect on CMS Energy’s liquidity and financial condition.

Consumers’ ability to pay dividends or acquire its own stock from CMS Energy is limited by restrictions contained in Consumers’ preferred stock provisions and potentially by other legal restrictions, such as certain terms in its articles of incorporation and FERC requirements.

CMS Energy has indebtedness that could limit its financial flexibility and its ability to meet its debt service obligations.

The level of CMS Energy’s present and future indebtedness could have several important effects on its future operations, including, among others, that:

•a significant portion of CMS Energy’s cash flow from operations could be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on its indebtedness and would not be available for other purposes

•covenants contained in CMS Energy’s existing debt arrangements, which require it to meet certain financial tests, could affect its flexibility in planning for, and reacting to, changes in its business

•CMS Energy’s ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, and general corporate and other purposes could become limited

•CMS Energy could be placed at a competitive disadvantage to its competitors that are less leveraged

•CMS Energy’s vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions could increase

•CMS Energy’s future credit ratings could fluctuate

CMS Energy’s ability to meet its debt service obligations and to reduce its total indebtedness will depend on its future performance, which will be subject to general economic conditions, industry cycles, changes in laws or regulatory decisions, and financial, business, and other factors affecting its operations, many of which are beyond its control. CMS Energy cannot make assurances that its businesses will continue to generate sufficient cash flow from operations to service its indebtedness. If CMS Energy were unable to generate sufficient cash flows from operations, it could be required to sell assets or obtain additional financing.

34

Table of Contents 

CMS Energy and Consumers have financing needs and could be unable to obtain bank financing or access the capital markets.

CMS Energy and Consumers may be subject to liquidity demands under commercial commitments, guarantees, indemnities, letters of credit, and other contingent liabilities. Consumers’ capital requirements are expected to be substantial over the next several years as it decommissions older facilities and invests in electric grid modernization technology, construction or acquisition of power generation, environmental controls, conversions and expansions, and other electric and gas infrastructure to upgrade delivery systems. Those requirements may increase if additional laws or regulations are adopted or implemented.

CMS Energy and Consumers rely on the capital markets, as well as on bank syndications, to meet their financial commitments and short-term liquidity needs if sufficient internal funds are not available from Consumers’ operations and, in the case of CMS Energy, from dividends paid by Consumers and its other subsidiaries. CMS Energy and Consumers also use letters of credit issued under certain of their revolving credit facilities to support certain operations and investments.

Disruptions in the capital and credit markets as a result of uncertainty, changing or increased regulation, or failures of significant financial institutions could adversely affect CMS Energy’s and Consumers’ access to liquidity needed for their businesses. Consumers’ inability to obtain prior FERC authorization for any securities issuances, including publicly offered debt, as is required under the Federal Power Act, could adversely affect Consumers’ access to liquidity. Any liquidity disruption could require CMS Energy and Consumers to take measures to conserve cash. These measures could include, but are not limited to, deferring capital expenditures, changing CMS Energy’s and Consumers’ commodity purchasing strategy to avoid collateral-posting requirements, and reducing or eliminating future share repurchases, dividend payments, or other discretionary uses of cash.

CMS Energy continues to explore financing opportunities to supplement its financial strategy. These potential opportunities include refinancing and/or issuing new debt, preferred stock and/or common equity, commercial paper, and bank financing. Similarly, Consumers may seek funds through the capital markets, commercial lenders, and leasing arrangements. Entering into new financings is subject in part to capital market receptivity to utility industry securities in general and to CMS Energy’s and Consumers’ securities in particular. CMS Energy and Consumers cannot guarantee the capital markets’ acceptance of their securities or predict the impact of factors beyond their control, such as actions of rating agencies.

Certain of CMS Energy’s and Consumers’ securities and those of their affiliates are rated by various credit rating agencies. A reduction or withdrawal of one or more of its credit ratings could have a material adverse impact on CMS Energy’s or Consumers’ ability to access capital on acceptable terms and maintain commodity lines of credit, could increase its cost of borrowing, and could cause CMS Energy or Consumers to reduce capital expenditures. If it were unable to maintain commodity lines of credit, CMS Energy or Consumers might have to post collateral or make prepayments to certain suppliers under existing contracts. Further, since Consumers provides dividends to CMS Energy, any adverse developments affecting Consumers that result in a lowering of its credit ratings could have an adverse effect on CMS Energy’s credit ratings. CMS Energy and Consumers cannot guarantee that any of their present ratings will remain in effect for any given period of time or that a rating will not be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency.

If CMS Energy or Consumers were unable to obtain bank financing or access the capital markets to incur or refinance indebtedness, or were unable to obtain commercially reasonable terms for any financing, this could have a material adverse effect on its liquidity, financial condition, and results of operations.

35

Table of Contents 

There are risks associated with Consumers’ substantial capital investment program planned for the next five years.

Consumers’ planned investments include the construction or acquisition of power generation, electric and gas infrastructure, conversions and expansions, environmental controls, electric grid modernization technology, and other electric and gas investments to upgrade delivery systems, as well as decommissioning of older facilities. The success of these capital investments depends on or could be affected by a variety of factors that include, but are not limited to:

•effective pre-acquisition evaluation of asset values, future operating costs, potential environmental and other liabilities, and other factors beyond Consumers’ control

•effective cost and schedule management of new capital projects

•availability of qualified construction personnel

•changes in commodity and other prices

•governmental approvals and permitting

•operational performance

•changes in environmental, legislative, and regulatory requirements

•regulatory cost recovery

It is possible that adverse events associated with these factors could have a material adverse effect on Consumers’ liquidity, financial condition, and results of operations.

Changes to ROA could have a material adverse effect on CMS Energy’s and Consumers’ businesses.

The 2016 Energy Law allows electric customers in Consumers’ service territory to buy electric generation service from alternative electric suppliers in an aggregate amount capped at ten percent, with certain exceptions, of Consumers’ weather-normalized retail sales of the preceding calendar year. Lower natural gas prices due to a large supply of natural gas on the market and continued growth of renewable energy resources, coupled with low capacity prices in the electric supply market, are placing increasing competitive pressure on the cost of Consumers’ electric supply. Presently, Consumers’ electric rates are above the Midwest average, while the ROA level on Consumers’ system is at the ten-percent limit and the proportion of Consumers’ electric deliveries under the ROA program and on the ROA waiting list is 26 percent. If the ROA limit were increased or if electric generation service in Michigan were deregulated, it could have a material adverse effect on Consumers’ financial results and operations.

CMS Energy and Consumers are subject to rate regulation, which could have an adverse effect on financial results.

CMS Energy and Consumers are subject to rate regulation. Consumers’ electric and gas retail rates are set by the MPSC and cannot be changed without regulatory authorization. If rate regulators fail to provide adequate rate relief, it could have a material adverse effect on Consumers or Consumers’ plans for making significant capital investments. Regulators seeking to avoid or minimize rate increases could resist raising customer rates sufficiently to permit Consumers to recover the full cost of these investments. In addition, because there are statutory requirements mandating that regulators allow Consumers to recover from customers certain costs, such as resource additions to meet Michigan’s renewable resource standard, energy waste reduction, and environmental compliance, regulators could be more inclined to oppose rate increases for other requested items and investments. Rate regulators could also face pressure to avoid or limit rate increases for a number of reasons, including an economic downturn in the state or diminishment of Consumers’ customer base. Additionally, future orders of the MPSC related to Consumers’ remeasurement of its deferred income taxes as a result of the TCJA could require accelerated customer refunds. In addition to its potential effects on Consumers’ investment program, any limitation of cost 

36

Table of Contents 

recovery through rates or any acceleration of customer refunds could have a material adverse effect on Consumers’ liquidity, financial condition, and results of operations.

Orders of the MPSC could limit recovery of costs of providing service including, but not limited to, environmental and safety related expenditures for coal-fueled plants and other utility properties, regulatory assets, power supply and natural gas supply costs, operating and maintenance expenses, additional utility-based investments, sunk investment in mothballed or retired generating plants, costs associated with the proposed retirement and decommissioning of facilities, depreciation expense, MISO energy and transmission costs, costs associated with energy waste reduction investments and state or federally mandated renewable resource standards, or expenditures subject to tracking mechanisms. These orders could also result in adverse regulatory treatment of other matters. For example, MPSC orders could prevent or curtail Consumers from shutting off non‑paying customers, could prevent or curtail the implementation of a gas revenue mechanism, or could require Consumers to refund previously self-implemented rates.

FERC authorizes certain subsidiaries of CMS Energy to sell electricity at market-based rates. Failure of these subsidiaries to maintain this FERC authority could have a material adverse effect on CMS Energy’s and Consumers’ liquidity, financial condition, and results of operations. Transmission rates are also set by FERC. FERC orders related to transmission costs could have a material adverse effect on Consumers’ liquidity, financial condition, and results of operations.

The various risks associated with the MPSC and FERC regulation of CMS Energy’s and Consumers’ businesses, which include the risk of adverse decisions in any number of rate or regulatory proceedings before either agency, as well as judicial proceedings challenging any agency decisions, could have a material adverse effect on CMS Energy’s and Consumers’ liquidity, financial condition, investment plans, and results of operations.

Utility regulation, state or federal legislation, and compliance could have a material adverse effect on CMS Energy’s and Consumers’ businesses.

CMS Energy and Consumers are subject to, or affected by, extensive utility regulation and state and federal legislation. CMS Energy and Consumers believe that they comply with applicable laws and regulations. If it were determined that they failed to comply, CMS Energy or Consumers could become subject to fines, penalties, or disallowed costs, or be required to implement additional compliance, cleanup, or remediation programs, the cost of which could be material. Adoption of new laws, rules, regulations, principles, or practices by federal or state agencies, or challenges or changes to present laws, rules, regulations, principles, or practices and the interpretation of any adoption or change, could have a material adverse effect on CMS Energy’s and Consumers’ liquidity, financial condition, and results of operations. Furthermore, any state or federal legislation concerning CMS Energy’s or Consumers’ operations could have a similar effect.

Utility regulation could be impacted by various matters, such as electric industry restructuring, hydro relicensing, asset reclassification, gas pipeline capacity and gas storage, new generation facilities or investments, transmission charges, environmental controls, climate change, air emissions, renewable energy, energy policy and ROA, regulation or deregulation, energy capacity standards or markets, reliability, and safety. CMS Energy and Consumers cannot predict the impact of these matters on their liquidity, financial condition, and results of operations.

FERC, through NERC, oversees reliability of certain portions of the electric grid. FERC orders regarding electric system reliability could have a material adverse effect on CMS Energy’s or Consumers’ liquidity, financial condition, and results of operations.

37

Table of Contents 

Government-mandated power purchases from renewable energy projects may have an adverse effect on CMS Energy’s and Consumers’ businesses.

PURPA requires Consumers to purchase power from qualifying cogeneration and small power production facilities at a price approved by the MPSC that is meant to represent Consumers’ “avoided cost” of generating power or purchasing power from another source. In November 2017, the MPSC issued an order establishing a new avoided-cost methodology for determining the price that Consumers must pay to purchase power under PURPA. Among other things, the MPSC’s order changes the basis of Consumers’ avoided cost from the cost of coal-fueled generating units to that of natural gas-fueled generating units. The MPSC order also assigns more capacity value to qualifying facilities that are consistently able to generate electricity during peak times. The MPSC is considering Consumers’ IRP, which presents Consumers’ current outlook and plans for its electric generation supply portfolio out to 2040. Consumers’ potential need for additional electric generation, and the corresponding cost to build or purchase that generation, can be used by the MPSC to determine Consumers’ avoided costs pursuant to PURPA. The MPSC orders in these proceedings could result in mandated purchases of generation, potentially at above-market prices, and reduce Consumers’ need for new owned generation. This in turn could have a material adverse effect on Consumers’ capital investment plan, the affordability of future customer rates, and CMS Energy’s and Consumers’ liquidity, financial condition, investment plans, and results of operations.

CMS Energy and Consumers could incur substantial costs to comply with environmental requirements.

CMS Energy and Consumers are subject to costly and stringent environmental regulations that will likely require additional significant capital expenditures for emissions control equipment, CCR disposal and storage, cooling water intake equipment, effluent treatment, and PCB remediation. Present and reasonably anticipated state and federal environmental statutes and regulations, including but not limited to the Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act, RCRA, CERCLA, and NREPA, will continue to have a material effect on CMS Energy and Consumers.

CMS Energy and Consumers have interests in fossil-fuel-fired power plants and other types of power plants that produce greenhouse gases. Federal and state environmental laws and rules, as well as international accords and treaties, could require CMS Energy and Consumers to install additional equipment for emission controls, purchase carbon emissions allowances, curtail operations, invest in generating capacity with fewer carbon dioxide emissions, or take other significant steps to manage or lower the emission of greenhouse gases.

In August 2018, the EPA proposed the “Affordable Clean Energy” rule as a replacement for the EPA’s 2015 Clean Power Plan, which the U.S. Supreme Court stayed in 2016. This proposed rule requires individual states to evaluate fossil-fuel-fired power plants for heat-rate improvements that could be undertaken to increase overall plant efficiency. There is also a proposal to modify the Clean Air Act permitting requirements to promote these efficiency projects. Consumers does not expect that the Affordable Clean Energy rule will have an adverse impact on its environmental strategy.

38

Table of Contents 

The following risks related to climate change, emissions, and environmental regulations could also have a material adverse impact on CMS Energy’s and Consumers’ liquidity, financial condition, and results of operations:

•litigation originated by third parties against CMS Energy or Consumers due to CMS Energy’s or Consumers’ greenhouse gas or other emissions or CCR disposal and storage

•impairment of CMS Energy’s or Consumers’ reputation due to their greenhouse gas or other emissions and public perception of their response to potential environmental regulations, rules, and legislation

•extreme weather conditions, such as severe storms, that may affect customer demand, company operations, or assets

Consumers retired seven smaller coal-fueled electric generating units in 2016. Consumers may encounter previously unknown environmental conditions that will need to be addressed in a timely fashion with state and federal environmental regulators as facilities and equipment on these sites are taken out of service.

Consumers expects to collect fully from its customers, through the ratemaking process, expenditures incurred to comply with environmental regulations, but cannot guarantee this outcome. If Consumers were unable to recover these expenditures from customers in rates, it could negatively affect CMS Energy’s and/or Consumers’ liquidity, results of operations, and financial condition and CMS Energy and/or Consumers could be required to seek significant additional financing to fund these expenditures.

For additional information regarding compliance with environmental regulations, see Item 1. Business—CMS Energy and Consumers Environmental Strategy and Compliance and Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Outlook—Consumers Electric Utility Outlook and Uncertainties.

CMS Energy’s and Consumers’ businesses could be affected adversely by any delay in meeting environmental requirements.

A delay or failure by CMS Energy or Consumers to obtain or maintain any necessary environmental permits or approvals to satisfy any applicable environmental regulatory requirements or install emission control equipment could:

•prevent the construction of new facilities

•prevent the continued operation and sale of energy from existing facilities

•prevent the suspension of operations at existing facilities

•prevent the modification of existing facilities

•result in significant additional costs that could have a material adverse effect on their liquidity, financial condition, and results of operations

CMS Energy and Consumers expect to incur additional substantial costs related to remediation of legacy environmental sites.

Consumers expects to incur additional substantial costs related to the remediation of its former MGP sites. Based upon prior MPSC orders, Consumers expects to be able to recover the costs of these cleanup activities through its gas rates, but cannot guarantee that outcome.

Consumers also expects to incur remediation and other response activity costs at a number of other sites under NREPA and CERCLA. Consumers believes these costs should be recoverable in rates, but cannot guarantee that outcome.

39

Table of Contents 

In addition, certain CMS Energy subsidiaries retained environmental remediation obligations for the collection, treatment, and discharge of leachate at Bay Harbor after selling their interests in the development in 2002. Leachate is produced when water enters into cement kiln dust piles left over from former cement plant operations at the site. Certain CMS Energy subsidiaries have signed agreements with the EPA and the MDEQ relating to Bay Harbor. If these CMS Energy subsidiaries were unable to meet their commitments under these agreements, or if unanticipated events occurred, these CMS Energy subsidiaries could incur additional material costs relating to their Bay Harbor remediation obligations.

CMS Energy and Consumers could be affected adversely by legacy litigation and retained liabilities.

CMS Energy, CMS MST, CMS Field Services, Cantera Natural Gas, Inc., and Cantera Gas Company were named as defendants in various lawsuits arising as a result of alleged inaccurate natural gas price reporting. Remaining allegations include price-fixing conspiracies, restraint of trade, and artificial inflation of natural gas retail prices in Kansas and Wisconsin. CMS Energy cannot predict the outcome of these lawsuits or the amount of damages for which CMS Energy may be liable. It is possible that the outcome of the lawsuits could have a material adverse effect on CMS Energy’s liquidity, financial condition, and results of operations.

The agreements that CMS Energy and Consumers enter into for the sale of assets customarily include provisions whereby they are required to:

•retain specified preexisting liabilities, such as for taxes, pensions, or environmental conditions

•indemnify the buyers against specified risks, including the inaccuracy of representations and warranties that CMS Energy and Consumers make

•make payments to the buyers depending on the outcome of post-closing adjustments, litigation, audits, or other reviews, including claims resulting from attempts by foreign or domestic governments to assess taxes on past operations or transactions

Many of these contingent liabilities can remain open for extended periods of time after the sales are closed. Depending on the extent to which the buyers might ultimately seek to enforce their rights under these contractual provisions, and the resolution of any disputes concerning them, there could be a material adverse effect on CMS Energy’s or Consumers’ liquidity, financial condition, and results of operations.

In 2002, CMS Energy sold its oil, gas, and methanol investments in Equatorial Guinea. The government of Equatorial Guinea claims that, in connection with the sale, CMS Energy owes $152 million in taxes, plus substantial penalties and interest that could be up to the amount of the taxes claimed. In 2015, the matter was proceeding to formal arbitration; however, since then, the government of Equatorial Guinea has stopped communicating. CMS Energy has concluded that the government’s tax claim is without merit and will continue to contest the claim, but cannot predict the financial impact or outcome of the matter. An unfavorable outcome could have a material adverse effect on CMS Energy’s liquidity, financial condition, and results of operations.

CMS Energy’s and Consumers’ energy sales and operations are affected by seasonal factors and varying weather conditions from year to year.

CMS Energy’s and Consumers’ utility operations are seasonal. The consumption of electric energy typically increases in the summer months, due primarily to the use of air conditioners and other cooling equipment, while peak demand for natural gas typically occurs in the winter due to colder temperatures and the resulting use of natural gas as heating fuel. In addition, Consumers’ electric rates, which follow a seasonal rate design, are higher in the summer months than in the remaining months of the year. Accordingly, CMS Energy’s and Consumers’ overall results may fluctuate substantially on a seasonal 

40

Table of Contents 

basis. Mild temperatures during the summer cooling season and winter heating season as well as the impact of extreme weather events on Consumers’ system could have a material adverse effect on CMS Energy’s and Consumers’ liquidity, financial condition, and results of operations.

Consumers is exposed to risks related to general economic conditions in its service territories.

Consumers’ electric and gas utility businesses are affected by the economic conditions impacting the customers they serve. If the Michigan economy becomes sluggish or declines, Consumers could experience reduced demand for electricity or natural gas that could result in decreased earnings and cash flow. In addition, economic conditions in Consumers’ service territory affect its collections of accounts receivable and levels of lost or stolen gas, which in turn impact its liquidity, financial condition, and results of operations.

CMS Energy and Consumers are subject to information security risks, risks of unauthorized access to their systems, and technology failures.

In the regular course of business, CMS Energy and Consumers handle a range of sensitive security and customer information. CMS Energy and Consumers are subject to laws and rules issued by various agencies concerning safeguarding and maintaining the confidentiality of this information. A security breach of CMS Energy’s and Consumers’ information or control systems could involve theft or the inappropriate release of certain types of information, such as confidential customer information or, separately, system operating information. These events could disrupt operations, subject CMS Energy and Consumers to possible financial liability, damage their reputation and diminish the confidence of customers, and have a material adverse effect on CMS Energy’s and Consumers’ liquidity, financial conditions, and results of operations.

CMS Energy and Consumers operate in a highly regulated industry that requires the continued operation of sophisticated information and control technology systems and network infrastructure. Despite implementation of security measures, technology systems, including disaster recovery and backup systems, are vulnerable to failure, cyber crime, unauthorized access, and being disabled. These events could impact the reliability of electric generation and electric and gas delivery and also subject CMS Energy and Consumers to financial harm. Cyber crime, which includes the use of malware, computer viruses, and other means for disruption or unauthorized access against companies, including CMS Energy and Consumers, has increased in frequency, scope, and potential impact in recent years. While CMS Energy and Consumers have not been subject to cyber crime incidents that have had a material impact on their operations to date, their security measures in place may be insufficient to prevent a major cyber incident in the future. If technology systems, including disaster recovery and backup systems, were to fail or be breached, CMS Energy and Consumers might not be able to fulfill critical business functions, and sensitive confidential and proprietary data could be compromised, which could have a material adverse effect on CMS Energy’s and Consumers’ liquidity, financial condition, and results of operations. In addition, because CMS Energy’s and Consumers’ generation, transmission, and distribution systems are part of an interconnected system, a disruption caused by a cyber incident at another utility, electric generator, system operator, or commodity supplier could also adversely affect CMS Energy’s or Consumers’ businesses, financial condition, and results of operations.

A variety of technological tools and systems, including both company-owned information technology and technological services provided by outside parties, support critical functions. The failure of these technologies, including backup systems, or the inability of CMS Energy and Consumers to have these technologies supported, updated, expanded, or integrated into other technologies, could hinder their business operations and materially adversely affect their liquidity, financial condition, and results of operations. A breach or failure of technology, including disaster recovery or backup systems, could also have a negative impact on CMS Energy’s banking subsidiary, EnerBank.

41

Table of Contents 

CMS Energy’s and Consumers’ businesses have liability risks.

Consumers’ electric and gas delivery systems, power plants, gas infrastructure including storage facilities, wind energy or solar equipment, energy products, and the independent power plants owned in whole or in part by CMS Energy could be involved in incidents, failures, or accidents that result in injury, loss of life, or property loss to customers, employees, or the public. Although CMS Energy and Consumers have insurance coverage for many potential incidents (subject to deductibles, limitations, and self-insurance amounts that could be material), depending upon the nature or severity of any incident, failure, or accident, CMS Energy or Consumers could suffer financial loss, reputational damage, and negative repercussions from regulatory agencies or other public authorities.

CMS Energy’s and Consumers’ revenues and results of operations are subject to risks that are beyond their control, including but not limited to natural disasters, terrorist attacks and related acts of war, cyber incidents, vandalism, and other catastrophic events.

The impact of natural disasters, severe weather, wars, terrorist acts, vandalism, cyber incidents, pandemics, and other catastrophic events on the facilities and operations of CMS Energy and Consumers could have a material adverse effect on CMS Energy’s and Consumers’ liquidity, financial condition, and results of operations. These events could result in severe damage to CMS Energy’s and Consumers’ assets beyond what could be recovered through insurance policies (which are subject to deductibles and limits), could require CMS Energy and Consumers to incur significant upfront costs, and could severely disrupt operations, resulting in loss of service to customers. There is also a risk that regulators could, after the fact, conclude that Consumers’ preparedness or response to such an event was inadequate and take adverse actions as a result.

CMS Energy and Consumers are exposed to significant reputational risks.

CMS Energy and Consumers could suffer negative impacts to their reputations as a result of operational incidents, violations of corporate policies, regulatory violations, inappropriate use of social media, or other events. Reputational damage could have a material adverse effect on CMS Energy’s and Consumers’ liquidity, financial condition, and results of operations. It could also result in negative customer perception and increased regulatory oversight.

Consumers is exposed to changes in customer usage that could impact financial results.

Distributed electricity generation: Technology advances, government incentives and subsidies, and recent regulatory decisions could increase the cost effectiveness of customer-owned methods of producing electricity, such as fuel cells, microturbines, wind turbines, and solar photovoltaics, resulting in reduced load, cross subsidization, and increased costs. This could have a material adverse effect on CMS Energy’s and Consumers’ liquidity, financial condition, and results of operations.

Energy waste reduction: Customers could reduce their consumption through demand-side energy conservation and energy waste reduction programs. These reductions could have a material adverse effect on CMS Energy’s and Consumers’ liquidity, financial condition, and results of operations.

Energy risk management strategies might not be effective in managing fuel and electricity pricing risks, which could result in unanticipated liabilities to CMS Energy and Consumers or increased volatility in their earnings.

Consumers is exposed to changes in market prices for natural gas, coal, electric capacity, electric energy, emission allowances, gasoline, diesel fuel, and RECs. Prices for these commodities may fluctuate substantially over relatively short periods of time and expose Consumers to price risk. A substantial portion of Consumers’ operating expenses for its electric generating plants and vehicle fleet consists of 

42

Table of Contents 

the costs of obtaining these commodities. The contracts associated with Consumers’ fuel and purchased power costs are executed in conjunction with the PSCR mechanism, which is designed to allow Consumers to recover prudently incurred costs associated with those positions. If the MPSC determined that any of these contracts or related contracting policies were imprudent, recovery of these costs could be disallowed. Consumers manages commodity price risk using established policies and procedures, and it may use various contracts to manage this risk, including swaps, options, futures, and forward contracts. No assurance can be made that these strategies will be successful in managing Consumers’ pricing risk or that they will not result in net liabilities to Consumers as a result of future volatility in these markets.

Natural gas prices in particular have been historically volatile. Consumers routinely enters into contracts to mitigate exposure to the risks of demand, market effects of weather, and changes in commodity prices associated with its gas distribution business. These contracts are executed in conjunction with the GCR mechanism, which is designed to allow Consumers to recover prudently incurred costs associated with those positions. If the MPSC determined that any of these contracts or related contracting policies were imprudent, recovery of these costs could be disallowed. Consumers does not always hedge the entire exposure of its operations from commodity price volatility. Furthermore, the ability to hedge exposure to commodity price volatility depends on liquid commodity markets. As a result, to the extent the commodity markets are illiquid, Consumers might not be able to execute its risk management strategies, which could result in larger unhedged positions than preferred at a given time. To the extent that unhedged positions exist, fluctuating commodity prices could have a negative effect on CMS Energy’s and Consumers’ liquidity, financial condition, and results of operations. Changes in laws that limit Consumers’ ability to hedge could also have a negative effect on CMS Energy’s and Consumers’ liquidity, financial condition, and results of operations.

CMS Energy and Consumers are exposed to counterparty risk.

Adverse economic conditions or financial difficulties experienced by counterparties with whom CMS Energy and Consumers do business could impair the ability of these counterparties to pay for CMS Energy’s and Consumers’ services and/or fulfill their contractual obligations, including performance and payment of damages. CMS Energy and Consumers depend on these counterparties to remit payments and perform contracted services in a timely fashion. Any delay or default in payment or performance of contractual obligations could have a material adverse effect on CMS Energy’s and Consumers’ liquidity, financial condition, and results of operations.

Volatility and disruptions in capital and credit markets could have a negative impact on CMS Energy’s and Consumers’ lenders, vendors, contractors, suppliers, customers, and other counterparties, causing them to fail to meet their obligations. Adverse economic conditions could also have a negative impact on the loan portfolio of CMS Energy’s banking subsidiary, EnerBank.

Consumers might not be able to obtain an adequate supply of natural gas or coal, which could limit its ability to operate its electric generation facilities or serve its natural gas customers.

Consumers has natural gas and coal supply and transportation contracts in place for the natural gas and coal it requires for its electric generating capacity. Consumers also has interstate transportation and supply agreements in place to facilitate delivery of natural gas to its customers. Apart from the contractual and monetary remedies available to Consumers in the event of a counterparty’s failure to perform under any of these contracts, there can be no assurances that the counterparties to these contracts will fulfill their obligations to provide natural gas or coal to Consumers. The counterparties under the agreements could experience financial or operational problems that inhibit their ability to fulfill their obligations to Consumers. In addition, counterparties under these contracts might not be required to supply natural gas or coal to Consumers under certain circumstances, such as in the event of a natural disaster or severe weather.

43

Table of Contents 

If, for its electric generating capacity, Consumers were unable to obtain its natural gas or coal requirements under existing or future natural gas and coal supply and transportation contracts, or to obtain resources under existing or future PPAs, it could be required to purchase natural gas or coal at higher prices or forced to purchase electricity from higher-cost generating resources in the MISO energy market. If, for natural gas delivery to its customers, Consumers were unable to obtain its natural gas supply requirements under existing or future natural gas supply and transportation contracts, it could be required to purchase natural gas at higher prices from other sources or implement its natural gas curtailment program filed with the MPSC. These alternatives could increase Consumers’ working capital requirements and could decrease its revenues.

Market performance and other changes could decrease the value of employee benefit plan assets, which then could require substantial funding.

The performance of the capital markets affects the value of assets that are held in trust to satisfy future obligations under CMS Energy’s and Consumers’ pension and postretirement benefit plans. CMS Energy and Consumers have significant obligations under these plans and hold significant assets in these trusts. These assets are subject to market fluctuations and will yield uncertain returns, which could fall below CMS Energy’s and Consumers’ forecasted return rates. A decline in the market value of the assets or a change in the level of interest rates used to measure the required minimum funding levels could significantly increase the funding requirements of these obligations. Also, changes in demographics, including an increased number of retirements or changes in life expectancy assumptions, could significantly increase the funding requirements of the obligations related to the pension and postretirement benefit plans. If CMS Energy and Consumers were unable to manage their pension and postretirement plan assets successfully, it could have a material adverse effect on their liquidity, financial condition, and results of operations.

A work interruption or other union actions could adversely affect Consumers.

Unions represent 37 percent of Consumers’ employees. Consumers’ union agreements expire in 2020. If these employees were to engage in a strike, work stoppage, or other slowdown, Consumers could experience a significant disruption in its operations and higher ongoing labor costs.

Failure to attract and retain an appropriately qualified workforce could adversely impact CMS Energy’s and Consumers’ results of operations.

The workforce of CMS Energy and Consumers is aging and a number of employees will become eligible to retire within the next few years. In some areas, competition for skilled employees is high and if CMS Energy and Consumers were unable to match skill sets to future needs, they could encounter operating challenges and increased costs. These challenges could include a lack of resources, loss of knowledge, and delays in skill development. Additionally, higher costs could result from the use of contractors to replace employees, loss of productivity, and safety incidents. Failing to train replacement employees adequately and to transfer internal knowledge and expertise could adversely affect CMS Energy’s and Consumers’ ability to manage and operate their businesses. If CMS Energy and Consumers were unable to attract and retain an appropriately qualified workforce, their financial condition and results of operations could be affected negatively.

Unplanned power plant outages could be costly for Consumers.

Unforeseen maintenance of Consumers’ power plants may be required for many reasons, including catastrophic events such as fires, explosions, extreme weather, floods or other acts of God, failures of equipment or materials, operator error, or the need to comply with environmental or safety regulations. When unplanned maintenance work is required on power plants or other equipment, Consumers will not 

44

Table of Contents 

only incur unexpected maintenance expenses, but it may also have to make spot market purchases of replacement electricity that exceed Consumers’ costs of generation or be forced to retire a given unit if the cost or timing of the maintenance is not reasonable and prudent. Additionally, unplanned maintenance work could reduce the capacity credit Consumers receives from MISO and could cause Consumers to incur additional capacity costs in future years. If Consumers were unable to recover any of these increased costs in rates, it could have a material adverse effect on Consumers’ liquidity, financial condition, and results of operations.

Changes in taxation as well as the inherent difficulty in quantifying potential tax effects of business decisions could negatively impact CMS Energy and Consumers.

CMS Energy and Consumers are required to make judgments regarding the potential tax effects of various financial transactions and results of operations in order to estimate their obligations to taxing authorities. The tax obligations include income taxes, real estate taxes, sales and use taxes, employment-related taxes, and ongoing issues related to these tax matters. The judgments include determining reserves for potential adverse outcomes regarding tax positions that have been taken and may be subject to challenge by the IRS and/or other taxing authorities. Unfavorable settlements of any of the issues related to these reserves or other tax matters at CMS Energy or Consumers could have a material adverse effect on their liquidity, financial condition, and results of operations.

CMS Energy and Consumers are subject to changing tax laws. Changes in federal, state, or local tax rates or other changes in tax laws could have adverse impacts on their liquidity, financial condition, and results of operations.

In December 2017, President Trump signed the TCJA, which changed existing federal tax law and included numerous provisions that affect businesses. CMS Energy and Consumers made reasonable estimates in measuring and accounting for the effects of the TCJA and did not recognize any material changes to their estimates during the year ended December 31, 2018. Given expected changes to U.S. Treasury regulations and interpretations of the TCJA by the U.S. Treasury, the final transition impacts of the TCJA may differ from the estimates provided elsewhere in this report.

CMS Energy and its subsidiaries, including Consumers and EnerBank, must comply with the Dodd-Frank Act and its related regulations, which are subject to change and could involve material costs or affect operations.

Regulations that are intended to implement the Dodd-Frank Act have been and are still being adopted by the appropriate agencies. The Dodd-Frank Act added a new Section 13 to the Bank Holding Company Act. Known, together with its implementing regulations, as the Volcker Rule, it generally restricts certain banking entities (such as EnerBank) and their subsidiaries or affiliates from engaging in proprietary trading activities and from owning equity in or sponsoring any private equity or hedge fund. The activities of CMS Energy and its subsidiaries (including EnerBank) are not expected to be materially affected by the Volcker Rule; however, they will be restricted from engaging in proprietary trading, investing in third‑party hedge or private equity funds, and sponsoring these funds in the future unless CMS Energy qualifies for an exemption from the rule. CMS Energy and its subsidiaries are also subject to certain ongoing compliance requirements pursuant to the regulations. In May 2018, the federal agencies that are responsible for the Volcker Rule approved a notice of proposed rulemaking that proposes significant revisions to the Volcker Rule implementing regulations. The revisions would leave intact the core restrictions on proprietary trading and private equity and hedge fund activities; however, the revisions would make certain significant changes to the proprietary trading restrictions and compliance program requirements. CMS Energy cannot predict the full impact of the Volcker Rule, including any impact resulting from changes to implementing regulations, on CMS Energy’s or EnerBank’s operations or financial condition.

45

Table of Contents 

All companies that directly or indirectly control an FDIC-insured bank are required to serve as a source of financial strength for that institution. As a result, CMS Energy could be called upon by the FDIC to infuse additional capital into EnerBank to the extent that EnerBank fails to satisfy its capital requirements. In addition, CMS Energy is contractually required (i) to make cash capital contributions to EnerBank in the event that EnerBank does not maintain required minimum capital ratios and (ii) to provide EnerBank financial support, in an amount and duration as may be necessary for EnerBank to meet the cash needs of its depositors and other operations. EnerBank has exceeded these requirements historically and exceeded them as of January 31, 2019.

In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act provides for regulation by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission of certain commodity-related contracts. Although CMS Energy, Consumers, EnerBank, and certain subsidiaries of CMS Enterprises qualify for an end-user exception from mandatory clearing of commodity-related swaps, these regulations could affect the ability of these entities to participate in these markets and could add additional regulatory oversight over their contracting activities.

Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments

None.

Item 2. Properties