ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 

The following Management’s Discussion and Analysis (MD&A) is intended to help the reader understand the results of operations and financial condition of Conduent Incorporated. This MD&A is provided as a supplement to, and should be read in conjunction with, our Consolidated Financial Statements and the accompanying notes. This MD&A provides additional information about our operations, current developments, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations.

Throughout the MD&A, we refer to various notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements which appear in Item 8 of this 2018 Form 10-K, and the information contained in such notes is incorporated by reference into the MD&A in the places where such references are made.

Overview

With revenues of $5.4 billion, we are a leading provider of business process services with expertise in transaction-intensive processing, analytics and automation. We serve as a trusted business partner in both the front office and back office, enabling personalized, seamless interactions on a massive scale that improve end-user experience. 

Headquartered in Florham Park, New Jersey, we have a team of approximately 82,000 people as of December 31, 2018, servicing customers in 26 countries. In 2018, 12% of our revenue was generated outside the U.S.

Our reportable segments correspond to how we organize and manage the business and are aligned to the industries in which our clients operate. 

During 2018, in an effort to better reflect how we manage our business, we segregated our Public Sector segment into Government Services (including Health Enterprise, which was previously reported in Other segment) and Transportation segments. In addition, the Company also reclassified the operating results of our divestitures from the reportable segments to Other segment and separately reflected Shared IT/Infrastructure & Corporate Costs. All prior periods presented have been revised to reflect these changes. [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Other includes our divestitures and our Student Loan business, which the Company exited in the third quarter of 2018. 

Conduent Inc. 2018 Annual Report 29

Table of Contents 

Significant 2018 Actions 

Dispositions

In 2018, we completed divestitures of: (1) our Commercial Vehicle Operations business; (2) our off-street parking business; (3) our U.S. human resource consulting and actuarial business and the human resource consulting and outsourcing business located in Canada and the United Kingdom; and (4) our local and municipal constituent government software solutions business. The aggregate proceeds for these divestitures was $703 million in cash. The businesses sold represented $304 million and $500 million of 2018 and 2017 revenue, respectively. We recorded a pre-tax gain of $78 million on these divestitures for the year ended December 31, 2018.

Significant 2017 Actions 

Dispositions

In 2017, we completed divestitures of: (1) our Firehouse business and suite of emergency records management products used by fire departments across the country for their incident reporting and Emergency Management System information and records management; (2) our healthcare provider consulting services business, which advises healthcare organizations on IT application optimization; (3) the Breakaway Group business, which provides advisory project services to assist healthcare organizations optimize their health IT applications; (4) the mobile device management business of Wireless Data Services Limited; and (5) the Global Mobility business. The aggregate proceeds for these divestitures was $56 million in cash. The businesses sold represented $60 million and $82 million of 2017 and 2016 revenue, respectively. We recorded a pre-tax gain of $16 million on these divestitures for the year ended December 31, 2017.

In addition, in 2017, we sold a property located in Dallas, Texas, which was formerly the Affiliated Computer Services (ACS) headquarters, for a pre-tax gain of $24 million. This was part of our effort to consolidate our real estate footprint.

Health Enterprise Settlement 

On November 28, 2017, we entered into a definitive settlement agreement with the State of New York regarding resolution of the HE platform project. Under the terms of the settlement: (1) our contract with the State of New York terminated effective December 15, 2017 and we were released from all liabilities and obligations in connection with the contract at such time; and (2) paid or incurred costs on behalf of, the State of New York in the amount of approximately $20 million. As we have previously reserved this amount, we incurred no additional charges as a result of the settlement.

Significant 2016 Actions

Separation 

On December 31, 2016, Conduent Incorporated spun-off from Xerox Corporation, pursuant to the Separation and Distribution Agreement. The separation was completed by way of a pro rata distribution of Conduent Incorporated shares held by Xerox to Xerox's shareholders. As a result of the spin-off we operate as an independent, publicly traded company on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker "CNDT".

Goodwill Impairment Charge 

Our Commercial Industries reporting units operating results declined in 2016 versus our expectations, including a weak fourth quarter 2016. In performing our annual impairment test during the fourth quarter of 2016, we determined that the carrying value of the Commercial Industries reporting unit exceeded its fair value by 53%, which resulted in a goodwill impairment of $935 million. This has been presented as Goodwill impairment, a separate line item in the Consolidated Statements of Income (Loss). Refer to Note 6 – Goodwill and Intangible Assets, Net, in the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.

Conduent Inc. 2018 Annual Report 30

Table of Contents 

Health Enterprise Charge 

In February 2017, we determined that it was not probable that the New York Medicaid Management Information System (NY MMIS) project would be completed. As a result of this determination, we recorded a pre-tax charge (NY MMIS charge) of $161 million ($98 million after-tax) in the fourth quarter of 2016. The charge included $83 million for the write-off of contract receivables which were recorded as a reduction of revenue and $78 million recorded in Cost of services including $36 million for wind-down costs, $28 million related to the non-cash charge for the impairment of software and $14 million for the write-off of deferred contract set-up and transition costs and other related assets and liabilities. 

Critical Accounting Policies

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (U.S. GAAP) requires us to make estimates and assumptions in certain circumstances that affect amounts reported in the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements and notes thereto. In preparing our Consolidated Financial Statements, we have made our best estimates and judgments of certain amounts included in the Consolidated Financial Statements giving due consideration to materiality. However, application of these accounting policies involves the exercise of judgment and use of assumptions as to future uncertainties and, as a result, actual results could differ from these estimates. Senior management has discussed the development and selection of the critical accounting policies, estimates and related disclosures included herein with the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. We consider these as critical to understanding our Consolidated Financial Statements, as their application places the most significant demands on management's judgment, since financial reporting results rely on estimates of the effects of matters that are inherently uncertain. In instances where different estimates could have reasonably been used, we disclose the impact of these different estimates on our operations. In certain instances, the accounting rules are prescriptive; therefore, it would not have been possible to reasonably use different estimates. Changes in assumptions and estimates are reflected in the period in which they occur. The impact of such changes could be material to our results of operations and financial condition in any quarterly or annual period. 

Specific risks associated with these critical accounting policies are discussed throughout the MD&A, where such policies affect our reported and expected financial results. For a detailed discussion of the application of these and other accounting policies, refer to Note 1 – Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Revenue Recognition 

Application of the accounting principles in U.S. GAAP related to the measurement and recognition of revenue requires us to make judgments and estimates. Complex arrangements with nonstandard terms and conditions may require significant contract interpretation to determine the appropriate accounting. Refer to Note 1 – Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies — Revenue Recognition in the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding our revenue recognition policies.

Held for Sale

We classify assets as held for sale in the period when the following conditions are met: (i) management, having the authority to approve the action, commits to a plan to sell the asset (disposal group); (ii) the asset (disposal group) is available for immediate sale in its present condition subject only to terms that are usual and customary for sales of such assets (disposal group); (iii) an active program to locate a buyer and other actions required to complete the plan to sell the asset (disposal group) have been initiated; (iv) the sale of the asset (disposal group) is probable, and transfer of the asset (disposal group) is expected to qualify for recognition as a completed sale within one year, except if events or circumstances beyond our control extend the period of time required to sell the asset (disposal group) beyond one year; (v) the asset (disposal group) is being actively marketed for sale at a price that is reasonable in relation to its current fair value; and (vi) actions required to complete the plan indicate that it is unlikely that significant changes to the plan will be made or that the plan will be withdrawn. 

Conduent Inc. 2018 Annual Report 31

Table of Contents 

A long-lived asset (disposal group) that is classified as held for sale is initially measured at the lower of its carrying value or fair value less any costs to sell. Any loss resulting from this measurement is recognized in the period in which the held for sale criteria are met. Conversely, gains are not recognized on the sale of a long-lived asset (disposal group) until the date of sale. 

The fair value of a long-lived asset (disposal group) less any costs to sell is assessed each reporting period it remains classified as held for sale and any subsequent changes are reported as an adjustment to the carrying value of the asset (disposal group), as long as the new carrying value does not exceed the carrying value of the asset at the time it was initially classified as held for sale. Upon determining that a long-lived asset (disposal group) meets the criteria to be classified as held for sale, the Company reports the assets and liabilities of the disposal group in the line items Assets held for sale and Liabilities held for sale, respectively, in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. 

In 2018, management approved the disposal through sale of certain assets and businesses, which were a mix of both Commercial Industries, Government Services and Transportation. This action was taken as a result of our evaluation of these businesses as they represent businesses in markets or with services that we did not see as strategic or core. As of December 31, 2018, most of these businesses have been sold. At December 31, 2018, we reclassified $15 million to assets held for sale and $40 million to liabilities held for sale relating to a portfolio of select standalone customer care contracts that was not yet sold. See Note 3 – Assets/Liabilities Held for Sale and Divestitures for additional information.

Intangible Assets 

The fair values of identifiable intangible assets are primarily estimated using an income approach. These estimates include market participant assumptions and require projected financial information, including assumptions about future revenue growth and costs necessary to facilitate the projected growth. Other key inputs include assumptions about technological obsolescence, customer attrition rates, brand recognition, the allocation of projected cash flows to identifiable intangible assets and discount rates. We regularly review intangible assets with finite lives for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. Factors we consider important which could trigger an impairment review include the following: 

•significant underperformance relative to historical or projected future operating results;

•significant changes in the manner of our use of the acquired assets or the strategy for our overall business; and

•significant negative industry or economic trends.

When we determine that the carrying value of intangibles and long-lived assets may not be recoverable based upon the existence of one or more of the above indicators of potential impairment, we assess whether an impairment has occurred based on whether net book value of the assets exceeds the related projected undiscounted cash flows from these assets. We consider a number of factors, including past operating results, budgets, economic projections, market trends and product development cycles in estimating future cash flows. Differing estimates and assumptions as to any of the factors described above could result in a materially different impairment charge, if any, and thus materially different results of operations.

Goodwill 

Goodwill is not amortized but rather tested for impairment annually, or more frequently if an event or circumstance indicates that impairment may have been incurred. Events or circumstances that might indicate an interim evaluation is warranted include, among other things, unexpected adverse business conditions, macro and reporting unit specific economic factors, supply costs, unanticipated competitive activities and acts by governments and courts. 

Application of the annual goodwill impairment test requires judgment, including the identification of reporting units, assignment of assets and liabilities to reporting units, assignment of goodwill to reporting units and the assessment of the fair value of each reporting unit. We determined that our reporting units were the same as our operating segments and, therefore, our business is comprised of three reporting units. Our annual quantitative impairment test of goodwill was performed in the fourth quarter of 2018. 

Conduent Inc. 2018 Annual Report 32

Table of Contents 

In our quantitative test, we estimate the fair value of each reporting unit by weighting the results from the income approach (discounted cash flow methodology) and market approach. These valuation approaches require significant judgment and consider a number of factors that include, but are not limited to, expected future cash flows, growth rates and discount rates and comparable multiples from publicly traded companies in our industry. In addition, we are required to make certain assumptions and estimates regarding the current economic environment, industry factors and the future profitability of our businesses.

When performing our discounted cash flow analysis for each reporting unit, we incorporate the use of projected financial information and discount rates that are developed using market participant-based assumptions. The cash-flow projections are based on three-year financial forecasts developed by management that include revenue and expense projections, restructuring and strategic transformation activities, capital spending trends and investment in working capital to support anticipated revenue growth or other changes in the business. The selected discount rates consider the risk and nature of the respective reporting units' cash flows, appropriate capital structure and rates of return that market participants would require to invest their capital in our reporting units.

We believe these assumptions are appropriate and reflect our forecasted long-term business model and give appropriate consideration to our historical results as well as the current economic environment and markets that we serve. 

Based on our quantitative assessments, we concluded that the fair value of our reporting units (which are the Financial Services & Healthcare, Consumer & Industrial and Europe operating segments, together comprising Commercial Industries, Government Services operating segment and the Transportation operating segment) exceeded their respective carrying values by approximately $600 million (for all Commercial Industries), $285 million for Government Services and $120 million for Transportation, respectively. The most significant assumption used in the goodwill analysis relates to the long-term organic growth rate for the operating segments comprising Commercial Industries, Government Services and Transportation segments. For example, the EBITDA long term growth rates for the Commercial Industries operating segments, Government Services and Transportation segments were 3%, 2.5% and 4%, respectively. The growth rates are consistent with industry long term growth rates and contemplate that Conduent will grow, on a long term basis, at least consistent with its peers. To the extent that Conduent losses a significant contract or multiple significant contracts, such that its growth rates are negatively impacted, its goodwill could be impaired. Specifically, if Conduent’s EBITDA long term growth rates were zero for the Commercial and Government operating segments and 3% for the Transportation operating segment, the fair values of the operating segments would approximate the book values of the operating segments. 

Refer to Note 6 – Goodwill and Intangible Assets, Net in the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding goodwill by reportable segment.

Income Taxes 

We are subject to income taxes in the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. The determination of our provision for income taxes requires significant judgment, the use of estimates and the interpretation and application of complex tax laws. Our provision is based on nonrecurring events as well as recurring factors, including the taxation of foreign income. In addition, our provision will change based on discrete or other nonrecurring events such as audit settlements, tax law changes, changes in valuation allowances and other factors, that may not be predictable. In the event that there is a significant unusual or one-time item recognized in our operating results, the taxes attributable to that item would be separately calculated and recorded at the same time as an unusual or one-time item. 

We record the estimated future tax effects of temporary differences between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and amounts reported in our Consolidated Balance Sheets, as well as operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. We follow very specific and detailed guidelines in each tax jurisdiction regarding the recoverability of any tax assets recorded in our Consolidated Balance Sheets and provide valuation allowances as required. We regularly review our deferred tax assets for recoverability considering historical profitability, projected future taxable income, the expected timing of the reversals of existing temporary differences and tax planning strategies. Gross deferred tax assets of $210 million and $245 million had valuation allowances of $44 million and $35 million at December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.

Conduent Inc. 2018 Annual Report 33

Table of Contents 

On December 22, 2017, the U.S. enacted the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (Tax Reform). The Tax Reform includes a tax on global intangible low-taxed income (“GILTI”), which imposes a U.S. tax on certain income earned by the Company’s foreign subsidiaries. In January 2018, the FASB released guidance on the accounting for tax on GILTI. The guidance indicates that either accounting for deferred taxes on GILTI or treating GILTI as a period cost are both acceptable accounting elections. The Company elected to treat the tax on GILTI as a period cost when incurred and therefore, no deferred taxes for GILTI have been recognized for the year ended December 31, 2018.

We are subject to ongoing tax examinations and assessments in various jurisdictions. Accordingly, we may incur additional tax expense based upon our assessment of the more-likely-than-not outcomes of such matters. In addition, when applicable, we adjust previously recorded tax expense to reflect examination results. Our ongoing assessments of the more-likely-than-not outcomes of examinations and related tax positions require judgment and can materially increase or decrease our effective tax rate, as well as impact our operating results. Unrecognized tax benefits were $20 million, $15 million and $14 million at December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively. 

Refer to Note 13 – Income Taxes in the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding deferred income taxes and unrecognized tax benefits. 

Loss Contingencies 

We are currently involved in various claims and legal proceedings. At least quarterly, we review the status of each significant matter and assess its potential financial exposure considering all available information including, but not limited to, the impact of negotiations, settlements, rulings, advice of legal counsel and other updated information and events pertaining to a particular matter. If the potential loss from any claim or legal proceeding is considered probable and the amount can be reasonably estimated, we accrue a liability for the estimated loss. Significant judgment is required in both the determination of probability and the determination as to whether an exposure is reasonably estimable. Because of uncertainties related to these matters, accruals are based only on the best information available at the time. As additional information becomes available, we reassess the potential liability related to pending claims and litigation, and may revise estimates. These revisions in the estimates of the potential liabilities could have a material impact on the results of operations and financial position. 

Refer to Note 14 – Contingencies and Litigation in the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding loss contingencies. 

Conduent Inc. 2018 Annual Report 34

Table of Contents 

Financial Information

Financial information for the three years ended December 31, 2018 was as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Revenue 

Revenue for 2018 decreased, compared to the prior year period, mainly due to the impact from adopting the accounting guidance related to revenue recognition, which is also referred to herein as the "new revenue standard", divestitures completed in 2017 and 2018, strategic decisions by management as part of our portfolio rationalization, including exiting certain unprofitable contracts and contract losses. Partially offsetting these declines were increases from the ramp of new business. Excluding the impact of the new revenue standard and divestitures, the 2018 revenue decreased by 3.8% mainly due to strategic decisions by management as part of our portfolio rationalization, including exiting certain unprofitable contracts and contract losses, partially offset by the ramp of new business.

Revenue for 2017 decreased, compared to the prior year period, mainly due to the impact from strategic decisions by management as part of our portfolio rationalization, including exiting certain unprofitable contracts, the run-off of our Student Loan business and contract losses. Partially offsetting these declines were new contracts in the Government Services and the Transportation segments. 

Cost of Services (excluding depreciation and amortization)

Cost of services for 2018 decreased, compared to the prior year period, mainly driven by the impact from adopting the new revenue standard, reductions in real estate, information technology and labor costs from our strategic transformation initiatives, lost business, strategic contract actions taken by management as part of portfolio management, lower volumes and divestitures completed in 2017 and 2018.

Conduent Inc. 2018 Annual Report 35

Table of Contents 

Cost of services for 2017 decreased, compared to the prior year period, primarily due to cost transformation, lost business, wind-down of the NY MMIS contract, run-off of our Student Loan business, strategic contract actions taken by management as part of portfolio management and lower volumes.

Selling, General and Administrative (SG&A) (excluding depreciation and amortization)

Lower SG&A for 2018, compared to the prior year period, was reflective of the impact of our strategic transformation initiatives, primarily due to reductions in labor costs.

Lower SG&A for 2017, compared to the prior year period, was reflective of the impact of our strategic transformation initiatives driving lower wages and benefits, partially offset by the expansion and investment in our sales force.

Depreciation and Amortization 

Depreciation and amortization decreased in 2018, compared to the prior year period, primarily due to the divestitures in 2018. The decrease in Depreciation and amortization for 2017, compared to the prior year period, was primarily due to the acceleration of amortization of certain trade-names in 2016. Refer to Note 6 – Goodwill and Intangible Assets, Net in the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding our intangible assets.

Restructuring and Related Costs

Restructuring and related costs for the year ended December 31, 2018, include $34 million of severance costs due to headcount reductions of approximately 3,000 employees worldwide, $40 million of lease cancellation and other costs as part of our effort to consolidate our real estate footprint as well as $7 million of costs primarily related to data center migration and professional support services associated with the implementation of the strategic transformation program. 

Restructuring and related costs for the year ended December 31, 2017 include $41 million of severance costs due to headcount reductions of approximately 3,200 employees worldwide, $51 million of lease cancellation costs as part of our effort to consolidate our real estate footprint and $9 million of costs primarily related to professional support services associated with the implementation of the strategic transformation program. 

Restructuring and related costs for the year ended December 31, 2016 include $54 million of severance costs due to headcount reductions of approximately 3,600 employees worldwide, $28 million of costs primarily related to professional support services associated with the implementation of the strategic transformation program and $19 million of lease cancellation costs as part of our effort to consolidate our real estate footprint. 

Refer to Note 7 – Restructuring Programs and Related Costs in the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding our restructuring programs.

Interest Expense

The decrease in Interest expense for 2018, compared to the prior year period, was driven primarily by the repayment of the Senior Notes and repricing of the term loans in 2018, partially offset by the write-off of debt issuance costs for certain loans that were refinanced in June 2018, amortization of debt issuance costs associated with the repricing of the loans and interest rate increases in 2018. Refer to Note 9 – Debt in the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.

Increase in interest expense for 2017, compared to the prior year period, was primarily due to the issuance of debt with the capitalization of the Company during the spin-off in December 2016 and subsequent borrowing under Term Loan B in January 2017, as well as amounts outstanding at various times throughout the year and interest rate increases. 

Conduent Inc. 2018 Annual Report 36

Table of Contents 

(Gain) Loss on Divestitures and Transaction Costs

The loss for 2018, compared to the prior year period gain, was driven primarily by an impairment charge related to the anticipated sale of a portfolio of select standalone customer care contracts that was completed in February 2019, partially offset by net gains from divestitures and transaction costs. The gain for 2017, compared to the prior year period loss, was due to gains from the sale of property located in Dallas and from divestitures. See Note 3 – Assets/Liabilities Held for Sale and Divestitures for additional information on 2018 divestitures.

Litigation Costs (Recoveries), Net

Increase in net litigation costs for 2018, compared to the prior year period, was primarily due to increases in reserves related to the litigation settlement pursuant to the Texas Agreement ("Texas Agreement"), Student Loan Service exposures and a reserve for certain terminated contracts that are subject to litigation.

Decrease in net litigation costs for 2017, compared to the prior year period, was primarily due to income received from certain customer dispute settlements and adjustment to contingent consideration on a previous acquisition.

Refer to Note 14 – Contingencies and Litigation to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.

(Gain) Loss on Extinguishment of Debt

The loss on extinguishment of debt for 2018, related to the premium paid for the substantial buyback of the 10.5% Senior Notes due 2024. 

Refer to Note 9 – Debt to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the debt redemption.

Goodwill Impairment

Our Commercial Industries reporting unit experienced declining operating results in 2016 versus expectations. As a result, we recorded a goodwill impairment of $935 million in 2016. Refer to Note 6 – Goodwill and Intangible Assets, Net in the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the Goodwill impairment charge. 

Separation Costs

Separation costs are primarily for third-party investment banking, accounting, legal, consulting and other similar types of services related to the separation transaction as well as costs associated with the operational separation of the two companies, such as those related to human resources, brand management, real estate and information management to the extent not capitalized. Separation costs also include the costs associated with bonuses and restricted stock grants awarded to employees for retention through the separation.

Other (Income) Expenses, Net 

Other (income) expenses, net primarily includes foreign currency transaction losses (gains) and other deferred compensation investment results. 

Conduent Inc. 2018 Annual Report 37

Table of Contents 

Income Taxes

On December 22, 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (Tax Reform) was enacted. The effects of changes in tax rates and laws were recognized in 2017, the period in which the new legislation was enacted. The income tax effects of the Tax Reform were initially accounted for on a provisional basis pursuant to the SEC staff guidance on income taxes. Reasonable estimates for all material tax effects of the Tax Reform were provided. A provisional benefit was recorded for $210 million resulting from a reduction in the tax rate from 35% to 21%. This was partially offset by a $12 million charge from one time tax on undistributed and previously untaxed post-1986 foreign earnings and profits (Transition Tax). The Company finalized its accounting for this matter in the fourth quarter of 2018 and recognized a $2 million additional benefit year to date, included as a component of income tax expense from continuing operations. The 2018 effective tax rate was (5.3)% and was lower than the U.S. statutory rate of 21%, primarily due to pre-tax loss and tax from the impacts of business divestitures, partially offset by U.S. foreign tax credits. As a result of higher U.S. Federal taxable income caused by the divestitures, the Company is not subject to Base Erosion Anti-Abuse Tax (BEAT) in 2018. 

Excluding the impact of divestitures, the State of Texas litigation reserve, the loss on extinguishment of debt, charges for amortization of intangible assets, restructuring and divestiture related costs, the normalized effective tax rate without a BEAT tax for 2018 was 25.1%.

The 2017 rate was higher than the U.S. statutory rate of 35% primarily due to the impact of the Tax Reform, which included the reduction of the U.S. statutory rate from 35% to 21% and the Transition Tax. 

Excluding primarily the tax impact of the Tax Reform, the termination of the COLI, amortization of intangible assets and gains on U.S divestitures, the adjusted effective tax rate for 2017 was 33.8%. 

Operations Review of Segments 

Our reportable segments correspond to how we organize and manage the business and are aligned to the industries in which our clients operate. 

During 2018, in an effort to better reflect how we manage our business, we segregated our Public Sector segment into Government Services (including Health Enterprise, which was previously reported in Other segment) and Transportation segments. In addition, the Company also reclassified the operating results of our divestitures from the reportable segments to Other segment and separately reflected Shared IT/Infrastructure & Corporate Costs. All prior periods presented have been revised to reflect these changes. 

Conduent Inc. 2018 Annual Report 38

Table of Contents 

The following are our results of financial performance by segment for the three years ended December 31, 2018: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Commercial Industries Segment

Revenue 

Commercial Industries revenue for 2018 decreased, compared to the prior year period, primarily driven by strategic contract actions and contract losses, businesses divested in 2018 and the impact of the new revenue standard, partially offset by revenue from new contracts and price increases from existing accounts.

Commercial Industries revenue 2017 decreased, compared to the prior year period, primarily driven by strategic contract actions and contract losses, lower volumes in our customer care offerings and lost business, partially offset by revenue from new contracts and price increases with existing clients. 

Segment Profit and Adjusted EBITDA 

Decrease in the Commercial Industries segment profit and adjusted EBITDA margin for 2018, compared to the prior year period, was mainly driven by the overall revenue decline from strategic actions and investments in technology platforms, partially offset by reductions in real estate, information technology and labor costs from our strategic transformation initiatives and from increases in new business.

Increase in the Commercial Industries segment profit and adjusted EBITDA margin for 2017, compared to the prior year period, was primarily driven by reduced costs as a result of reductions in real estate, information technology and labor costs from our strategic transformation initiatives, as well as contract remediation and strategic contract actions, partially offset by the overall revenue decline and investments in technology platforms.

Conduent Inc. 2018 Annual Report 39

Table of Contents 

Government Services Segment 

Revenue 

Government Services revenue for 2018 decreased, compared to the prior year period, primarily driven by strategic contract actions and the impact of the new revenue standard, contract losses and lower volumes, partially offset by certain price increases from contract remediation and ramp of new business.

Government Services revenue for 2017 decreased, compared to the prior year period, primarily driven by strategic contract actions, contract losses and lower volumes, partially offset by certain price increases from contract remediation and ramp of new business. 

Segment Profit and Adjusted EBITDA 

Increase in the Government Services segment profit and adjusted EBITDA margin for 2018, compared to the prior year period, was mainly driven by reductions in real estate, information technology and labor costs from our strategic transformation initiatives and contract remediation, as well as price increases on certain accounts, partially offset by investments in technology platforms.

Decrease in the Government Services segment profit and adjusted EBITDA for 2017, compared to the prior year period, was primarily driven by strategic contract actions, contract losses in healthcare and payment services businesses, partially offset by our strategic transformation initiative.

Transportation Segment 

Revenue 

Transportation revenue for 2018 decreased, compared to the prior year period, primarily driven by the impact of the new revenue standard, contract losses, service level penalties and lower volumes, partially offset by certain price increases from contract remediation and ramp of new business.

Transportation revenue for 2017 was flat, compared to the prior year period, primarily driven by ramp of new business, offset by strategic decisions and contract losses. 

Segment Profit and Adjusted EBITDA 

Transportation segment profit and adjusted EBITDA margin for 2018, compared to the prior year period, was flat. This was mainly driven by reductions in real estate, information technology and labor costs from our strategic transformation initiatives, offset by investments in technology platforms.

Increase in the Transportation segment profit and adjusted EBITDA for 2017, compared to the prior year period, was mainly due to our strategic transformation initiative, partially offset by strategic decisions and contract losses. 

Other 

Revenue 

Other revenue for 2018 decreased, compared to the prior year period, driven mainly by the divestitures completed in 2017 and 2018 and the run-off of our Student Loan Services business.

Other revenue for 2017 decreased, compared to the prior year period, driven mainly by the divestitures completed in 2017 and the run-off of our Student Loan Services business.

Segment Profit (Loss) and Adjusted EBITDA

Decrease in Other segment profit and adjusted EBITDA for 2018 were primarily due to divestitures completed in 2017 and 2018 and the run-off of our Student Loan Services business.

Conduent Inc. 2018 Annual Report 40

Table of Contents 

Increase in Other segment profit for 2017 was primarily due to nonrecurring NY MMIS and HE charges in 2016. Decrease in Other segment adjusted EBITDA for 2017 was primarily due to divestitures completed in 2017 and the run-off of our Student Loan Services business.

Shared IT / Infrastructure & Corporate Costs

Improvements in Shared IT/Infrastructure and Corporate costs for both 2018 and 2017, compared to the prior year periods, were primarily driven by reduced costs as a result of reductions in real estate, information technology and labor costs from our strategic transformation initiatives. 

Metrics

Signings

Signings are defined as estimated future revenues from contracts signed during the period, including renewals of existing contracts. Total Contract Value (TCV) is the estimated total contractual revenue related to signed contracts. The amounts in the following table reflect the impact of our adoption of the new revenue recognition standard on January 1, 2018 and also excludes divestitures. Refer to Note 1 – Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies for further discussion of the estimated impact of the adoption of this standard. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

___________

(1)Recurring revenue signings are for new business contracts longer than one year.

(2)Non-recurring revenue signings are for contracts shorter than one year.

Signings for the 2018 increased, compared to the prior year, mainly due to increased renewal activities, partially offset by new business signings decline due to a continued focus on strategic wins with acceptable margins. 

Renewal Rate 

Renewal rate is defined as the annual recurring revenue (ARR) on contracts that are renewed during the period as a percentage of ARR on all contracts for which a renewal decision was made during the period, excluding any contracts that were not renewed and where a strategic action to improve the risk or profitability had been initiated. 

Excluding our strategic decision not to renew certain contracts, renewal rates for 2018 and 2017 were 95% and 94%, respectively.

Capital Resources and Liquidity

As of December 31, 2018 and 2017, total cash and cash equivalents were $756 million (of which approximately $100 million was cash in foreign locations) and $658 million, respectively. Subsequent to December 31, 2018, the Company purchased the HSP business for approximately $90 million and entered into an agreement to settle the Texas litigation, $20 million of which is payable in the first quarter of 2019. Also, it is anticipated that our working capital in the first quarter of 2019 will be a net use of cash. Regarding the Texas litigation, the Settlement Agreement does not prevent the Company from prepaying the foregoing amounts and the Company is currently considering whether to do so. The Company also has a $750 million revolving line of credit for its various cash needs, of which $12 million has been utilized for letters of credit.

Conduent Inc. 2018 Annual Report 41

Table of Contents 

As of December 31, 2018, there were $1.5 billion outstanding borrowings under our Credit Agreement of which $55 million was due within one year. Refer to Note 9 – Debt in the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional debt information.

Refer to the Capital Market Activity section below for additional information regarding our capital activity.

Cash Flow Analysis 

The following summarizes our cash flows for the three years ended December 31, 2018, as reported in our Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows in the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Operating Activities 

The decrease in cash generated from operating activities for 2018, compared to the prior year period, was primarily attributable to increased tax payments and increased deferred compensation payments, partially offset by other working capital amounts.

The increase in cash generated from operating activities for 2017, compared to the prior year period, was primarily attributable to improvements in working capital and reduced wind-down payments associated with implementations in California, Montana and New York, partially offset by higher interest payments on our outstanding debt. 

Investing Activities

The increase in cash generated from investing activities for 2018, compared to the prior year period, was primarily due to the proceeds from the divestitures, partially offset by increased spending for capital expenditures related to modernizing our information technology infrastructure.

The increase in cash provided by investing activities for 2017, compared to the prior year period, was primarily related to proceeds received on the liquidation of investments related to the termination of the deferred compensation plan, proceeds from the sale of business and assets and lower net additions to land, buildings and equipment, partially offset by non-recurring proceeds from related party notes receivable in 2016. 

Financing Activities 

The increase in cash used from financing activities for 2018, compared to the prior year period, was related to net debt repayments, premium on debt redemption and repayments of capital leases, partially offset by payments to former parent company in 2017.

The decrease in cash used in financing activities for 2017, compared to the prior year period, was primarily related to a decrease in proceeds from long term debt and an increase in debt payments, partially offset by a reduction in payments to former parent. 

Capital Market Activity 

On June 28, 2018, the Company entered into Amendment No. 3 (Amendment) to the December 7, 2016 Credit Agreement and in July 2018, the Company redeemed $476 million of its $510 million 10.5% Senior Notes due 2024.

Refer to Note 9 – Debt in the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on both Amendment No. 3 and the partial redemption of the Senior Notes. 

Conduent Inc. 2018 Annual Report 42

Table of Contents 

Financial Instruments

Refer to Note 10 – Financial Instruments in the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.

Contractual Cash Obligations and Other Commercial Commitments and Contingencies 

At December 31, 2018, we had the following contractual cash obligations and other commercial commitments and contingencies: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

_______________

(1)Total debt represents principal debt and capital leases. Refer to Note 9 – Debt in the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding debt.

(2)Represents interest on debt. Refer to Note 9 – Debt in the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.

(3)Refer to Note 5 – Land, Buildings, Equipment and Software, Net in the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.

(4)Other purchase commitments: We enter into other purchase commitments with vendors in the ordinary course of business. Our policy with respect to all purchase commitments is to record losses, if any, when they are probable and reasonably estimable. We currently do not have, nor do we anticipate, material loss contracts.

The table above does not include the amounts payable under the Texas Agreement. Refer to Note 14 – Contingencies and Litigation for additional information.

Other Contingencies and Commitments 

As more fully discussed in Note 14 – Contingencies and Litigation in the Consolidated Financial Statements, we are involved in a variety of claims, lawsuits, investigations and proceedings concerning: securities law; governmental entity contracting, servicing and procurement law; intellectual property law; environmental law; employment law; the Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA); and other laws and regulations. In addition, guarantees, indemnifications and claims may arise during the ordinary course of business from relationships with suppliers, customers and non-consolidated affiliates. Nonperformance under a contract including a guarantee, indemnification or claim could trigger an obligation of the Company. 

We determine whether an estimated loss from a contingency should be accrued by assessing whether a loss is deemed probable and can be reasonably estimated. Should developments in any of these areas cause a change in our determination as to an unfavorable outcome and result in the need to recognize a material accrual, or should any of these matters result in a final adverse judgment or be settled for significant amounts, they could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial position in the period or periods in which such change in determination, judgment or settlement occurs.

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements 

As of December 31, 2018, we do not believe we have any off-balance sheet arrangements that have, or are reasonably likely to have, a material current or future effect on financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources.

In addition, refer to the preceding table for the Company's contractual cash obligations and other commercial commitments and Note 14 – Contingencies and Litigation in the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding contingencies, guarantees and indemnifications.

Conduent Inc. 2018 Annual Report 43

Table of Contents 

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK