ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Overview

Citrix aims to power a better way to work by delivering the experience, security, and choice people and organizations need to unlock innovation, engage customers, and be productive - anytime, anywhere. We do this by delivering a general purpose digital workspace that empowers all users with unified, secure, and reliable access to all apps and content needed to be productive - anytime, anywhere. We help customers reimagine the future of work by delivering unified digital workspace, networking, and analytics solutions that improve employee experience and productivity, while also simplifying IT’s ability to adopt and manage complex cloud environments.

We market and license our solutions through multiple channels worldwide, including selling through resellers and direct over the Web. Our partner community comprises thousands of value-added resellers, or VARs known as Citrix Solution Advisors, value-added distributors, or VADs, systems integrators, or SIs, independent software vendors, or ISVs, original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs, and Citrix Service Providers, or CSPs.

Executive Summary 

Citrix is powering a better way to work with unified workspace, networking, and analytics solutions that help organizations unlock innovation, engage customers, and boost productivity, without sacrificing security. With Citrix, users get a seamless work experience and IT has a unified platform to secure, manage, and monitor diverse technologies in complex cloud environments. 

During the year ended December 31, 2018, our transition to the cloud and a subscription-based business model continued to gain momentum, which contributed to our strong financial results. In addition, we have maintained a disciplined approach to spending, while continuing to invest more into demand generation and sales capacity in order to support our growth, business model transition, and cloud infrastructure. We accelerated our innovation in the cloud, with the introduction of new services, features and capabilities in our cloud solutions to build out a comprehensive secure digital workspace. We expect our transition to a subscription-based business model to provide financial and operational benefits to Citrix, including by increasing customer life-time-value, expanding our customer use-cases and innovation opportunities, and extending the use of Citrix services to securely deliver a broader array of applications, including Web, software-as-a-service (SaaS) apps and services. 

On February 2, 2018, we entered into an Accelerated Share Repurchase, or ASR, transaction with a counterparty to pay an aggregate of $750.0 million in exchange for the immediate delivery of approximately 6.5 million shares of our common stock based on current market prices. The purchase price per share under the ASR was based on the volume-weighted average price of our common stock during the term of the ASR, less a discount. The ASR was entered into pursuant to our existing share repurchase program. Final settlement of the ASR agreement was completed in April 2018, and we received delivery of an additional 1.6 million shares of our common stock. 

On May 8, 2018, we announced our intention to initiate a quarterly cash dividend beginning in the fourth quarter of 2018, subject to declaration by our Board of Directors, as part of our capital return program. On October 24, 2018, we announced that our Board of Directors declared a $0.35 per share dividend payable December 21, 2018 to all shareholders of record as of the close of business on December 7, 2018. Additionally, on October 24, 2018 we announced that our Board of Directors approved an increase of an additional $750.0 million to our existing share repurchase program.

 On January 23, 2019, we announced that our Board of Directors declared a $0.35 per share dividend payable March 22, 2019 to all shareholders of record as of the close of business on March 8, 2019. Our Board of Directors will continue to review our capital allocation strategy for potential modifications and will determine whether to repurchase shares of our common stock and/or declare future dividends based on our financial performance, business outlook and other considerations.

Reclassifications

Beginning in fiscal year 2018, we revised our presentation of revenue to align with our subscription business model transition as follows: (1) subscription revenue, which includes revenue from our cloud services offerings and on-premise subscriptions as well as revenue from our CSP offerings; (2) product and license revenue from perpetual product offerings; and (3) support and services revenue for perpetual product and license offerings. See Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements for more information regarding the reclassifications described above.

 30

Summary of Results

For the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to the year ended December 31, 2017, we delivered the following financial performance:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•Unbilled revenue increased $258.4 million to $338.5 million.

Our Subscription revenue increased primarily due to increased customer adoption of our cloud-based solutions from our Digital Workspace and Networking offerings delivered via the cloud. Our Product and license revenue decreased primarily due to lower sales of our perpetual Digital Workspace solutions and Networking products as customers continued to shift to our cloud-based solutions. The increase in Support and services revenue was primarily due to increased sales of maintenance services across our Digital Workspace perpetual offerings as our customers have shifted to our Customer Success Service offerings. We currently expect total revenue to increase when comparing the first quarter of 2019 to the first quarter of 2018. In addition, when comparing the 2019 fiscal year to the 2018 fiscal year, we currently expect total revenue to increase. The increase in gross margin was primarily due to an increase in sales and due to 2017 including the impairment of certain product related intangible assets. The increase in operating income when comparing 2018 to 2017 was primarily due to a higher gross margin driven by an increase in sales and lower intangible asset amortization, partially offset by an increase in operating expenses. The increase in diluted earnings per share when comparing 2018 to 2017 was primarily due to an increase in operating margin, and a decrease in income tax expense, as well as a decrease in the number of weighted average shares outstanding due to share repurchases. These increases were partially offset by an increase in interest expense related to our 2027 Notes.

2018 Business Combinations 

Sapho, Inc.

On November 13, 2018, we acquired all of the issued and outstanding securities of Sapho, Inc. (“Sapho”), whose technology is intended to advance our development of the intelligent workspace. The acquired technology enables efficient workstyles by creating a unified and customizable notification experience for business applications. The total preliminary cash consideration for this transaction was $182.9 million, net of $3.7 million cash acquired. Transaction costs associated with the acquisition were not significant. 

Cedexis, Inc.

On February 6, 2018, we acquired all of the issued and outstanding securities of Cedexis, Inc. (“Cedexis”) whose solution is a real-time data driven service for dynamically optimizing the flow of traffic across public clouds and data centers that provides a dynamic and reliable way to route and manage Internet performance for customers moving towards hybrid and multi-cloud deployments. The total cash consideration for this transaction was $66.0 million, net of $6.0 million cash acquired. Transaction costs associated with the acquisition were not significant.

We have included the effect of the 2018 business combinations in our results of operations prospectively from the date of acquisition. 

2017 Business Combination

On January 3, 2017, we acquired all of the issued and outstanding securities of Unidesk Corporation (“Unidesk”). We acquired Unidesk to enhance our application management and delivery offerings. The total cash consideration for this transaction was $60.4 million, net of $2.7 million cash acquired. Transaction costs associated with the acquisition were not significant. 

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates

Our discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations are based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, 

 31

liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent liabilities. We base these estimates on our historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, and these estimates form the basis for our judgments concerning the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. We periodically evaluate these estimates and judgments based on available information and experience. Actual results could differ from our estimates under different assumptions and conditions. If actual results significantly differ from our estimates, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially impacted. 

We believe that the accounting policies described below are critical to understanding our business, results of operations and financial condition because they involve more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. An accounting policy is deemed to be critical if it requires an accounting estimate to be made based on assumptions about matters that are highly uncertain at the time the estimate is made, and if different estimates that could have been used, or changes in the accounting estimates that are reasonably likely to occur periodically, could materially impact our consolidated financial statements. We have discussed the development, selection and application of our critical accounting policies with the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors and our independent auditors, and our Audit Committee has reviewed our disclosure relating to our critical accounting policies and estimates in this “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.”

Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018 describes the significant accounting policies and methods used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. There have been no material changes to the critical accounting policies, other than updates related to the adoption of the new revenue standard. See Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements for more information related to revenue recognition.

Revenue Recognition

We generate all of our revenues from contracts with customers. At contract inception, we assess the solutions or services, or bundles of solutions and services, obligated in the contract with a customer to identify each performance obligation within the contract, and then evaluate whether the performance obligations are capable of being distinct and distinct within the context of the contract. Solutions and services that are not both capable of being distinct and distinct within the context of the contract are combined and treated as a single performance obligation in determining the allocation and recognition of revenue. 

The standalone selling price is the price at which we would sell a promised product or service separately to the customer. For the majority of our software licenses and hardware, CSP and on-premise subscription software licenses, we use the observable price in transactions with multiple performance obligations. For the majority of our support and services, and cloud-hosted subscription offerings, we use the observable price when we sell that support and service and cloud-hosted subscription separately to similar customers. If the standalone selling price for a performance obligation is not directly observable, we estimate it. We estimate the standalone selling price by taking into consideration market conditions, economics of the offering and customers’ behavior. We maximize the use of observable inputs and apply estimation methods consistently in similar circumstances. We allocate the transaction price to each distinct performance obligation on a relative standalone selling price basis.

Revenues are recognized when control of the promised products or services are transferred to customers, in an amount that reflects the consideration that we expect to receive in exchange for those products or services. See Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018 for further information on our revenue recognition.

Valuation and Classification of Investments

The authoritative guidance defines fair value as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date (an exit price). Our available-for-sale investments are measured to fair value on a recurring basis. In addition, we hold direct investments in privately-held companies which are accounted for at cost, less impairment plus or minus adjustments resulting from observable price changes in orderly transactions for an identical or a similar investment of the same issuer. These investments are periodically reviewed for impairment and when indicators of impairment exist, are measured to fair value as appropriate on a non-recurring basis. We also hold equity interests in certain private equity funds which are accounted for under the net asset value practical expedient. The net asset value of these investments is determined using quarterly capital statements from the funds which are based on our contributions to the funds, allocation of profit and loss and changes in fair value of the underlying fund investments. In determining the fair value of our investments, we are sometimes required to use various alternative valuation techniques. The authoritative guidance establishes a hierarchy for inputs used in measuring fair value that maximizes the use of observable inputs and minimizes the use of unobservable inputs by requiring that the most observable inputs be used when available.

 32

The authoritative guidance establishes a three-tier fair value hierarchy, which prioritizes the inputs used in measuring fair value as follows: Level 1, observable inputs such as quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities, Level 2, inputs, other than quoted prices in active markets, that are observable either directly or indirectly, and Level 3, unobservable inputs in which there is little or no market data, which requires us to develop our own assumptions. Observable inputs are those that market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability that are based on market data obtained from independent sources, such as market quoted prices. When Level 1 observable inputs for our investments are not available to determine their fair value, we must then use other inputs which may include indicative pricing for securities from the same issuer with similar terms, yield curve information, benchmark data, prepayment speeds and credit quality or unobservable inputs that reflect our estimates of the assumptions market participants would use in pricing the investments based on the best information available in the circumstances. When valuation techniques, other than those described as Level 1 are utilized, management must make estimations and judgments in determining the fair value for its investments. The degree to which management’s estimation and judgment is required is generally dependent upon the market pricing available for the investments, the availability of observable inputs, the frequency of trading in the investments and the investment’s complexity. If we make different judgments regarding unobservable inputs, we could potentially reach different conclusions regarding the fair value of our investments.

After we have determined the fair value of our investments, for those that are in an unrealized loss position, we must then determine if the investment is other-than-temporarily impaired. We review our investments quarterly for indicators of other-than-temporary impairment. This determination requires significant judgment and if different judgments are used, the classification of the losses related to our investments could differ. In making this judgment, we employ a systematic methodology that considers available quantitative and qualitative evidence in evaluating potential impairment of our investments. If the carrying value of an available-for-sale investment exceeds its fair value, we evaluate, among other factors, general market conditions, the duration and extent to which the fair value is less than carrying value, our intent to retain or sell the investment, and whether it is more likely than not that we will not be required to sell the investment before the recovery of its amortized cost basis, which may not be until maturity. We also consider specific adverse conditions related to the financial health of and business outlook for the issuer, including industry and sector performance, rating agency actions and changes in credit default swap levels. During the year ended December 31, 2018, we recorded an other than temporary impairment of $4.6 million of certain available-for-sale securities, which was included in Other (expense) income, net in the accompanying consolidated statements of income.

For our investments in privately-held companies accounted for at cost, less impairment plus or minus adjustments resulting from observable price changes in orderly transactions for an identical or a similar investment of the same issuer, we periodically review for impairment and observable price changes on a quarterly basis, and adjust the carrying value accordingly. See Notes 5 and 6 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018 and “Liquidity and Capital Resources” for more information on our investments.

Intangible Assets

We have product related technology assets and other intangible assets from acquisitions and other third party agreements. We allocate the purchase price of intangible assets acquired through third party agreements based on their estimated relative fair values. We allocate a portion of the purchase price of acquired companies to the product related technology assets and other intangible assets acquired based on their estimated fair values. We typically engage third party appraisal firms to assist us in determining the fair values and useful lives of product related technology assets and other intangible assets acquired. Such valuations and useful life determinations require us to make significant estimates and assumptions. These estimates are based on historical experience and information obtained from the management of the acquired companies and are inherently uncertain. Critical estimates in determining the fair value and useful lives of the product related technology assets include, but are not limited to, future expected cash flows earned from the product related technology and discount rates applied in determining the present value of those cash flows. Critical estimates in valuing certain other intangible assets include, but are not limited to, future expected cash flows from customer contracts, customer retention rates, customer lists, distribution agreements, patents, brand awareness and market position, as well as discount rates. 

Management's estimates of fair value are based upon assumptions believed to be reasonable. Unanticipated events and circumstances may occur which may affect the accuracy or validity of such assumptions, estimates or actual results. 

We monitor acquired intangible assets for impairment on a periodic basis by reviewing for indicators of impairment. If an indicator exists, we compare the estimated net realizable value to the unamortized cost of the intangible asset. The recoverability of the intangible assets is primarily dependent upon our ability to commercialize solutions utilizing the acquired technologies, retain existing customers and customer contracts, and maintain brand awareness. The estimated net realizable value of the acquired intangible assets is based on the estimated undiscounted future cash flows derived from such intangible assets. Our assumptions about future revenues and expenses require significant judgment associated with the forecast of the performance of our solutions, customer retention rates and ability to secure and maintain our market position. Actual revenues 

 33

and costs could vary significantly from these forecasted amounts. If these solutions are not ultimately accepted by our customers and distributors, and there is no alternative future use for the technology; or if we fail to retain acquired customers or successfully market acquired brands, we could determine that some or all of the remaining $167.2 million carrying value of our acquired intangible assets is impaired. In the event of impairment, we would record an impairment charge to earnings that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.

Goodwill

The excess of the fair value of the purchase price over the fair values of the identifiable assets and liabilities from our acquisitions is recorded as goodwill. At December 31, 2018, we had $1.8 billion in goodwill related to our acquisitions. Our revenues are derived from sales of our Digital Workspace solutions and Networking products, and related support. During 2018, we initiated an effort to streamline and simplify our product branding and packaging, which included naming updates to the portfolio to provide clarity on our offerings and unify our sales motions. The change resulted in the consolidation of our Content Collaboration product group with Workspace Services and renaming the new product group Digital Workspace. As a result, our two reporting units (Enterprise and Service Provider and Content Collaboration) were combined into one, consistent with how management reviews the operating results of the business. In connection with this change, we performed a qualitative goodwill assessment of the reporting units and determined there were no indicators of impairment during the third quarter of 2018. The change in reporting units did not result in a reallocation of goodwill or a change in reportable segments. See Note 12 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018 for additional information regarding our reportable segment. 

We account for goodwill in accordance with FASB’s authoritative guidance, which requires that goodwill and certain intangible assets are not amortized, but are subject to an annual impairment test. We complete our goodwill and certain intangible assets impairment tests on an annual basis, during the fourth quarter of our fiscal year, or more frequently, if changes in facts and circumstances indicate that an impairment in the value of goodwill and certain intangible assets recorded on our balance sheet may exist. 

In the fourth quarter of 2018, we performed a qualitative assessment to determine whether further quantitative impairment testing for goodwill and certain intangible assets is necessary, and we refer to this assessment as the Qualitative Screen. In performing the Qualitative Screen, we are required to make assumptions and judgments including but not limited to the following: the evaluation of macroeconomic conditions as related to our business, industry and market trends, and the overall future financial performance of our reporting units and future opportunities in the markets in which they operate. If after performing the Qualitative Screen impairment indicators are present, we would perform a quantitative impairment test to estimate the fair value of goodwill and certain intangible assets. In doing so, we would estimate future revenue, consider market factors and estimate our future cash flows. Based on these key assumptions, judgments and estimates, we determine whether we need to record an impairment charge to reduce the value of the goodwill and certain intangible assets carried on our balance sheet to its estimated fair value. Assumptions, judgments and estimates about future values are complex and often subjective and can be affected by a variety of factors, including external factors such as industry and economic trends, and internal factors such as changes in our business strategy or our internal forecasts. Although we believe the assumptions, judgments and estimates we have made have been reasonable and appropriate, different assumptions, judgments and estimates could materially affect our results of operations. As a result of the Qualitative Screen, no further quantitative impairment test was deemed necessary. There was no impairment of goodwill as a result of the annual impairment tests completed during the fourth quarters of 2018 and 2017. 

Income Taxes 

We are required to estimate our income taxes in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate as part of the process of preparing our consolidated financial statements. At December 31, 2018, we had $121.9 million in net deferred tax assets. The authoritative guidance requires a valuation allowance to reduce the deferred tax assets reported if, based on the weight of the evidence, it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. We review deferred tax assets periodically for recoverability and make estimates and judgments regarding the expected geographic sources of taxable income and gains from investments, as well as tax planning strategies in assessing the need for a valuation allowance. At December 31, 2018, we determined that an $85.4 million valuation allowance relating to deferred tax assets for net operating losses and tax credits was necessary. If the estimates and assumptions used in our determination change in the future, we could be required to revise our estimates of the valuation allowances against our deferred tax assets and adjust our provisions for additional income taxes.

In the ordinary course of global business, there are transactions for which the ultimate tax outcome is uncertain; thus judgment is required in determining the worldwide provision for income taxes. We provide for income taxes on transactions based on our estimate of the probable liability. We adjust our provision as appropriate for changes that impact our underlying 

 34

judgments. Changes that impact provision estimates include such items as jurisdictional interpretations on tax filing positions based on the results of tax audits and general tax authority rulings. Due to the evolving nature of tax rules combined with the large number of jurisdictions in which we operate, it is possible that our estimates of our tax liability and the realizability of our deferred tax assets could change in the future, which may result in additional tax liabilities and adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.

The 2017 Tax Act significantly revised the U.S. tax code by, in part but not limited to: reducing the U.S. corporate tax rate from 35% to 21% and imposing a mandatory one-time transition tax on certain un-repatriated earnings of foreign subsidiaries, modifying executive compensation deduction limitations, and repealing the deduction for domestic production activities. The SEC staff acknowledged the challenges companies face incorporating the effects of tax reform by their financial reporting deadlines. In response, on December 22, 2017, the SEC staff issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 118, or SAB 118, to address the application of U.S. GAAP in situations when a registrant does not have the necessary information available, prepared, or analyzed in reasonable detail to complete accounting for certain income tax effects of the 2017 Tax Act. We completed the accounting for the tax effects of all of the provisions of the 2017 Tax Act within the required measurement period and as a result recorded adjustments to the previous provisional amounts. Adjustments of $26.3 million were recorded during the year ended December 31, 2018, which include a tax benefit of $21.9 million related to the finalization of the one-time transition tax on deemed repatriation of foreign income and a tax benefit of $4.4 million related to the finalization of the remeasurement of the U.S. deferred tax assets and liabilities due to the maximum U.S. federal corporate rate reduction from 35% to 21%.

Convertible Senior Notes

In April 2014, we completed a private placement of our Convertible Notes due 2019 with a net share settlement feature, meaning that upon conversion, the principal amount will be settled in cash and the remaining amount, if any, will be settled in cash, shares of our common stock or a combination of cash and shares of our common stock, at our election. In accordance with accounting guidance for convertible debt instruments that may be settled in cash or other assets on conversion, we first determine the carrying amount of the liability component by measuring the fair value of a similar liability that does not have an associated equity component. Then we determine the carrying amount of the equity component represented by the embedded conversion option by deducting the fair value of the liability component from the initial proceeds ascribed to the convertible debt instrument as a whole. Debt discount and debt issuance costs are amortized to interest expense using the effective interest method.

In accounting for the settlement of the Convertible Notes upon early conversions, we allocated the fair value of the settlement consideration remitted to the noteholders between the liability and equity components. The portion of the settlement consideration allocated to the extinguishment of the liability component was based on the fair value of that component immediately before extinguishment. A loss was recognized in the consolidated statements of income for the difference between the consideration allocated to the liability component and the sum of the carrying amount of the liability component and any unamortized debt issuance costs. Additionally, upon settlement of the converted principal, we derecognized the related unamortized discount and issuance costs. We allocated the remaining settlement consideration to the reacquisition of the equity component and recognized this amount as a reduction of Stockholders' equity.

The following discussion relating to the individual financial statement captions, our overall financial performance, operations and financial position should be read in conjunction with the factors and events described in “— Overview” and Part 1 – Item 1A entitled “Risk Factors,” included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018, which could impact our future performance and financial position.

 35

Results of Operations

The following table sets forth our consolidated statements of income data and presentation of that data as a percentage of change from year-to-year (in thousands other than percentages):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Revenues

Net revenues include Subscription, Product and license and Support and services revenues. 

Subscription revenue relates to fees which are generally recognized ratably over the contractual term, and primarily consists of fees related to our Digital Workspace and Networking offerings. Our Digital Workspace and Networking subscriptions may be delivered via a cloud service, an on-premise license or in a hybrid cloud service and are inclusive of the related support as applicable. For our hybrid and on-premise subscription offerings, a portion of the revenue is recognized at a point in time. In addition, our CSP program provides subscription-based services in which the CSP partners host software services to their end users. The fees from the CSP program are recognized based on usage and as the CSP services are provided to their end users.

Product and license revenue primarily represents fees related to the perpetual licensing of the following major solutions:

•Digital Workspace is primarily comprised of our Application Virtualization solutions which include Citrix Virtual Apps and Desktops, our unified endpoint management solutions, which include Citrix Endpoint Management, Citrix Content Collaboration, and Citrix Workspace; and

 36

•Networking products, which primarily include Citrix ADC and Citrix SD-WAN.

We offer incentive programs to our VADs and VARs to stimulate demand for our solutions. Product and license revenues associated with these programs are partially offset by these incentives to our VADs and VARs. 

Support and services revenue consists of maintenance and support fees related to the following offerings:

•Customer Success Services, which gives customers a choice of tiered support offerings that combine the elements of product version upgrades, guidance, enablement, support and proactive monitoring to help our customers and our partners fully realize their business goals. Fees associated with this offering are recognized ratably over the term of the contract; and

•Hardware Maintenance fees for our perpetual Networking products, which include technical support and hardware and software maintenance, are recognized ratably over the contract term; and

•Fees from consulting services related to the implementation of our solutions, which are recognized as the services are provided; and 

•Fees from product training and certification, which are recognized as the services are provided.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Subscription

Subscription revenue increased during 2018 compared to 2017 primarily due to increased customer adoption of our cloud-based solutions from our Digital Workspace offerings of $99.1 million and Networking offerings of $41.4 million delivered via the cloud. Also contributing to the increase is the upfront recognition of on-premise subscription revenue during fiscal year 2018 under the new revenue accounting guidance. Subscription revenue increased during 2017 compared to 2016 primarily due to increased customer adoption of our cloud-based solutions from our Digital Workspace offerings of $61.5 million and from our Networking offerings of $7.6 million. We currently expect our Subscription revenue to increase when comparing the first quarter of 2019 to the first quarter of 2018 as customers continue to shift to our cloud-based solutions.

Product and license

Product and license revenue decreased during 2018 when compared to 2017 primarily due to lower sales of our perpetual Digital Workspace solutions of $22.8 million and lower sales of our perpetual Networking products of $9.5 million as customers continue to shift to our cloud-based solutions. Product and license revenue decreased during 2017 when compared to 2016 due to lower sales of our perpetual Networking products of $23.3 million and lower sales of our perpetual Digital Workspace solutions of $21.2 million. We currently expect Product and license revenue to decrease when comparing the first quarter of 2019 to the first quarter of 2018 due to our continued transition to a subscription-based business model as customers continue to shift to our cloud-based solutions. 

Support and services

Support and services revenue increased during 2018 compared to 2017 primarily due to increased sales of maintenance revenues from our Customer Success Services offerings. Support and services revenue increased during 2017 compared to 2016 primarily due to increased sales of maintenance revenues from our Customer Success Services offerings of $39.9 million and higher sales of our maintenance revenues for our Networking products of $23.3 million. We currently expect Support and services revenue to increase when comparing the first quarter of 2019 to the first quarter of 2018. 

Deferred Revenue, Unbilled Revenue and Backlog

Deferred revenues are primarily comprised of Support and services revenue from maintenance fees, which include software and hardware maintenance, technical support related to our perpetual offerings and services revenue related to our

 37

consulting contracts. Deferred revenues also include Subscription revenue from our Digital Workspace and cloud-based subscription offerings. Deferred revenue primarily consists of billings or payments received in advance of revenue recognition and is recognized in our consolidated balance sheets and consolidated statements of income as the revenue recognition criteria are met. 

Unbilled revenue primarily represents contractually committed future billings under our subscription agreements that have not been invoiced and, accordingly, are not recorded in accounts receivable and deferred revenue within our consolidated financial statements. 

Deferred revenue and unbilled revenue are influenced by several factors, including seasonality within the year, the specific timing, size and duration of customer subscription agreements, varying billing cycles of subscription agreements, and invoice timing. Fluctuations in unbilled revenue may not be a reliable indicator of future performance and the related revenue associated with these contractual commitments. 

The following table presents the amounts of deferred and unbilled revenue (in thousands):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Deferred revenues decreased approximately $29.7 million as of December 31, 2018 compared to December 31, 2017 primarily due to the $99.9 million cumulative effect adjustment from adoption of the new revenue recognition accounting standard, partially offset by an increase of $79.4 million related to increased customer adoption of our cloud-based subscription offerings. Unbilled revenue increased primarily due to an increase in multi-year subscription agreements as a result of an increase in customer adoption of our cloud-based subscription offerings. See Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements for detailed information related to our adoption of the new revenue standard. 

While it is generally our practice to promptly ship our products upon receipt of properly finalized orders, at any given

time, we have confirmed product license orders that have not shipped and are unfulfilled. We refer to those unfulfilled product

license orders at the end of a given period as “product and license backlog.” As of December 31, 2018 and 2017, the amount of

product and license backlog was not material. We do not believe that backlog, as of any particular date, is a reliable indicator of

future performance.

International Revenues

International revenues (sales outside the United States) accounted for approximately 47.0% of our net revenues for the year ended December 31, 2018 and 46.3% of our net revenues for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. The change in our international revenues as a percentage of our net revenues for the periods presented is not significant. For detailed information on international revenues, please refer to Note 12 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018.

Cost of Net Revenues

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Cost of subscription, support and services revenues consists primarily of compensation and other personnel-related costs

of providing technical support, consulting and cloud capacity costs, as well as the costs related to providing our offerings delivered via the cloud. Cost of product and license revenues consists primarily of hardware, shipping expense, royalties, product media and duplication, manuals and packaging materials. Also included in Cost of net revenues is amortization and impairment of product related intangible assets.

 38

Cost of subscription, support and services revenues increased during 2018 when compared to 2017 primarily due to an increase in sales of our subscription offerings of $17.8 million and professional services of $5.6 million, partially offset by a decrease in costs of providing technical support of $7.4 million, primarily due to reductions in headcount. Cost of subscription, support and services revenues increased during 2017 compared to 2016 primarily due to an increase in sales of our software maintenance of $12.8 million from our Customer Success Services offering, and an increase in sales of our Digital Workspace offerings delivered via the cloud of $7.9 million. We currently expect Cost of subscription, support and services revenues to increase when comparing the first quarter of 2019 to the first quarter of 2018, consistent with the expected increases in Subscription revenue and Support and services revenue as discussed above.

Cost of product and license revenues decreased during 2018 when compared to 2017 primarily due to lower overall sales of our perpetual Networking products, which contain hardware components that have a higher cost than our software products. Cost of product and license revenues increased during 2017 when compared to 2016 primarily due to royalties from our

Digital Workspace solutions. We currently expect Cost of product and license revenues to decrease when comparing the first quarter of 2019 to the first quarter of 2018.

Amortization and impairment of product related intangible assets decreased during 2018 as compared to 2017 primarily due to the impairments of certain acquired intangible assets in 2017. Amortization and impairment of product related intangible assets increased during 2017 as compared to 2016 primarily due to the impairments of certain acquired intangible assets in 2017.

Gross Margin

Gross margin as a percent of revenue was 85.4% for 2018, 84.4% for 2017 and 85.2% for 2016. Gross margin increased during 2018 as compared to 2017 primarily due to the impairment of certain product related intangible assets in 2017. Gross margin remained consistent when comparing 2017 to 2016.

Operating Expenses

Foreign Currency Impact on Operating Expenses

The functional currency for all of our wholly-owned foreign subsidiaries is the U.S. dollar. A substantial majority of our overseas operating expenses and capital purchasing activities are transacted in local currencies and are therefore subject to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. In order to minimize the impact on our operating results, we generally initiate our hedging of currency exchange risks up to 12 months in advance of anticipated foreign currency expenses. When the dollar is weak, the resulting increase to foreign currency denominated expenses will be partially offset by the gain in our hedging contracts. When the dollar is strong, the resulting decrease to foreign currency denominated expenses will be partially offset by the loss in our hedging contracts. Conversely, if the dollar is strong, foreign currency denominated expenses will be lower. These lower expenses will in turn be partially offset by the losses incurred from our hedging contracts. There is a risk that there will be fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates beyond the timeframe for which we hedge our risk.

Research and Development Expenses 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Research and development expenses consist primarily of personnel related costs, facility and equipment costs and

cloud capacity costs directly related to our research and development activities. We expense substantially all development costs included in the research and development of our solutions.

Research and development expenses increased during 2018 as compared to 2017 primarily due to an increase in stock-based compensation of $18.8 million and an increase in cloud capacity costs of $9.0 million. 

Research and development expenses increased during 2017 as compared to 2016 primarily due to an increase in stock-based compensation of $8.7 million, an increase in compensation and other employee-related costs of $8.6 million, and an increase in cloud capacity costs of $7.1 million. The increase in compensation and other employee-related costs was primarily related to a net increase in headcount prior to the restructuring program announced in October 2017 intended to accelerate the transformation to a cloud-based subscription business, increase strategic focus, and improve operational efficiency. These increases are partially offset by a decrease in facility and equipment costs of $3.7 million. 

 39

Sales, Marketing and Services Expenses

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Sales, marketing and services expenses consist primarily of personnel related costs, including sales commissions, pre-sales support, the costs of marketing programs aimed at increasing revenue, such as brand development, advertising, trade shows, public relations and other market development programs and costs related to our facilities, equipment, information systems and pre-demonstration related to cloud capacity costs that are directly related to our sales, marketing and services activities.

Sales, marketing and services expenses increased during 2018 compared to 2017 primarily due to an increase in compensation and other employee-related costs of $46.4 million due to an increase in sales headcount from our investment in sales capacity and demand generation, an increase in marketing programs of $24.8 million and an increase stock-based compensation of $17.2 million. These increases were partially offset by a decrease in variable compensation of $31.1 million mostly as a result of accounting for contract acquisition costs under the new revenue accounting guidance, which was adopted on January 1, 2018. See Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements for detailed information related to our adoption of the new revenue standard. 

Sales, marketing and services expenses increased during 2017 compared to 2016 primarily due to an increase in compensation and other employee-related costs, including variable compensation of $35.1 million resulting from a net increase in headcount, and an increase in cloud capacity costs of $10.8 million. The increase in compensation and other employee-related costs was primarily related to a net increase in headcount prior to the restructuring program announced in October 2017 intended to accelerate the transformation to a cloud-based subscription business, increase strategic focus, and improve operational efficiency. These increases are partially offset by a decrease in certain facility and depreciation costs of $14.9 million. 

General and Administrative Expenses

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

General and administrative expenses consist primarily of personnel related costs and expenses related to outside consultants assisting with information systems, as well as accounting and legal fees.

General and administrative expenses increased during 2018 compared to 2017 primarily due to an increase in professional fees of $8.7 million and an increase in facilities costs of $3.5 million. 

General and administrative expenses decreased during 2017 compared to 2016 primarily due to a decrease in compensation and other employee-related costs of $11.5 million and a decrease in stock-based compensation of $5.1 million. 

Amortization and Impairment of Other Intangible Assets 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Amortization and impairment of other intangible assets consists of amortization of customer relationships, trade names and covenants not to compete primarily related to our acquisitions. 

Amortization and impairment of other intangible assets decreased when comparing 2018 to 2017 primarily due to impairments of certain intangible assets related to certain non-core products during 2017. Amortization and impairment of other 

 40

intangible assets increased when comparing 2017 to 2016 primarily due to impairments of certain intangible assets related to certain non-core products during 2017. 

As of December 31, 2018, we had unamortized other identified intangible assets with estimable useful lives in the net amount of $23.0 million. For more information regarding our acquisitions see, “— Overview” and Note 4 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018.

Restructuring Expenses

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

During the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, we incurred costs of $2.5 million and $53.7 million, respectively, related to initiatives intended to accelerate the transformation to a cloud-based subscription business, increase strategic focus, and improve operational efficiency. The majority of the activities related to this program were substantially completed by the end of 2018.

In connection with our restructuring initiatives, we had previously vacated or consolidated properties and subsequently reassessed our obligations on non-cancelable leases. The fair value estimate of these non-cancelable leases is based on the contractual lease costs over the remaining term, partially offset by estimated future sublease rental income. During the year ended December 31, 2018, we incurred costs of $14.2 million related to the consolidation of leased facilities. During the year ended December 31, 2017, we incurred costs of $8.1 million related to operational initiatives designed to improve infrastructure scalability and cost saving efficiencies. The charges primarily related to employee severance. No costs were incurred during the year ended December 31, 2016. The charges related to employee severance were substantially completed as of the first quarter of 2018; however, we could continue to incur lease losses related to the consolidation of leased facilities during fiscal year 2019.

During the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, we incurred costs of $1.9 million and $44.5 million, respectively, primarily related to our announced plan in November 2015 to simplify our enterprise go-to-market motion and roles while improving coverage, reflect changes in our product focus, and balance resources with demand across our marketing, general and administration areas. Total costs incurred during the year ended December 31, 2018 were not material. The charges are primarily related to employee severance, outplacement, professional service fees, and facility closing costs. The majority of the activities related to this program were substantially completed as of the end of the first quarter of 2016. 

During the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, we recorded charges of $8.7 million and $24.0 million, respectively, related to our announced plan in January 2015 to increase strategic focus and operational efficiency. Total costs incurred during the year ended December 31, 2018 were not material. The charges primarily related to the severance and other costs directly related to the reduction of our workforce and consolidation of leased facilities. The majority of the activities related to this program were substantially completed by the end of 2015. 

 For more information regarding our restructuring see Note 17 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018. 

2019 Operating Expense Outlook

When comparing the first quarter of 2019 to the fourth quarter of 2018, we currently expect operating expenses to increase in absolute dollars with respect to sales, marketing and services expenses due to our continued investment in demand generation, sales capacity in order to support growth and transition and cloud infrastructure. We expect an increase in absolute dollars with respect to research and development expenses as we invest more in innovation capacity, as well as an increase in absolute dollars in general and administrative expenses. 

Interest income

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

 41

Interest income primarily consists of interest earned on our cash, cash equivalents and investment balances. Interest income increased during 2018 compared to 2017 primarily due to higher yields on investments as a result of an increase in interest rates. Interest income increased during 2017 compared to 2016 primarily due to overall higher average cash, cash equivalents and investment balances and higher yields on investments as a result of an increase in interest rates. See Note 5 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018 for investment information.

Interest Expense

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Interest expense primarily consists of interest paid on our Convertible Notes, 2027 Notes and credit facility. 

When comparing 2018 and 2017, the increase is primarily due to borrowings related to our 2027 Notes. When comparing 2017 to 2016, the increase is primarily due to the issuance of our 2027 Notes in 2017. For more information regarding our debt, see Note 13 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018.

Other (Expense) Income, net

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Other (expense) income, net is primarily comprised of remeasurement of foreign currency transaction gains (losses), realized losses related to changes in the fair value of our investments that have a decline in fair value considered other-than-temporary and recognized gains (losses) related to our investments, which was not material for all periods presented.

The change in Other (expense) income, net when comparing 2018 to 2017 is primarily driven by realized losses in our available-for-sale investment portfolio of $6.3 million, mostly due to a decline in fair value considered other-than-temporary and an increase in net losses on remeasurement and settlement of foreign currency transactions of $3.7 million. The change in Other income (expense), net when comparing 2017 to 2016 is primarily driven by an increase in net gains on remeasurement and settlements of foreign currency transactions. 

Income Taxes

We are required to estimate our income taxes in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate as part of the process of preparing our consolidated financial statements. We maintain certain strategic management and operational activities in overseas subsidiaries and our foreign earnings are taxed at rates that are generally lower than in the United States. 

On December 22, 2017, President Donald Trump signed the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act into law effective January 1, 2018. The 2017 Tax Act significantly revised the U.S. tax code by, in part but not limited to: reducing the U.S. corporate maximum tax rate from 35% to 21%, imposing a mandatory one-time transition tax on certain un-repatriated earnings of foreign subsidiaries, modifying executive compensation deduction limitations, and repealing the deduction for domestic production activities. Under Accounting Standards Codification 740, Income Taxes, we must recognize the effects of tax law changes in the period in which the new legislation is enacted. 

We are subject to tax in the U.S. and in multiple foreign tax jurisdictions. Our U.S. liquidity needs are currently satisfied using cash flows generated from our U.S. operations, borrowings, or both. We also utilize a variety of tax planning strategies in an effort to ensure that our worldwide cash is available in locations in which it is needed. Prior to 2017, we did not recognize a deferred tax liability related to undistributed foreign earnings of our subsidiaries because such earnings were considered to be indefinitely reinvested in our foreign operations, or were remitted substantially free of U.S. tax. Under the 2017 Tax Act, all foreign earnings are subject to U.S. taxation. As a result, we expect to repatriate a substantial portion of our foreign earnings over time, to the extent that the foreign earnings are not restricted by local laws or result in significant incremental costs associated with repatriating the foreign earnings.

 42

The SEC staff acknowledged the challenges companies face incorporating the effects of tax reform by their financial reporting deadlines. In response, on December 22, 2017, the SEC staff issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 118 (“SAB 118”) to address the application of U.S. GAAP in situations when a registrant does not have the necessary information available, prepared, or analyzed in reasonable detail to complete accounting for certain income tax effects of the 2017 Tax Act. During the period ended December 31, 2018, we completed the accounting for the tax effects of all of the provisions of the 2017 Tax Act within the required measurement period and as a result recorded adjustments to the previous provisional amounts. 

Our effective tax rate was approximately 8.5% for the year ended December 31, 2018 and 96.0% for the year ended December 31, 2017. The decrease in the effective tax rate when comparing the year ended December 31, 2018 to the year ended December 31, 2017 was primarily due to accounting for the estimated tax impact of the 2017 Tax Act and the separation of the GoTo Business. Specifically, results from 2017 include a $364.6 million provisional income tax charge for the transition tax on deemed repatriation of deferred foreign income, and a $64.8 million provisional income tax charge for the remeasurement of U.S. deferred tax assets and liabilities because of the maximum U.S. federal corporate rate reduction from 35% to 21%. We also recorded a $48.6 million income tax charge to establish a valuation allowance primarily due to a change in expectation of realizability of state R&D credits arising from the separation of the GoTo Business. During the year ended December 31, 2018, we recorded a tax benefit of $21.9 million related to the finalization of the one-time transition tax on deemed repatriation of foreign income and a tax benefit of $4.4 million related to the finalization of the remeasurement of the U.S. deferred tax assets and liabilities due to the maximum U.S. federal corporate rate reduction from 35% to 21%.

As of December 31, 2018, our net unrecognized tax benefits totaled approximately $89.9 million compared to $77.8 million as of December 31, 2017. All amounts included in this balance affect the annual effective tax rate. As of the year ended December 31, 2018, we accrued $3.9 million for the payment of interest on uncertain tax positions. 

We and one or more of our subsidiaries are subject to U.S. federal income taxes in the United States, as well as income taxes of multiple state and foreign jurisdictions. We are not currently under examination by the United States Internal Revenue Service. With few exceptions, we are generally not subject to examination for state and local income tax, or in non-U.S. jurisdictions by tax authorities for years prior to 2015. 

On July 24, 2018, the U.S. Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals overturned the U.S. Tax Court’s unanimous decision in Altera v. Commissioner, where the Tax Court held the Treasury regulation requiring participants in a qualified cost sharing arrangement share stock-based compensation costs to be invalid. On August 7, 2018, the U.S. Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals, on its own motion, withdrew its July 24, 2018 opinion to allow time for the reconstituted panel to confer. Given the increased uncertainty as to the Ninth Circuit's eventual ruling and the impact it will have on the Internal Revenue Service’s ability to challenge the technical merits of our position, we accrued amounts for this uncertain tax position as of the year ended December 31, 2018.

In the ordinary course of global business, there are transactions for which the ultimate tax outcome is uncertain; thus judgment is required in determining the worldwide provision for income taxes. We provide for income taxes on transactions based on our estimate of the probable liability. We adjust our provision as appropriate for changes that impact our underlying judgments. Changes that impact provision estimates include such items as jurisdictional interpretations on tax filing positions based on the results of tax audits and general tax authority rulings. Due to the evolving nature of tax rules combined with the large number of jurisdictions in which we operate, it is possible that our estimates of our tax liability and the realizability of our deferred tax assets could change in the future, which may result in additional tax liabilities and adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.

As of December 31, 2018, we had $121.9 million in net deferred tax assets. The authoritative guidance requires a valuation allowance to reduce the deferred tax assets reported if, based on the weight of the evidence, it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. We review deferred tax assets periodically for recoverability and make estimates and judgments regarding the expected geographic sources of taxable income and gains from investments, as well as tax planning strategies in assessing the need for a valuation allowance. As of December 31, 2018, we determined that an $85.4 million valuation allowance relating to deferred tax assets for net operating losses and tax credits was necessary. If the estimates and assumptions used in our determination change in the future, we could be required to revise our estimates of the valuation allowances against our deferred tax assets and adjust our provisions for additional income taxes.

 43

Liquidity and Capital Resources

During 2018, we generated continuing operating cash flows of $1.04 billion. These operating cash flows related primarily to net income from continuing operations of $575.7 million, adjusted for, among other things, non-cash charges, stock-based compensation expense of $203.6 million, depreciation and amortization expenses of $141.9 million and amortization of debt discount and transaction costs of $39.1 million. Also contributing to these cash inflows was a change in operating assets and liabilities of $30.3 million, net of effects of acquisitions. The change in our net operating assets and liabilities was primarily a result of changes in deferred revenue of $69.5 million, accrued expenses and other current liabilities of $37.0 million mostly due to employee-related accruals, and changes in net accounts receivable of $18.7 million driven by an increase in collections from higher bookings. These inflows were partially offset by an outflow in net income taxes of $57.0 million due a decrease in income taxes payable and an increase in prepaid taxes, and changes in other assets of $33.6 million primarily due to an increase in capitalized commissions as a result of the new revenue standard. Our continuing operations investing activities provided $132.2 million of cash consisting primarily of net proceeds from investments of $456.9 million, partially offset by cash paid for acquisitions of $248.9 million and cash paid for the purchase of property and equipment of $69.4 million. Our continuing operations financing activities used cash of $1.66 billion, primarily due to stock repurchases of $1.26 billion, payments on early redemptions of convertible notes of $273.0 million, cash paid for tax withholding on vested stock awards of $71.6 million, and cash dividends paid on common stock of $46.8 million. 

During 2017, we generated continuing operating cash flows of $964.3 million. These operating cash flows related primarily to income from continuing operations of $22.0 million, adjusted for, among other things, non-cash charges, depreciation and amortization expenses of $170.0 million, stock-based compensation expense of $165.1 million, deferred

income tax expense of $94.2 million, and amortization of debt discount and transaction costs of $38.3 million. Also contributing to these cash inflows was a change in operating assets and liabilities of $470.5 million, net of effects of acquisitions. The change in our net operating assets and liabilities was primarily a result of changes in net income taxes of net of $318.8 million due to tax reform, and changes in deferred revenue of $174.4 million. Our continuing operations investing activities used $60.0 million of cash consisting primarily of cash paid for net purchases of investments of $86.4 million, cash paid for the purchase of property and equipment of $80.9 million, cash paid for acquisitions of $60.4 million, and cash paid for licensing agreements and technology of $7.4 million. Our continuing operations financing activities used cash of $694.4 million primarily due to stock repurchases of $1.17 billion, amounts paid for, but not settled under our accelerated stock repurchase program of $150.0 million, cash paid for tax withholding on vested stock awards of $80.0 million and the transfer of cash to the GoTo Business resulting from the separation of $28.5 million. This financing cash outflow was partially offset by proceeds by proceeds from the 2027 Notes of $741.0 million, net of issuance costs.

Senior Notes

On November 15, 2017, we issued $750.0 million of the 2027 Notes. The 2027 Notes accrue interest at a rate of 4.500% per annum. Interest on the 2027 Notes is due semi-annually on June 1 and December 1 of each year, beginning on June 1, 2018. The net proceeds from this offering were approximately $741.0 million, after deducting the underwriting discount and estimated offering expenses payable by us. Net proceeds from this offering were used to repurchase shares of our common stock through an ASR transaction which we entered into with the ASR counterparty on November 13, 2017. The 2027 Notes will mature on December 1, 2027, unless redeemed or repurchased in accordance with their terms prior to such date. We may redeem the 2027 Notes at our option at any time in whole or from time to time in part prior to September 1, 2027 at a redemption price equal to the greater of (i) 100% of the aggregate principal amount of the 2027 Notes to be redeemed and (ii) the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments under such 2027 Notes, plus in each case, accrued and unpaid interest to, but excluding, the redemption date. Among other terms, under certain circumstances, holders of the 2027 Notes may require us to repurchase their 2027 Notes upon the occurrence of a change of control prior to maturity for cash at a repurchase price equal to 101% of the principal amount of the 2027 Notes to be repurchased plus accrued and unpaid interest to, but excluding, the repurchase date. See Note 13 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018 for additional details on the 2027 Notes. 

Credit Facility

On January 7, 2015, we entered into a credit agreement, or the Credit Agreement, with Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent, and the other lenders party thereto from time to time collectively, the Lenders. The Credit Agreement provides for a $250.0 million unsecured revolving credit facility for a term of five years, of which we have drawn and repaid $165.0 million during the year ended December 31, 2017. As of December 31, 2018, there were no outstanding borrowings under this Credit Agreement and the entire $250.0 million credit line remains available for borrowing. We may elect to increase the revolving credit facility by up to $250.0 million if existing or new lenders provide additional revolving commitments in accordance with the terms of the Credit Agreement. The proceeds of borrowings under the Credit Agreement may be used for working capital and general corporate purposes, including acquisitions. Borrowings under the Credit Agreement will bear 

 44

interest at a rate equal to either (a) a customary London interbank offered rate formula or (b) a customary base rate formula, plus the applicable margin with respect thereto, in each case as set forth in the Credit Agreement. 

The Credit Agreement requires us to maintain a consolidated leverage ratio of not more than 3.5:1.0 and a consolidated interest coverage ratio of not less than 3.0:1.0. The Credit Agreement includes customary events of default, with corresponding grace periods in certain circumstances, including, without limitation, payment defaults, cross-defaults, the occurrence of a change of control and bankruptcy-related defaults. The lenders under the credit agreement are entitled to accelerate repayment of the loans under the Credit Agreement upon the occurrence of any of the events of default. In addition, the Credit Agreement contains customary affirmative and negative covenants, including covenants that limit or restrict our ability to grant liens, merge or consolidate, dispose of all or substantially all of our assets, change our business and incur subsidiary indebtedness, in each case subject to customary exceptions for a credit facility of this size and type. In addition, the Credit Agreement contains customary representations and warranties. See Note 13 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018 for additional details on our Credit Agreement. 

Convertible Senior Notes 

In April 2014, we completed a private placement of $1.44 billion principal amount of 0.500% Convertible Senior Notes due 2019, or the Convertible Notes. The net proceeds from this offering were approximately $1.42 billion (including the proceeds from the Over-Allotment Option), after deducting the initial purchasers’ discounts and commissions and the offering expenses payable by us. We used approximately $82.6 million of the net proceeds to pay the cost of certain bond hedges entered into in connection with the offering (after such cost was partially offset by the proceeds to us from certain warrant transactions). 

We used the remainder of the net proceeds from the offering and a portion of our existing cash and investments to purchase an aggregate of approximately $1.5 billion of our common stock under our share repurchase program. We purchased approximately $101.0 million of our common stock from certain purchasers of the Convertible Notes in privately negotiated transactions concurrently with the closing of the offering, and purchased approximately $1.4 billion of our common stock through an accelerated share repurchase transaction in 2014, which we entered into with Citibank, N.A., or Citibank, on April 25, 2014.

The last reported sale price of our common stock for at least 20 trading days during the period of 30 consecutive trading days ending on September 30, 2018 was greater than or equal to $93.48 (130% of the conversion price) on each applicable trading day. As a result, each holder of our Convertible Notes had the right to convert any portion of their Convertible Notes (in minimum denominations of $1,000 in principal amount or an integral multiple thereof) during the fourth quarter of 2018. The sales price condition was also met for the quarter ended June 30, 2018. As of October 15, 2018, we received conversion notices from noteholders with respect to $273.0 million in aggregate principal amount of Convertible Notes requesting conversion as a result of the sales price condition having been met. Accordingly, in accordance with the terms of the Convertible Notes, in the fourth quarter of 2018, we made cash payments of this aggregate principal amount and delivered 1.3 million newly issued shares of our common stock in respect of the remainder of our conversion obligation in excess of the aggregate principal amount of the Convertible Notes being redeemed, in full satisfaction of such converted notes. We received shares of our common stock under the Bond Hedges that offset the issuance of shares of common stock upon conversion of the Convertible Notes. In addition, on or after October 15, 2018 until the close of business on the second scheduled trading day immediately preceding the April 15, 2019 maturity date, holders of the Convertible Notes have the right to convert their notes at any time, regardless of whether the sales price condition is met. Any conversions with respect to conversion notices received by us on or after October 15, 2018 will settle on the maturity date. As of December 31, 2018, the outstanding balance, net of discount, of $1.16 billion of the Convertible Notes is included current liabilities and the difference between the face value and carrying value of $8.1 million was is included in temporary equity in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. 

See Note 13 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018 for additional details on the Convertible Notes and the related bond hedges and warrant transactions. 

Historically, significant portions of our cash inflows were generated by our operations. We currently expect this trend to continue in 2019. We believe that our existing cash and investments together with cash flows expected from operations will be sufficient to meet expected operating and capital expenditure requirements and service our short term debt obligations (including repayment of the Convertible Notes on the maturity date) for the next 12 months. We continue to search for suitable acquisition candidates and could acquire or make investments in companies we believe are related to our strategic objectives. We could from time to time continue to seek to raise additional funds through the issuance of debt or equity securities for larger acquisitions, potential redemption of our Convertible Notes and for general corporate purposes.

 45

Cash, Cash Equivalents and Investments

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The decrease in cash, cash equivalents and investments at December 31, 2018 as compared to December 31, 2017, is primarily due to cash paid for stock repurchases of $1.26 billion, repayments on early conversion of our Convertible Notes of $273.0 million, cash paid for acquisitions, net of cash acquired, of $248.9 million, cash paid for tax withholding on vested stock awards of $71.6 million, purchases of property and equipment of $69.4 million, and cash dividends paid on common stock of $46.8 million. These decreases are partially offset by cash provided by our operating activities of $1.04 billion. As of December 31, 2018, $702.8 million of the $1.78 billion of cash, cash equivalents and investments was held by our foreign subsidiaries. As a result of the 2017 Tax Act, the cash, cash equivalents and investments held by our foreign subsidiaries can be repatriated without incurring any additional U.S. federal tax. Upon repatriation of these funds, we could be subject to foreign and U.S. state income taxes, as well as additional foreign withholding taxes. The amount of taxes due is dependent on the amount and manner of the repatriation, as well as the locations from which the funds are repatriated and received. We generally invest our cash and cash equivalents in investment grade, highly liquid securities to allow for flexibility in the event of immediate cash needs. Our short-term and long-term investments primarily consist of interest-bearing securities.

Stock Repurchase Program

Our Board of Directors authorized an ongoing stock repurchase program, of which $1.7 billion was approved in November 2017 and $750.0 million was approved in October 2018. We may use the approved dollar authority to repurchase stock at any time until the approved amounts are exhausted. The objective of our stock repurchase program is to improve stockholders’ returns. At December 31, 2018, approximately $767.9 million was available to repurchase common stock pursuant to the stock repurchase program. All shares repurchased are recorded as treasury stock in our consolidated balance sheets included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018. A portion of the funds used to repurchase stock over the course of the program was provided by net proceeds from the 2027 Notes and Convertible Notes offerings, as well as proceeds from employee stock awards and the related tax benefit.

We are authorized to make open market purchases of our common stock using general corporate funds through open market purchases or pursuant to a Rule 10b5-1 plan or in privately negotiated transactions.

During the year ended December 31, 2018, we expended approximately $511.2 million on open market purchases under the stock repurchase program, repurchasing 4,730,542 shares of outstanding common stock at an average price of $108.05. 

In addition to the repurchases described above, in 2017, we used the net proceeds from our 2027 Notes offering and existing cash and investments to repurchase an aggregate of approximately $750.0 million of our common stock as authorized under our stock repurchase program. We paid $750.0 million to the ASR counterparty under the ASR agreement and received approximately 7.1 million shares of our common stock from the ASR counterparty, which represented 80 percent of the shares to be repurchased pursuant to the ASR agreement. The total number of shares of common stock that we repurchased under the ASR agreement was based on the average of the daily volume-weighted average prices of our common stock during the term of the ASR agreement, less a discount. Final settlement of the ASR agreement was completed in January 2018 and we received delivery of an additional 1.4 million shares of our common stock. 

In February 2018, we entered into an ASR transaction with a counterparty to pay an aggregate of $750.0 million in exchange for the immediate delivery of approximately 6.5 million shares of our common stock based on current market prices. The purchase price per share under the ASR was based on the volume-weighted average price of our common stock during the term of the ASR, less a discount. The ASR was entered into pursuant to our existing share repurchase program. Final settlement of the ASR agreement was completed in April 2018 and we received delivery of an additional 1.6 million additional shares of our common stock.

See Note 13 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018 for detailed information on our 2027 Notes offering and the transactions related thereto.

During the year ended December 31, 2017, we expended approximately $575.0 million on open market purchases, repurchasing 7,384,368 shares of outstanding common stock at an average price of $77.86.

During the year ended December 31, 2016, we expended approximately $28.7 million on open market purchases, repurchasing 426,300 shares of outstanding common stock at an average price of $67.30. 

 46

Shares for Tax Withholding

During the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017, and 2016, we withheld 739,522 shares, 974,501 shares and 830,155 shares, respectively, from equity awards that vested. Amounts withheld to satisfy minimum tax withholding obligations that arose on the vesting of equity awards was $71.6 million for 2018, $80.0 million for 2017 and $66.6 million for 2016. These shares are reflected as treasury stock in our consolidated balance sheets included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018.

Contractual Obligations and Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement

Contractual Obligations

We have certain contractual obligations that are recorded as liabilities in our consolidated financial statements. Other items, such as operating lease obligations, are not recognized as liabilities in our consolidated financial statements, but are required to be disclosed in the notes to our consolidated financial statements.

The following table summarizes our significant contractual obligations at December 31, 2018 and the future periods in which such obligations are expected to be settled in cash. Additional details regarding these obligations are provided in the notes to our consolidated financial statements (in thousands):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) The amounts in the table above include $64.3 million in exited facility costs related to restructuring activities. [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(4) Purchase obligations represent non-cancelable commitments to purchase inventory ordered before year-end 2018 of approximately $5.3 million and a contingent obligation to purchase inventory of approximately $16.6 million. It also includes minimum purchase commitments for our use of certain cloud services with a third-party provider of $50.0 million. 

(5) Represents transition tax payable on deemed repatriation of deferred foreign income incurred as a result of the 2017 Tax Act. See Note 11 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018 for further information.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

As of December 31, 2018, we did not have any individually material capital lease obligations or other material long-term commitments reflected on our consolidated balance sheets.

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

We do not have any special purpose entities or off-balance sheet financing arrangements.

 47

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK