ITEM 1. BUSINESS

Business Overview

Citrix Systems, Inc., or Citrix, the Company, we or us, is a Delaware corporation incorporated on April 17, 1989. 

Citrix aims to power a better way to work by delivering the experience, security, and choice people and organizations need to unlock innovation, engage customers, and be productive - anytime, anywhere. It is our vision to deliver a general purpose digital workspace that empowers all users with unified, secure, and reliable access to all apps and content needed to be productive - anytime, anywhere. We help customers reimagine the future of work by delivering unified digital workspace, networking, and analytics solutions that improve employee experience and productivity, while also simplifying IT’s ability to adopt and manage complex cloud environments.

Digital transformation is occurring in every industry at a rapid pace. Businesses today are adopting cloud services and software as a service, or SaaS, apps on a broad basis. Many businesses are juggling multiple cloud providers and dozens of new SaaS apps. Yet, we believe many organizations will still be managing legacy infrastructure and on-premises workloads for many years to come. This combination of increased complexity with mobility and new workstyles results in a fragmented user experience, an increase in security risks, and IT teams challenged to properly manage the technology needs of organizations.

As a result of this convergence of cloud, legacy systems, and newer technologies, including artificial intelligence and machine learning, organizations are now seeking to adopt multi-cloud, hybrid-cloud strategies for their IT infrastructure, so that they can provide flexibility to navigate all systems and security to address ever-expanding attack surfaces, all without sacrificing experience for their end users.

As we continue on our journey of cloud transformation as an organization, we are focused on three strategic priorities. First, we are accelerating our move to a subscription-based business model and to offer all of our solutions as cloud services to give organizations flexibility in how they work. Second, we are continuing to unify our portfolio to simplify user and IT experience. Finally, to help meet the expected demands of the future, we are expanding our opportunities with adjacent technologies to help extend value to our customers and meet their needs in the future. In 2018, Citrix made acquisitions in two such areas, acquiring Cedexis for Intelligent Traffic Management to boost the capabilities of our networking solutions, and Sapho to expand Intelligent Workflow capabilities into the Citrix Workspace solutions. 

In 2018, we retired all of our point product brand names to simplify our positioning and product naming to make our solutions easier to understand, sell and buy. Citrix simplified its solutions naming to three categories: Digital Workspace, Networking, and Analytics. We moved all products to a functional descriptor naming mechanism, such as Citrix Virtual Apps and Desktops, Citrix ADC, Citrix SD-WAN, Citrix Endpoint Management, etc. We market and license our solutions through multiple channels worldwide, including selling through resellers and direct over the Web. Our partner community comprises thousands of value-added resellers, or VARs known as Citrix Solution Advisors, value-added distributors, or VADs, systems integrators, or SIs, independent software vendors, or ISVs, original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs, and Citrix Service Providers, or CSPs.

Separation of GoTo Business

On January 31, 2017, we completed the separation and subsequent merger of the GoTo family of service offerings of our wholly-owned subsidiary, GetGo, Inc., or GetGo, to LogMeIn, Inc., or LogMeIn, pursuant to a pro rata distribution to our stockholders of 100% of the shares of common stock of GetGo, pursuant to a Reverse Morris Trust, or RMT, transaction. The GoTo family of service offerings consisted of GoToMeeting, GoToWebinar, GoToTraining, GoToMyPC, GoToAssist, Grasshopper and OpenVoice, or collectively the GoTo Business, and had historically been part of our GoTo Business segment. As a result, the consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and related financial information reflect the GoTo Business operations, assets and liabilities, and cash flows as discontinued operations for all periods presented. See Note 3 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information.

 3

Solutions and Services

We are enabling the future of work by delivering digital workspace, networking, and analytics solutions that help customers drive innovation and be productive anytime, anywhere. Our unified, contextual and secure digital workspace enables customers to deliver and manage the apps, desktops, data and devices users need. The Citrix networking portfolio, when implemented with digital workspace, ensures consistency of user experience, enables agile delivery of new and merging application types, and facilitates reliability and performance from any resource location. 

Our customers can realize the full benefits of hybrid and multi-cloud environments while simplifying management and overcoming security challenges. Our solutions and services target customers of all sizes, from small businesses to large global enterprises. 

Our secure digital workspace technologies are available as cloud services and can be managed as hybrid and multi-cloud environments. Our cloud-based services, or Citrix Cloud Services, enable our customers to provide a flexible way to manage their applications and data. This cloud-based approach is designed to provide reduced infrastructure, centralized control and SaaS-style updates resulting in lower administration cost and complexity. These cloud services are available as an integrated service or as individual services scaled to meet our customers’ business needs. 

We offer subscription-based and on-premise subscription software and perpetual licenses for our solutions, along with annual subscriptions for software updates and technical support. Perpetual licenses allow our customers to use the version of software initially purchased into perpetuity, while subscription licenses are limited to a specified period of time. Customer Success Services, which include software maintenance subscriptions, give customers the right to upgrade to new software versions if and when any updates are delivered during the subscription term. Perpetual license software comes primarily in electronic-based forms. We also offer on-premise subscription licenses to service providers through the Citrix Service Provider program, which are invoiced on a monthly basis based on reported license usage. Our services delivered via the cloud are accessed over the Internet for usage during the subscription period. Our hardware appliances come pre-loaded with software for which customers can purchase perpetual licenses and annual support and maintenance.

Digital Workspace (formerly Workspace Services)

Application Virtualization and VDI

Our Application Virtualization and Virtual Desktop Infrastructure, or VDI, solutions give employees the freedom to work from anywhere while cutting IT costs, securely delivering Windows, Linux, Web and SaaS apps, plus full virtual desktops to any device. 

•Citrix Virtual Apps and Desktops (formerly XenDesktop) is a fully-integrated, cloud-enabled app and desktop virtualization solution that gives customers the flexibility to remotely deliver desktops and applications - from any cloud, on-premises datacenters or both. Citrix Virtual Apps and Desktops include HDX technologies to give users a high-definition experience - even when using multimedia, real-time voice and video collaboration, USB devices and 3D graphics content - while consuming less bandwidth than competing solutions. Citrix Virtual Apps and Desktops is available in multiple editions designed for different requirements, from simple VDI-only deployments to sophisticated, enterprise-class desktop and application delivery services that can meet the needs of everything from basic call center environments to high-powered graphics workstations. With Citrix Virtual Apps and Desktops Advanced and Premium editions - as well as the cloud service - customers also receive Citrix Virtual Apps to manage and mobilize Windows applications.

•Citrix Virtual Apps (formerly XenApp) is a widely deployed solution that enables Windows and Linux applications to be remotely delivered to Macs, PCs, thin clients and Android/iOS mobile devices from any cloud, on-premises datacenter or both. Citrix Virtual Apps enable people to work better by running applications in the security of the data center or cloud, and using Citrix HDX technologies to deliver a superior user experience to any device, anywhere. Keeping business applications under the centralized control of IT administrators enhances security and reduces the costs of managing applications on every PC. Exclusively available as a cloud service, on-premises or hybrid solution, it allows customers to choose the deployment option that best aligns with their enterprise cloud strategy. In partnership with Microsoft, Citrix Virtual Apps is designed to embrace and extend Microsoft Remote Desktop technology by providing advanced provisioning, performance, monitoring and management functionality. Our joint solution with Microsoft lowers the cost of delivering and maintaining Windows applications for all users in the enterprise.

 4

Citrix Endpoint Management (formerly Enterprise Mobility Management)

Increasingly, for many employees, mobile devices are their workspaces. Our Citrix Endpoint Management (formerly XenMobile) solutions are designed to increase productivity and security with mobile device management, or MDM, mobile application management, or MAM, mobile content management, or MCM, secure network gateway, secure email, and enterprise-grade mobile apps in one comprehensive solution.

•Citrix Endpoint Management provides unified endpoint management for a secure digital workspace allowing IT to meet mobile device security and compliance requirements for "bring your own device" programs and corporate devices while enabling user productivity. As part of a workspace, Citrix Endpoint Management centralizes the management of mobile devices, traditional desktops, laptops and Internet of Things, or IoT, through a single platform. Citrix Endpoint Management directly integrates with Microsoft EMS/Intune to extend mobility and device management capabilities.

Content Collaboration

Our Content Collaboration offering meets the collaboration and mobility needs of users, with scalable data security requirements for small business to the enterprise. 

•Citrix Content Collaboration (formerly ShareFile) is a secure, cloud-based file sharing and storage solution built for mobile business, giving users enterprise-class data services across all corporate and personal mobile devices, while maintaining total IT control. Citrix Content Collaboration protects data throughout the storage and transfer process, using up to 256-bit encryption and SSL or Transport Layer Security, or TLS, encryption protocols for transfer and 256-bit encryption for files at rest on ShareFile servers. Password protection and granular access to folders and files stored with Citrix Content Collaboration ensure that data remains in control of the company. With Citrix Content Collaboration Enterprise, organizations can manage their data on-premises in customer managed StorageZones, select Citrix managed secure cloud options or create a mix of both to meet the needs for data sovereignty, compliance, performance and costs. For businesses that use multiple storage repositories, Citrix Content Collaboration provides unified access to a wide range of cloud-based and on-premises storage repositories, making it simple and easy for employees to find and access their files and documents. Additionally, Citrix Content Collaboration supports e-signature, feedback and approval workflows that help businesses adopt the mobile, digital office.

Citrix Workspace

We offer customers the opportunity to acquire a number of Citrix products through a single comprehensive integrated offering, Citrix Workspace, which includes our Citrix Virtual Apps and Desktops, Citrix Endpoint Management, Citrix Content Collaboration, Citrix Analytics and networking products. Citrix Workspace securely delivers the apps, desktops, branch networking and WAN, enterprise mobility management and data people need for business productivity. We offer one of the industry’s most complete and integrated digital workspaces that is streamlined for IT control and easily accessible for users. 

•Citrix Workspace delivers a unified user experience for any app or desktop on any device, including tablets, smartphones, PCs, Macs or thin clients. IT can securely deliver content over low-bandwidth high-latency WANs, highly variable 3G/4G mobile networks or a reliable corporate LAN to improve end-user experience while offering enterprise-grade security to data and applications. Citrix Workspace provides a unified, flexible solution that can streamline device, application and desktop deployment and lifecycle management to increase employee engagement, productivity, and reduce IT costs. Citrix Workspace offers choice of device, cloud and network and can be deployed on-premises, via the cloud or as a hosted service.

Networking

Our Networking products are available via hardware or software-based solutions and allow organizations to deliver apps and data with the security, reliability, and speed trusted by thousands of customers worldwide.

•Citrix ADC (formerly NetScaler ADC) is a software-defined application delivery controller designed to meet the demands of organizations undergoing digital transformation. Citrix ADC enables the adoption of hybrid and multi-cloud application delivery with improved application performance, reliability and security at an optimized price point. Citrix ADC allows customers to obtain detailed application analytics with the value of machine learning. It also optimizes application delivery for cloud native application architectures based on the Kubernetes orchestration platform, and provides service graph analytics for efficient troubleshooting within the microservices environment. Additionally, we extend the platform with best-of-breed web application firewall, or WAF, capabilities 

 5

that protect web applications and sites from both known and unknown attacks, which include application-layer and zero-day threats.

•Citrix SD-WAN (formerly NetScaler SD-WAN) increases the security, performance and reliability of applications delivered from the legacy data center, cloud, or SaaS, while delivering additional value for virtualized applications and desktops. The platform combines routing, security, WAN optimization, and path control to simplify implementation and maintenance of the branch network, allowing customers to adopt a hybrid WAN architecture that effectively increases WAN capacity and manageability.

Support

Citrix offers technical support to minimize business downtime for our customers. Several options are available.

•Customer Success Services are offered in support of our perpetual software and our cloud-based services. Customers are given a choice of tiered offerings combining product version upgrades, guidance, enablement, support and proactive monitoring to help customers and partners fully realize their business goals and maximize their Citrix investments. Additionally, customers may upgrade to receive personalized support from a dedicated team led by an assigned account manager. Fees associated with this offering are recognized ratably over the term of the contract.

•Hardware Maintenance is offered in support of our Networking products. Customers are given a choice of tiered offerings including technical support, software upgrades, and replacement of malfunctioning appliances. Dedicated account management is available as an add-on to the program. Fees associated with this offering are recognized ratably over the term of the contract.

Professional Services 

We offer a portfolio of professional services to help business partners and customers manage the quality of implementation, operation and support of our solutions. These services are available for additional fees, paid on an annual or transactional basis.

•Citrix Consulting guides the successful implementation of Citrix technologies and solutions with proven methodologies, tools and leading practices. Citrix Consulting focuses on strategic engagements with enterprise customers who have complex, mission-critical, or large-scale Citrix deployments. These engagements are typically fee-based engagements for the most challenging projects in terms of scope and complexity, requiring consultants with project methodology qualifications and Citrix expertise. Citrix Consulting is also responsible for developing best practices which are disseminated to businesses, partners and end users through training and written documentation. Leveraging these best practices enables our integration resellers to provide more complex systems, reach new buyers within existing customer organizations, and provide more sophisticated system proposals to prospective customers.

•Product Training & Certification enables customers and partners to be successful with Citrix and achieve business objectives faster. Authorized Citrix training is available as needed. Traditional or virtual instructor-led training offerings feature Citrix Certified Instructors delivering Citrix-developed courseware in a classroom or remote setting at one of our Citrix Authorized Learning Centers, or CALCs, worldwide. Self-Paced Online offerings provide technically robust course content without an instructor and include hands-on practice via virtual labs. Certifications validate key skills and are available for administrators, engineers, architects and sales professionals.

Customers 

We believe that the primary IT buyers involved in decision-making related to our solutions are the following:

•Strategic IT Executives including chief information officers, chief technology officers, chief information security officers and vice presidents of infrastructure, who have responsibility for ensuring that IT services are enablers to business initiatives and are delivered with the best performance, availability, security and cost.

•Desktop Operations Managers who are responsible for managing Windows Desktop environments including corporate help desks.

•IT Infrastructure Managers who are responsible for managing and delivering Windows-based applications.

•Directors of Messaging and Mobility, who are, respectively, responsible for messaging technologies and defining mobile strategies and solutions for securing and managing mobile devices including their content and applications. 

•Network Architects who are responsible for delivering Web-based applications who have primary responsibility for the WAN infrastructure for all applications. 

 6

•Server Operations Managers who are responsible for specifying datacenter systems and managing daily operations.

•Small business owners who are responsible for choosing the systems needed to support their business goals, such as SaaS.

•Chief technology officer and engineering department (managers and architects, among others) for telecommunications service providers.

•Line of business and functional executives that determine the need for our cloud and subscription-based offerings at certain enterprises.

•Chief information officer and engineering departments within service providers, using our solutions to deliver desktops and applications as hosted cloud services.

The IT buyers for our solutions include a wide variety of industries including those in financial services, technology, healthcare, education, government and telecom.

Technology Relationships 

We have a number of technology relationships in place to accelerate the development of existing and future solutions and our go-to-market initiatives. These relationships include cross-licensing, OEM, resell, joint reference architectures, and other arrangements that result in better solutions for our customers. 

Microsoft

For almost 30 years, Citrix and Microsoft have maintained a strategic partnership spanning product development, go-to-market initiatives and partner development, enabling our mutual customers’ secure, high-performance delivery of applications, desktops and data to their employees anywhere, anytime on any device. Together, Citrix and Microsoft offer solutions and services that aid and accelerate the transition from on-premises IT infrastructure and practices to emerging hybrid-cloud and multi-cloud delivery models for the full breadth of legacy and modern applications. These solutions and services include the unique ability to deliver Windows 10 desktops hosted within the Microsoft Azure cloud platform, services to deploy apps directly on Azure, Office 365 and Microsoft Teams integrations, and smart tools to simplify the deployment of a new class of integrated workspaces that include legacy Windows apps and a growing array of popular SaaS applications. 

In 2018, we announced a new collaboration agreement to provide customers a simplified experience by enabling them to purchase and deploy Citrix-powered digital workspaces and networking solutions directly within Microsoft Azure. We also announced a number of new services and capabilities to assist organizations in the planning and execution of their cloud migrations and accelerate adoption. We also created the Citrix and Microsoft Cloud Alliance program to provide our joint partners with the resources, training and enablement needed to ensure our customers’ success.

Google

We continue to build on our five-year partnership with Google through which we bring digital workspace solutions to enterprise customers who are increasingly looking to public and hybrid clouds to address competitive demands and solve business challenges. Our technology integrations provide cloud delivery of Citrix applications and desktops, power management and Citrix ADC with Google Cloud. In 2018, we announced a new Citrix ADC integration that allows developers to take advantage of Google Cloud Platform cloud computing capabilities alongside Citrix load balancing and traffic management features to manage their workloads in a simple, secure and reliable way. We also continue to optimize Citrix Endpoint Management to support Android and Chrome devices, as well as Citrix Workspace App to enable organizations to provision, manage and deliver apps on Chrome devices.

Additional Relationships

We have developed our partner ecosystem to enable infrastructure choice for our Citrix Cloud customers. For public cloud choice, we have relationships with Microsoft Azure, Google Cloud, AWS and Oracle. Moreover, in the past year we announced the Citrix Workspace Appliance program to enable a hybrid cloud choice for on-premises solutions. We are also forging partnerships with SaaS providers to deliver cloud access control and intelligent workspaces. In August of 2018, we announced the availability of the Citrix IT Service Management Connector, an offering jointly developed with ServiceNow that reduces the time involved in application and desktop provisioning, and improves the employee experience.

Delivering Secure and Cost-Effective Hybrid Cloud Solutions with Hewlett Packard Enterprise, Cisco, Lenovo and FlexxibleIT

In delivering choice, we recognize that many enterprise customers have significant investments in on-premises infrastructure that continues to serve their financial investments or have regulatory requirements that require data control and governance. Together with our infrastructure partners like Hewlett Packard Enterprise, or HPE, Cisco, Lenovo and FlexxibleIT, 

 7

we provide a simple and fast way to deploy hybrid cloud app and desktop virtualization that is scalable and secure. With Citrix Cloud Services, companies can quickly and cost-effectively create a centrally managed, enterprise-class virtualized app and desktop environment in a rack-mounted appliance and manage VDI as-a-service in the cloud with simple subscription-based pricing. Compute, network and storage are pre-integrated with a Citrix Cloud connection in an easy to use hyper converged infrastructure, or HCI, appliance, and the offering is tested and certified as Citrix Ready, which showcases verified products that are trusted to enhance Citrix solutions for mobility, virtualization, networking and cloud platforms. 

We continue to invest in our Global System Integrator partnerships with organizations that have multiple offerings in the market with Citrix Digital Workspace and Citrix Networking solutions, including IBM, DXC, and Fujitsu. In addition, our partners continue to expand their focus on the broad range of our solutions. We also continue to provide an easy way for our customers to locate compatible solutions and our channel partners to evaluate and deploy joint offerings through our Citrix Ready program. Active partners, including Amazon Web Services, Cisco, Google, Microsoft and hundreds of other technology companies, use the Citrix Ready Program to learn about and integrate with Citrix technology across our products for workspace, networking, and analytics with the number of verified products available in the Citrix Ready Marketplace growing over the past year.

Research and Development 

Our innovation engine continues to advance, and our growth in Citrix Cloud Services has also accelerated our innovation and shortened the time to value for end-users. As of December 31, 2018, we held a worldwide portfolio of 2,725 patents and had an additional 1,126 patent applications pending.

We focus our research and development efforts on developing new cross-portfolio solutions across our Digital Workspaces, Networking and Analytics solutions and services, while continuing to invest in functional improvements to our core market technologies to expand Citrix differentiation and opportunity within each category. We solicit extensive feedback concerning product development from customers, both directly from and indirectly, through our channel distributors and partners. We believe that our global software development teams and our core technologies represent a significant competitive advantage for us. Included in the software development teams are individuals focused on research activities that include prototyping ways to integrate emerging technologies and standards into our product offerings. We incurred research and development expenses of $440.0 million in 2018, $415.8 million in 2017 and $395.4 million in 2016.

Sales, Marketing and Services 

We market and license our solutions through multiple channels worldwide, including selling through resellers, direct and over the Web. Our partner community comprises thousands of value-added resellers known as Citrix Solution Advisors, VADs, SIs, ISVs, OEMs, and CSPs. Distribution channels are managed by our worldwide sales and services organization. Partners receive training and certification opportunities to support our portfolio of solutions and services.

We reward our partners that identify new business, and provide sales expertise, services delivery, customer education, technical implementation and support of our portfolio of solutions through our incentive program. We continue to focus on increasing the productivity of our existing partners, while also adding new transacting partners, building capacity through targeted recruitment, introducing programs to increase partner mindshare, limit channel conflict and increase partner loyalty to us.

As we lead with the cloud, we have been cultivating a global base of technology partners within our CSP program. Our CSP program provides subscription-based services in which the CSP partners host software services to their end users. Our CSP partners, consisting of managed service providers, ISVs, Citrix Solution Advisors, hosting providers and telcos, among others, license our desktop, application, networking and enterprise mobility management solutions on a monthly consumption basis. With our software, these partners then create differentiated offers of their own, consisting of cloud-hosted applications and cloud-hosted desktops, which they manage for various customers, ranging from SMBs to enterprise IT. Besides supplying technology, we are actively engaged in assisting these partners in developing their hosted businesses either within their respective data centers or leveraging public cloud infrastructure by supplying business and marketing assistance.

Engagement with SIs and ISVs continues to be a substantial part of our strategic roadmap within large enterprise and government markets. Our integrator partnerships include organizations such as Atos, Accenture, Avanade, Capgemini, Dimension Data, DXC, Fujitsu, IBM Global Services, TCS and Wipro, who all deliver consultancy or global offerings powered by the Citrix Workspace. The ISV program maintains a strong representation across targeted industry verticals including healthcare, financial services and telecommunications. Members in the ISV program include Allscripts, Cerner Corporation, Epic Systems Corporation and McKesson Corporation, among several others. For all of our channels, we regularly take actions to improve the effectiveness of our partner programs and further strengthen our channel relationships through management of 

 8

non-performing partners, recruitment of partners with expertise in selling into new markets and forming additional strategic global and national partnerships.

Our corporate marketing organization provides an integrated global approach to sales and industry event support, digital and social marketing, sales enablement tools and collateral, advertising, direct mail, industry analyst relations and public relations coverage to market our solutions. Our efforts in marketing are focused on generating leads for our sales organization and our indirect channels to acquire net new accounts and expand our presence with existing customers. Our partner development organization actively supports our partners to improve their commitment and capabilities with Citrix solutions. Our customer sales organization consists of field-based sales engineers and corporate sales professionals who work directly with our largest customers, and coordinate integration services provided by our partners. Additional sales personnel, working in central locations and in the field, provide support including recruitment of prospective partners and technical training with respect to our solutions.

In fiscal year 2018, one distributor, the Arrow Group, accounted for 14%, of our total net revenues. In fiscal year 2017 and 2016, two distributors, Ingram Micro and Arrow, accounted for 13% and 12%, respectively, of our total net revenues. Our distributor arrangements with Ingram Micro and Arrow consist of several non-exclusive, independently negotiated agreements with its subsidiaries, each of which covers different countries or regions. See “Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates” and Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018 for information regarding our revenue recognition policy.

International revenues (sales outside the United States) accounted for approximately 47.0% of our net revenues for the year ended December 31, 2018, 46.3% of our net revenues for the year ended December 31, 2017 and 46.3% of our net revenues for the year ended December 31, 2016. For detailed information on our international revenues, please refer to Note 12 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018.

Segment Revenue

We operate under one reportable segment. For additional information, see Note 12 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018.

Operations

For our cloud-based solutions, we use a combination of co-located hosting facilities and increasingly Microsoft Azure and Amazon Web Services as well as other infrastructure-as-a-service providers. For our Networking products, which include Citrix ADC, we use independent contractors to provide a redundant source of manufacture and assembly capabilities. Independent contractors provide us with the flexibility needed to meet our product quality and delivery requirements. We have manufacturing relationships that we enter into in the ordinary course of business, primarily with Flextronics under which we have subcontracted the majority of our hardware manufacturing activity, generally on a purchase order basis. These third-party contract manufacturers also provide final test, warehousing and shipping services. This subcontracting activity extends from prototypes to full production and includes activities such as material procurement, final assembly, test, control, shipment to our customers and repairs. Together with our contract manufacturers, we design, specify and monitor the tests that are required to meet internal and external quality standards. Our contract manufacturers manufacture our products based on forecasted demand for our solutions. Each of the contract manufacturers procures components necessary to assemble the products in our forecast and test the products according to our specifications. We are dual-sourced on our components, however, in some instances, those sources may be located in the same geographic area. Accordingly, if a natural disaster occurred in one of those areas, we may need to seek additional sources. Products are then shipped to our distributors, VARs or end-users. If the products go unsold for specified periods of time, we may incur carrying charges or obsolete material charges for products ordered to meet our forecast or customer orders. In 2018, we did not experience any material difficulties or significant delays in the manufacture and assembly of our products.

We are responsible for all purchasing, inventory, scheduling, order processing and accounting functions related to our operations. For our software products, production, warehousing and shipping are performed by our independent contractors HPE, Ireland and Digital River. Master software, development of user manuals, packaging designs, initial product quality control and testing are primarily performed at our facilities. In some cases, independent contractors also duplicate master software, print documentation and package and assemble products to our specifications. 

While it is generally our practice to promptly ship our products upon receipt of properly finalized orders, at any given time, we have confirmed product license orders that have not shipped and are unfulfilled. We refer to those unfulfilled product license orders at the end of a given period as “product and license backlog.” As of December 31, 2018 and 2017, the amount of 

 9

product and license backlog was not material. We do not believe that backlog, as of any particular date, is a reliable indicator of future performance.

We believe that our fourth quarter revenues and expenses are affected by a number of seasonal factors, including the lapse of many corporations' fiscal year budgets and an increase in amounts paid pursuant to our sales compensation plans due to compensation plan accelerators that are often triggered in the fourth quarter. We believe that these seasonal factors are common within our industry. Such factors historically have resulted in first quarter revenues in any year being lower than the immediately preceding fourth quarter. We expect this trend to continue through the first quarter of 2019. In addition, our European operations generally generate lower revenues in the summer months because of the generally reduced economic activity in Europe during the summer. This seasonal factor also typically results in higher fourth quarter revenues on a sequential basis. 

Competition 

We sell our solutions in intensely competitive markets. Some of our competitors and potential competitors have significantly greater financial, technical, sales and marketing and other resources than we do. As the markets for our solutions and services continue to develop, additional companies, including those with significant market presence in the computer appliances, software, cloud services and networking industries, could enter the markets in which we compete and further intensify competition. In addition, we believe price competition could become a more significant competitive factor in the future. As a result, we may not be able to maintain our historic prices and margins, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. See “Technology Relationships” and Part I-Item 1A entitled “Risk Factors” included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018.

Digital Workspace 

Our Application Virtualization and VDI solutions are based on a proprietary technology platform, the success of which will depend on organizations and customers perceiving technological, operational and security benefits and cost savings associated with adopting desktop and application virtualization solutions. We differentiate our platform from basic virtualization solutions with robust security, higher flexibility and better end user experience to enable IT to deliver Windows and Linux apps and desktops for better business outcomes. Citrix also provides a hardened browser integrated into a web/SaaS access control solution. This enables customers to tightly control how web and SaaS applications are consumed by their users and prevents information leakage. Integration between Secure Web Gateway and Secure Browser Service provides customers with a protective layer between the internet and their secure internal network. Citrix Analytics is a user behavior analytics solution focused on the digital workspace. We also differentiate ourselves from other vendors because we are the only one to offer unified management for all components of the digital workspace that uniquely addresses the needs of on-premises, cloud or hybrid deployments. We also face numerous competitors that provide automation of these processes and approaches, including VMware's Horizon product and the emergence of virtual applications and desktop delivery from public and private cloud services, including Amazon Web Service’s product Amazon WorkSpaces. Also, there continues to be an increase in the number of alternatives to Windows-based applications and Windows operating system powered desktops, particularly in SaaS-delivered applications and mobile devices, such as smartphones and tablets. We believe Citrix Virtual Apps and Desktops give us a competitive advantage by providing customers multiple ways to virtualize and deliver desktops and/or apps with a single integrated virtualization system and delivering a higher performance user experience, more robust security and the flexibility for people to use any device and IT to use any infrastructure, public or private clouds, hyper-converged, traditional servers and storage, or combinations of each.

Our unified endpoint management solution line, Citrix Endpoint Management, competes with companies including AirWatch by VMware, MobileIron, BlackBerry and many other competitors. We believe we differentiate ourselves from these competitors by providing a complete solution, with MDM, MAM and superior core mobile productivity applications, including secure mobile email, calendar, browser, and editing along with integration with Microsoft's EMS mobility management platform and Microsoft Intune. With Citrix Endpoint Management, we also provide robust security and mobile productivity applications that have the deepest and most user friendly integration with Microsoft Office 365. Our apps feature unique workflow integrations designed to make people work better, a significant advantage over competitors that do not focus on the end user experience and either have basic applications or rely on third parties to deliver similar integrations.

We also see competition from competitors that are combining mobile and desktop technologies. We believe our solution, Citrix Workspace, is one of the best solutions available today that can securely deliver a secure digital workspace - with any Windows, Linux, Web, SaaS and native mobile applications, data and virtual desktops - to any device, anywhere. For example, VMware offers the VMware Workspace Suite and more recently introduced VMware Workspace ONE. We expect other vendors to follow suit. We offer market-leading technologies for every component of the Citrix Workspace. Furthermore, we 

 10

believe that our end-user experience is a competitive edge when compared to the alternative solutions due to the integration, intuitiveness and self-service features of our offerings. 

In the content collaboration space, our Citrix Content Collaboration solution's direct competition includes Dropbox, Box, Syncplicity, Egnyte, Inc., BlackBerry's Watchdox, Accellion, and Google, as well as legacy solutions such as traditional file transfer protocol, or FTP. Many of these competitors have strong brand recognition through consumer and free versions of their products. However, we believe Citrix Content Collaboration offers a superior solution for businesses as it is built specifically for the needs of the business. Our solutions are further differentiated through our ability to store data on-premise or in the Cloud, integration into Citrix Workspace, collaboration with external parties at no additional cost, and the ability to create workflows, eSignatures, and custom forms. Integration into Citrix Analytics for a holistic workspace-centric user behavior analysis, and the ability to connect Citrix Content Collaboration to existing storage repositories are additional key differentiators.

Networking

Our Citrix ADC hardware products compete in traditional data-center-deployed application environments against other established competitors, including F5 Networks, Inc., Dell, Inc., KEMP Technologies, Inc., Fortinet Inc., Radware, A10 Networks, Broadcom, Array Networks, Inc., and AVI Networks, Inc. In addition, with new cloud-integrated and software centric use cases, large cloud providers, such as Amazon Web Services and Microsoft Azure, provide customers with competitive ADC solutions built into their public cloud platforms. The ADC segment also includes a number of emerging start-up and open source software-based companies, such as HA PROXY Technologies, LLC. and NGINX, Inc., which generally focus on developers rather than enterprise customers. We continue to enhance Citrix ADC’s feature capability and invest in go-to-market resources to market Citrix ADC to our existing customer base and new potential customers.

Our Citrix SD-WAN product competes against both traditional WAN optimization and infrastructure vendors, such as Riverbed, VMware, Cisco, Silver Peak Systems and Oracle. Additionally, WAN service providers are integrating and reselling SD-WAN products as a part of their service offering from vendors including VMware, Cisco, Riverbed and Versa Networks, Inc. We have partnered with Microsoft to provide SD-WAN capability into Azure as a part of the Azure Virtual WAN.

Technology and Intellectual Property

Innovation is a core Citrix competency. We have developed many innovations that are important enablers of our continued leadership. Our success is dependent upon our solutions, which are based on intellectual property and core proprietary and open source technologies. These technologies include innovations that optimize the end-to-end user experience in virtual desktop and virtual application environments, enhance networking capabilities and deliver a holistic mobile computing experience.

We have been awarded numerous domestic and foreign patents and have numerous pending patent applications in the United States and foreign countries. Our technology is also protected under copyright laws. Additionally, we rely on trade secret protection and confidentiality and proprietary information agreements to protect our proprietary technology. We have established proprietary trademark rights in markets across the globe, and own hundreds of U.S. and foreign trademark registrations and pending registration applications for marks comprised of or incorporating the Citrix name. See our "Research and Development" discussion above and Part I-Item 1A entitled “Risk Factors” included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018. 

Available Information

Our Internet address is http://www.citrix.com. We make available, free of charge, on or through our website our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission. The information on our website is not part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018.

Employees

As of December 31, 2018, we had approximately 8,200 employees. We believe our relations with employees are good. In certain countries outside the United States, our relations with employees are governed by labor regulations that provide for specific terms of employment between our company and our employees.

 11

ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS