Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 

We are exposed to a variety of market risks, including credit risk, commodity price risk and interest rate risk. We address these risks through a program of risk management which includes the use of derivative instruments. The following quantitative and qualitative information is provided about financial instruments to which we are a party at December 31, 2018, and from which we may incur future gains or losses from changes in market interest rates or commodity prices and losses from extension of credit. We do not enter into derivative or other financial instruments for speculative or trading purposes. 

Hypothetical changes in interest rates and commodity prices chosen for the following estimated sensitivity analysis are considered to be reasonably possible near-term changes generally based on consideration of past fluctuations for each risk category. However, since it is not possible to accurately predict future changes in interest rates and commodity prices, these hypothetical changes may not necessarily be an indicator of probable future fluctuations. 

Credit risk. We monitor our risk of loss due to non-performance by counterparties of their contractual obligations. Our principal exposure to credit risk is through the sale of our oil and natural gas production, which we market to energy marketing companies and refineries and, to a lesser extent, our derivative counterparties. We monitor our exposure to these counterparties primarily by reviewing credit ratings, financial statements and payment history. We extend credit terms based on our evaluation of each counterparty’s creditworthiness.  

We have entered into International Swap Dealers Association Master Agreements (“ISDA Agreements”) with each of our derivative counterparties. The terms of the ISDA Agreements provide us and the counterparties with rights of set-off upon the occurrence of defined acts of default by either us or a counterparty to a derivative, whereby the party not in default may set off all derivative liabilities owed to the defaulting party against all derivative asset receivables from the defaulting party. See Note 9 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” for additional information regarding our derivative activities. 

Commodity price risk. We are exposed to market risk as the prices of our commodities are subject to fluctuations resulting from changes in supply and demand. To reduce our exposure to changes in the prices of our commodities, we have entered into, and may in the future enter into, additional commodity price risk management arrangements for a portion of our oil and natural gas production. The agreements that we have entered into generally have the effect of providing us with a fixed price for a portion of our expected future oil and natural gas production over a fixed period of time. Our commodity price risk management arrangements are recorded at fair value and thus changes to the future commodity prices will have an impact on our earnings. The following table sets forth the hypothetical impact on the fair value of the commodity price risk management arrangements from an average increase and decrease in the commodity price of $5.00 per Bbl of oil and $0.50 per MMBtu of natural gas from the average commodity prices for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Our commodity price risk management arrangements expose us to risk of non-performance by the counterparty to the agreements. Our exposure to the risk of non-performance is diversified over large, investment grade financial institutions. In addition, we have master netting agreements with the counterparties that allow for offsetting payables against receivables from separate contracts with the same counterparty. At December 31, 2018, the counterparties to our commodity price risk management arrangements include fourteen financial institutions, the majority of which are lenders under our Credit Facility. Risk of non-performance is considered when determining the fair value of our commodity price risk management arrangements. The fair value adjustment for non-performance risk was immaterial at December 31, 2018. If at any point a counterparty’s financial position deteriorates, such deterioration could have a significant impact on the collectability of that counterparty’s related commodity price risk management arrangement asset. See Note 13 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” for additional information regarding our significant derivative counterparties. 

At December 31, 2018, we had (i) oil price swaps and oil costless collars covering future oil production from January 1, 2019 through December 31, 2020 and (ii) oil basis swaps covering our Midland to Cushing basis differential from January 1, 2019 to December 31, 2021. The NYMEX oil price at December 31, 2018 was $45.41 per Bbl. At February 15, 2019, the NYMEX oil price was $55.59 per Bbl.  

71   

At December 31, 2018, we had natural gas price swaps that settle on a monthly basis covering future natural gas production from January 1, 2019 to December 31, 2020. The NYMEX natural gas price at December 31, 2018 was $2.94 per MMBtu. At February 15, 2019, the NYMEX natural gas price was $2.63 per MMBtu. See Note 9 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” for additional information on our commodity derivative instruments. 

A decrease in the average forward NYMEX oil and natural gas prices below those at December 31, 2018 would increase the fair value asset of our commodity derivative contracts from their recorded balances at December 31, 2018. Changes in the recorded fair value of our commodity derivative contracts are marked to market through earnings as gains or losses. The potential increase in our fair value asset would be recorded in earnings as a gain. However, an increase in the average forward NYMEX oil and natural gas prices above those at December 31, 2018 would decrease the fair value asset of our commodity derivative contracts from their recorded balances at December 31, 2018. The potential decrease in our fair value asset would be recorded in earnings as a loss. We are currently unable to estimate the effects on the earnings of future periods resulting from changes in the market value of our commodity derivative contracts. 

We recorded a gain on derivatives of $832 million for the year ended December 31, 2018, compared to a loss of $126 million for the year ended December 31, 2017. The largest factor in the change from 2017 to 2018 related to the change in commodity future price curves at the respective measurement and settlement periods. 

The fair value of our derivative instruments is determined based on our valuation models. We did not change our valuation method during the year ended December 31, 2018. See Note 9 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” for additional information regarding our derivative instruments. The following table reconciles the changes that occurred in the fair values of our derivative instruments during the year ended December 31, 2018: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Interest rate risk. Our exposure to changes in interest rates relates primarily to debt obligations. We manage our interest rate exposure by limiting our variable-rate debt to a certain percentage of total capitalization and by monitoring the effects of market changes in interest rates. To reduce our exposure to changes in interest rates we may, in the future, enter into interest rate risk management arrangements for a portion of our outstanding debt. The agreements that we have entered into generally have the effect of providing us with a fixed interest rate for a portion of our variable-rate debt. We may utilize interest rate derivatives to alter interest rate exposure in an attempt to reduce interest rate expense related to existing debt issues. Interest rate derivatives are used solely to modify interest rate exposure and not to modify the overall leverage of the debt portfolio. We had no outstanding interest rate derivative contracts at December 31, 2018. We are exposed to changes in interest rates as a result of our Credit Facility, and the terms of our Credit Facility require us to pay higher interest rate margins as our credit ratings decrease.  

We had total indebtedness of $242 million outstanding under our Credit Facility at December 31, 2018. The impact of a one percent increase in interest rates on this amount of debt would result in increased annual interest expense of approximately $2 million. 

72   

Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data