ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

Eastman has exposure to various market risks principally due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, the pricing of various commodities, and interest rates. In an effort to manage these risks, the Company employs various strategies, including pricing, inventory management, and hedging. The Company enters into derivative contracts which are governed by policies, procedures, and internal processes set forth by its Board of Directors.

The Company determines its exposures to market risk by utilizing sensitivity analyses, which measure the potential losses in fair value resulting from one or more selected hypothetical changes in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices, or interest rates.

Foreign Currency Risk

Due to a portion of the Company's operating cash flows and borrowings being denominated in foreign currencies, the Company is exposed to market risk from changes in foreign currency exchange rates. The Company continually evaluates its foreign currency exposure based on current market conditions and the locations in which the Company conducts business. The Company manages most foreign currency exposures on a consolidated basis, which allows the Company to net certain exposures and take advantage of natural offsets. To mitigate foreign currency risk, from time to time, the Company enters into derivative instruments to hedge the cash flows related to certain sales and purchase transactions expected within a rolling three year period and denominated in foreign currencies, and enters into forward exchange contracts to hedge certain firm commitments denominated in foreign currencies. The gains and losses on these contracts offset changes in the value of related exposures. Additionally, the Company, from time to time, enters into non-derivative and derivative instruments to hedge the foreign currency exposure of the net investment in certain foreign operations. The foreign currency change in the designated investment values of the foreign subsidiaries will generally be offset by a foreign currency change in the carrying value of the euro-denominated borrowings. It is the Company's policy to enter into foreign currency derivative and non-derivative instruments only to the extent considered necessary to meet its objectives as stated above. The Company does not enter into foreign currency derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes. 

At December 31, 2018, the market risk associated with certain cash flows under these derivative transactions assuming a 10 percent adverse move in the U.S. dollar relative to these foreign currencies was $28 million, with an additional $3 million exposure for each additional one percentage point adverse change in those foreign currency rates. At December 31, 2017, the market risk associated with cash flows under these derivative transactions assuming a 10 percent adverse move in the U.S. dollar relative to those currencies was $45 million, with an additional $5 million exposure for each additional one percentage point adverse change in those exchange rates. Since the Company utilizes currency-sensitive derivative instruments for hedging anticipated foreign currency transactions, a loss in fair value from those instruments is generally offset by an increase in the value of the underlying anticipated transactions. 

In January 2018, Eastman entered into fixed-to-fixed cross-currency swaps and designated these swaps to hedge a portion of its net investment in a euro functional currency denominated subsidiary against foreign currency fluctuations. These contracts involve the exchange of fixed U.S. dollars with fixed euro interest payments periodically over the life of the contracts and an exchange of the notional amounts at maturity. The fixed-to-fixed cross-currency swaps include €150 million ($180 million) maturing January 2021 and €266 million ($320 million) maturing August 2022.

In October 2018, Eastman entered into fixed-to-fixed cross-currency swaps and designated these swaps to hedge a portion of its net investment in a euro functional currency denominated subsidiary against foreign currency fluctuations. These contracts involve the exchange of fixed U.S. dollars with fixed euro interest payments periodically over the life of the contracts and an exchange of the notional amounts at maturity. The fixed-to-fixed cross-currency swaps include €165 million ($190 million) maturing January 2024, €104 million ($120 million) maturing March 2025, and €165 million ($190 million) maturing February 2027. 

63

At December 31, 2018, a 10 percent fluctuation in the euro currency rate would have had a $240 million impact on the designated net investment values in the foreign subsidiaries. At December 31, 2017, a 10 percent fluctuation in the euro currency rate would have had a $149 million impact on the designated net investment values in the foreign subsidiaries. As a result of the designation of the euro-denominated borrowings and designated cross-currency interest rate swaps as hedges of the net investments, foreign currency translation gains and losses on the borrowings and designated cross-currency interest rate swaps are recorded as a component of the "Change in cumulative translation adjustment" within "Other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax" in the Consolidated Statements of Earnings, Comprehensive Income and Retained Earnings in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report. Therefore, a foreign currency change in the designated investment values of the foreign subsidiaries will generally be offset by a foreign currency change in the carrying value of the euro-denominated borrowings or the foreign currency change in the designated cross-currency interest rate swaps.

Commodity Risk

The Company is exposed to fluctuations in market prices for certain of its raw materials and energy, as well as contract sales of certain commodity products. To mitigate short-term fluctuations in market prices for certain commodities, principally propane, ethane, natural gas, paraxylene, ethylene, and benzene, as well as selling prices for ethylene, the Company enters into derivative transactions, from time to time, to hedge the cash flows related to certain sales and purchase transactions expected within a rolling three year period. At December 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, the market risk associated with these derivative contracts, assuming an instantaneous parallel shift in the underlying commodity price of 10 percent and no corresponding change in the selling price of finished goods, was $25 million and $30 million, respectively, with an additional $3 million of exposure at both dates for each one percentage point move in closing price thereafter.

Interest Rate Risk

Eastman is exposed to interest rate risk primarily as a result of its borrowing and investing activities, which include long-term borrowings used to maintain liquidity and to fund its business operations and capital requirements. The nature and amount of the Company's long-term and short-term debt may vary from time to time as a result of business requirements, market conditions, and other factors. The Company manages global interest rate exposure as part of regular operational and financing strategies. The Company had variable interest rate borrowings (including credit facility borrowings and commercial paper borrowings) of $293 million and $589 million at December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. These borrowings represented approximately 5 percent and 10 percent of total outstanding debt and bore weighted average interest rates of 2.53 percent and 1.89 percent at December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. A hypothetical 10 percent increase in the average interest rate applicable to these borrowings would change annualized interest expense by approximately $1 million as of both December 31, 2018 and 2017. 

Eastman may enter into interest rate swaps, collars, or similar instruments with the objective of reducing interest rate volatility relating to the Company's borrowing costs. As of both December 31, 2018 and 2017, the Company had an interest rate swap outstanding with a notional value of $75 million. For purposes of calculating the market risks associated with the fair value of interest-rate-sensitive instruments, the Company uses a hypothetical 10 percent increase in interest rates. The corresponding market risk of the interest rate swap hedging the interest rate risk on the 3.8% bonds maturing March 2025 was $1 million as of both December 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017.

64

ITEM 8.FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA