ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS

For identification and discussion of the most significant risks applicable to the Company and its business, see "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Risk Factors" in Part II, Item 7 of this Annual Report.

ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS

None.

21

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY

Certain information about Eastman's executive officers is provided below:

Mark J. Costa, age 52, is Chief Executive Officer and Chair of the Eastman Chemical Company Board of Directors. Mr. Costa joined the Company in June 2006 as Senior Vice President, Corporate Strategy and Marketing; was appointed Executive Vice President, Polymers Business Group Head and Chief Marketing Officer in August 2008; was appointed Executive Vice President, Specialty Polymers, Coatings and Adhesives, and Chief Marketing Officer in May 2009; and became President and a member of the Board of Directors of the Company in May 2013. Prior to joining Eastman, Mr. Costa was a senior partner with Monitor Group ("Monitor"). He joined Monitor, a global management consulting firm, in 1988, and his experience included corporate and business unit strategies, asset portfolio strategies, innovation and marketing, and channel strategies across a wide range of industries. Mr. Costa was appointed Chief Executive Officer in January 2014 and was named Board Chair effective July 2014.

Curtis E. Espeland, age 54, is Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. Mr. Espeland joined Eastman in 1996, and has served in various financial management positions of increasing responsibility, including Director of Internal Auditing; Director of Finance, Asia Pacific; Director of Corporate Planning and Forecasting; Vice President and Controller; Vice President, Finance, Eastman Division; Vice President, Finance, Polymers; and Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer from 2008 until December 2013. He served as the Company's Chief Accounting Officer from December 2002 to 2008. Prior to joining Eastman, Mr. Espeland was an audit and business advisory manager with Arthur Andersen LLP in the United States, Eastern Europe, and Australia. Mr. Espeland was appointed to his current position effective January 2014.

Brad A. Lich, age 51, is Executive Vice President and Chief Commercial Officer, with responsibility for the AM and Fibers segments, outside-U.S. regional business leadership, and the marketing, sales, pricing, and procurement organizations. Mr. Lich joined Eastman in 2001 as Director of Global Product Management and Marketing for the Coatings business. Other positions of increasing responsibility followed, including General Manager of Emerging Markets of the former Coatings, Adhesives, Specialty Polymers, and Inks ("CASPI") segment. In 2006, Mr. Lich became Vice President of Global Marketing with direct responsibility for company-wide global marketing functions. In 2008, Mr. Lich was appointed Vice President and General Manager of the CASPI segment, and in 2012 was appointed Vice President and General Manager of the AFP segment. In January 2014, Mr. Lich was appointed Executive Vice President, with responsibility for the AFP and AM segments and the marketing, sales, and pricing organizations. In March 2016, Mr. Lich assumed executive responsibility for outside-U.S. regional business leadership. Mr. Lich was appointed to his current position effective July 2016.

Lucian Boldea, age 47, is Executive Vice President with responsibility for the AFP and CI segments. Mr. Boldea joined Eastman in 1997 as a chemist. During his career at Eastman, he has held various positions in R&D, licensing, business management, and corporate growth platforms leadership. These positions included Technology Director for the former Performance Chemicals and Intermediates ("PCI") segment and Director of Corporate Growth Platforms. In 2015, he was appointed Group Vice President and General Manager of the AFP segment and became Senior Vice President of AFP in July 2016. Mr. Boldea was appointed to his current position effective January 2019.

Mark K. Cox, age 53, is Senior Vice President and Chief Manufacturing, Supply Chain, and Engineering Officer. Mr. Cox joined Eastman in 1986 and has served in a variety of management positions, including leadership roles within the business management, manufacturing, and technology areas. Additionally, he has held responsibility for Eastman's Corporate Six Sigma program. In August 2008, Mr. Cox was appointed Vice President, Chemicals and Fibers Technology. Beginning in May 2009, Mr. Cox served as Vice President, Chemicals, Fibers, and Performance Polymers Technology. He was appointed Vice President, Worldwide Engineering and Construction in August 2010, appointed Senior Vice President and Chief Manufacturing and Engineering Officer effective January 2014, and to his current position effective March 2016.

Stephen G. Crawford, age 54, is Senior Vice President and Chief Technology Officer, with executive responsibility for corporate innovation. Mr. Crawford joined Eastman in 1984. Since then, he has held several leadership positions of increasing responsibility in both the manufacturing and technology organizations. From 2007 until January 2014 he served as Vice President of Global R&D in the AM and AFP segments, and was appointed to his current position effective January 2014.

22

David A. Golden, age 53, is Senior Vice President, Chief Legal & Sustainability Officer and Corporate Secretary. Mr. Golden has overall responsibility for Eastman's Legal, Corporate Health, Safety, Environment, Security, Product Safety and Regulatory Affairs, Sustainability, Government Relations, Community Affairs, and Public Policy and Communication functions. He also has overall responsibility for Eastman's Global Business Conduct and International Trade Compliance programs. Prior to this position, he was Vice President, Associate General Counsel, and Corporate Secretary with overall responsibility for Eastman's Legal Department. Mr. Golden joined Eastman in 1995 as an attorney and has held positions of increasing responsibility, including serving as the Director of Internal Audit from October 2005 to October 2007 and Vice President and Assistant General Counsel responsible for the Company's commercial and international law groups from 2007 to 2010. Mr. Golden was appointed Senior Vice President, Chief Legal Officer, and Corporate Secretary in January 2013 and to his current position including executive leadership of the Company's sustainability efforts in March 2016. Prior to joining Eastman, he worked as an attorney in the Atlanta office of the law firm of Hunton & Williams.

Perry Stuckey III, age 59, is Senior Vice President, Chief Human Resources Officer. Mr. Stuckey joined Eastman in 2011 as Vice President, Global Human Resources, and was responsible for Eastman's human resources strategy and services worldwide. Mr. Stuckey's work experience includes a variety of global human resource management positions in manufacturing, industrial automation, and bio-technology companies, including Hill-Rom Company, Rockwell Automation, and Monsanto Company. Mr. Stuckey was appointed to his current position in January 2013.

Damon C. Warmack, age 61, is Senior Vice President, Corporate Development. Mr. Warmack joined Eastman in 1980, working in a series of sales and product management positions. He was located in Taiwan, Hong Kong, Shanghai, and Singapore with a range of assignments including the establishment of Eastman's commercial presence in China, joint venture development and management, and serving as Vice President and Managing Director, Asia Pacific. In addition, he served as Vice President and General Manager of Resins, Inks, and Monomers, leading the restructure and divestiture of this business. Mr. Warmack then served as Vice President and General Manager of the former CASPI segment and then of the former PCI segment. More recently, he had responsibility for corporate development and strategic planning, playing a lead role in the Company's business portfolio transformation through acquisitions and divestitures, and became Senior Vice President of Corporate Development and CI in July 2016. As previously announced, Mr. Warmack is retiring mid-year 2019 and was appointed to his current position effective January 2019 until his retirement.

Scott V. King, age 50, is Vice President, Corporate Controller and Chief Accounting Officer. Since joining Eastman in 1999 as Manager, Corporate Consolidations and External Reporting, Mr. King has held various positions of increasing responsibility in the financial organization. He was first appointed Corporate Controller in August 2007 and has served as Chief Accounting Officer since September 2008. Prior to joining Eastman, Mr. King was an audit and business advisory manager with PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP.

ITEM 2.PROPERTIES