PART I

Item 1. Business

Overview

Unless otherwise indicated or required by the context, references throughout to “Endo,” the “Company,” “we,” “our” or “us” refer to financial information and transactions of Endo International plc and its subsidiaries.

Endo International plc is an Ireland-domiciled, global specialty pharmaceutical company focused on generic and branded pharmaceuticals. We aim to be the premier partner to healthcare professionals and payment providers, delivering an innovative suite of generic and branded drugs to meet patients’ needs. Endo International plc was incorporated in Ireland in 2013 as a private limited company and re-registered effective February 18, 2014 as a public limited company.

Our ordinary shares are traded on the NASDAQ Global Market (NASDAQ) under the ticker symbol “ENDP.” References throughout to “ordinary shares” refer to Endo International plc’s ordinary shares, 1,000,000,000 authorized, par value $0.0001 per share. In addition, we have 4,000,000 euro deferred shares outstanding, par value of $0.01 each.

Our global headquarters are located at Minerva House, Simmonscourt Road, Ballsbridge, Dublin 4, Ireland (telephone number: 011-353-1-268-2000) and our U.S. headquarters are located at 1400 Atwater Drive, Malvern, Pennsylvania 19355 (telephone number: 484-216-0000).

Across all of our businesses, we generated total revenues of $2.95 billion, $3.47 billion and $4.01 billion in 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively.

Our focus is on pharmaceutical products and we target areas where we believe we can build leading positions. We use a differentiated operating model based on a lean and nimble structure, the rational allocation of capital and an emphasis on high-value research and development (R&D) targets. While our primary focus is on organic growth, we evaluate and, where appropriate, execute on opportunities to expand through the acquisition of products and companies in areas that we believe serve patients and customers while offering attractive growth characteristics and margins. We believe our operating model and the execution of our corporate strategy will enable us to create shareholder value over the long-term.

For branded products, we seek to develop, acquire or license products that have inherent scientific, regulatory, legal and technical complexities and market such products under recognizable brand names that are trademarked. For United States (U.S.) products we develop, after the completion of required clinical trials and testing, we seek approvals from regulatory bodies such as through the submission of New Drug Applications (NDAs) or Biologics License Applications (BLAs) to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA). In the U.S., upon approval, patents included in the applications are listed in a publication referred to as the Orange Book. We believe that our patents, the protection of discoveries in connection with our development activities, our proprietary products, technologies, processes, trade secrets, know-how, innovations and all of our intellectual property are important to our business and achieving a competitive position. However, there can be no assurance that any of our patents, licenses or other intellectual property rights will afford us any protection from competition. Additional information is included throughout this Part I, Item 1.

For generic products, which are the pharmaceutical and therapeutic equivalents of branded products that are generally marketed under their generic (chemical) names rather than their brand names, our focus is on high-barrier-to-entry products, including first-to-file or first-to-market opportunities that are difficult to formulate or manufacture or face complex legal and regulatory challenges. In the U.S., a first-to-file product, also known as a Paragraph IV product, refers to a generic product for which the Abbreviated New Drug Application (ANDA) containing a patent challenge to the corresponding branded product was the first to be filed with the FDA. A first-to-market product refers to a product that is the first marketed generic equivalent of a branded product for reasons apart from statutory marketing exclusivity, such as the generic equivalent of a branded product that is difficult to formulate or manufacture. First-to-file products in the U.S. offer the opportunity for 180 days of generic marketing exclusivity, except for competing authorized generic products, to the extent we are successful in litigating any patent challenges and receive final FDA approval of the products. First-to-market products allow us to mitigate risks from competitive pressure commonly associated with commoditized generic products. Additional information is included throughout this Part I, Item 1.

The four reportable business segments in which we operate are: (1) U.S. Branded - Specialty & Established Pharmaceuticals, (2) U.S. Branded - Sterile Injectables, (3) U.S. Generic Pharmaceuticals and (4) International Pharmaceuticals. Additional information about our reportable business segments is included throughout this Part I, Item 1. The results of operations of our reportable business segments for each of the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 are discussed in Part II, Item 7 of this report "Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" under the heading “RESULTS OF OPERATIONS.”

1
U.S. Branded - Specialty & Established Pharmaceuticals

Our U.S. Branded - Specialty & Established Pharmaceuticals segment, which accounted for approximately 29%, 28% and 29% of total revenues in 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively, includes a variety of branded prescription products to treat and manage conditions in urology, urologic oncology, endocrinology, pain and orthopedics. The products in this segment include XIAFLEX®, SUPPRELIN® LA, NASCOBAL® Nasal Spray, TESTOPEL®, AVEED®, PERCOCET®, VOLTAREN® Gel, LIDODERM®, FORTESTA® Gel, EDEX® and TESTIM®, among others.

U.S. Branded - Sterile Injectables

Our U.S. Branded - Sterile Injectables segment, which accounted for approximately 32%, 22% and 14% of total revenues in 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively, consists primarily of branded sterile injectable products such as VASOSTRICT®, ADRENALIN® and APLISOL®, among others, and certain generic sterile injectable products, including ertapenem for injection and ephedrine sulfate injection, among others. These injectable products are manufactured in a sterile facility and are primarily sold through wholesalers, often via an arrangement with a group purchasing organization (GPO), in vial dosages prior to being administered at hospitals, clinics and long-term care facilities.

Our primary U.S. Branded - Sterile Injectables manufacturing site, which handles the production, assembly, quality assurance testing and packaging of our products, is located in Rochester, Michigan.

U.S. Generic Pharmaceuticals

Our U.S. Generic Pharmaceuticals segment, which accounted for approximately 34%, 44% and 50% of total revenues in 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively, consists of a differentiated product portfolio including solid oral extended-release, solid oral immediate-release, liquids, semi-solids, patches, powders, ophthalmics and sprays and includes products in the pain management, urology, central nervous system disorders, immunosuppression, oncology, women’s health and cardiovascular disease markets, among others. Our U.S. Generic Pharmaceuticals segment is among the largest U.S. generics companies based on market share. Our largest U.S. Generic Pharmaceuticals manufacturing sites, which handle the production, assembly, quality assurance testing and packaging of our generic products, are located in Chestnut Ridge, New York; Irvine, California and Chennai, India.

International Pharmaceuticals

The International Pharmaceuticals segment, which accounted for approximately 5%, 7% and 7% of total revenues in 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively, includes a variety of specialty pharmaceutical products sold outside the U.S., primarily in Canada through our operating company Paladin Labs Inc. (Paladin). This segment’s key products serve growing therapeutic areas, including attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, pain, women’s health and oncology.

This segment also included: (i) our South African business, which was sold in July 2017 and consisted of Litha Healthcare Group Limited and certain assets acquired from Aspen Holdings in October 2015 (Litha) and (ii) our Latin American business consisting of Grupo Farmacéutico Somar, S.A.P.I. de C.V. (Somar), which was sold in October 2017.

Our Strategy

Our strategy is to focus on our core assets, a branded pharmaceutical business and a leading generics business, that deliver high quality medicines to patients through excellence in development, manufacturing and commercialization. Through a lean and efficient operating model, we are committed to serving patients and customers while continuing to innovate and provide products that make a difference in the lives of patients. We strive to maximize shareholder value by adapting to market realities and customer needs.

We are committed to driving organic growth at attractive margins by improving execution, optimizing cash flow and leveraging our market position, while maintaining a streamlined cost structure throughout each of our businesses. Specific areas of management’s focus include:

•U.S. Branded - Specialty & Established Pharmaceuticals: Accelerating performance of organic growth drivers in our Specialty Products portfolio, expanding margin in our Established Products portfolio and investing in key pipeline development opportunities, including in the area of aesthetics.

•U.S. Branded - Sterile Injectables: Focusing on developing branded injectable products with inherent scientific, regulatory, legal and technical complexities, expanding the product portfolio to include other dosages and technologies and/or acquiring additional high-barrier-to-entry, generic injectable products that are difficult to manufacture.

•U.S. Generic Pharmaceuticals: Focusing on developing or acquiring high-barrier-to-entry products, including first-to-file or first-to-market opportunities that are difficult to formulate or manufacture or face complex legal and regulatory challenges.

•International Pharmaceuticals: Operating in regulated markets with durable revenue streams and where physicians play a significant role in choosing the course of therapy, as well as expanding distribution of certain of our existing products outside of the U.S.

2
We will continue to evaluate strategic R&D opportunities. Going forward, while our primary focus will be on organic growth, we will evaluate and, where appropriate, execute on opportunities to expand through acquisitions of products and companies.

Our Competitive Strengths

To successfully execute our strategy, we must continue to capitalize on our following core strengths:

Experienced and dedicated management team. We have a highly skilled and customer-focused management team in critical leadership positions across all of Endo. Our senior management team has extensive experience in the pharmaceutical industry and a proven track record of developing businesses and creating value. This experience includes improving business performance through organic revenue growth and through the identification, consummation and integration of licensing and acquisition opportunities.

Focus on the differentiated products of our generics and sterile injectables portfolios. We develop high-barrier-to-entry products, including first-to-file or first-to-market opportunities that are difficult to formulate or manufacture or face complex legal and regulatory challenges. We believe products with these characteristics will face a lesser degree of competition and therefore provide longer product life cycles and higher profitability than products without these characteristics. Our business model continues to focus on being a low cost producer of products in categories with higher barriers to entry and lower levels of competition by leveraging operational efficiency. Our strategy in the U.S. Branded - Sterile Injectables and U.S. Generic Pharmaceuticals segments includes focusing on categories where there are fewer challenges from low-cost operators.

Operational excellence. We have efficient, effective and high-quality manufacturing capabilities across a diversified array of dosage forms. We believe our comprehensive suite of technology, manufacturing and development competencies increases the likelihood of success in commercializing high-barrier-to-entry products and obtaining first-to-file and first-to-market status on future products, yielding more sustainable market share and profitability. For example, our capabilities in the rapidly growing U.S. market for sterile drug products and sterile vial and hormonal capabilities afford us with a broader and more diversified product portfolio and a greater selection of targets for potential development.

We believe that our competitive advantages include our integrated team-based approach to product development that combines our formulation, regulatory, legal, manufacturing and commercial capabilities; our ability to introduce new generic equivalents for brand-name drugs; our quality and cost-effective production; our ability to meet customer and/or patient expectations and the breadth of our existing sterile injectables and generic product portfolio offerings. From time to time, we perform strategic assessments and take steps to optimize our various product portfolios so that we may continue to capitalize on a strong and durable product portfolio and R&D pipeline. We are focused only on those products that deliver acceptable returns on investment, thereby leveraging our existing platform to drive operational efficiency.

Growth of our branded Specialty Products portfolio while leveraging the strength of our Established Products portfolio. We have assembled a portfolio of branded prescription products offered by our U.S. Branded - Specialty & Established Pharmaceuticals segment to treat and manage conditions in urology, urologic oncology, endocrinology, pain and orthopedics. Additional information on these product portfolios is included below under the heading “Products Overview.”

Continuing proactive diversification of our business. Our primary focus is on organic growth. However, we will evaluate and, where appropriate, execute on opportunities to expand through acquisitions of products and companies in areas that will serve patients and customers and that we believe will offer attractive growth characteristics and margins. In particular, we will look to continue to enhance our product lines by acquiring or licensing rights to additional products and regularly evaluating selective acquisition opportunities.

Research and development expertise. Our R&D efforts are focused on the development of a balanced, diversified portfolio of innovative and clinically differentiated product candidates. Through our U.S. Branded - Sterile Injectables and U.S. Generic Pharmaceuticals businesses, we seek out and develop high-barrier-to-entry products, including first-to-file or first-to-market opportunities. We periodically review our generic products pipeline in order to better direct investment toward those opportunities that we expect will deliver the greatest returns. We will continue to evaluate strategic R&D opportunities, with a particular focus on assets with inherently lower risk profiles and clearly defined regulatory pathways. Our current R&D pipeline consists of products in various stages of development. For additional detail, see “Select Development Projects.”

Our R&D and regulatory affairs staff is based primarily in India, Chestnut Ridge, New York; and at our U.S. headquarters in Malvern, Pennsylvania.

3
Targeted sales and marketing infrastructure. Our sales and marketing activities are primarily based in the U.S. and Canada and focus on the promotion of our Specialty Products portfolio. We market our products directly to specialty physicians, including those specializing in urology, orthopedics, pediatric endocrinology and bariatric surgery. Our sales force also targets retail pharmacies and other healthcare professionals. We distribute our products through independent wholesale distributors, but we also sell directly to retailers, clinics, government agencies, doctors, independent retail and specialty pharmacies and independent specialty distributors. Our marketing policy is designed to provide physicians, pharmacies, hospitals, public and private payers and appropriate healthcare professionals with products and relevant, appropriate medical information. We work to gain access to healthcare authority, pharmacy benefit managers and managed care organizations’ formularies (lists of recommended or approved medicines and other products), including Medicare Part D plans and reimbursement lists, by demonstrating the qualities and treatment benefits of our products within their approved indications.

Products Overview

U.S. Branded - Specialty & Established Pharmaceuticals

The following table displays the product revenues to external customers in our U.S. Branded - Specialty & Established Pharmaceuticals segment for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 (in thousands):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

__________[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Specialty Products Portfolio

Endo commercializes a number of products within the market served by specialty distributors and specialty pharmacies, and in which healthcare practitioners can purchase and bill payers directly (the buy and bill market). Our current offerings primarily relate to two distinct areas: (i) urology treatments, which focus mainly on Peyronie’s disease (PD) and testosterone replacement therapies (TRT) for hypogonadism; and (ii) orthopedics/pediatric endocrinology treatments, which focus on Dupuytren’s contracture (DC) and central precocious puberty (CPP).

Key product offerings in this category include the following:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•SUPPRELIN® LA, which is a soft, flexible 12-month hydrogel implant based on our hydrogel polymer technology that delivers histrelin acetate, a gonadotropin releasing hormone (GnRH) agonist and is indicated for the treatment of CPP in children.

•NASCOBAL® Nasal Spray, which is a prescription medicine used as a supplement to treat vitamin B12 deficiency and is the only FDA-approved B12 nasal spray.

•TESTOPEL®, which is a unique, long-acting implantable pellet indicated for TRT in conditions associated with a deficiency or absence of endogenous testosterone.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

4
Established Products Portfolio

Endo’s Established Products portfolio’s current treatment offerings primarily relate to two distinct areas: (i) pain management, including products in the opioid analgesics and osteoarthritis pain segments and for the treatment of pain associated with post-herpetic neuralgia; and (ii) urology, which focuses mainly on treatment of hypogonadism. The Company’s legacy pain portfolio products are managed as mature brands.

Key product offerings in this category include, among others, the following:

•PERCOCET®, which is an opioid analgesic approved for the treatment of moderate-to-moderately-severe pain.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•LIDODERM®, which is a topical patch product containing lidocaine, approved for the relief of pain associated with post-herpetic neuralgia, a condition thought to result after nerve fibers are damaged during a case of Herpes Zoster (commonly known as shingles).

•FORTESTA® Gel (and its authorized generic), which is a patented two percent (2%) testosterone transdermal gel and is a treatment for men suffering from hypogonadism.

•EDEX®, which is a penile injection used to treat erectile dysfunction caused by conditions affecting nerves, blood vessels, emotions and/or a combination of factors.

•TESTIM® (and its authorized generic), which is a topical gel indicated for TRT in conditions associated with a deficiency or absence of endogenous testosterone.

Also included within this product portfolio is OPANA® ER, an opioid agonist indicated for the management of pain severe enough to require daily, around-the-clock, long-term opioid treatment and for which alternative treatment options are inadequate. As further discussed in Part II, Item 7 of this report "Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations", we voluntarily ceased shipments of OPANA® ER to customers by September 1, 2017.

U.S. Branded - Sterile Injectables

The following table displays the product revenues to external customers in our U.S. Branded - Sterile Injectables segment for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 (in thousands):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

__________

(1)Products included within Other Sterile Injectables include, but are not limited to, APLISOL® and ephedrine sulfate injection.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The U.S. Branded - Sterile Injectables segment includes a product portfolio of approximately 30 product families, including branded sterile injectable products that are protected by certain patent rights and have inherent scientific, regulatory, legal and technical complexities and generic injectable products that are difficult to formulate or manufacture or face complex legal and regulatory challenges. Sterile injectables in this segment are manufactured in a sterile facility and are sold primarily in vial dosages and administered at hospitals, clinics and long-term care facilities. The product offerings in this segment include, among others, the following:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•ADRENALIN®, which is a non-selective alpha and beta adrenergic agonist indicated for emergency treatment of certain allergic reactions, including anaphylaxis.

•Ertapenem for injection, the authorized generic of Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp’s Invanz®, which is indicated for the treatment of certain moderate-to-severe infections.

•APLISOL®, which is a sterile aqueous solution of a purified protein derivative for intradermal administration as an aid in the diagnosis of tuberculosis.

5
•Ephedrine sulfate injection, which is an alpha and beta adrenergic agonist and a norepinephrine-releasing agent indicated for the treatment of clinically important hypotension occurring in the setting of anesthesia.

U.S. Generic Pharmaceuticals

The U.S. Generic Pharmaceuticals segment includes a product portfolio of over 200 generic prescription product families including solid oral extended-release, solid oral immediate-release, liquids, semi-solids, patches (which are medicated adhesive patches designed to deliver the drug through the skin), powders, ophthalmics (which are sterile pharmaceutical preparations administered for ocular conditions) and sprays and includes products in the pain management, urology, central nervous system disorders, immunosuppression, oncology, women’s health and cardiovascular disease markets, among others.

Generic drugs are the pharmaceutical and therapeutic equivalents of branded products and are generally marketed under their generic (chemical) names rather than by brand names. Generic products are substantially the same as branded products in dosage form, safety, efficacy, route of administration, quality, performance characteristics and intended use, but are generally sold at prices below those of the corresponding branded products and thus represent cost-effective alternatives for consumers.

Typically, a generic drug may not be marketed until the expiration of applicable patent(s) on the corresponding branded product unless a resolution of patent litigation results in an earlier opportunity to enter the market. For additional detail, see “Governmental Regulation.” However, our generics portfolio also contains certain authorized generics, which are generic versions of branded drugs licensed by brand drug companies under an NDA and marketed as generics. Authorized generics do not face regulatory barriers to introduction and are not prohibited from sale during the 180-day marketing exclusivity period granted to the first-to-file ANDA applicant. Our authorized generics include lidocaine patch 5% (LIDODERM®), budesonide (Entocort® EC), and diclofenac sodium gel (VOLTAREN® Gel), among others. We believe we are a partner of choice to larger brand companies seeking an authorized generics distributor for their branded products. We have been the authorized generic distributor for such companies as AstraZeneca plc, Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, Novartis AG (Novartis) and Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp.

International Pharmaceuticals

Our International Pharmaceuticals segment includes a variety of specialty pharmaceutical products sold outside the U.S., primarily in Canada through our operating company Paladin. This segment’s key products serve growing therapeutic areas, including attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, pain, women’s health and oncology.

Select Development Projects

Collagenase Clostridium Histolyticum

Collagenase clostridium histolyticum (CCH) is currently approved and marketed in the U.S. under the trademark XIAFLEX® for the treatment of both DC and PD (two separate medical indications). 

We are currently progressing the cellulite treatment development program for CCH. In November 2018, we reported positive results from two Phase 3 clinical trials of CCH for the treatment of cellulite in the buttocks. Trial subjects receiving CCH showed highly statistically significant levels of improvement in the appearance of cellulite with treatment, as measured by the trials’ primary endpoint. In addition, the RELEASE-1 trial passed 8 out of 8 key secondary endpoints and the RELEASE-2 trial passed 7 out of 8 key secondary endpoints. Finally, CCH was well-tolerated in the actively-treated subjects with most adverse events being mild to moderate in severity and primarily limited to the local injection area.

We have global marketing rights for CCH for the treatment of cellulite. We also have the right to further develop CCH for additional indications, including Dupuytren’s nodules, adhesive capsulitis, lateral hip fat, plantar fibromatosis and human and canine lipomas on the medical therapeutic side, as well as other potential aesthetic indications.

Other Pharmaceutical Pipeline

Our remaining pipeline consists mainly of a variety of pharmaceutical products in our U.S. Generic Pharmaceuticals and U.S. Branded - Sterile Injectables segments. Our primary approach to developing generic products, including injectables, is to target high-barrier-to-entry generic product opportunities, including first-to-file or first-to-market opportunities that are difficult to formulate or manufacture or face complex legal and regulatory challenges. We expect such product opportunities to result in products that are either the exclusive generic or have two or fewer generic competitors when launched, which we believe tends to lead to more sustainable market share and profitability for our product portfolio. In our U.S. Branded - Sterile Injectables business, we also focus on developing branded injectable products with inherent scientific, regulatory, legal and technical complexities and developing other dosage forms and technologies.

As of December 31, 2018, these two segments had over 150 product candidates in their pipelines, which included approximately 85 ANDAs pending with the FDA representing approximately $25 billion of combined annual sales for the corresponding branded products in 2018. Of the 85 ANDAs, approximately 40 represent first-to-file opportunities or first-to-market opportunities. These numbers do not include the five sterile injectable product candidates licensed during the second quarter of 2018 from Nevakar, Inc.

6
We periodically review our development projects in order to better direct investment toward those opportunities that we expect will deliver the greatest returns. This process can lead to decisions to discontinue certain R&D projects that may reduce the number of products in our previously reported pipeline.

Competition

Branded Pharmaceuticals

Our branded pharmaceutical products compete with products manufactured by many other companies in highly competitive markets throughout the U.S. and internationally, primarily through Paladin.

We compete principally through targeted product development and our acquisition and in-licensing strategies. The competitive landscape in the acquisition and in-licensing of pharmaceutical products has intensified in recent years as a result of a reduction in the number of compounds available and an increase in competitors bidding on available assets. In addition to product development and acquisitions, other competitive factors in the pharmaceutical industry include product efficacy, safety, ease of use, price, demonstrated cost-effectiveness, marketing effectiveness, service, reputation and access to technical information.

Certain of the new products that we introduce must compete with other products already on the market or products that are later developed by competitors, including both competing brands and generic equivalents. If competitors introduce new products, delivery systems or processes with therapeutic or cost advantages, our products can be subject to progressive price reductions and/or decreased volume of sales. Accordingly, the competitive environment of the branded product business requires us to continually seek out technological innovations and to market our products effectively. To successfully compete for business of managed care and pharmacy benefits management organizations, we must often demonstrate that our products offer not only medical benefits but also cost advantages as compared with other forms of care.

Manufacturers of generic pharmaceuticals typically invest far less in R&D than research-based pharmaceutical companies and therefore can price their products significantly lower than branded products. Accordingly, when a branded product loses its market exclusivity, it normally faces intense price competition from generic forms of the product. Due to their significantly lower prices, generic versions, where available, may be substituted by pharmacies or required in preference to the branded version under third-party reimbursement programs.

U.S. Branded - Specialty & Established Pharmaceuticals

This segment’s major competitors, including Mylan N.V. (Mylan), Allergan plc (Allergan), Purdue Pharma, L.P. (Purdue), Jazz Pharmaceuticals plc (Jazz), Takeda Pharmaceutical Company Limited (Takeda), Horizon Pharma plc (Horizon) and Mallinckrodt plc (Mallinckrodt), among others, vary depending on therapeutic and product category, dosage strength and drug-delivery systems.

Several of this segment’s products, including, for example, PERCOCET®, VOLTAREN® Gel, LIDODERM® and TESTIM®, face generic competition. In addition, we are aware of certain competitive activities involving certain of our branded products. For a description of material competitive activities, including litigation related to Paragraph IV notices, see Note 15. Commitments and Contingencies in the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part IV, Item 15 of this report.

U.S. Branded - Sterile Injectables

This segment’s major competitors, including Hospira, Inc. (a subsidiary of Pfizer Inc.), Fresenius Kabi, Mylan and Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC, vary by product. A significant portion of our sales, including sales to over 5,500 hospitals, clinics and long-term care facilities in the U.S., are controlled by a relatively small number of GPOs, including HealthTrust Purchasing Group LP, Premier Inc. and Vizient Inc. Accordingly, it is important for us to have strong relationships with these GPOs and achieve on-time product launches in order to secure new bid opportunities.

Of the approximately 30 product families in our sterile injectables portfolio, 15 have fewer than two competitors and 17 have fewer than three competitors. Additional competitors increase the degree of price competition from generic forms of our products.

Generic Pharmaceuticals

In the generic pharmaceutical market, we face intense competition from other generic drug manufacturers, brand name pharmaceutical companies through authorized generics, existing brand equivalents and manufacturers of therapeutically similar drugs. Our major competitors in the generics market, including Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Limited (Teva), Mylan, Sandoz (a division of Novartis AG) and Amneal Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Amneal) vary by product.

7
A significant portion of our sales are made through a relatively small number of drug wholesalers and retail drug store chains. These customers play a key role in the distribution chain of our pharmaceutical products. Drug wholesalers and retail drug store chains have undergone, and are continuing to undergo, significant consolidation, which has resulted in these groups gaining additional purchasing leverage that has increased the pricing pressures on our business. Additionally, the emergence of large buying groups representing independent retail pharmacies and other drug distributors, and the prevalence and influence of managed care organizations and similar institutions increases the negotiating power of these groups, potentially enabling them to attempt to extract price discounts, rebates and other restrictive pricing terms on our products. For example, McKesson Corporation and Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. are party to an agreement to jointly source generic pharmaceuticals and Express Scripts, through a wholly owned subsidiary, Innovative Product Alignment, LLC, announced it will participate in the Walgreens Boots Alliance Development GmbH group purchasing organization. As a result of these alliances, the consolidation among wholesale distributors and the growth of large retail drug store chains, a small number of purchasers control a significant share of purchases and have gained more purchasing power that has heightened competition among generic drug producers for the business of this consolidated customer base.

Newly introduced generic products with limited or no other generic competition typically garner higher prices relative to commoditized generic products. As such, our primary strategy is to compete in the generic product market with a focus on high-value, first-to-file or first-to-market opportunities, regardless of therapeutic category, and products that present significant barriers to entry for reasons such as complex formulation or regulatory or legal challenges. For additional detail, see “Our Competitive Strengths - Focus on the differentiated products of our generics and sterile injectables portfolios.”

At the expiration of any statutory generic exclusivity period, other competitors may enter the market, resulting in significant price declines. Consequently, maintaining profitable operations in generic pharmaceuticals depends, in part, on our continuing ability to select, develop, procure regulatory approvals of, overcome legal challenges to, launch and commercialize new generic products in a timely and cost efficient manner and to maintain efficient, high quality manufacturing capabilities. For additional detail, see “Our Competitive Strengths - Operational excellence.”

Seasonality

Although our business is affected by the purchasing patterns and concentration of our customers, our business is not materially impacted by seasonality.

Major Customers

We primarily sell our generic and branded pharmaceuticals to wholesalers, retail drug store chains, supermarket chains, mass merchandisers, distributors, mail order accounts, hospitals and government agencies. Our wholesalers and distributors purchase products from us and, in turn, supply products to retail drug store chains, independent pharmacies and managed health care organizations. Customers in the managed health care market include health maintenance organizations, nursing homes, hospitals, clinics, pharmacy benefit management companies and mail order customers. Total revenues from direct customers that accounted for 10% or more of our total consolidated revenues during the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 are as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Revenues from these customers are included within each of our segments.

As a result of consolidation among wholesale distributors and the growth of large retail drug store chains, a small number of large wholesale distributors control a significant share of the market, and the number of independent retail drug stores and small retail drug store chains has decreased. Some wholesale distributors have demanded that pharmaceutical manufacturers, including us, enter into distribution service agreements (DSAs) pursuant to which the wholesale distributors provide the pharmaceutical manufacturers with specific services, including the provision of periodic retail demand information and current inventory levels and other information. We have entered into certain of these agreements.

8
Patents, Trademarks, Licenses and Proprietary Property

As of February 21, 2019, we held approximately: 225 U.S. issued patents, 50 U.S. patent applications pending, 476 foreign issued patents and 94 foreign patent applications pending. In addition, as of February 21, 2019, we have licenses for approximately 46 U.S. issued patents, 8 U.S. patent applications pending, 172 foreign issued patents and 64 foreign patent applications pending. The following table sets forth information as of February 21, 2019 regarding patents relating to each of our most significant products:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

__________

*Our license agreements for the patents in the table above extend to or beyond the patent expiration dates.

The effect of these issued patents is that they provide us with protection by virtue of our ability to exclude others from making, using, selling, offering for sale and importing that which is covered by their claims. The coverage claimed in a patent application can be significantly reduced before the patent is issued. Accordingly, we do not know whether any of the applications we acquire or license will result in the issuance of patents or, if any patents are issued, whether they will provide significant proprietary protection or will be challenged, circumvented or invalidated. Because unissued U.S. patent applications are maintained in secrecy for a period of eighteen months and U.S. patent applications filed prior to November 29, 2000 are not disclosed until such patents are issued, and since publication of discoveries in the scientific or patent literature often lags behind actual discoveries, we cannot be certain of the priority of inventions covered by pending patent applications. Moreover, we may have to participate in interference and other inter-parties proceedings declared by the PTO to determine priority of invention, or in opposition proceedings in a foreign patent office, either of which could result in substantial cost to us, even if the eventual outcome is favorable to us. There can be no assurance that any patents, if issued, will be held valid by a court of competent jurisdiction. An adverse outcome could subject us to significant liabilities to third parties, require disputed rights to be licensed from third parties or require us to cease using such technology.

We believe that our patents, the protection of discoveries in connection with our development activities, our proprietary products, technologies, processes, trade secrets, know-how, innovations and all of our intellectual property are important to our business and achieving a competitive position. Many of our products are sold under trademarks. To achieve a competitive position, we rely on trade secrets, non-patented proprietary know-how and continuing technological innovation, where patent protection is not believed to be appropriate or attainable. In addition, as outlined above, we have a number of patent licenses from third parties, some of which may be important to our business. See Note 11. License and Collaboration Agreements in the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part IV, Item 15 of this report. There can be no assurance that any of our patents, licenses or other intellectual property rights will afford us any protection from competition.

We rely on confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants and other parties to protect, among other things, trade secrets and other proprietary technology. There can be no assurance that these agreements will not be breached, that we will have adequate remedies for any breach, that others will not independently develop equivalent proprietary information or that other third parties will not otherwise gain access to our trade secrets and other intellectual property.

9
We may find it necessary to initiate litigation to enforce our patent rights, to protect our intellectual property or trade secrets or to determine the scope and validity of the proprietary rights of others. Litigation is costly and time-consuming, and there can be no assurance that our litigation expenses will not be significant in the future or that we will prevail in any such litigation. See Note 15. Commitments and Contingencies in the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part IV, Item 15 of this report.

Governmental Regulation

United States Food and Drug Administration and Drug Enforcement Administration

The pharmaceutical industry in the U.S. is subject to extensive and rigorous government regulation. The Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (FFDCA), the Controlled Substances Act (CSA) and other federal and state statutes and regulations govern or influence the testing, manufacturing, packaging, labeling, storage, record keeping, approval, advertising, promotion, sale and distribution of pharmaceutical products. Noncompliance with applicable requirements can result in criminal prosecution, fines, civil penalties, recall or seizure of products, total or partial suspension of production and/or distribution, injunctions and refusal of the government to enter into supply contracts or to approve NDAs, ANDAs and/or BLAs.

FDA approval is typically required before any new drug can be marketed. An NDA or BLA is a filing submitted to the FDA to obtain approval of new chemical entities and other innovations for which thorough applied research is required to demonstrate safety and effectiveness in use. The process generally involves:

•completion of preclinical laboratory and animal testing and formulation studies in compliance with the FDA’s Good Laboratory Practice regulations;

•submission to the FDA of an Investigational New Drug application for human clinical testing, which must become effective before human clinical trials may begin in the U.S.;

•approval by an independent institutional review board before each trial may be initiated and continuing review during the trial;

•performance of human clinical trials, including adequate and well-controlled clinical trials in accordance with good clinical practices to establish the safety and efficacy of the proposed drug product for each intended use;

•submission to the FDA of an NDA or BLA for marketing approval, which must include data from preclinical testing and clinical trials;

•satisfactory completion of an FDA pre-approval inspection of the product’s manufacturing processes and facility or facilities to assess compliance with the FDA’s current Good Manufacturing Practice (cGMP) regulations and/or review of the Chemistry, Manufacturing and Controls section of the NDA or BLA to assess whether the facilities, methods and controls are adequate to preserve the drug’s identity, strength, quality, purity and potency;

•satisfactory completion of an FDA advisory committee review, if applicable; and

•approval by the FDA of the NDA or BLA.

Clinical trials are typically conducted in three sequential phases, although the phases may overlap.

•Phase 1 trials generally involve testing the product for safety, adverse effects, dosage, tolerance, absorption, distribution, metabolism, excretion and other elements of clinical pharmacology.

•Phase 2 trials typically involve a small sample of the intended patient population to assess the efficacy of the compound for a specific indication, to determine dose tolerance and the optimal dose range as well as to gather additional information relating to safety and potential adverse effects.

•Phase 3 trials are undertaken in an expanded patient population, typically at dispersed study sites, in order to determine the overall risk-benefit ratio of the compound and to provide an adequate basis for product labeling.

Each trial is conducted in accordance with certain standards under protocols that detail the objectives of the study, the parameters to be used to monitor safety and the efficacy criteria to be evaluated. Each protocol must be submitted to the FDA as part of the Investigational New Drug application. Clinical trials are also subject to regulatory inspections by the FDA and other regulatory authorities to confirm compliance with applicable regulatory standards. The process of completing clinical trials for a new drug may take many years and require the expenditures of substantial resources. See Item 1A. Risk Factors - “The pharmaceutical industry is heavily regulated, which creates uncertainty about our ability to bring new products to market and imposes substantial compliance costs on our business.” 

As a condition of approval of an NDA or BLA, the FDA may require further studies, including Phase 4 post-marketing studies or post-marketing data reporting. Results of post-marketing programs may limit or expand the future marketing of the products.

For some drugs, the FDA may require a Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy (REMS) to confirm that a drug’s benefits outweigh its risks. REMS could include medication guides, physician communication plans or other elements. See Item 1A. Risk Factors - “The pharmaceutical industry is heavily regulated, which creates uncertainty about our ability to bring new products to market and imposes substantial compliance costs on our business.”

10
In most instances, FDA approval of an ANDA is required before a generic equivalent of an existing or reference-listed drug can be marketed. The ANDA process is abbreviated in that the FDA waives the requirement of conducting complete preclinical and clinical studies and generally instead relies principally on bioequivalence studies. Bioequivalence generally involves a comparison of the rate of absorption and levels of concentration of a generic drug in the body with those of the previously approved drug. When the rate and extent of absorption of systemically acting test and reference drugs are considered the same under the bioequivalence requirement, the two drugs are considered bioequivalent and are generally regarded as therapeutically equivalent, meaning that a pharmacist can substitute the product for the reference-listed drug. Under certain circumstances, an ANDA may also be submitted for a product authorized by approval of an ANDA suitability petition. Such petitions may be submitted to secure authorization to file an ANDA for a product that differs from a previously approved drug in active ingredient, route of administration, dosage form or strength. In September 2007 and July 2012, Congress re-authorized pediatric testing legislation, which now requires ANDAs approved via the suitability petition route to conduct pediatric testing. The timing of final FDA approval of ANDA applications depends on a variety of factors, including whether the applicant challenges any listed patents for the drug and whether the manufacturer of the reference-listed drug is entitled to one or more statutory exclusivity periods, during which the FDA is prohibited from approving generic products. In certain circumstances, a regulatory exclusivity period can extend beyond the life of a patent, thus blocking ANDAs from being approved until after the patent expiration date.

Certain of our products are or could become regulated and marketed as biologic products pursuant to BLAs. Our BLA-licensed products were licensed based on a determination by the FDA of safety, purity and potency as required under the Public Health Service Act (PHSA). Although the ANDA framework referenced above does not apply to generics of BLA-licensed biologics, there is an abbreviated licensure pathway for products deemed to be biosimilar to, or interchangeable with, FDA-licensed reference biological products pursuant to the Biologics Price Competition and Innovation Act of 2009 (BPCIA). The BPCIA framework was enacted as part of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (PPACA) and could be impacted by ongoing litigation regarding the legality of the PPACA. Under the BPCIA, following the expiration of a 12-year reference exclusivity period, the FDA may license, under section 351(k) of the PHSA, a biologic that it determines is biosimilar to, or interchangeable with, a reference product licensed under section 351(a) of the PHSA. Biosimilarity is defined to mean that the section 351(k) product is highly similar to the reference product, notwithstanding minor differences in clinically inactive components, and that there are no clinically meaningful differences between the section 351(k) product and the reference product in terms of the safety, purity and potency. To be considered interchangeable, a product must be biosimilar to the reference product, be expected to produce the same clinical result as the reference product in any given patient and, if administered more than once to an individual, the risks in terms of safety or diminished efficacy of alternating or switching between use of the product and its reference product is not greater than the risk of using the reference product without such alternation or switch.

Once any regulatory exclusivity period for our BLA-licensed biologics expires, the FDA may approve another company’s BLA for a biosimilar or interchangeable version of our product. Although licensure of a biosimilar or interchangeable product is generally expected to require less than the full complement of product-specific preclinical and clinical data required for innovator products, the FDA has considerable discretion over the kind and amount of scientific evidence required to demonstrate biosimilarity and interchangeability.

Based on scientific developments, post-market experience or other legislative or regulatory changes, the current FDA standards of review for approving new pharmaceutical products are sometimes more stringent than those that were applied in the past, including for certain opioid products. As a result, the FDA does not have safety databases on these products that are as extensive as some products developed more recently. Accordingly, we believe the FDA has expressed an intention to develop such databases for certain of these products, including many opioids.

The 21st Century Cures Act (Cures Act) was signed into law on December 13, 2016. The Cures Act includes various provisions to accelerate the development and delivery of new treatments, such as those intended to expand the types of evidence manufacturers may submit to support FDA drug approval, to encourage patient-centered drug development, to liberalize the communication of healthcare economic information to payers and to create greater transparency with regard to manufacturer expanded access programs. Central to the Cures Act are provisions that enhance and accelerate the FDA’s processes for reviewing and approving new drugs and supplements to approved NDAs. These include, but are not limited to, provisions that (i) require the FDA to establish a program to evaluate the potential use of real-world evidence to help to support the approval of a new indication for an approved drug and to help to support or satisfy post-approval study requirements, (ii) provide that the FDA may rely upon qualified data summaries to support the approval of a supplemental application with respect to a qualified indication for an already approved drug, (iii) require the FDA to issue guidance for purposes of assisting sponsors in incorporating complex adaptive and other novel trial designs into proposed clinical protocols and applications for new drugs and (iv) require the FDA to establish a process for the qualification of drug development tools for use in supporting or obtaining FDA approval for or investigational use of a drug. The FDA has taken steps to implement the Cures Act, including issuing various guidance documents.

11
The Cures Act also included $1 billion in new funding to address what the act refers to as the “opioid abuse crisis.” Specifically, the Cures Act authorizes the awarding of grants to states for the purpose of addressing opioid abuse within each state, with preference to be given to states with an incidence or prevalence of opioid use disorders that is substantially higher relative to other states. Funding shall be used by states to supplement opioid abuse prevention and treatment activities, such as improving prescription drug monitoring programs, implementing prevention activities, providing training for health care providers and expanding access to opioid treatment programs. States receiving such grants shall be required to report on activities funded by the grant in the substance abuse block grant report.

We cannot determine what effect changes in the FDA’s laws or regulations (including legal or regulator interpretations), when and if promulgated, or advisory committee meetings may have on our business in the future. Changes could, among other things, require expanded or different labeling, additional testing, the recall or discontinuance of certain products and additional recordkeeping. See Item 1A. Risk Factors - “The pharmaceutical industry is heavily regulated, which creates uncertainty about our ability to bring new products to market and imposes substantial compliance costs on our business.”

A sponsor of an NDA is required to identify, in its application, any patent that claims the drug or a use of the drug subject to the application. Upon NDA approval, the FDA lists these patents in a publication referred to as the Orange Book. Any person that files an ANDA or NDA under Section 505(b)(2) of the FFDCA must make a certification in respect to any listed patents for the reference drug. The FDA may not approve such an ANDA or 505(b)(2) application until expiration of the reference drug’s listed patents unless (i) the generic applicant certifies that the listed patents are invalid, unenforceable or not infringed by the proposed generic drug and gives notice to the holder of the NDA for the listed drug of the basis upon which the patents are challenged and (ii) the holder of the listed drug does not sue the later applicant for patent infringement within 45 days of receipt of notice. Under the current law, if an infringement suit is filed, the FDA may not approve the later application until the earliest of: (i) 30 months after submission, (ii) entry of an appellate court judgment holding the patent invalid, unenforceable or not infringed, (iii) such time as a court may order or (iv) expiration of the patent.

One of the key motivators for challenging patents is the 180-day marketing exclusivity period granted to the developer of a generic version of a product that is the first to have its ANDA accepted for filing by the FDA and whose filing includes a certification that the applicable patent(s) are invalid, unenforceable and/or not infringed (a Paragraph IV certification) and that otherwise does not forfeit eligibility for the exclusivity. Under the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act of 2003 (2003 Medicare Act), with accompanying amendments to the Hatch-Waxman Act (Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act), this marketing exclusivity would begin to run upon the earlier of the commercial launch of the generic product or upon an appellate court decision in the generic company’s favor or in favor of another ANDA applicant who had filed with a Paragraph IV certification and has tentative approval. In addition, the holder of the NDA for the listed drug may be entitled to certain non-patent exclusivity during which, depending on the type of exclusivity, the FDA either cannot accept or approve an application for a competing ANDA generic product or 505(b)(2) NDA product with the same active moiety for a protected condition of use.

The FDA also regulates pharmacies and outsourcing facilities that prepare “compounded” drugs pursuant to section 503A and 503B of the FFDCA, respectively. For instance, pharmacies may compound drugs for an identified individual based on the receipt of a valid prescription order, or notation approved by the prescribing practitioner, that a compounded product is necessary for the identified patient. Similarly, outsourcing facilities may compound drugs and sell them to healthcare providers, but not wholesalers or distributors. Although section 503A pharmacies and section 503B outsourcing facilities are subject to many regulatory requirements, compounded drugs are not subject to premarket review by the FDA and, therefore, may not have the same level of safety and efficacy assurances of drugs subject to premarket review and approval by the FDA. Because they are not subject to premarket review, compounded drugs are frequently lower cost than either branded or generic drug products.

The FDA enforces regulations to require that the methods used in, and the facilities and controls used for, the manufacture, processing, packing and holding of drugs conform to cGMPs. The cGMP regulations the FDA enforces are comprehensive and cover all aspects of manufacturing operations. Compliance with the regulations requires a continuous commitment of time, money and effort in all operational areas.

The FDA conducts pre-approval inspections of facilities engaged in the development, manufacture, processing, packing, testing and holding of the drugs subject to NDAs and ANDAs. In addition, manufacturers of both pharmaceutical products and active pharmaceutical ingredients (APIs) used to formulate drugs also ordinarily undergo pre-approval inspections. Failure of any facility to pass a pre-approval inspection will result in delayed approval.

The FDA also conducts periodic inspections of drug facilities to assess the cGMP status of marketed products. Following such inspections, the FDA may issue an untitled letter as an initial correspondence that cites violations that do not meet the threshold of regulatory significance for a Warning Letter. FDA guidelines also provide for the issuance of Warning Letters for violations of “regulatory significance” for which the failure to adequately and promptly achieve correction may be expected to result in an enforcement action. Finally, the FDA could issue a Form 483 Notice of Inspectional Observations, which could require modification to certain activities identified during the inspection. If the FDA were to find serious cGMP non-compliance during such an inspection, it could take regulatory actions.

12
Imported API and other components needed to manufacture our products could be rejected by U.S. Customs. In respect to domestic establishments, the FDA could initiate product seizures or request, or in some instances require, product recalls and seek to enjoin or otherwise limit a product’s manufacture and distribution. In certain circumstances, violations could support civil penalties and criminal prosecutions. In addition, if the FDA concludes that a company is not in compliance with cGMP requirements, sanctions may be imposed that include preventing that company from receiving the necessary licenses to export its products and classifying that company as an unacceptable supplier, thereby disqualifying that company from selling products to federal agencies.

Certain of our subsidiaries sell products that are “controlled substances” as defined in the CSA and implementing regulations, which establish certain security and recordkeeping requirements administered by the Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA). The DEA regulates chemical compounds as Schedule I, II, III, IV or V substances, with Schedule I substances considered to present the highest risk of substance abuse and Schedule V substances the lowest risk. The active ingredients in some of our products are listed by the DEA as Schedule II or III substances under the CSA. Consequently, their manufacture, shipment, storage, sale and use are subject to a high degree of regulation. 

The DEA limits the availability of the active ingredients that are subject to the CSA used in several of our products as well as the production of these products. We or our contract manufacturing organizations must annually apply to the DEA for procurement and production quotas in order to obtain and produce these substances. As a result, our quotas may not be sufficient to meet commercial demand or complete clinical trials. Moreover, the DEA may adjust these quotas from time to time during the year, although the DEA has substantial discretion in whether or not to make such adjustments. See Item 1A. Risk Factors - “The DEA limits the availability of the active ingredients used in many of our products as well as the production of these products, and, as a result, our procurement and production quotas may not be sufficient to meet commercial demand or complete clinical trials.”

To meet its responsibilities, the DEA conducts periodic inspections of registered establishments that handle controlled substances. Annual registration is required for any facility that manufactures, tests, distributes, dispenses, imports or exports any controlled substance. The facilities must have the security, control, accounting mechanisms and monitoring systems required by the DEA to prevent loss and diversion of controlled substances and to comply with reporting obligations. Failure to maintain compliance can result in enforcement action. The DEA may seek civil penalties, refuse to renew necessary registrations or initiate proceedings to revoke or restrict those registrations or, with the U.S. Department of Justice, seek to impose civil penalties. In certain circumstances, violations could result in criminal proceedings.

Individual states also regulate controlled substances and we, as well as our third-party API suppliers and manufacturers, are subject to such regulation by several states with respect to the manufacture and distribution of these products.

Government Benefit Programs

As described further in Item 1A. Risk Factors, statutory and regulatory requirements for government healthcare programs such as Medicaid, Medicare and TRICARE govern access and provider reimbursement levels, and provide for other cost-containment measures such as requiring pharmaceutical companies to pay rebates or refunds for certain sales of products reimbursed by such programs, or subjecting products to certain price ceilings. In addition to the cost-containment measures described in Item 1A. Risk Factors, drug sales to retail pharmacies under the TRICARE Retail Pharmacy Program are subject to certain price ceilings which require manufacturers to, among other things, pay refunds for prescriptions filled based on the applicable ceiling price limits. Beginning in the first quarter of 2017, pursuant to the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015, drug manufacturers are required to pay additional rebates to state Medicaid programs if the prices of their non-innovator drugs rise at a rate faster than inflation (as continues to be the case for innovator products).

The federal government may continue to pursue legislation aimed at containing or reducing payment levels for prescription pharmaceuticals paid for in whole or in part with government funds. State governments also may continue to enact similar cost containment or transparency legislation. These efforts could have material consequences for the pharmaceutical industry and the Company.

From time to time, legislative changes are made to government healthcare programs that impact our business. Congress continues to examine various Medicare and Medicaid policy proposals that may result in a downward pressure on the prices of prescription drugs in these programs. See Item 1A. Risk Factors - “The availability of third party reimbursement for our products is uncertain, and thus we may find it difficult to maintain current price levels. Additionally, the market may not accept those products for which third party reimbursement is not adequately provided.”

Under the PPACA, pharmaceutical manufacturers of branded prescription drugs must pay an annual fee to the federal government. Each individual pharmaceutical manufacturer must pay a prorated share of the total industry fee (the fee was $3 billion for 2016, $4 billion for 2017 and $4.1 billion for 2018 and will be $2.8 billion in 2019 and for years thereafter) based on the dollar value of its branded prescription drug sales to specified federal programs. PPACA also expanded health insurance coverage to many previously uninsured Americans, through a combination of federal subsidies for lower-income individuals who enrolled in health plans through health insurance exchanges and enabling states to expand Medicaid eligibility with the federal government paying a high share of the cost.

13
Uncertainty continues to exist about the future of federal subsidies and of insurance coverage expansion as the current administration and congressional leaders continue to express interest in repealing these PPACA provisions and replacing them with alternatives that may be less costly and provide state Medicaid programs and private health plans more flexibility. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (TCJA) repealed the requirement that individuals maintain health insurance coverage or face a penalty (known as the individual mandate). The removal of this provision, coupled with the threat of the repeal of other PPACA provisions, as well as the outcome of court challenges to the PPACA (including a December 2018 ruling in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Texas finding the PPACA to be unconstitutional, which is pending appeal), threaten the stability of the insurance marketplace and may have consequences for the coverage and accessibility of prescription drugs.

Healthcare Fraud and Abuse Laws

We are subject to various federal, state and local laws targeting fraud and abuse in the healthcare industry, violations of which can lead to civil and criminal penalties, including fines, imprisonment and exclusion from participation in federal healthcare programs. These laws are potentially applicable to us as both a manufacturer and a supplier of products reimbursed by federal healthcare programs, and they also apply to hospitals, physicians and other potential purchasers of our products.

The federal Anti-Kickback Statute (42 U.S.C. § 1320a-7b) prohibits persons from knowingly and willfully soliciting, receiving, offering or providing remuneration, directly or indirectly, to induce either the referral of an individual, or the furnishing, recommending or arranging for a good or service, for which payment may be made under a federal healthcare program such as the Medicare and Medicaid programs. Remuneration is not defined in the federal Anti-Kickback Statute and has been broadly interpreted to include anything of value, including for example, gifts, discounts, coupons, the furnishing of supplies or equipment, credit arrangements, payments of cash, waivers of payments, ownership interests and providing anything at less than its fair market value. Under the federal Anti-Kickback Statute and the applicable criminal healthcare fraud statutes contained within 42 U.S.C. § 1320a-7b, a person or entity need not have actual knowledge of this statute or specific intent to violate it in order to have committed a violation. In addition, the government may assert that a claim, including items or services resulting from a violation of 42 U.S.C. § 1320a-7b, constitutes a false or fraudulent claim for purposes of the civil False Claims Act (discussed below) or the civil monetary penalties statute, which imposes fines against any person who is determined to have presented or caused to be presented claims to a federal healthcare program that the person knows or should know is for an item or service that was not provided as claimed or is false or fraudulent. The federal Anti-Kickback Statute and implementing regulations provide for certain exceptions for “safe harbors” for certain discounting, rebating or personal services arrangements, among other things. However, the lack of uniform court interpretation of the Anti-Kickback Statute makes compliance with the law difficult. Violations of the federal Anti-Kickback Statute can result in significant criminal fines, exclusion from participation in Medicare and Medicaid and follow-on civil litigation, among other things, for both entities and individuals.

Other federal healthcare fraud-related laws also provide criminal liability for violations. The Criminal Healthcare Fraud statute, 18 U.S.C. § 1347, prohibits knowingly and willfully executing a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program, including private third-party payers. Federal criminal law at 18 U.S.C. § 1001, among other sections, prohibits knowingly and willfully falsifying, concealing or covering up a material fact or making any materially false, fictitious or fraudulent statement in connection with the delivery of or payment for healthcare benefits, items or services. See Item 1A. Risk Factors - “We are subject to various regulations pertaining to the marketing of our products and services.”

The civil False Claims Act and similar state laws impose liability on any person or entity who, among other things, knowingly presents, or causes to be presented, a false or fraudulent claim for payment by a federal healthcare program. The qui tam provisions of the False Claims Act and similar state laws allow a private individual to bring civil actions on behalf of the federal or state government and to share in any monetary recovery. The Federal Physician Payments Sunshine Act and similar state laws impose reporting requirements for various types of payments to physicians and teaching hospitals. Failure to comply with reporting requirements under these laws could subject manufacturers and others to substantial civil money penalties. In addition, government entities and private litigants have asserted claims under state consumer protection statutes against pharmaceutical and medical device companies for alleged false or misleading statements in connection with the marketing, promotion and/or sale of pharmaceutical and medical device products, including state investigations of the Company regarding the Company’s vaginal mesh devices and investigations and litigation by certain government entities regarding the Company’s marketing of opioid products.

International Regulations

Through our international operations, the Company is subject to laws and regulations that differ from those under which the Company operates in the U.S. In most cases, non-U.S. regulatory agencies evaluate and monitor the safety, efficacy and quality of pharmaceutical products, govern the approval of clinical trials and product registrations and regulate pricing and reimbursement. Certain international markets have differing product preferences and requirements and operate in an environment of government-mandated, cost-containment programs, including price controls, such as the Patented Medicine Prices Review Board in Canada. Certain governments have placed restrictions on physician prescription levels and patient reimbursements, emphasized greater use of generic drugs and enacted across-the-board price cuts as methods of cost control.

14
Whether or not FDA approval has been obtained for a product, approval of the product by comparable regulatory authorities of other governments must be obtained prior to marketing the product in those jurisdictions. The approval process may be more or less rigorous than the U.S. process and the time required for approval may be longer or shorter than is required in the U.S.

Service Agreements

We contract with various third parties to provide certain critical services including manufacturing, supply, warehousing, distribution, customer service, certain financial functions, certain research and development activities and medical affairs.

For a description of our significant manufacturing, supply and other service agreements, see Note 11. License and Collaboration Agreements and Note 15. Commitments and Contingencies in the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part IV, Item 15 of this report.

We primarily purchase our raw materials for the production and development of our products in the open market from third party suppliers. However, some raw materials are only available from one source. We attempt, when possible, to mitigate our raw material supply risks through inventory management and alternative sourcing strategies. We are required to identify the suppliers of all raw materials for our products in the drug applications that we file with the FDA. If the raw materials from an approved supplier for a particular product become unavailable, we would be required to qualify a substitute supplier with the FDA, which would likely interrupt manufacturing of the affected product. See Item 1A. Risk Factors for further discussion on the risks associated with the sourcing of our raw materials.

License & Collaboration Agreements and Acquisitions

We continue to seek to enhance our product line and develop a balanced portfolio of differentiated products through product acquisitions and in-licensing, or acquiring licenses to products, compounds and technologies from third parties. The Company enters into strategic alliances and collaborative arrangements with third parties, which give the Company rights to develop, manufacture, market and/or sell pharmaceutical products, the rights to which are primarily owned by these third parties. These alliances and arrangements can take many forms, including licensing arrangements, co-development and co-marketing agreements, co-promotion arrangements, research collaborations and joint ventures. Such alliances and arrangements enable us to share the risk of incurring all research and development expenses that do not lead to revenue-generating products; however, because profits from alliance products are shared with the counter-parties to the collaborative arrangement, the gross margins on alliance products are generally lower, sometimes substantially so, than the gross margins that could be achieved had the Company not opted for a development partner. For a discussion of material agreements and acquisitions, including agreement terms and status, see our disclosures in Note 5. Acquisitions and Note 11. License and Collaboration Agreements in the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part IV, Item 15 of this report.

Environmental Matters

Our operations are subject to substantial federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations concerning, among other matters, the generation, handling, storage, transportation, treatment and disposal of, and exposure to, hazardous substances. Violation of these laws and regulations, which may change, can lead to substantial fines and penalties. Many of our operations require environmental permits and controls to prevent and limit pollution of the environment. We believe that our facilities and the facilities of our third party service providers are in substantial compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations and we do not believe that future compliance will have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations.

Employees

As of February 21, 2019, we have 2,910 employees, of which 432 are engaged in research and development and regulatory work, 390 in sales and marketing, 1,070 in manufacturing, 557 in quality assurance and 461 in general and administrative capacities. Our employees are generally not represented by unions, with the exception of certain production personnel in our Rochester, Michigan manufacturing facility. We believe that our relations with our employees are good.

Executive Officers of the Registrant

The following table sets forth information as of February 28, 2019 regarding each of our current executive officers:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

15
Biographies

Our executive officers are briefly described below:

PAUL V. CAMPANELLI, was appointed President, Chief Executive Officer and a Director effective September 23, 2016. Mr. Campanelli joined Endo in 2015 as the President of Par Pharmaceutical, leading Endo’s fully integrated U.S. Generics business, following Endo’s acquisition of Par Pharmaceutical. Prior to joining Endo, he had served as Chief Executive Officer of Par Pharmaceutical Companies, Inc. following the company’s September 2012 acquisition by TPG. Prior to the TPG acquisition, Mr. Campanelli served as Chief Operating Officer and President of Par Pharmaceutical, Inc. from 2011 to 2012. At Par Pharmaceutical Inc., Mr. Campanelli had also served as Senior Vice President, Business Development & Licensing; Executive Vice President and President of Par Pharmaceutical, Inc.; and was named a Corporate Officer by its board of directors. He also served on the board of directors of Sky Growth Holdings Corporation from 2012 until 2015. Mr. Campanelli joined Par Pharmaceutical Companies, Inc. in 2001. Prior to joining Par Pharmaceutical Companies, Inc., Mr. Campanelli served as Vice President, Business Development at Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories Ltd. where he was employed from 1992 to 2001. Mr. Campanelli earned his Bachelor of Science degree from Springfield College.

BLAISE COLEMAN, was appointed Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer effective December 19, 2016. Mr. Coleman was serving as Endo's Interim Chief Financial Officer since November 22, 2016. He joined Endo in January 2015 as Vice President of Corporate Financial Planning & Analysis, and was then promoted to Senior Vice President, Global Finance Operations in November 2015. Prior to joining Endo, Mr. Coleman held a number of finance leadership roles with AstraZeneca, a global biopharmaceutical company, most recently as the Chief Financial Officer of the AstraZeneca/Bristol-Myers Squibb US Diabetes Alliance from January 2013 until January 2015. Prior to that, he was the Head of Finance for the AstraZeneca Global Medicines Development organization based in Mölndal, Sweden from September 2011 to January 2013. Mr. Coleman joined AstraZeneca as Senior Director Commercial Finance for the US Cardiovascular Business in November 2007. He joined AstraZeneca from Centocor, a wholly owned subsidiary of Johnson & Johnson, where he held positions in both the Licenses & Acquisitions and Commercial Finance organizations. Mr. Coleman’s move to Centocor in early 2003 followed 7 years’ experience with the global public accounting firm, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP. Mr. Coleman is a Certified Public Accountant; he holds a Bachelor of Science degree in accounting from Widener University and an M.B.A. from the Fuqua School of Business at Duke University.

TERRANCE J. COUGHLIN, was appointed Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer effective November 1, 2016. In this role, Mr. Coughlin has responsibility for Manufacturing and Technical Operations and R&D across the enterprise. Most recently, Mr. Coughlin served as Vice President, Operations of Par Pharmaceutical Companies, Inc., a subsidiary of Endo. Prior to Endo’s acquisition of Par in September 2015, Mr. Coughlin was the Chief Operating Officer of Par Pharmaceutical Companies, Inc. Prior to joining Par, Mr. Coughlin held a number of leadership roles with Glenmark Generics, Inc. USA/Glenmark Generics Limited latterly as the President and Chief Executive Officer of Glenmark Generics, Inc. USA/Glenmark Generics Limited. Prior to this, Mr. Coughlin had the overall responsibility for Glenmark’s North American, Western European and Eastern European generics businesses, as well as its global active pharmaceutical ingredient business and generics operations in India. Prior to joining Glenmark, Mr. Coughlin served as Senior Vice President at Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories, Inc. Mr. Coughlin began his career in 1988 with Wyckoff Chemical Company, Inc. Mr. Coughlin earned a B.S. in chemistry from Central Michigan University.

TONY PERA, was named President, Par Pharmaceutical effective November 1, 2016. In this role, Mr. Pera leads Endo’s U.S. Generics business including responsibility and oversight of Par Generic and Par Sterile sales teams, as well as Par’s marketing & business analytics group. Most recently, Mr. Pera served as Chief Commercial Officer of Par Pharmaceutical. He joined Par in February 2014 as part of Par’s acquisition of JHP Pharmaceutical, where he held a similar position. As Chief Commercial Officer, Mr. Pera was responsible for all sales, marketing, pricing and customer operations functions for Par. Prior to JHP and Par, Mr. Pera was Senior Vice President of Supply Chain Management for AmerisourceBergen (ABC), a major U.S. pharmaceutical wholesaler, for approximately five years. Prior to ABC, he held numerous senior leadership positions with generic drug companies including APP (now Fresenius Kabi), Bedford Laboratories and LyphoMed. Mr. Pera started his career as a sales representative for the parenteral products division of Baxter. Mr. Pera holds a B.S. in Business Administration from the University of Illinois in Champaign and an M.B.A. from DePaul University.

MATTHEW J. MALETTA, was appointed Executive Vice President, Chief Legal Officer effective May 4, 2015. Prior to joining Endo, Mr. Maletta served as Vice President, Associate General Counsel and Corporate Secretary of Allergan, Inc. In this position, he served as an advisor to the CEO and Board of Directors and supervised several large M&A transactions and takeover defense activities, including Allergan’s acquisition of Inamed and Actavis’ acquisition of Allergan. Mr. Maletta first joined Allergan in 2002 as Corporate Counsel and Assistant Secretary and during his tenure, held various roles of increased responsibility. Prior to joining Allergan, Mr. Maletta was in private practice, focusing on general corporate matters, finance, governance, securities and transactions. He holds a B.A. degree in political science from the University of Minnesota, summa cum laude, and a J.D. degree, cum laude, from the University of Minnesota Law School.

16
PATRICK BARRY, was appointed Executive Vice President and Chief Commercial Officer effective February 26, 2018. In this role, he has responsibility for all commercial activities for U.S. Branded Pharmaceuticals, including strategy, new product planning, marketing, sales as well as managed care and patient access responsibilities. Mr. Barry joined Endo in December 2016 as Senior Vice President, U.S. Branded Pharmaceuticals. Prior to joining Endo, Mr. Barry worked at Sanofi S.A. from April 1992 until December 2016, holding roles of increasing responsibility in areas such as Sales Leadership, Commercial Operations, Marketing, Launch Planning and Training and Leadership Development. Most recently, he served at Sanofi S.A. as its General Manager and Head of North America General Medicines starting in September 2015 and as Vice President and Head of U.S. Specialty from April 2014 until August 2015. During this time, Mr. Barry oversaw three complex and diverse businesses with responsibility for leading sales and marketing activities for branded and generic products across the U.S. and Canada. He has a diverse therapeutic experience including aesthetics and dermatology, oncology, urology, orthopedics and medical device and surgical experience. He has an M.B.A. from Cornell University, Johnson School of Management and a B.A. in Public Relations and Marketing from McKendree University.

We have employment agreements with each of our executive officers.

Available Information

Our internet address is www.endo.com. The contents of our website are not part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and our internet address is included in this document as an inactive textual reference only. We make our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to those reports available free of charge on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we file such reports with, or furnish such reports to, the Securities and Exchange Commission.

You can access our filings through the SEC’s internet site: www.sec.gov (intended to be an inactive textual reference only).

You may also access copies of the Company’s filings with the Canadian Securities Administrators on SEDAR through their internet site: www.sedar.com (intended to be an inactive textual reference only).

Item 1A. Risk Factors