Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

The following Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations describes the principal factors affecting the results of operations, liquidity and capital resources and critical accounting estimates of Endo International plc. This discussion should be read in conjunction with our audited Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes thereto. Except for the historical information contained in this report, including the following discussion, this report contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. See "Forward-Looking Statements" beginning on page i of this report.

Unless otherwise indicated or required by the context, references throughout to “Endo,” the “Company,” “we,” “our” or “us” refer to financial information and transactions of Endo International plc and its subsidiaries.

The operating results of Astora are reported as Discontinued operations, net of tax in the Consolidated Statements of Operations for all periods presented. For additional information, see Note 3. Discontinued Operations and Divestitures in the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part IV, Item 15 of this report.

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

This executive summary provides 2018 highlights from the results of operations that follow:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Additionally, the following summary highlights certain key events that occurred during 2018:

•In January 2018, the Company initiated a restructuring initiative that included a reorganization of its U.S. Generic Pharmaceuticals segment’s research and development network, a further simplification of the Company’s manufacturing networks and a company-wide unification of certain corporate functions.

•During the second quarter of 2018, we entered into a development, license and commercialization agreement with Nevakar, Inc. related to five sterile injectable product candidates.

•In November 2018, we reported positive results from two Phase 3 clinical trials of CCH for the treatment of cellulite in the buttocks. Trial subjects receiving CCH showed highly statistically significant levels of improvement in the appearance of cellulite with treatment, as measured by the trials’ primary endpoint. In addition, the RELEASE-1 trial passed 8 out of 8 key secondary endpoints and the RELEASE-2 trial passed 7 out of 8 key secondary endpoints. Finally, CCH was well-tolerated in the actively-treated subjects with most adverse events being mild to moderate in severity and primarily limited to the local injection area.

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES

The preparation of our Consolidated Financial Statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. (U.S. GAAP) requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts and disclosures in our Consolidated Financial Statements, including the notes thereto, and elsewhere in this report. For example, we are required to make significant estimates and assumptions related to revenue recognition, including sales deductions, financial instruments, long-lived assets, goodwill, other intangibles, income taxes, contingencies and share-based compensation, among others. Some of these estimates can be subjective and complex. Although we believe that our estimates and assumptions are reasonable, there may be other reasonable estimates or assumptions that differ significantly from ours. Further, our estimates and assumptions are based upon information available at the time they were made. Actual results may differ significantly from our estimates.

54
Accordingly, in order to understand our Consolidated Financial Statements, it is important to understand our critical accounting estimates. We consider an accounting estimate to be critical if the accounting estimate requires us to make assumptions about matters that were highly uncertain at the time the accounting estimate was made and changes in the estimate that are reasonably likely to occur from period to period, or use of different estimates that we reasonably could have used in the current period, would have a material impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Our most critical accounting estimates are described below.

Revenue recognition

The Company adopted Accounting Standards Codification Topic 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (ASC 606) on January 1, 2018 using the modified retrospective method for all revenue-generating contracts, including modifications thereto, that were not completed contracts at the date of adoption. For further discussion of the impact of adoption, refer to Note 2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part IV, Item 15 of this report. ASC 606 applies to contracts with commercial substance that establish the payment terms and each party’s rights regarding the goods or services to be transferred, to the extent collection of substantially all of the related consideration is probable. Under ASC 606, we recognize revenue for contracts meeting these criteria when (or as) we satisfy our performance obligations for such contracts by transferring control of the underlying promised goods or services to our customers. The amount of revenue we recognize reflects our estimate of the consideration we expect to be entitled to receive, subject to certain constraints, in exchange for such goods or services. This amount is referred to as the transaction price.

Our revenue consists almost entirely of sales of our pharmaceutical products to customers, whereby we ship products to a customer pursuant to a purchase order. For contracts such as these, revenue is recognized when our contractual performance obligations have been fulfilled and control has been transferred to the customer pursuant to the contract’s terms, which is generally upon delivery to the customer. The amount of revenue we recognize is equal to the fixed amount of the transaction price, adjusted for our estimates of a number of significant variable components including, but not limited to, estimates for chargebacks, rebates, sales incentives and allowances, distribution service agreement and other fees for services, returns and allowances, which we collectively refer to as sales deductions. The Company utilizes the expected value method when estimating the amount of variable consideration to include in the transaction price with respect to each of the foregoing variable components and the most likely amount method when estimating the amount of variable consideration to include in the transaction price with respect to future potential milestone payments that do not qualify for the sales- and usage-based royalty exception. The variable component of the transaction price is estimated based on our direct and indirect customers’ buying patterns and the estimated resulting contractual deduction rates, historical experience, specific known market events and estimated future trends, current contractual and statutory requirements, industry data, estimated customer inventory levels, current contract sales terms with our direct and indirect customers and other competitive factors. Variable consideration is included in the transaction price only to the extent that it is probable that a significant revenue reversal will not occur when the uncertainty associated with the variable consideration is resolved.

We believe that speculative buying of product, particularly in anticipation of possible price increases, has been the historical practice of certain of our customers. The timing of purchasing decisions made by wholesaler and large retail chain customers can materially affect the level of our sales in any particular period. Accordingly, our sales may not correlate to the number of prescriptions written for our products based on external third-party data.

We have entered into DSAs with certain of our significant wholesaler customers that obligate the wholesalers, in exchange for fees paid by us, to: (i) manage the variability of their purchases and inventory levels within specified limits based on product demand and (ii) provide us with specific services, including the provision of periodic retail demand information and current inventory levels for our pharmaceutical products held at their warehouse locations.

Sales deductions

As described above, the amount of revenue we recognize is equal to the fixed amount of the transaction price, adjusted for our estimates of variable consideration, including sales deductions. The impact of these sales deductions is estimated using the expected value method taking into consideration historical experience, estimated future trends, estimated customer inventory levels, current contract sales terms with our direct and indirect customers and other competitive factors. We subsequently review our estimates for sales deductions based on new or revised information that becomes available to us and make revisions to our estimates if and when appropriate.

Where available, we utilize information received from our wholesaler customers about the quantities of inventory held, including the information received pursuant to DSAs, which we have not independently verified. For other customers, we have estimated inventory held based on buying patterns. In addition, we evaluate market conditions for products primarily through the analysis of wholesaler and other third party sell-through data, as well as internally-generated information, to assess factors that could impact expected product demand at the estimate date. As of December 31, 2018, we believe that our estimates of the level of inventory held by our customers is within a reasonable range as compared to both historical amounts and expected demand for each respective product.

55
If the assumptions we use to calculate our estimates for sales deductions do not appropriately reflect future activity, our financial position, results of operations and cash flows could be materially impacted. The following table presents the activity and ending balances, excluding Discontinued operations, for our product sales provisions for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 (in thousands):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Returns and Allowances

Consistent with industry practice, we maintain a return policy that allows our customers to return products within a specified period of time both subsequent to and, in certain cases, prior to the products’ expiration dates. Our return policy generally allows customers to receive credit for expired products within six months prior to expiration and within one year after expiration. Our provision for returns and allowances consists of our estimates for future product returns, pricing adjustments and delivery errors. The primary factors we consider in estimating our potential product returns include:

•the shelf life or expiration date of each product;

•historical levels of expired product returns;

•external data with respect to inventory levels in the wholesale distribution channel;

•external data with respect to prescription demand for our products; and

•the estimated returns liability to be processed by year of sale based on analysis of lot information related to actual historical returns.

In determining our estimates for returns and allowances, we are required to make certain assumptions regarding the timing of the introduction of new products and the potential of these products to capture market share. In addition, we make certain assumptions with respect to the extent and pattern of decline associated with generic competition. To make these assessments, we utilize market data for similar products as analogs for our estimations. We use our best judgment to formulate these assumptions based on past experience and information available to us at the time. We continually reassess and make appropriate changes to our estimates and assumptions as new information becomes available to us.

Our estimate for returns and allowances may be impacted by a number of factors, but the principal factor relates to the level of inventory in the distribution channel. When we are aware of an increase in the level of inventory of our products in the distribution channel, we consider the reasons for the increase to determine whether we believe the increase is temporary or other-than-temporary. Increases in inventory levels assessed as temporary will not result in an adjustment to our provision for returns and allowances. Some of the factors that may be an indication that an increase in inventory levels will be temporary include:

•recently implemented or announced price increases for our products; and

•new product launches or expanded indications for our existing products.

Conversely, other-than-temporary increases in inventory levels may be an indication that future product returns could be higher than originally anticipated and, accordingly, we may need to adjust our provision for returns and allowances. Some of the factors that may be an indication that an increase in inventory levels will be other-than-temporary include:

•declining sales trends based on prescription demand;

•recent regulatory approvals to shorten the shelf life of our products, which could result in a period of higher returns related to older product still in the distribution channel;

•introduction of new product or generic competition;

56
•increasing price competition from generic competitors; and

•changes to the National Drug Codes (NDCs) of our products, which could result in a period of higher returns related to product with the old NDC, as our customers generally permit only one NDC per product for identification and tracking within their inventory systems.

Rebates

Our provision for rebates, sales incentives and other allowances can generally be categorized into the following four types:

•direct rebates;

•indirect rebates;

•governmental rebates, including those for Medicaid, Medicare and TRICARE, among others; and

•managed-care rebates.

We establish contracts with wholesalers, chain stores and indirect customers that provide for rebates, sales incentives, DSA fees and other allowances. Some customers receive rebates upon attaining established sales volumes. Direct rebates are generally rebates paid to direct purchasing customers based on a percentage applied to a direct customer’s purchases from us, including fees paid to wholesalers under our DSAs, as described above. Indirect rebates are rebates paid to indirect customers which have purchased our products from a wholesaler under a contract with us.

We are subject to rebates on sales made under governmental and managed-care pricing programs based on relevant statutes with respect to governmental pricing programs and contractual sales terms with respect to managed-care providers and group purchasing organizations. For example, we are required to provide a discount on our brand-name drugs to patients who fall within the Medicare Part D coverage gap, also referred to as the donut hole.

We participate in various federal and state government-managed programs whereby discounts and rebates are provided to participating government entities. For example, Medicaid rebates are amounts owed based upon contractual agreements or legal requirements with public sector (Medicaid) benefit providers after the final dispensing of the product by a pharmacy to a benefit plan participant. Medicaid reserves are based on expected payments, which are driven by patient usage, contract performance and field inventory that will be subject to a Medicaid rebate. Medicaid rebates are typically billed up to 180 days after the product is shipped, but can be as much as 270 days after the quarter in which the product is dispensed to the Medicaid participant. In addition to the estimates mentioned above, our calculation also requires other estimates, such as estimates of sales mix, to determine which sales are subject to rebates and the amount of such rebates. Periodically, we adjust the Medicaid rebate provision based on actual claims paid. Due to the delay in billing, adjustments to actual claims paid may incorporate revisions of this provision for several periods. Because Medicaid pricing programs involve particularly difficult interpretations of complex statutes and regulatory guidance, our estimates could differ from actual experience.

In determining our estimates for rebates, we consider the terms of our contracts, relevant statutes, historical relationships of rebates to revenues, past payment experience, estimated inventory levels of our customers and estimated future trends. Our provisions for rebates include estimates for both unbilled claims for end-customer sales that have already occurred and future claims that will be made when inventory in the distribution channel is sold through to end-customer plan participants. Changes in the level of utilization of our products through private or public benefit plans and group purchasing organizations will affect the amount of rebates that we owe.

Chargebacks

We market and sell products to both: (i) direct customers including wholesalers, distributors, warehousing pharmacy chains and other direct purchasing groups and (ii) indirect customers including independent pharmacies, non-warehousing chains, managed-care organizations, group purchasing organizations and government entities. We enter into agreements with certain of our indirect customers to establish contract pricing for certain products. These indirect customers then independently select a wholesaler from which to purchase the products at these contracted prices. Alternatively, we may pre-authorize wholesalers to offer specified contract pricing to other indirect customers. Under either arrangement, we provide credit to the wholesaler for any difference between the contracted price with the indirect customer and the wholesaler’s invoice price. Such credit is called a chargeback.

Our provision for chargebacks consists of our estimates for the credits described above. The primary factors we consider in developing and evaluating our provision for chargebacks include:

•the average historical chargeback credits;

•estimated future sales trends; and

•an estimate of the inventory held by our wholesalers, based on internal analysis of a wholesaler’s historical purchases and contract sales.

57
Other sales deductions

We offer certain of our customers prompt pay cash discounts. Provisions for prompt pay discounts are estimated and recorded at the time of sale. We estimate provisions for cash discounts based on contractual sales terms with customers, an analysis of unpaid invoices and historical payment experience. Estimated cash discounts have historically been predictable and less subjective due to the limited number of assumptions involved, the consistency of historical experience and the fact that we generally settle these amounts within 30 to 60 days.

Shelf-stock adjustments are credits issued to our customers to reflect decreases in the selling prices of our products. These credits are customary in the industry and are intended to reduce a customer’s inventory cost to better reflect current market prices. The determination to grant a shelf-stock credit to a customer following a price decrease is generally at our discretion, rather than contractually required. The primary factors we consider when deciding whether to record a reserve for a shelf-stock adjustment include:

•the estimated number of competing products being launched as well as the expected launch date, which we determine based on market intelligence;

•the estimated decline in the market price of our product, which we determine based on historical experience and customer input; and

•the estimated levels of inventory held by our customers at the time of the anticipated decrease in market price, which we determine based upon historical experience and customer input.

Valuation of long-lived assets

As of December 31, 2018, our combined long-lived assets balance, including property, plant and equipment and finite-lived intangible assets, is approximately $3.9 billion.

Long-lived assets are assessed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying amounts of the assets may not be recoverable. Recoverability of an asset that will continue to be used in our operations is measured by comparing the carrying amount of the asset to the forecasted undiscounted future cash flows related to the asset. In the event the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its undiscounted future cash flows and the carrying amount is not considered recoverable, impairment may exist. An impairment loss, if any, is measured as the excess of the asset’s carrying amount over its fair value, generally based on a discounted future cash flow method, independent appraisals or offers from prospective buyers. An impairment loss would be recognized in the Consolidated Statements of Operations in the period that the impairment occurs. As a result of the significance of our long-lived assets, any recognized impairment loss could have a material adverse impact on our financial position and results of operations.

Our reviews of long-lived assets during the three years ended December 31, 2018 resulted in certain impairment charges. The majority of these charges related to finite-lived intangible assets, which are described in Note 10. Goodwill and Other Intangibles in the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part IV, Item 15 of this report. Our impairment charges relating to long-lived assets were generally based on fair value estimates determined using either discounted cash flow models or offers from prospective buyers. When testing a long-lived asset using a discounted cash flow model, we utilize assumptions related to the revenues, growth rates and operating margins of the corresponding product based on management’s annual and ongoing budgeting, forecasting and planning processes, which represent our best estimate of future cash flows. These estimates are subject to the economic environment in which our segments operate, demand for our products and competitor actions. These assumptions are based on significant inputs not observable in the market and thus represent Level 3 measurements within the fair value hierarchy. The use of different inputs and assumptions would increase or decrease our estimated discounted future cash flows, the resulting estimated fair values and the amounts of our related impairments, if any. The discount rates applied to intangible long-lived assets impaired in 2018 ranged from 9.0% to 10.0%.

Events giving rise to impairment are an inherent risk in the pharmaceutical industry and cannot be predicted. Factors that we consider in deciding when to perform an impairment review include significant under-performance of a product line in relation to expectations, significant negative industry or economic trends and significant changes or planned changes in our use of the assets.

Our long-lived intangible assets, which consist of license rights and developed technology, are initially recorded at fair value upon acquisition. To the extent they are deemed to have finite lives, they are then amortized over their estimated useful lives using either the straight-line method or, in the case of certain developed technology assets, the economic benefit model. The values of these various assets are subject to continuing scientific, medical and marketplace uncertainty. Factors giving rise to our initial estimate of useful lives are subject to change. Significant changes to any of these factors may result in a reduction in the useful lives of the assets and acceleration of related amortization expense, which could cause our operating income, net income and net income per share to decrease. Amortization expense is not recorded on assets held for sale. Each category of long-lived intangible assets is described further below.

58
Developed Technology. Our developed technology assets subject to amortization have useful lives ranging from 4 years to 20 years, with a weighted average useful life of approximately 11 years. We determine amortization periods and methods of amortization for developed technology assets based on our assessment of various factors impacting estimated useful lives and the timing and extent of estimated cash flows of the acquired assets, including the strength of the intellectual property protection of the product, contractual terms and various other competitive and regulatory issues. 

License Rights. Our license rights subject to amortization have useful lives ranging from 10 years to 15 years, with a weighted average useful life of approximately 12 years. We determine amortization periods for licenses based on our assessment of various factors including the expected launch date of the product, the strength of the intellectual property protection of the product, contractual terms and various other competitive, developmental and regulatory issues. 

Goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets

As of December 31, 2018, our combined goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets balance is approximately $3.9 billion.

We test goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment at least annually, but also perform tests whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the assets might be impaired. Our annual assessment is performed as of October 1st.

Following our early adoption, effective January 1, 2017, of Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No. 2017-04, “Intangibles - Goodwill and Other (Topic 350): Simplifying the Accounting for Goodwill Impairment” (ASU 2017-04), we perform our goodwill impairment tests by comparing the fair value and carrying amount of each of our reporting units. Any goodwill impairment charge we recognize for a reporting unit is equal to the lesser of (i) the total goodwill allocated to that reporting unit and (ii) the amount by which that reporting unit’s carrying amount exceeds its fair value.

Similarly, we perform our indefinite-lived intangible asset impairment tests by comparing the fair value of each intangible asset with its carrying amount. If the carrying amount of an indefinite-lived intangible asset exceeds its fair value, an impairment loss is recognized in an amount equal to that excess.

The fair values of our reporting units and of identified indefinite-lived intangible assets are determined using an income approach that utilizes a discounted cash flow model, or, where appropriate, a market approach, or a combination thereof. The discounted cash flow models are dependent upon our estimates of future cash flows and other factors. Our estimates of future cash flows involve assumptions concerning (i) future operating performance, including future sales, long-term growth rates, operating margins, variations in the amount and timing of cash flows and the probability of achieving the estimated cash flows and (ii) future economic conditions, all which may differ from actual future cash flows.

Assumptions related to future operating performance are based on management’s annual and ongoing budgeting, forecasting and planning processes and represent our best estimate of the future results of operations as of a point in time. These estimates are subject to many assumptions, such as the economic environment in which our segments operate, demand for our products, competitor actions and factors which could affect our tax rate. Estimated future pre-tax cash flows are adjusted for taxes using a market participant tax rate and discounted to present value using a market participant, weighted average cost of capital. Financial and credit market volatility directly impacts certain inputs and assumptions used to develop the weighted average cost of capital such as the risk-free interest rate, industry beta, debt interest rate and our market capital structure. These assumptions are based on significant inputs not observable in the market and thus represent Level 3 measurements within the fair value hierarchy. The use of different inputs and assumptions would increase or decrease our estimated discounted future cash flows, the resulting estimated fair values and the amounts of our related impairments, if any.

In order to assess the reasonableness of the calculated fair values of our reporting units, we also compare the sum of the reporting units’ fair values to Endo’s market capitalization and calculate an implied control premium (the excess sum of the reporting units’ fair values over the market capitalization) or an implied control discount (the excess sum of total invested capital over the sum of the reporting units’ fair values). The Company evaluates the implied control premium or discount by comparing it to control premiums or discounts of recent comparable market transactions, as applicable. If the control premium or discount is not reasonable in light of comparable recent transactions, or recent movements in the Company’s share price, we reevaluate the fair value estimates of the reporting units by adjusting discount rates and/or other assumptions. This re-evaluation could correlate to different implied fair values for certain or all of the Company’s reporting units.

59
Our first quarter 2018 change in segments described in Note 6. Segment Results in the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part IV, Item 15 of this report resulted in changes to our reporting units for goodwill impairment testing purposes, including the creation of a new U.S. Branded - Sterile Injectables reporting unit, which was previously part of our Generics reporting unit. As a result of these changes, under U.S. GAAP, we tested the goodwill of the former Generics reporting unit immediately before the segment realignment and the goodwill of both the new U.S. Branded - Sterile Injectables and U.S. Generic Pharmaceuticals reporting units immediately after the segment realignment. The critical accounting estimates used in connection with these tests are discussed below and a description of goodwill impairment charges is included in Note 10. Goodwill and Other Intangibles in the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part IV, Item 15 of this report.

As a result of the forgoing changes and the resulting goodwill impairment tests performed during the three months ended March 31, 2018, we recorded a pre-tax, non-cash goodwill impairment charge relating to our new U.S. Generic Pharmaceuticals reporting unit of $391.0 million. A 50 basis point increase in the assumed discount rate used in the impairment test would have increased this goodwill impairment charge by approximately $60 million. Additionally, with respect to the first quarter 2018 goodwill impairment tests performed related to our former Generics and new U.S. Branded - Sterile Injectables reporting units, which did not result in impairment charges, a 50 basis point increase in the assumed discount rates would not have changed the results of these tests.

Endo subsequently performed its annual goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets impairment test as of October 1, 2018. For the purpose of the 2018 annual test, the Company had four reporting units with goodwill: (1) U.S. Branded - Specialty & Established Pharmaceuticals, (2) U.S. Branded - Sterile Injectables, (3) U.S. Generic Pharmaceuticals and (4) Paladin. The fair values of each of our reporting units and associated indefinite-lived intangible assets were determined using an income approach with discount rates ranging from 9.5% to 11.5%, depending on the overall risk associated with the particular assets and other market factors. We believe the discount rates and other inputs and assumptions are consistent with those that a market participant would use. As a result of the 2018 annual test, the Company recorded pre-tax non-cash goodwill impairment charges of $258.0 million and $31.0 million related to its U.S. Generic Pharmaceuticals and Paladin reporting units, respectively.

A 50 basis point increase in the assumed discount rate utilized in each test would have increased our U.S. Generic Pharmaceuticals reporting unit goodwill impairment charge by approximately $40 million and our Paladin reporting unit goodwill impairment charge by approximately $7 million. 

We did not record goodwill impairment charges for the other reporting units as a result of the annual tests. An increase of 50 basis points to our assumed discount rates used in testing the U.S. Branded - Specialty & Established Pharmaceuticals and the U.S. Branded - Sterile Injectables reporting units would not have changed the results of the 2018 annual tests.

Income taxes

Our income tax expense, deferred tax assets and liabilities, income tax payable and reserves for unrecognized tax benefits reflect our best assessment of estimated current and future taxes to be paid. We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and numerous other foreign jurisdictions in which we operate. Significant judgments and estimates are required in determining the consolidated income tax expense or benefit for financial statement purposes. Deferred income taxes arise from temporary differences, which result in future taxable or deductible amounts, between the tax basis of assets and liabilities and the corresponding amounts reported in our Consolidated Financial Statements. In assessing the ability to realize deferred tax assets, we consider, when appropriate, future taxable income by tax jurisdiction and tax planning strategies. Where appropriate, we record a valuation allowance to reduce our deferred tax assets to equal an amount that is more likely than not to be realized. In projecting future taxable income, we begin with historical results, which are in certain cases adjusted for the results of discontinued operations, changes in tax laws or nonrecurring transactions. We incorporate assumptions about the amount of future earnings within a specific jurisdiction’s pretax operating income, adjusted for material changes including in business operations. The assumptions about future taxable income require significant judgment and, while these assumptions rely heavily on estimates, such estimates are consistent with the plans we are using to manage the underlying businesses.

Future changes in tax laws and rates could also affect recorded deferred tax assets and liabilities, including further administrative or regulatory guidance related to the TCJA. Any adjustments to these estimates will be recorded as an income tax expense or benefit in the period the adjustment is determined.

60
The calculation of our tax liabilities often involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax laws and regulations in a multitude of jurisdictions across our global operations. A benefit from an uncertain tax position may be recognized when it is more likely than not that the position will be sustained on the basis of the technical merits upon examination, including resolutions of any related appeals or litigation processes. We first record unrecognized tax benefits as liabilities and then adjust these liabilities when our judgment changes as a result of the evaluation of new information not previously available at the time of establishing the liability. Because of the complexity of some of these uncertainties, the ultimate resolution may result in a payment, potentially including interest and penalties, that is materially different from our current estimate of the unrecognized tax benefit liabilities. These differences will be reflected as increases or decreases to income tax expense in the period in which new information becomes available. We classify interest and penalties arising from uncertain tax positions as a component of tax expense.

We make an evaluation at the end of each reporting period as to whether or not some or all of the undistributed earnings of our subsidiaries are indefinitely reinvested. While we may have concluded in the past that some of such undistributed earnings are indefinitely reinvested, facts and circumstances may change in the future. Changes in facts and circumstances may include a change in the estimated capital needs of our subsidiaries, or a change in our corporate liquidity requirements. Such changes could result in our management determining that some or all of such undistributed earnings are no longer indefinitely reinvested. In that event, we would be required to adjust our income tax provision in the period we determined that the earnings will no longer be indefinitely reinvested outside the relevant tax jurisdiction.

Contingencies

The Company is subject to various patent challenges, product liability claims, government investigations and other legal proceedings in the ordinary course of business. Material legal proceedings are discussed in Note 15. Commitments and Contingencies in the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part IV, Item 15 of this report. Contingent accruals and legal settlements are recorded in the Consolidated Statements of Operations as Litigation-related and other contingencies, net (or Discontinued operations, net in the case of vaginal mesh matters) when the Company determines that a loss is both probable and reasonably estimable. Legal fees and other expenses related to litigation are expensed as incurred and included in Selling, general and administrative expenses in the Consolidated Statements of Operations (or Discontinued operations, net in the case of vaginal mesh matters).

Due to the fact that legal proceedings and other contingencies are inherently unpredictable, our estimates of the probability and amount of any such liabilities involve significant judgment regarding future events. The factors we consider in developing our liabilities for legal proceedings include the merits and jurisdiction of the proceeding, the nature and the number of other similar current and past proceedings, the nature of the product and the current assessment of the science subject to the proceeding, if applicable, and the likelihood of the conditions of settlement being met.

In order to evaluate whether a claim is probable of loss, we may rely on certain information about the claim. Without access to and review of such information, we may not be in a position to determine whether a loss is probable. Further, the timing and extent to which we obtain any such information, and our evaluation thereof, is often impacted by items outside of our control including, without limitation, the normal cadence of the litigation process and the provision of claim information to us by plaintiff’s counsel. The amount of our liabilities for legal proceedings may change as we receive additional information and/or become aware of additional asserted or unasserted claims. Additionally, there is a possibility that we will suffer adverse decisions or verdicts of substantial amounts or that we will enter into additional monetary settlements, either of which could be in excess of amounts previously accrued for. Any changes to our liabilities for legal proceedings could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

As of December 31, 2018, our reserve for loss contingencies totaled $905.1 million, of which $748.6 million relates to our liability accrual for vaginal mesh cases and other mesh-related matters. Although we believe there is a reasonable possibility that a loss in excess of the amount recognized exists, we are unable to estimate the possible loss or range of loss in excess of the amount recognized at this time.

61
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Consolidated Results Review

The following table displays our revenue, gross margin, gross margin percentage and other pre-tax expense or income for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 (dollars in thousands):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

__________

NM indicates that the percentage change is not meaningful or is greater than 100%.

Total Revenues. In 2018, total revenues decreased primarily due to the impact of the second quarter 2017 loss of marketing exclusivity for both ezetimibe tablets and quetiapine ER tablets, competitive pressure on commoditized generic products, generic product rationalization initiatives, actions taken with respect to the voluntary withdrawal of OPANA® ER that are further described below, generic competition on our U.S. Branded - Specialty & Established Pharmaceuticals segment’s Established Products portfolio, our divestitures of Litha and Somar in the second half of 2017. These declines were partially offset by continued strong performance from our U.S. Branded - Sterile Injectables segment, including increases in revenues from VASOSTRICT®, ADRENALIN® and from our third quarter 2018 launch of ertapenem for injection, the authorized generic of Invanz®, our U.S. Branded - Specialty & Established Pharmaceuticals segment’s Specialty Products portfolio, which includes XIAFLEX®, and the impact of certain other recent product launches including, among others, colchicine tablets, the authorized generic of Takeda Pharmaceuticals U.S.A., Inc.’s Colcrys®, which launched in July 2018.

In 2017, total revenues decreased primarily due to declines in our U.S. Generic Pharmaceuticals segment’s product portfolio, driven by overall market trends and product rationalization, and our U.S. Branded - Specialty & Established Pharmaceuticals segment’s Established Products portfolio, driven by the impact of generic competition, the divestiture of STENDRA® in the third quarter of 2016 and actions taken with respect to the voluntary withdrawal of OPANA® ER that are further described below. Additionally, sales in our International Pharmaceuticals segment were negatively impacted by our divestitures of Litha and Somar in the second half of 2017. These declines were partially offset by continued strong performance from our U.S. Branded - Sterile Injectables segment, including VASOSTRICT® and ADRENALIN®, and our U.S. Branded - Specialty & Established Pharmaceuticals segment’s Specialty Products portfolio, which includes XIAFLEX®.

In March 2017, we announced that the FDA’s Drug Safety and Risk Management and Anesthetic and Analgesic Drug Products Advisory Committees voted that the benefits of reformulated OPANA® ER (oxymorphone hydrochloride extended release) no longer outweigh its risks. In June 2017, we became aware of the FDA’s request that we voluntarily withdraw OPANA® ER from the market and, in July 2017, after careful consideration and consultation with the FDA, we decided to voluntarily remove OPANA® ER from the market. During the second quarter of 2017, we began to work with the FDA to coordinate an orderly withdrawal of the product from the market. By September 1, 2017, we ceased shipments of OPANA® ER to customers and we expect the NDA will be withdrawn. These actions had an adverse effect on the revenues and results of operations of our U.S. Branded - Specialty & Established Pharmaceuticals segment in 2017 and 2018.

62
Cost of revenues and gross margin percentage. During the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, we incurred certain charges that impact the comparability of total Cost of revenues, including, among others, those related to acquisitions, separation benefits and restructurings initiatives. The following table summarizes such amounts (in thousands):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

__________[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The previously described decrease in total revenues, the decrease to amortization expense and decreased restructuring charges were the primary factors leading to the overall period-over-period decrease in Cost of revenues in 2018.

The increase in gross margin percentage in 2018 was primarily attributable to the gross margin effects of the net Cost of revenues decreases included in the table above, the favorable margin impact of product rationalization and operating efficiency efforts and changes in the mix of total revenues, including a shift from generic to branded products.

In 2017, Cost of revenues decreased primarily due to the previously described decrease in total revenues, a decrease to inventory step-up expense based on the timing of prior acquisitions and a decrease to amortization expense. These savings were partially offset by increased restructuring charges included in Cost of revenues.

Gross margin percentage increased in 2017 primarily due to the favorable margin impact of product rationalization efforts and changes in the mix of total revenues, including a shift from generic to branded products. This increase was partially offset by the margin effects of continued competitive pressure on the commoditized generic products in our U.S. Generic Pharmaceuticals segment.

Our material restructuring initiatives are described more fully in Note 4. Restructuring in the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part IV, Item 15 of this report.

Selling, general and administrative expenses. In 2018, Selling, general and administrative expenses increased primarily as a result of increased legal costs related to certain litigation matters, partially offset by cost reductions that were implemented throughout 2017 and 2018, including the impact of those related to various restructuring initiatives.

In 2017, Selling, general and administrative expenses decreased primarily as a result of cost reductions that were implemented during 2016 and in the first half of 2017, including the impact of those related to various restructuring initiatives. Additionally, there was a decrease in restructuring charges included in Selling, general and administrative expense in 2017.

Our material restructuring initiatives and material legal proceedings and other contingent matters are described in more detail in Note 4. Restructuring and Note 15. Commitments and Contingencies, respectively, in the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part IV, Item 15 of this report.

Research and development expenses. Our R&D efforts are focused on the development of a balanced, diversified portfolio of innovative and clinically differentiated product candidates, including CCH for the treatment of cellulite. We also seek out and develop high-barrier-to-entry generic products, including first-to-file or first-to-market opportunities. We periodically review our generic products pipeline in order to better direct investment toward those opportunities that we expect will deliver the greatest returns.

In November 2018, we reported positive results from two Phase 3 clinical trials, which had been initiated during the first quarter of 2018, of CCH for the treatment of cellulite in the buttocks. Trial subjects receiving CCH showed highly statistically significant levels of improvement in the appearance of cellulite with treatment, as measured by the trials’ primary endpoint. In addition, the RELEASE-1 trial passed 8 out of 8 key secondary endpoints and the RELEASE-2 trial passed 7 out of 8 key secondary endpoints. Finally, CCH was well-tolerated in the actively-treated subjects with most adverse events being mild to moderate in severity and primarily limited to the local injection area.

63
During the second quarter of 2018, we entered into a development, license and commercialization agreement related to five sterile injectable product candidates, at which time we became obligated to make an upfront payment, which was recorded as Research and development expense in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. This agreement is described more fully in Note 11. License and Collaboration Agreements in the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part IV, Item 15 of this report.

Also, during the first quarter of 2018, we announced the January 2018 Restructuring Initiative, which included a reorganization of our U.S. Generic Pharmaceuticals segment’s research and development network.

The increase in R&D expense in 2018 was primarily a result of increased costs related to our cellulite treatment development program and the upfront payment discussed above. This increase was partially offset by cost savings related to the January 2018 Restructuring Initiative and other cost reduction initiatives.

In 2017, R&D expense decreased due to a reduction in costs associated with post-marketing studies related to certain products in our U.S. Branded - Specialty & Established Pharmaceuticals segment and our previous Phase 2b cellulite trial, the results of which were announced in November 2016, cost savings resulting from the January 2017 Restructuring Initiative and lower development costs and filing fees related to new product launches in our U.S. Generic Pharmaceuticals segment. Partially offsetting the decrease were preliminary costs incurred in 2017 associated with the Phase 3 cellulite trials described above.

We expect our U.S. Branded - Specialty & Established Pharmaceuticals segment’s R&D costs to decline in 2019. This expected decline primarily reflects lower R&D expenditures related to CCH for the treatment of cellulite as a result of the timing of our Phase 3 trials, the results of which were announced in November 2018. However, there can be no assurance that we will achieve these results.

Our material restructuring initiatives are described more fully in Note 4. Restructuring in the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part IV, Item 15 of this report.

Litigation-related and other contingencies, net. Included within Litigation-related and other contingencies, net are changes to our accruals for litigation-related settlement charges and certain settlements proceeds related to suits filed by our subsidiaries. Our material legal proceedings and other contingent matters are described in more detail in Note 15. Commitments and Contingencies in the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part IV, Item 15 of this report.

Asset impairment charges. The following table presents the components of our total Asset impairment charges for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 (in thousands):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

A discussion of our impairment testing methodology and the critical accounting estimates made in connection with our various impairment tests is included above under the caption “CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES.” The factors leading to our material asset impairment tests, as well as the results of these tests, are further described in Note 9. Property, Plant and Equipment and Note 10. Goodwill and Other Intangibles in the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part IV, Item 15 of this report.

Acquisition-related and integration items. The following table presents the components of our total Acquisition-related and integration items for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 (in thousands):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Net expense from changes in the fair value of acquisition-related contingent consideration resulted primarily from changes to our estimates regarding the timing and amount of the future revenues of the underlying products and changes in other assumptions impacting the probability of, and extent to which we will incur related contingent obligations. See Note 7. Fair Value Measurements in the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part IV, Item 15 of this report for further discussion of our acquisition-related contingent consideration.

The decreases in other Acquisition-related and integration items in both 2018 and 2017 were primarily attributable to the timing of prior acquisitions and the associated costs. In 2016, amounts primarily relate to costs associated with integrating our January 2015 acquisition of Auxilium Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (subsequently converted to Auxilium Pharmaceuticals, LLC and hereinafter referred to as Auxilium) and our September 2015 acquisition of Par Pharmaceutical Holdings, Inc (Par), which costs did not reoccur to the same extent in 2017.

64
Interest expense, net. The components of Interest expense, net for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 are as follows (in thousands):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The increase in interest expense in 2018 was primarily attributable to increased interest rates, including the effects of both increases in LIBOR, which impacted our variable-rate debt, and the refinancing that occurred on April 27, 2017, which is further described in Note 14. Debt in the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part IV, Item 15 of this report. Although we cannot predict future interest rates with certainty, absent any actions to reduce the principal amount of our debt, interest expense is likely to increase in 2019 as a result of recent and potential future increases in LIBOR. In 2017, the increase in interest expense was primarily due to increased interest rates following the refinancing that occurred on April 27, 2017.

Interest income varies primarily based on the amounts of our investments in money market funds and time deposits, as well as changes in the corresponding interest rates.

Loss on extinguishment of debt. Loss on extinguishment of debt in 2017 related to certain previously unamortized debt issuance costs that were charged to expense in connection with the April 2017 refinancing. There were no comparable charges in 2018 or 2016.

Other income, net. The components of Other income, net for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 are as follows (in thousands):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

In 2018, Net (gain) loss on sale of business and other assets primarily relates to proceeds received from the 2018 sales of various ANDAs and of the Huntsville facilities, as further discussed in Note 4. Restructuring in the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part IV, Item 15 of this report.

In 2017, Net (gain) loss on sale of business and other assets includes a $10.1 million gain resulting from the sale of Litha, as further described in Note 3. Discontinued Operations and Divestitures in the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part IV, Item 15 of this report.

Amounts of Foreign currency (gain) loss, net result from the remeasurement of the Company’s foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities. Net loss (gain) from our investments in the equity of other companies includes the income statement impacts of our investments in the equity of other companies, including those accounted for under the equity method and those classified as marketable securities.

Income tax expense (benefit). The following table displays our Loss from continuing operations before income tax, Income tax expense (benefit) and effective tax rate for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 (dollars in thousands):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Our tax rate is affected by recurring items, such as tax rates in non-U.S. jurisdictions as compared to the notional U.S. federal statutory tax rate, and the relative amount of income or loss in those various jurisdictions. It is also impacted by certain items that may occur in any given period, but are not consistent from period to period.

65
The tax expense in 2018 primarily related to the establishment of a valuation allowance against certain U.S. deferred tax assets. The following items had the most significant impact on the difference between the notional U.S. statutory federal income tax rate and our effective tax rate in 2017 and 2016:

2017:

•$1,648.8 million of tax expense or a 111.2% rate charge from recording net valuation allowances relating to the Company’s operations.

•$1,350.8 million of net tax benefit or a 91.1% rate benefit associated with our geographical mix of earnings. As of December 31, 2017, no provision has been made for Irish taxes, as the majority of our undistributed earnings were considered to be permanently reinvested outside of Ireland.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•$60.8 million of tax expense or a 4.1% rate charge resulting from the non-deductible portion of impaired goodwill.

2016:

•$926.9 million tax expense or a 23.6% rate charge resulting from the non-deductible portion of impaired goodwill.

•$762.6 million tax expense or a 19.4% rate charge from recording net valuation allowances relating to the Company’s operations.

•$636.1 million net tax benefit or a 16.2% rate benefit associated with the recognition of outside basis differences in certain subsidiaries.

•$301.7 million net tax benefit or a 7.7% rate benefit associated with our geographical mix of earnings. As of December 31, 2016, no provision has been made for Irish taxes, as the majority of our undistributed earnings were considered to be permanently reinvested outside of Ireland.

We have valuation allowances established against our deferred tax assets in most other jurisdictions in which we operate, with the exception of Canada and India. Accordingly, it would be unlikely for future pre-tax losses to create a tax benefit that would be more likely than not to be realized. Although the Company has valuation allowances established against deferred tax assets in most major jurisdictions as of December 31, 2018, it is possible that there could be material releases if certain proposed law changes were to be enacted.

The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) presently is examining certain of our subsidiaries’ U.S. income tax returns for fiscal years ending between December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2015 and, in connection with those examinations, is reviewing our tax positions related to, among other things, certain intercompany arrangements, including the level of profit earned by our United States subsidiaries pursuant to such arrangements, and a worthless stock deduction directly attributable to product liability losses. The IRS may examine our tax returns for other fiscal years and/or for other tax positions. Similarly, other tax authorities may examine our non-U.S. tax returns and propose adjustments to our taxes. Such examinations may lead to proposed or actual adjustments to our taxes that may be material, individually or in the aggregate. An adverse outcome of these tax examinations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and growth prospects. See the risk factor “We may not be able to successfully maintain our low tax rates or other tax positions, which could adversely affect our businesses and financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects” in Part I, Item 1A of this document for more information.

For additional information on our income taxes, see Note 20. Income Taxes in the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part IV, Item 15 of this report.

Discontinued operations, net of tax. As further described in Note 3. Discontinued Operations and Divestitures in the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part IV, Item 15 of this report, the operating results of Astora are reported as Discontinued operations, net of tax in the Consolidated Statements of Operations for all periods presented. The results of our discontinued operations, net of tax, were losses of $69.7 million, $802.7 million and $123.3 million, during the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively.

In 2018, the primary driver of the change was the after-tax impact of charges related to mesh litigation. Mesh-related charges in 2018 totaled $34.0 million compared to $775.5 million in 2017. Additionally, following the settlement strategy we pursued in 2017, there were decreases in mesh-related legal defense costs in 2018 compared to 2017.

In 2017, the primary driver of the change was the after-tax impact of the 2017 charge discussed above. This compares to $20.1 million of litigation-related charges recorded during 2016. Also contributing to the change was a decrease in revenue resulting from the wind-down of our Astora business in 2016. Partially offsetting these changes was an overall decrease in spending in 2017, as well as a decrease in asset impairment charges of $21.3 million.

For further discussion of mesh-related matters, refer to Note 15. Commitments and Contingencies in the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part IV, Item 15 of this report.

66
Key Trends. We estimate that the following factors will impact our 2019 total revenues as compared to 2018:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

These estimated trends reflect the current expectations of the Company’s management team based on information currently known to them. These estimates are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those indicated by such estimated trends.

Business Segment Results Review

The four reportable business segments in which we operate are: (1) U.S. Branded - Specialty & Established Pharmaceuticals, (2) U.S. Branded - Sterile Injectables, (3) U.S. Generic Pharmaceuticals and (4) International Pharmaceuticals. Our segments reflect the level at which the chief operating decision maker regularly reviews financial information to assess performance and to make decisions about resources to be allocated. Each segment derives revenue from the sales or licensing of its respective products and is discussed in more detail below.

We evaluate segment performance based on each segment’s adjusted income from continuing operations before income tax, a financial measure not determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP, which we define as Loss from continuing operations before income tax and before certain upfront and milestone payments to partners; acquisition-related and integration items, including transaction costs and changes in the fair value of contingent consideration; cost reduction and integration-related initiatives such as separation benefits, retention payments, other exit costs and certain costs associated with integrating an acquired company’s operations; asset impairment charges; amortization of intangible assets; inventory step-up recorded as part of our acquisitions; litigation-related and other contingent matters; gains or losses from early termination of debt; gains or losses from the sales of businesses and other assets; foreign currency gains or losses on intercompany financing arrangements; and certain other items.

Certain of the corporate expenses incurred by us are not attributable to any specific segment. Accordingly, these costs are not allocated to any of our segments and are included in the results below as “Corporate unallocated costs.” Interest income and expense are also considered corporate items and not allocated to any of our segments. Our consolidated adjusted income from continuing operations before income tax is equal to the combined results of each of our segments less these unallocated corporate items.

We refer to adjusted income from continuing operations before income tax in making operating decisions because we believe it provides meaningful supplemental information regarding our operational performance. For instance, we believe that this measure facilitates internal comparisons to our historical operating results and comparisons to competitors’ results. We believe this measure is useful to investors in allowing for greater transparency related to supplemental information used in our financial and operational decision-making. Further, we believe that adjusted income from continuing operations before income tax may be useful to investors as we are aware that certain of our significant shareholders utilize adjusted income from continuing operations before income tax to evaluate our financial performance. Finally, adjusted income from continuing operations before income tax is utilized in the calculation of other non-GAAP financial measures, which are used by the Compensation Committee of the Company’s Board of Directors in assessing the performance and compensation of substantially all of our employees, including our executive officers.

There are limitations to using financial measures such as adjusted income from continuing operations before income tax. Other companies in our industry may define adjusted income from continuing operations before income tax differently than we do. As a result, it may be difficult to use adjusted income from continuing operations before income tax or similarly named adjusted financial measures that other companies may use to compare the performance of those companies to our performance. Because of these limitations, adjusted income from continuing operations before income tax is not intended to represent cash flow from operations as defined by U.S. GAAP and should not be used as an indicator of operating performance, a measure of liquidity or as alternative to net income, cash flows or any other financial measure determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP. We compensate for these limitations by providing reconciliations of our total segment adjusted income from continuing operations before income tax to our consolidated Loss from continuing operations before income tax, which is determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP and included in our Consolidated Statements of Operations.

67
Revenues. The following table displays our revenue by reportable segment for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 (dollars in thousands):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

__________

(1)Revenues generated by our International Pharmaceuticals segment are primarily attributable to external customers located in Canada and, prior to the sale of Litha in July 2017 and Somar in October 2017, South Africa and Latin America.

U.S. Branded - Specialty & Established Pharmaceuticals. The following table displays the significant components of our U.S. Branded - Specialty & Established Pharmaceuticals revenues from external customers for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 (dollars in thousands):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

__________[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Specialty Products

The increases in net sales of XIAFLEX® in both 2018 and 2017 were primarily attributable to demand growth driven by the continued investment and promotional efforts behind XIAFLEX®, as well as price.

The decrease in net sales of SUPPRELIN® LA in 2018 was primarily attributable to decreased volume. The increase in 2017 was primarily attributable to price.

The increase in net sales of Other Specialty Products in 2018 was primarily attributable to increased sales of NASCOBAL® Nasal Spray and AVEED® due to improved volume. The increases in these products were partially offset by lower sales of TESTOPEL® due to decreases in both volume and price. Net sales of Other Specialty Products increased in 2017, driven by increased net sales of NASCOBAL® Nasal Spray, AVEED® and TESTOPEL®, which all benefited from increased prices. NASCOBAL® Nasal Spray and AVEED® also benefited from improved volume.

Established Products

The decreases in net sales of PERCOCET® in both 2018 and 2017 were primarily attributable to volume decreases, partially offset by price increases.

68
The decreases in net sales of VOLTAREN® Gel for both 2018 and 2017 were primarily attributable to price and volume decreases as a result of ongoing competitive pressure from generic competition. To the extent additional competitors launch generic versions of VOLTAREN® Gel, our revenues could decline further.

The decreases in net sales of OPANA® ER for both 2018 and 2017 relate primarily to our voluntary cessation of shipments of OPANA® ER to customers by September 1, 2017, as further described above.

Net sales of Other Established Products for both 2018 and 2017 were negatively impacted by volume decreases resulting from generic competition and certain other factors, including a decrease in 2017 resulting from the divestiture of STENDRA® in the third quarter of 2016.

U.S. Branded - Sterile Injectables. The following table displays the significant components of our U.S. Branded - Sterile Injectables revenues from external customers for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 (dollars in thousands):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

__________

NM indicates that the percentage change is not meaningful or is greater than 100%.

(1)Products included within Other Sterile Injectables include, but are not limited to, APLISOL® and ephedrine sulfate injection.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Net sales of VASOSTRICT® and ADRENALIN® increased in 2018 and 2017 due to increases in both price and volume. Sales of ADRENALIN® also benefited from the market withdrawal of competing unapproved sources beginning in May of 2017. VASOSTRICT® is currently the first and only vasopressin injection with an NDA approved by the FDA. As of December 31, 2018, we have six patents for VASOSTRICT® listed in the Orange Book. We have additional patents pending with the PTO. The FDA requires any applicant seeking FDA approval for vasopressin prior to patent expiry and relying on VASOSTRICT® as the Reference Listed Drug to notify us of its filing before the FDA will issue an approval. 

We are aware of certain competitive actions taken by other pharmaceutical companies related to VASOSTRICT®, which include the filing of ANDAs for generic versions of VASOSTRICT® and the commencement of bulk compounding of vasopressin, the active ingredient of VASOSTRICT®. These matters are further discussed in Note 15. Commitments and Contingencies in the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part IV, Item 15 of this report under the heading “VASOSTRICT® Related Matters.” We have taken and plan to continue to take actions in our best interest to protect our rights with respect to VASOSTRICT®. The introduction of any compounded or generic versions of VASOSTRICT® could result in reductions to our market share, revenues, profitability and cash flows.

Ertapenem for injection, the authorized generic of Invanz®, launched during the third quarter of 2018 and had no sales in 2017 or 2016.

The increase in 2017 in net sales of Other Sterile Injectables was primarily due to the launch of ephedrine sulfate injection and neostigmine methylsulfate injection during the year.

U.S. Generic Pharmaceuticals. Continued competitive pressure on commoditized generic products and the impact of product rationalization initiatives resulting from prior restructurings resulted in a revenue decrease in 2018. Additionally, included within this segment’s revenues in 2017 are ezetimibe tablets and quetiapine ER tablets, both of which were first-to-file products launched in the fourth quarter of 2016. Combined net sales for these two products in 2017 were $250.2 million. The marketing exclusivity periods for both ezetimibe tablets and quetiapine ER tablets expired in the second quarter of 2017. As a result, combined revenues for these products declined significantly during the second quarter of 2017 and beyond. Partially offsetting the 2018 decrease was the impact of certain recent product launches including, among others, colchicine tablets, the authorized generic of Takeda Pharmaceuticals U.S.A., Inc.’s Colcrys®, which launched in July 2018.

The 2017 decrease in U.S. Generic Pharmaceuticals net sales was primarily due to decreases in both price and volume resulting from continued competitive pressure on commoditized generic products and the impact of product rationalization actions resulting from the 2016 and 2017 U.S. Generic Pharmaceuticals segment restructuring initiatives. In addition, combined sales for ezetimibe tablets and quetiapine ER tablets decreased from approximately $292.2 million in 2016 to approximately $250.2 million in 2017 as a result of the loss of marketing exclusivity as discussed above.

69
International Pharmaceuticals. The decreases in revenue for the International Pharmaceuticals segment in both 2018 and 2017 were primarily attributable to the combined impact of our divestitures of Litha and Somar in the second half of 2017. The decrease in 2018 was partially offset by increases in revenues for certain other products within this segment. For additional detail regarding the divestitures of Litha and Somar refer to Note 3. Discontinued Operations and Divestitures in the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part IV, Item 15 of this report.

Adjusted income from continuing operations before income tax. The following table displays our Adjusted income from continuing operations before income tax by reportable segment for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 (dollars in thousands):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

U.S. Branded - Specialty & Established Pharmaceuticals. Amounts were negatively impacted during 2018 as a result of decreased revenues and gross margins related to generic competition and the voluntary cessation of shipments of OPANA® ER by September 1, 2017. Additionally, in 2018, R&D expenses increased as a result of our cellulite treatment development program and legal costs related to certain litigation matters also increased. Our material legal proceedings and other contingent matters are described in more detail in Note 15. Commitments and Contingencies in the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part IV, Item 15 of this report.

The decrease in 2017 was a result of decreased revenues related to generic competition impacting several products in this segment, the actions taken with respect to OPANA® ER as discussed above and the divestiture of STENDRA® in the third quarter of 2016. These decreases were partially offset by targeted cost reductions in Selling, general and administrative expenses associated with our previously announced restructuring initiatives, as well as the reductions to R&D costs described above.

U.S. Branded - Sterile Injectables. The increases in both 2018 and 2017 were primarily driven by increased revenues and gross margins resulting from strong performance of a variety of products in this segment as described above.

U.S. Generic Pharmaceuticals. The decrease in 2018 was primarily attributable to decreased revenues as described above and the resulting reduction to gross margin. Partially offsetting the decrease were the impacts of reductions to R&D and other operating expenses, including the impact of the 2017 U.S. Generic Pharmaceuticals Restructuring Initiative and the January 2018 Restructuring Initiative, which are described more fully in Note 4. Restructuring in the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part IV, Item 15 of this report.

The decrease in 2017 was primarily attributable to the impact of competitive pressure on commoditized generic products. Partially offsetting the decrease were the impacts of product rationalization actions and other restructuring initiatives, which had the effect of improving gross margin percentage and reducing overall operating expenses in 2017.

International Pharmaceuticals. Amounts were negatively impacted in both 2018 and 2017 as a result of the combined impact of our divestitures of Litha and Somar in the second half of 2017. This decrease in 2018 was more than offset by the gross margin effects of the revenue results of certain other International Pharmaceuticals products, as described above.

70
The table below provides reconciliations of our consolidated Total consolidated loss from continuing operations before income tax, which is determined in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (U.S. GAAP), to our total segment adjusted income from continuing operations before income tax for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 (in thousands):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

__________

(1)Amounts include certain corporate overhead costs, such as headcount, facility and corporate litigation expenses and certain other income and expenses.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(3)Amounts include adjustments for Litigation-related and other contingencies, net as further described in Note 15. Commitments and Contingencies.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

Our principal source of liquidity is cash generated from operations. Our principal liquidity requirements are primarily for working capital for operations, licenses, milestone payments, capital expenditures, acquisitions, contingent liabilities, vaginal mesh liability payments and debt service payments. The Company’s working capital was $393.1 million at December 31, 2018 compared to working capital of $50.2 million at December 31, 2017. The amounts at December 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017 include restricted cash and cash equivalents of $299.7 million and $313.8 million, respectively, held in QSFs for mesh-related matters. Although these amounts in QSFs are included in working capital, they are required to be used for mesh product liability settlement agreements that are expected to be paid to qualified claimants within the next twelve months.

Cash and cash equivalents, which primarily consisted of bank deposits, time deposits and money market accounts, totaled $1,149.1 million at December 31, 2018 compared to $986.6 million at December 31, 2017. We expect cash generated from operations together with our cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash, restricted cash equivalents and the revolving credit facilities to be sufficient to cover our principal liquidity requirements over the next year. However, on a longer term basis, we may not be able to accurately predict the effect of certain developments on our sales and gross margins, such as the degree of market acceptance, patent protection and exclusivity of our products, pricing pressures (including those due to the impact of competition), the effectiveness of our sales and marketing efforts and the outcome of our current efforts to develop, receive approval for and successfully launch our product candidates. We may also face unexpected expenses in connection with our business operations, including expenses related to our ongoing and future legal proceedings and governmental investigations and other contingent liabilities. Furthermore, we may not be successful in implementing, or may face unexpected changes or expenses in connection with our strategic direction, including the potential for opportunistic corporate development transactions. Any of the above could adversely affect our future cash flows.

71
From time to time, we may seek to enter into certain transactions to reduce the extent of our leverage and/or interest expense and/or to extend the maturities of our outstanding indebtedness. Such transactions could include, for example, transactions to exchange existing indebtedness for our ordinary shares, to issue equity (including convertible securities) or to repurchase, redeem or refinance our existing indebtedness (including the Credit Agreement). In order to finance any such transactions, we may need to obtain additional funding. Any of these transactions could impact our liquidity.

We may also require additional financing to fund our future operational needs or for future corporate transactions, including acquisitions. We have historically had broad access to financial markets that provide liquidity; however, we cannot be certain that funding will be available to us in the future on terms acceptable to us, or at all. Any issuances of equity securities or convertible securities, in connection with an acquisition or otherwise, could have a dilutive effect on the ownership interest of our current shareholders and may adversely impact net income per share in future periods. An acquisition may be accretive or dilutive and, by its nature, involves numerous risks and uncertainties. As a result of acquisition efforts, if any, we are likely to experience significant charges to earnings for merger and related expenses (whether or not the acquisitions are consummated) that may include transaction costs, closure costs or costs of restructuring activities.

We consider the undistributed earnings from the majority of our subsidiaries as of December 31, 2018 to be indefinitely reinvested outside of Ireland and, accordingly, neither income tax nor withholding taxes have been provided thereon. As of December 31, 2018, indefinitely reinvested earnings were approximately $1,231.8 million. We do not anticipate incurring tax in deploying funds to satisfy liquidity needs arising in the ordinary course of our business.

Borrowings. The Company and certain of its subsidiaries are party to: (i) a credit agreement (the Credit Agreement), which provides for a senior secured revolving credit facility (the Revolving Credit Facility) and a senior secured term loan facility (the Term Loan Facility and, together with the Revolving Credit Facility, the Credit Facilities) and (ii) the indenture governing our senior secured notes (the 5.875% Senior Secured Notes due 2024, referred to as the 2024 Notes). Certain subsidiaries of the Company are also party to the indentures governing our various senior unsecured notes. At December 31, 2018, an aggregate principal amount of $3.4 billion is outstanding under the Term Loan Facility, $5.0 billion is outstanding under the senior unsecured notes and senior secured notes and approximately $997.3 million is available under the Revolving Credit Facility.

The obligations of the borrowers under the Credit Agreement are guaranteed by the Company and the subsidiaries of the Company (with certain customary exceptions). The Credit Agreement contains affirmative and negative covenants that the Company believes to be usual and customary for a senior secured credit facility of this type. The negative covenants include, among other things, limitations on asset sales, mergers and acquisitions, indebtedness, liens, dividends and other restricted payments, investments and transactions with the Company’s affiliates. As of December 31, 2018 and 2017, we were in compliance with all such covenants. In addition, on an annual basis commencing with the year ended December 31, 2018, the Company is required to perform a calculation of Excess Cash Flow (as defined in the Credit Agreement), which could result in certain pre-payments of the principal relating to the Term Loan Facility in accordance with the terms of the Credit Agreement. No such payment is required at December 31, 2018.

The Company’s notes mature between 2022 and 2025, subject to earlier repurchase or redemption in accordance with the terms of the respective indentures. Interest rates on these notes range from 5.375% to 7.25%. Other than the 2024 Notes, these notes are senior unsecured obligations of the Company’s subsidiaries party to the applicable indentures governing such notes. These notes are issued by certain of the Company’s subsidiaries and are guaranteed on a senior unsecured basis by the subsidiaries of Endo International plc that also guarantee the Credit Agreement, except for a de minimis amount of the 7.25% Senior Notes due 2022, which are issued by EHSI and guaranteed on a senior unsecured basis by the guarantors named in the Fifth Supplemental Indenture relating to such notes. The 2024 Notes are senior secured obligations of Endo International plc and its subsidiaries that are party to the indenture governing such notes. These notes are issued by certain of our subsidiaries and are guaranteed on a senior secured basis by Endo International plc and its subsidiaries that also guarantee our Credit Agreement.

The indentures governing our various senior notes contain affirmative and negative covenants that the Company believes to be usual and customary for similar indentures. Under the senior secured notes indenture, the negative covenants, among other things, restrict the Company’s ability, and the ability of its restricted subsidiaries, to incur certain additional indebtedness and issue preferred stock, make certain dividends, distributions, investments and other restricted payments, sell certain assets, enter into sale and leaseback transactions, agree to payment restrictions on the ability of restricted subsidiaries to make certain payments to Endo International plc or any of its restricted subsidiaries, create certain liens, merge, consolidate or sell all or substantially all of the Company’s or guarantors’ assets, enter into certain transactions with affiliates or designate subsidiaries as unrestricted subsidiaries. Under the senior unsecured notes indentures, the negative covenants, among other things, restrict the ability of Endo Designated Activity Company and its restricted subsidiaries to incur certain additional indebtedness and issue preferred stock, make certain dividends, distributions, investments and other restricted payments, sell certain assets, enter into sale and leaseback transactions, agree to payment restrictions on the ability of restricted subsidiaries to make certain payments to the issuer or any of the restricted subsidiaries, create certain liens, merge, consolidate or sell all or substantially all of Endo Designated Activity Company’s, its co-issuers’ or guarantors’ assets, enter into certain transactions with affiliates or designate subsidiaries as unrestricted subsidiaries. These covenants are subject to a number of exceptions and qualifications, including the fall away or revision of certain of these covenants, and release of collateral in the case of the 2024 Notes, upon the notes receiving investment grade credit ratings. As of December 31, 2018 and 2017, we were in compliance with all such covenants.

72
The obligations under (i) the Credit Agreement and related loan documents and (ii) the indenture governing the 2024 Notes and related documents are secured on a pari passu basis by a perfected first priority (subject to certain permitted liens) lien on substantially all of the assets of the borrowers and the guarantors (subject to customary exceptions).

Credit ratings. The Company’s corporate credit ratings assigned by Moody’s Investors Service and Standard & Poor’s are B2 with a negative outlook and B with a stable outlook, respectively.

Working capital. The components of our working capital and our liquidity at December 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017 are below (dollars in thousands):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Net working capital increased by $342.9 million from December 31, 2017 to December 31, 2018. This increase primarily reflects the favorable impact to net current assets resulting from operations during the year ended December 31, 2018. Working capital also increased as a result of net 2018 proceeds of $23.1 million from our sale of our Huntsville facilities and $34.3 million from our sales of various ANDAs. These increases were partially offset by certain items including, but not limited to, the working capital effect of net decreases in long-term litigation-related liabilities of $210.5 million, purchases of property, plant and equipment, excluding capitalized interest, of $83.4 million and net decreases in the aggregate principal amount of noncurrent debt of $34.2 million.

The following table summarizes our Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 (in thousands):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Operating activities. Net cash provided by operating activities represents the cash receipts and cash disbursements from all of our activities other than investing activities and financing activities. Changes in cash from operating activities reflect, among other things, the timing of cash collections from customers, payments to suppliers, managed care organizations, government agencies, collaborative partners and employees, as well as tax payments and refunds in the ordinary course of business.

The $286.7 million decrease in Net cash provided by operating activities in 2018 compared to 2017 was primarily the result of the timing of cash collections and cash payments related to our operations. In particular, net sales of ezetimibe tablets and quetiapine ER tablets, which were launched in the fourth quarter of 2016 and for which the marketing exclusivity periods expired in the second quarter of 2017, generated significant cash receipts during 2017 that did not reoccur during 2018. Additionally, cash paid for interest in 2018 increased as compared to 2017 as a result of changes in interest rates. These decreases to Net cash provided by operating activities were partially offset by a decline in cash outlays for mesh settlements, which decreased $273.2 million in 2018 as compared to 2017.

The $25.8 million increase in Net cash provided by operating activities in 2017 compared to 2016 was primarily the result of increased cash receipts generated by net sales of ezetimibe tablets and quetiapine ER tablets, which launched in the fourth quarter of 2016 and contributed to a decrease in Accounts receivable in 2017. Cash outlays for mesh settlements decreased $491.1 million during 2017 as compared to 2016. In addition, as a result of continued generic competition on certain legacy branded products and the discontinuation of certain generic products resulting from the 2016 U.S. Generic Pharmaceuticals Restructuring Initiative, cash outlays for customer rebates and chargebacks decreased during 2017 compared to 2016. These increases were partially offset by $760.0 million in U.S. federal income tax refunds received during 2016, compared to $29.8 million received in 2017, increased payments to partners during 2017 resulting from sales of ezetimibe tablets, which launched during the fourth quarter of 2016, and the timing of payments related to certain other current liabilities.

73
Investing activities. The $122.5 million change in Net cash (used in) provided by investing activities for 2018 compared to 2017 reflects a decrease in net proceeds from the sales of businesses and other assets of $152.9 million. Amounts during 2018 primarily relate to proceeds from the sales of various ANDAs, proceeds from the sale of our Huntsville facilities and additional proceeds received in 2018 from our 2017 sale of Litha. Amounts during 2017 primarily relate to our sales of Litha, Somar and our Charlotte facilities. Also contributing to the change in Net cash (used in) provided by investing activities was a decrease in proceeds from notes receivable of $7.0 million during 2018 as compared to 2017. These items were partially offset by a decrease in purchases of property, plant and equipment, excluding capitalized interest of $42.3 million.

The $282.1 million change in cash provided by investing activities in 2017 compared to cash used in investing activities in 2016 relates primarily to an increase in net proceeds from the sales of businesses and other assets of $212.4 million, including the sales of Litha and Somar in the second half of 2017, and a decrease in purchases of property, plant and equipment of $13.2 million. In addition, 2016 activity included acquisitions, net of cash acquired of $30.4 million and payments for product acquisition costs and license fees of $19.2 million, neither of which had comparable activity during 2017.

Financing activities. The $85.4 million decrease in Net cash used in financing activities in 2018 as compared to 2017 reflects a decrease in principal payments on term loans of $3,696.8 million, a decrease in deferred financing fees of $57.8 million and a decrease in payments for contingent consideration of $47.3 million, partially offset by a decrease in proceeds from issuance of term loans of $3,415.0 million and a decrease in proceeds from issuance of notes of $300.0 million.

Items contributing to the $230.2 million decrease in cash used in financing activities in 2017 compared to cash used in financing activities in 2016 include an increase in proceeds from issuance of term loans of $3,415.0 million, an increase in proceeds from issuance of notes of $300.0 million and a decrease in payments of revolving debt of $605.0 million, partially offset by an increase in principal payments on term loans of $3,627.3 million, a decrease in amounts of revolving debt drawn of $380.0 million, an increase in payments for deferred financing fees of $57.3 million and an increase in payments for contingent consideration of $29.1 million.

Research and development. Over the past few years, we have incurred significant expenditures related to conducting clinical studies to develop new products and expand the value of our existing products beyond their currently approved indications.

For example, as further described above under the heading “RESULTS OF OPERATIONS,” the Company has recently incurred R&D expense for certain indications of CCH in various stages of development.

We expect to incur R&D expenditures related to the development and advancement of our current generic and branded product pipeline and any additional product candidates we may add via license, acquisition or organically. There can be no assurance that the results of any ongoing or future nonclinical or clinical trials related to these projects will be successful, that additional trials will not be required, that any drug, product or indication under development will receive regulatory approval in a timely manner or at all or that such drug, product or indication could be successfully manufactured in accordance with local current good manufacturing practices or marketed successfully, or that we will have sufficient funds to develop or commercialize any of our products.

Manufacturing, supply and other service agreements. We contract with various third party manufacturers, suppliers and service providers to supply our products, or materials used in the manufacturing of our products, and to provide additional services such as packaging, processing, labeling, warehousing, distribution and customer service support. Any interruption to the goods or services provided for by these and similar contracts could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

License and collaboration agreements. We could become obligated to make certain contingent payments pursuant to our license, collaboration and other agreements. Payments under these agreements generally become due and payable only upon the achievement of certain developmental, regulatory, commercial and/or other milestones. In addition, we may be required to make sales-based royalty payments under certain arrangements if certain products are approved for marketing. Due to the fact that it is uncertain whether and when certain of these milestones will be achieved, they have not been recorded in our Consolidated Balance Sheets.

Acquisitions. Going forward, our primary focus will be on organic growth. However, we may consider and, as appropriate, make acquisitions of other businesses, products, product rights or technologies. Our cash reserves and other liquid assets may be inadequate to consummate such acquisitions and it may be necessary for us to issue ordinary shares or raise substantial additional funds in the future to complete future transactions. In addition, as a result of any acquisition efforts, we are likely to experience significant charges to earnings for merger and related expenses (whether or not our efforts are successful) that may include transaction costs, closure costs, integration costs and/or costs of restructuring activities.

Legal proceedings. We are subject to various patent challenges, product liability claims, government investigations and other legal proceedings in the ordinary course of business. Contingent accruals are recorded when we determine that a loss is both probable and reasonably estimable. Due to the fact that legal proceedings and other contingencies are inherently unpredictable, our assessments involve significant judgments regarding future events. For additional discussion of legal proceedings, see Note 15. Commitments and Contingencies in the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part IV, Item 15 of this report.

74
Contractual Obligations. The following table lists our enforceable and legally binding noncancelable obligations as of December 31, 2018.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

__________[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(2)These amounts represent future cash interest payments related to our indebtedness as of December 31, 2018 based on interest rates specified in the associated debt agreements. Payments related to variable-rate debt are based on applicable market rates, estimated at December 31, 2018, plus the specified margin in the associated debt agreements for each period presented.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(4)Includes minimum cash payments related to our leased automobiles, machinery and equipment, facilities and other property not included in capital lease obligations. Any proceeds for sublease income are excluded from the table above.

(5)Purchase obligations are enforceable and legally binding obligations for purchases of goods and services, including minimum inventory contracts.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(7)Other obligations and commitments include agreements to purchase third-party assets, products and services and other minimum royalty obligations.

(8)Total generally does not include contractual obligations already included in current liabilities on our Consolidated Balance Sheets, except for current portion of long-term debt, accrued interest, short-term capital lease obligations, mesh-related product liabilities and certain purchase obligations, which are discussed below.

For purposes of the table above, obligations for the purchase of goods or services are included only for significant noncancelable purchase orders at least one year in length that are enforceable, legally binding and specify all significant terms, including fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased, fixed, minimum or variable price provisions and the timing of the obligation. In cases where our minimum obligations are variable based on future contingent events or circumstances, we estimate the minimum obligations based on information available to us at the time of disclosure. Our purchase orders are based on our current manufacturing needs and are typically fulfilled by our suppliers within a relatively short period. At December 31, 2018, we have open purchase orders that represent authorizations to purchase, rather than binding agreements, that are not included in the table above. In addition, we do not include collaboration agreements and potential payments under those agreements or potential payments related to contingent consideration.

Information about our liability for unrecognized tax benefits is included in Note 20. Income Taxes in the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part IV, Item 15 of this report under the caption “Uncertain Tax Positions.” Due to the nature and timing of the ultimate outcome of these uncertain tax positions, we cannot make a reliable estimate of the amount and period of related future payments. Therefore, our liability has been excluded from the above contractual obligations table.

Fluctuations. Our quarterly results have fluctuated in the past and may continue to fluctuate. These fluctuations may be due to the timing of new product launches, purchasing patterns of our customers, market acceptance of our products, the impact of competitive products and pricing, certain actions taken by us which may impact the availability of our products, asset impairment charges, litigation-related charges, restructuring costs, including separation benefits, business combination transaction costs, upfront, milestone and certain other payments made or accrued pursuant to licensing agreements and changes in the fair value of financial instruments and contingent assets and liabilities recorded as part of business combinations. Further, a substantial portion of our total revenues are through three wholesale drug distributors who in turn supply our products to pharmacies, hospitals and physicians. Accordingly, we are potentially subject to a concentration of credit risk with respect to our trade receivables.

75
Growth opportunities. We continue to evaluate growth opportunities including investments, licensing arrangements, acquisitions of product rights or technologies, businesses and strategic alliances and promotional arrangements, any of which could require significant capital resources. We continue to focus our business development activities on further diversifying our revenue base through product licensing and company acquisitions, as well as other opportunities to enhance shareholder value. Through execution of our business strategy, we focus on developing new products both internally and with contract and collaborative partners; expanding our product lines by acquiring new products and technologies, increasing revenues and earnings through sales and marketing programs for our innovative product offerings and effectively using our resources; and providing additional resources to support our businesses.

Non-U.S. operations. Fluctuations in foreign currency rates resulted in a net gain of $3.8 million in 2018, a net gain of $2.8 million in 2017 and a net loss of $3.0 million in 2016.

Inflation. We do not believe that inflation had a material adverse effect on our financial statements for the periods presented.

Off-balance sheet arrangements. We have no off-balance sheet arrangements as defined in Item 303(a)(4) of Regulation S-K.

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk