ITEM 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.

OVERVIEW 

Non-GAAP Financial Measures That Supplement GAAP Measures

We use both generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”) and non-GAAP financial measures for operational and financial decision making, and to assess Company and segment business performance. The non-GAAP measures listed below are intended to be considered by users as supplemental information to their equivalent GAAP measures, to aid investors in better understanding our financial results. We believe that these non-GAAP measures provide useful perspective on underlying business results and trends, and a means to assess our period-over-period results. These non-GAAP measures should not be considered as a substitute for, or superior to, measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP. These non-GAAP measures may not be the same as similarly titled measures used by other companies due to possible differences in method and in items or events being adjusted.

•Company Adjusted EBIT (Most Comparable GAAP Measure: Net Income Attributable to Ford) – Earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT) includes non-controlling interests and excludes interest on debt (excl. Ford Credit Debt), taxes, and pre-tax special items. This non-GAAP measure is useful to management and investors because it allows users to evaluate our operating results relative to other companies in our industry. Pre-tax special items consist of (i) pension and OPEB remeasurement gains and losses, (ii) significant personnel and dealer-related costs stemming from our efforts to match production capacity and cost structure to market demand and changing model mix, and (iii) other items that we do not necessarily consider to be indicative of earnings from ongoing operating activities. When we provide guidance for adjusted EBIT, we do not provide guidance on a net income basis because the GAAP measure will include potentially significant special items that have not yet occurred and are difficult to predict with reasonable certainty prior to year-end, including pension and OPEB remeasurement gains and losses.

•Company Adjusted EBIT Margin (Most Comparable GAAP Measure: Company Net Income Margin) – Company Adjusted EBIT margin is Company adjusted EBIT divided by Company revenue. This non-GAAP measure is useful to management and investors because it allows users to evaluate our operating results relative to other companies in our industry. 

•Adjusted Earnings Per Share (Most Comparable GAAP Measure: Earnings Per Share) – Measure of Company’s diluted net earnings per share adjusted for impact of pre-tax special items (described above) and tax special items. The measure provides investors with useful information to evaluate performance of our business excluding items not indicative of the underlying run rate of our business. When we provide guidance for adjusted earnings per share, we do not provide guidance on an earnings per share basis because the GAAP measure will include potentially significant special items that have not yet occurred and are difficult to predict with reasonable certainty prior to year-end, including pension and OPEB remeasurement gains and losses. 

•Adjusted Effective Tax Rate (Most Comparable GAAP Measure: Effective Tax Rate) – Measure of Company’s tax rate excluding pre-tax special items (described above) and tax special items. The measure provides an ongoing effective rate which investors find useful for historical comparisons and for forecasting. When we provide guidance for adjusted effective tax rate, we do not provide guidance on an effective tax rate basis because the GAAP measure will include potentially significant special items that have not yet occurred and are difficult to predict with reasonable certainty prior to year-end, including pension and OPEB remeasurement gains and losses. 

•Company Adjusted Operating Cash Flow (Most Comparable GAAP Measure: Net Cash Provided By / (Used In) Operating Activities) – Measure of Company’s operating cash flow excluding Ford Credit’s operating cash flows. The measure contains elements management considers operating activities, including Automotive and Mobility capital spending, Ford Credit distributions to its parent, and settlement of derivatives. The measure excludes cash outflows for funded pension contributions, separation payments, and other items that are considered operating cash outflows under U.S. GAAP. This measure is useful to management and investors because it is consistent with management’s assessment of the Company’s operating cash flow performance. When we provide guidance for Company adjusted operating cash flow, we do not provide guidance for net cash provided by/(used in) operating activities because the GAAP measure will include items that are difficult to quantify or predict with reasonable certainty, including cash flows related to the Company's exposures to foreign currency exchange rates and certain commodity prices (separate from any related hedges), Ford Credit's operating cash flows, and cash flows related to special items, including separation payments, each of which individually or in the aggregate could have a significant impact to our net cash provided by/(used in) our operating activities.

27

Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued)

•Adjusted Cash Conversion (Most Comparable GAAP Measure: Net Cash Provided By / (Used In) Operating Activities divided by Net Income Attributable to Ford (“cash conversion”)) – Company Adjusted Cash Conversion is Company adjusted operating cash flow divided by Adjusted EBIT. This non-GAAP measure is useful to management and investors because it allows users to evaluate how much of Ford's Adjusted EBIT is converted into cash flow.

•Adjusted Debt to EBITDA (Most Comparable GAAP Measure: Total Company Debt to Net income attributable to Ford) – This financial leverage ratio is commonly used to assess a company’s ability to repay its debt. This measure is useful to management and investors because it helps to assess how long we would need to operate at our current level to repay our debt (excl. Ford Credit’s debt). When we provide guidance for adjusted debt to EBITDA, we do not provide guidance for the most comparable GAAP measure because the GAAP measure will include potentially significant special items that have not yet occurred and are difficult to predict with reasonable certainty prior to year-end, including pension and OPEB remeasurement gains and losses. For more information, see the definitions of Adjusted Debt and Adjusted EBITDA.

•Adjusted Debt (Most Comparable GAAP Measure: Total Company Debt) – Measure of total company debt (excl. Ford Credit), adjusted to include unamortized discount/premium and issuance costs (excl. Ford Credit), operating lease minimum commitments, and net pension liabilities excluding prepaid assets. 

•Adjusted EBITDA (Most Comparable GAAP Measure: Net income attributable to Ford) – Measure of Company Adjusted EBIT (see definition), excluding Ford Credit EBT and equity in net income/(loss) of affiliated companies, and further adjusted to include certain non-pension related special items, depreciation and tooling amortization (excl. Ford Credit), operating lease expense, and certain pension costs. 

•Adjusted ROIC – Adjusted Return on Invested Capital (“ROIC”) provides management and investors with useful information to evaluate the Company’s after-cash tax operating return on its invested capital for the period presented. Adjusted net operating profit after cash tax measures operating results less special items, interest on debt (excl. Ford Credit Debt), and certain pension/OPEB costs. Average invested capital is the sum of average balance sheet equity, debt (excl. Ford Credit Debt), and net pension/OPEB liability. When we provide guidance for adjusted ROIC, we do not provide guidance on an unadjusted ROIC basis because it will include potentially significant special items that have not yet occurred and are difficult to predict with reasonable certainty prior to year-end. 

•Ford Credit Managed Receivables (Most Comparable GAAP Measure: Net Finance Receivables plus Net Investment in Operating Leases) – Measure of Ford Credit’s total net receivables, excluding unearned interest supplements and residual support, allowance for credit losses, and other (primarily accumulated supplemental depreciation). The measure is useful to management and investors as it closely approximates the customer’s outstanding balance on the receivables, which is the basis for earning revenue.

•Ford Credit Managed Leverage (Most Comparable GAAP Measure: Financial Statement Leverage) – Ford Credit’s debt-to-equity ratio adjusted (i) to exclude cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities (other than amounts related to insurance activities), and (ii) for derivative accounting. The measure is useful to investors because it reflects the way Ford Credit manages its business. Cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities are deducted because they generally correspond to excess debt beyond the amount required to support operations and on-balance sheet securitization transactions. Derivative accounting adjustments are made to asset, debt, and equity positions to reflect the impact of interest rate instruments used with Ford Credit’s term-debt issuances and securitization transactions. Ford Credit generally repays its debt obligations as they mature, so the interim effects of changes in market interest rates are excluded in the calculation of managed leverage.

Revenue

Our Automotive segment revenue is generated primarily by sales of vehicles, parts, and accessories. Revenue is recorded when control is transferred to our customers (generally, our dealers and distributors). For the majority of sales, this occurs when products are shipped from our manufacturing facilities. This is not the case, however, with respect to vehicles produced for sale to daily rental car companies with an obligation to repurchase the vehicle for a guaranteed amount, exercisable at the option of the customer. These vehicles are accounted for as operating leases, with lease revenue and profits recognized over the term of the lease. Proceeds from the sale of vehicles at auction are recognized in revenue upon transfer of control of the vehicle to the buyer.

28

Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued)

Most of the vehicles sold by us to our dealers and distributors are financed at wholesale by Ford Credit. Upon Ford Credit originating the wholesale receivable related to a dealer’s purchase of a vehicle, Ford Credit pays cash to the relevant Automotive legal entity in payment of the dealer’s obligation for the purchase price of the vehicle. The dealer then pays the wholesale finance receivable to Ford Credit when it sells the vehicle to a retail customer.

Our Ford Credit segment revenue is generated primarily from interest on finance receivables, net of certain deferred origination costs that are included as a reduction of financing revenue, and such revenue is recognized over the term of the receivable using the interest method. Also, revenue from operating leases is recognized on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease. Income is generated to the extent revenues exceed expenses, most of which are interest, depreciation, and operating expenses.

Transactions between our Automotive and Ford Credit segments occur in the ordinary course of business. For example, we offer special retail financing and lease incentives to dealers’ customers who choose to finance or lease our vehicles from Ford Credit. The cost for these incentives is included in our estimate of variable consideration at the later of the date the related vehicle sales to our dealers are recorded or the date the incentive program is both approved and communicated. In order to compensate Ford Credit for the lower interest or lease payments offered to the retail customer, we pay the discounted value of the incentive directly to Ford Credit when it originates the retail finance or lease contract with the dealer’s customer. Ford Credit recognizes the incentive amount over the life of retail finance contracts as an element of financing revenue and over the life of lease contracts as a reduction to depreciation. See Note 1 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for a more detailed discussion of transactions between our Automotive and Ford Credit segments.

Costs and Expenses

Our income statement classifies our Automotive segment total costs and expenses into two categories: (i) cost of sales, and (ii) selling, administrative, and other expenses. We include within cost of sales those costs related to the development, manufacture, and distribution of our vehicles, parts, and accessories. Specifically, we include in cost of sales each of the following: material costs (including commodity costs); freight costs; warranty, including product recall costs; labor and other costs related to the development and manufacture of our products; depreciation and amortization; and other associated costs. We include within selling, administrative, and other expenses labor and other costs not directly related to the development and manufacture of our products, including such expenses as advertising and sales promotion costs. 

Certain of our costs, such as material costs, generally vary directly with changes in volume and mix of production. In our industry, production volume often varies significantly from quarter to quarter and year to year. Quarterly production volumes experience seasonal shifts throughout the year (including peak retail sales seasons and the impact on production of model changeover and new product launches). Annual production volumes are heavily impacted by external economic factors, including the pace of economic growth and factors such as the availability of consumer credit and cost of fuel. 

As a result, we analyze the profit impact of certain cost changes holding constant present-year volume and mix and currency exchange, in order to evaluate our cost trends absent the impact of varying production and currency exchange levels. We analyze these cost changes in the following categories: 

•Contribution Costs – these costs typically vary with production volume. These costs include material, commodity, warranty, and freight and duty costs.

•Structural Costs – these costs typically do not have a directly proportionate relationship to production volume. These costs include manufacturing, engineering, spending-related, advertising and sales promotion, administrative and selling, and pension and OPEB costs. 

While contribution costs generally vary directly in proportion to production volume, elements within our structural costs category are impacted to differing degrees by changes in production volume. We also have varying degrees of discretion when it comes to controlling the different elements within our structural costs. For example, depreciation and amortization expense largely is associated with prior capital spending decisions. On the other hand, while labor costs do not vary directly with production volume, manufacturing labor costs may be impacted by changes in volume, for example when we increase overtime, add a production shift, or add personnel to support volume increases. Other structural costs, such as advertising or engineering costs, do not necessarily have a directly proportionate relationship to production volume. Our structural costs generally are within our discretion, although to varying degrees, and can be adjusted over time in response to external factors.

29

Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued)

We consider certain structural costs to be a direct investment in future growth and revenue. For example, increases in structural costs are necessary to grow our business and improve profitability, invest in new products and technologies, respond to increasing industry sales volume, and grow our market share.

Cost of sales and Selling, administrative, and other expenses for full-year 2018 were $147.7 billion. Our Automotive segment’s material and commodity costs make up the largest portion of these costs and expenses, representing in 2018 about two-thirds of the total amount. Structural costs are the largest piece of the remaining balance. Although material costs are our largest absolute cost, our margins can be affected significantly by changes in any category of costs.

Key Economic Factors and Trends Affecting the Automotive Industry

Currency Exchange Rate Volatility. The U.S. Federal Reserve raised its policy interest rate four times in 2018, for a total of nine increases since the tightening cycle began in late 2015. Central banks in other developed markets have also initiated or signaled the end of an extended period of monetary policy easing. The related shifts in capital flows have contributed to increased volatility for both developed and emerging market currencies globally. Emerging markets also face differing inflation backdrops and, in some cases, political instability, contributing to unpredictable movements in the value of their exchange rates. This condition was demonstrated by significant devaluations of currency values in Turkey and Argentina in 2018. In addition to direct impacts on the financial flows of global automotive companies, currency movements can also impact pricing of vehicles exported to overseas markets, most notably in the case of the Japanese yen. In most markets, exchange rates are market-determined, and all are impacted by many different macroeconomic and policy factors, and thus likely to remain volatile. However, in some markets, exchange rates are heavily influenced or controlled by governments.

Excess Capacity. According to IHS Automotive, an automotive research firm, the estimated automotive industry global production capacity for light vehicles of about 137 million units exceeded global production by about 42 million units in 2018. In North America and Europe, two regions where a significant share of industry revenue is earned, excess capacity as a percent of production was an estimated 22% and 24%, respectively, in 2018. In China, the auto industry also witnessed excess capacity at 78% of production in 2018, as manufacturers compete to capitalize on China’s future market potential. According to production capacity data projected by IHS Automotive, global excess capacity conditions could continue for several years at an average of about 47 million units per year during the period from 2019 to 2024.

Pricing Pressure. Excess capacity, coupled with a proliferation of new products being introduced in key segments, will keep pressure on manufacturers’ ability to increase prices. In North America, the industry restructuring of the past few years has allowed manufacturers to better match production with demand, although Japanese and Korean manufacturers also have capacity located outside of the region directed to North America. In the future, Chinese and Indian manufacturers are expected to enter U.S. and European markets, further intensifying competition. Over the long term, intense competition and excess capacity will continue to put downward pressure on inflation-adjusted prices for similarly-contented vehicles in the United States and contribute to a challenging pricing environment for the automotive industry. In Europe, the excess capacity situation has been exacerbated by the lack of reductions in existing capacity, such that negative pricing pressure is expected to continue for the foreseeable future.

Commodity and Energy Price Changes. The price of oil declined since late 2018, driven by reduced expectations for near-term demand growth in China and continued robust supply despite an extended agreement among oil-producing nations to maintain modest output reductions. Oil prices are expected to remain volatile, and on a lower long-term trend than in prior cycles. Prices for other commodities have been similarly volatile, with some retreat from recent peaks for many commodities used in the manufacturing of our vehicles, while steel and aluminum have seen additional upward pressure related to the imposition of tariffs, which affected domestic prices in 2018 as well. 

Vehicle Profitability. Our financial results depend on the profitability of the vehicles we sell, which may vary significantly by vehicle line. In general, larger vehicles tend to command higher prices and be more profitable than smaller vehicles, both across and within vehicle segments. For example, in North America, our larger, more profitable vehicles had an average contribution margin that was about 140% of our total average contribution margin across all vehicles, whereas our smaller vehicles had significantly lower contribution margins. In addition, government regulations aimed at reducing emissions and increasing fuel efficiency (e.g., ZEV mandates and low emission zones) may increase the cost of vehicles by more than the perceived benefit to the consumer. Given the backdrop of excess capacity, these regulations could dampen contribution margins. 

30

Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued)

Trade Policy. To the extent governments in various regions erect or intensify barriers to imports, or implement currency policy that advantages local exporters selling into the global marketplace, there can be a significant negative impact on manufacturers based in other markets. While we believe the long-term trend will support the growth of free trade, we have noted with concern recent developments in a number of regions. The imposition of tariffs on steel and aluminum coming into the United States in 2018 had a direct negative impact on costs for manufacturers in the U.S. market. In Asia Pacific, a weak yen significantly reduces the cost of exports into the United States, Europe, and other global markets by Japanese manufacturers, and, over a period of time, contribute to other countries pursuing weak currency policies by intervening in the exchange rate markets. This is particularly likely in other Asian countries, such as South Korea. We will continue to monitor and address developing issues around trade policy. 

Other Economic Factors. Although in recent months interest rates have risen, mature market government bond yields and inflation have remained lower than expected. At the same time, government deficits and debt remain at high levels in many major markets. The eventual implications of higher government deficits and debt, with potentially higher long-term interest rates, may drive a higher cost of capital over our planning period. Higher interest rates and/or taxes to address the higher deficits also may impede real growth in gross domestic product and, therefore, vehicle sales over our planning period.

31

Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued)

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS - 2018

COMPANY

The chart below shows our full year 2018 net income attributable to Ford and Company adjusted EBIT by segment.

Net income attributable to Ford and Company adjusted EBIT were driven by our Automotive and Ford Credit segments. Mobility and Corporate Other, as expected, were losses. 

The year-over-year decline in net income was primarily due to the lower Automotive EBIT, the larger mark-to-market adjustment for global pension and OPEB plans due to adverse financial market conditions that occurred late in 2018, and personnel separation-related actions in North America, South America, and Europe. 

The lower Automotive EBIT fully explains the $2.6 billion decline in Company adjusted EBIT, compared with 2017.

Ford Credit generated a full year 2018 EBT of $2.6 billion, $317 million higher than a year ago, and its best EBT in eight years. Ford Credit’s EBT improvement was led by favorable lease residual performance and favorable volume and mix. This was offset by unfavorable derivatives market valuation.

The chart below shows our full year 2018 key metrics for the Company compared to a year ago.

32

Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued)

For full year 2018, revenue grew 2% to $160.3 billion.

Net income attributable to Ford for full year 2018 was $3.7 billion or $0.92 diluted earnings per share of Common and Class B stock, a decrease of $4.1 billion or $1.01 per share compared with 2017. Company adjusted EBIT for full year 2018 was $7 billion or $1.30 diluted adjusted earnings per share, down $2.6 billion or $0.48 per share compared with 2017.

Net income margin was 2.3% and Company adjusted EBIT margin was 4.4% for full year 2018, down 2.6 percentage points and 1.7 percentage points, respectively, from 2017.

33

Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued)

AUTOMOTIVE SEGMENT

In general, we measure year-over-year change in Automotive segment EBIT using the causal factors listed below, with net pricing and cost variances calculated at present-year volume and mix and exchange:

•Market Factors (exclude the impact of unconsolidated affiliate wholesales):

◦Volume and Mix – primarily measures EBIT variance from changes in wholesale volumes (at prior-year average contribution margin per unit) driven by changes in industry volume, market share, and dealer stocks, as well as the EBIT variance resulting from changes in product mix, including mix among vehicle lines and mix of trim levels and options within a vehicle line

◦Net Pricing – primarily measures EBIT variance driven by changes in wholesale prices to dealers and marketing incentive programs such as rebate programs, low-rate financing offers, special lease offers, and stock adjustments on dealer inventory

•Cost:

◦Contribution Costs – primarily measures EBIT variance driven by per-unit changes in cost categories that typically vary with volume, such as material costs (including commodity and component costs), warranty expense, and freight and duty costs

◦Structural Costs – primarily measures EBIT variance driven by absolute change in cost categories that typically do not have a directly proportionate relationship to production volume. Structural costs include the following cost categories: 

▪Manufacturing, Including Volume-Related – consists primarily of costs for hourly and salaried manufacturing personnel, plant overhead (such as utilities and taxes), and new product launch expense.

These costs could be affected by volume for operating pattern actions such as overtime, line-speed, and shift schedules 

▪Engineering – consists primarily of costs for engineering personnel, prototype materials, testing, and outside engineering services

▪Spending-Related – consists primarily of depreciation and amortization of our manufacturing and engineering assets, but also includes asset retirements and operating leases 

▪Advertising and Sales Promotions – includes costs for advertising, marketing programs, brand promotions, customer mailings and promotional events, and auto shows 

▪Administrative and Selling – includes primarily costs for salaried personnel and purchased services related to our staff activities and selling functions, as well as associated information technology costs

▪Pension and OPEB – consists primarily of past service pension costs and other postretirement employee benefit costs

•Other – includes a variety of items, such as parts and services profits, royalties, government incentives, and compensation-related changes. Other also includes:

◦Exchange – primarily measures EBIT variance driven by one or more of the following: (i) transactions denominated in currencies other than the functional currencies of the relevant entities, (ii) effects of converting functional currency income to U.S. dollars, (iii) effects of remeasuring monetary assets and liabilities of the relevant entities in currencies other than their functional currency, or (iv) results of our foreign currency hedging

◦Beginning in 2018, in our discussion of Asia Pacific EBIT, Other includes the equity income from our China JVs. In prior periods, the impact of our equity income from our China JVs was spread across each causal factor

In addition, definitions and calculations used in this Report include:

•Wholesales and Revenue – wholesale unit volumes include all Ford and Lincoln badged units (whether produced by Ford or by an unconsolidated affiliate) that are sold to dealerships, units manufactured by Ford that are sold to other manufacturers, units distributed by Ford for other manufacturers, and local brand units produced by our China joint venture, Jiangling Motors Corporation, Ltd. (“JMC”), that are sold to dealerships. Vehicles sold to daily rental car companies that are subject to a guaranteed repurchase option (i.e., rental repurchase), as well as other sales of finished vehicles for which the recognition of revenue is deferred (e.g., consignments), also are included in wholesale unit volumes. Revenue from certain vehicles in wholesale unit volumes (specifically, Ford badged vehicles produced and distributed by our unconsolidated affiliates, as well as JMC brand vehicles) are not included in our revenue

•Industry Volume and Market Share – based, in part, on estimated vehicle registrations; includes medium and heavy duty trucks

•SAAR – seasonally adjusted annual rate

34

Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued)

The chart below shows our full year 2018 Automotive segment EBIT by region.

North America more than explained the Automotive segment’s full year 2018 profitability. Automotive EBIT benefited from the largest improvement in market factors since 2015. This benefit was more than offset by commodity and currency headwinds, higher net product costs as we enter a major product refresh cycle, higher warranty costs, and Ford-specific challenges in China and Europe. Compared to 2017, the decline in Automotive EBIT was essentially due to China and Europe. 

In 2018, we incurred headwinds of about $3.3 billion in four areas. These impacts are not indicative, for the most part, of the ongoing run rate of the business. Our full year 2018 results reflect (i) about $750 million in tariff-related effects, (ii) about $1.1 billion of increased commodity cost unrelated to tariff effects, (iii) about $750 million of unfavorable exchange net of pricing, and (iv) about $775 million of cost related to the Takata recalls announced last year in North America. 

About $1.9 billion of the headwinds described above was reflected in North America’s full year 2018 EBIT, which declined $450 million year over year. This reflects the strong improvements we delivered in North America resulting from the continued focus on high-margin products.

South America was affected by about $400 million of these headwinds, which excludes other inflationary effects, yet it delivered a full year EBIT improvement of $75 million compared to 2017.

Asia Pacific was affected by about $400 million of the headwinds described above, yet the region delivered a much deeper EBIT decline of $1.8 billion compared to 2017 primarily due to lower JV income in China.

Europe was affected by about $600 million of the headwinds, yet saw a year-over-year EBIT decline of $765 million despite the strongest product refresh among all our regions in 2018.

35

Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued)

The charts on the following pages provide full year 2018 key metrics and the change in full year 2018 EBIT compared with full year 2017 by causal factor for our Automotive segment and its regional business units: North America, South America, Europe, Middle East & Africa, and Asia Pacific (including China). 

36

Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued)

37

Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued)

38

Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued)

39

Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued)

40

Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued)

41

Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued)

42

Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued)

MOBILITY SEGMENT

Our Mobility segment primarily includes development costs related to our autonomous vehicles and our investment in mobility through Ford Smart Mobility LLC (“FSM”). Autonomous vehicles includes self-driving systems development and vehicle integration, autonomous vehicle research and advanced engineering, autonomous vehicle transportation-as-a-service network development, user experience, and business strategy and business development teams. FSM designs and builds mobility services on its own, and collaborates with start-ups and technology companies.

The chart below shows the Mobility segment’s full year 2018 EBIT compared with a year ago.

43

Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued)

FORD CREDIT SEGMENT

In general, we measure year-over-year changes in Ford Credit’s EBT using the causal factors listed below:

•Volume and Mix:

◦Volume primarily measures changes in net financing margin driven by changes in average managed receivables at prior period financing margin yield (defined below in financing margin) at prior period exchange rates. Volume changes are primarily driven by the volume of new and used vehicle sales and leases, the extent to which Ford Credit purchases retail installment sale and lease contracts, the extent to which Ford Credit provides wholesale financing, the sales price of the vehicles financed, the level of dealer inventories, Ford-sponsored special financing programs available exclusively through Ford Credit, and the availability of cost-effective funding 

◦Mix primarily measures changes in net financing margin driven by period over period changes in the composition of Ford Credit’s average managed receivables by product and by country or region

•Financing Margin: 

◦Financing margin variance is the period-to-period change in financing margin yield multiplied by the present period average managed receivables at prior period exchange rates. This calculation is performed at the product and country level and then aggregated. Financing margin yield equals revenue, less interest expense and scheduled depreciation for the period, divided by average managed receivables for the same period

◦Financing margin changes are driven by changes in revenue and interest expense. Changes in revenue are primarily driven by the level of market interest rates, cost assumptions in pricing, mix of business, and competitive environment. Changes in interest expense are primarily driven by the level of market interest rates, borrowing spreads, and asset-liability management

•Credit Loss: 

◦Credit loss is the change in the provision for credit losses at prior period exchange rates. For analysis purposes, management splits the provision for credit losses into net charge-offs and the change in the allowance for credit losses

◦Net charge-off changes are primarily driven by the number of repossessions, severity per repossession, and recoveries. Changes in the allowance for credit losses are primarily driven by changes in historical trends in credit losses and recoveries, changes in the composition and size of Ford Credit’s present portfolio, changes in trends in historical used vehicle values, and changes in economic conditions. For additional information, refer to the “Critical Accounting Estimates - Allowance for Credit Losses” section of Item 7 of Part II of our 2018 Form 10-K Report

•Lease Residual: 

◦Lease residual measures changes to residual performance at prior period exchange rates. For analysis purposes, management splits residual performance primarily into residual gains and losses, and the change in accumulated supplemental depreciation

◦Residual gain and loss changes are primarily driven by the number of vehicles returned to Ford Credit and sold, and the difference between the auction value and the depreciated value (which includes both base and accumulated supplemental depreciation) of the vehicles sold. Changes in accumulated supplemental depreciation are primarily driven by changes in Ford Credit’s estimate of the expected auction value at the end of the lease term, and changes in Ford Credit’s estimate of the number of vehicles that will be returned to it and sold. For additional information, refer to the “Critical Accounting Estimates - Accumulated Depreciation on Vehicles Subject to Operating Leases” section of Item 7 of Part II of our 2018 Form 10-K Report

•Exchange:

◦Reflects changes in EBT driven by the effects of converting functional currency income to U.S. dollars

•Other: 

◦Primarily includes operating expenses, other revenue, insurance expenses, and other income at prior period exchange rates

◦Changes in operating expenses are primarily driven by salaried personnel costs, facilities costs, and costs associated with the origination and servicing of customer contracts

◦In general, other income changes are primarily driven by changes in earnings related to market valuation adjustments to derivatives (primarily related to movements in interest rates) and other miscellaneous items

44

Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued)

In addition, the following definitions and calculations apply to Ford Credit when used in this Report:

•Cash (as shown on the Funding Structure, Liquidity Sources, and Leverage charts) – Cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities, excluding amounts related to insurance activities

•Earnings Before Taxes (EBT) – Reflects Ford Credit’s income before income taxes

•Return on Equity (ROE) (as shown on the Key Metrics chart) – Reflects return on equity calculated by annualizing net income for the period and dividing by monthly average equity for the period

•Securitizations (as shown on the Public Term Funding Plan chart) – Public securitization transactions, Rule 144A offerings sponsored by Ford Credit, and widely distributed offerings by Ford Credit Canada

•Term Asset-Backed Securities (as shown on the Funding Structure chart) – Obligations issued in securitization transactions that are payable only out of collections on the underlying securitized assets and related enhancements

•Total Debt (as shown on the Leverage chart) – Debt on Ford Credit’s balance sheet. Includes debt issued in securitizations and payable only out of collections on the underlying securitized assets and related enhancements. Ford Credit holds the right to receive the excess cash flows not needed to pay the debt issued by, and other obligations of, the securitization entities that are parties to those securitization transactions

•Total Net Receivables (as shown on the Total Net Receivables Reconciliation To Managed Receivables chart) – Includes finance receivables (retail and wholesale) sold for legal purposes and net investment in operating leases included in securitization transactions that do not satisfy the requirements for accounting sale treatment. These receivables and operating leases are reported on Ford Credit’s balance sheet and are available only for payment of the debt issued by, and other obligations of, the securitization entities that are parties to those securitization transactions; they are not available to pay the other obligations of Ford Credit or the claims of Ford Credit’s other creditors

45

Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued)

The charts below provide full year 2018 key metrics and the change in full year 2018 EBT compared with full year 2017 by causal factor for the Ford Credit segment.

46

Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued)

CORPORATE OTHER

Corporate Other primarily includes corporate governance expenses, interest income (excluding interest earned on our extended service contract portfolio that is included in our Automotive segment) and portfolio gains and losses from our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities, and foreign exchange derivatives gains and losses associated with intercompany lending. Corporate governance expenses are primarily administrative, delivering benefit on behalf of the global enterprise and are not allocated to specific Automotive business units or operating segments. These include expenses related to setting and directing global policy, providing oversight and stewardship, and promoting the Company’s interests. Our full year 2018 Corporate Other results were a $373 million loss, compared with a $457 million loss a year ago. The year-over-year improvement was driven by higher interest income and net gains on cash equivalents and marketable securities, offset partially by an increase in corporate governance costs. 

INTEREST ON DEBT

Interest on Debt consists of interest expense on Automotive and Other debt. Full year 2018 interest expense on Automotive and Other debt was $1.2 billion, $38 million higher than a year ago, reflecting primarily higher foreign debt interest expense.

SPECIAL ITEMS

In Note 24 of the Notes to the Financial Statements, special items are reflected as a separate reconciling item, as opposed to being allocated among the Automotive, Mobility, and Ford Credit segments. This reflects the fact that management excludes these items from its review of operating segment results for purposes of measuring segment profitability and allocating resources. 

Our pre-tax and tax special items were as follows:

TAXES

Our provision for income taxes for full year 2018 was $650 million, resulting in an effective tax rate of 15.0%. Our full year 2018 adjusted effective tax rate, which excludes special items, was 9.7%.

47

Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued)

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS - 2017

COMPANY

The chart below shows our full year 2017 net income attributable to Ford and Company adjusted EBIT by segment.

In 2017, net income attributable to Ford and Company adjusted EBIT were driven by our Automotive and Ford Credit segments. Mobility and Corporate Other, as expected, were losses.

Company adjusted EBIT consisted of Automotive EBIT of $8.1 billion, a strong EBT of $2.3 billion in the Ford Credit segment, a loss of $299 million in the Mobility segment, and a loss of $457 million in Corporate Other.

Ford Credit’s full year 2017 EBT was $431 million higher than 2016, led primarily by receivables growth, lease residual performance, and financing margin. The improvement in lease residual performance was driven by higher than expected auction values. 

48

Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued)

The chart below shows our full year 2017 key metrics for the Company compared with full year 2016.

Company revenue for full year 2017 was $156.8 billion, $5 billion higher than 2016.

Net income attributable to Ford for full year 2017 was $7.7 billion or $1.93 diluted earnings per share of Common and Class B stock, an increase of $3.1 billion or $0.78 per share compared with 2016, due to the significantly lower remeasurement loss on pension and OPEB plans and favorable tax planning actions.

Company adjusted EBIT for full year 2017 was $9.6 billion, a decrease of $1.7 billion from 2016, more than explained by North America and Europe.

Our diluted adjusted earnings per share of Common and Class B Stock was $1.78, up $0.02 per share compared with 2016 due to favorable tax planning actions. 

Net income margin was 4.9% and Company adjusted EBIT margin was 6.1% for full year 2017, up 1.9 percentage points and down 1.4 percentage points, respectively, from 2016.

49

Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued)

AUTOMOTIVE SEGMENT

The chart below shows our full year 2017 Automotive segment EBIT by region.

Full year 2017 Automotive EBIT was driven by North America. In total, our Automotive operations outside North America were slightly profitable and $641 million lower than in 2016 driven largely by expected Brexit effects in Europe.

The $2 billion year-over-year decline in full year 2017 Automotive segment EBIT was primarily explained by higher commodities and adverse exchange. All other factors about offset. Higher commodities were driven by metals, primarily steel, and adverse exchange was driven by the sterling, reflecting Brexit effects of about $600 million, along with the Canadian dollar, Chinese renminbi, and Argentine peso. Favorable market factors were driven by improved mix in all regions, excluding South America, and higher net pricing in all regions, except Asia Pacific, reflecting negative industry pricing in China.

North America’s full year 2017 EBIT was $1.3 billion lower than 2016. The decrease was driven by higher commodities, mainly steel and other metals; Expedition/Navigator launch effects, reflecting lower volume and higher costs, both product and structural costs, offset partially by favorable net pricing; and adverse exchange driven primarily by the Canadian dollar.

South America’s full year 2017 EBIT improved $324 million compared to 2016 due to higher industry volume and favorable net pricing. This was partially offset by unfavorable cost performance due to the effects of high inflation and higher product costs net of efficiencies, driven by the all-new EcoSport.

Europe’s full year 2017 EBIT was $951 million lower than in 2016 driven by Brexit effects, reflecting the weaker sterling and lower U.K. industry, offset partially by favorable net pricing in the United Kingdom; higher commodities, mainly steel and other metals; Fiesta launch effects, reflecting lower volume and higher costs, both product and structural costs, offset partially by favorable net pricing; and higher warranty costs.

Middle East & Africa’s full year 2017 EBIT improved $39 million compared to 2016. Favorable cost performance and exchange, reflecting the stronger South African rand and euro, offset lower volume.

Asia Pacific’s full year 2017 EBIT was $53 million lower than in 2016 due to market performance in China and unfavorable exchange.

50

Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued)

51

Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued)

52

Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued)

53

Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued)

54

Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued)

55

Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued)

56

Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued)

MOBILITY SEGMENT

The chart below shows the Mobility segment’s full year 2017 EBIT compared with full year 2016.

57

Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued)

FORD CREDIT SEGMENT

The charts below provide full year 2017 key metrics and the change in full year 2017 EBT compared with full year 2016 by causal factor for the Ford Credit segment.

58

Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued)

CORPORATE OTHER

Our full year 2017 Corporate Other results were a $457 million loss, a $41 million lower loss compared with 2016. This year-over-year improvement was driven by higher interest income, offset partially by higher corporate governance expenses.

INTEREST ON DEBT

Our full year 2017 interest expense on Automotive and Other debt was $1.2 billion, $239 million higher than in 2016, reflecting primarily higher average U.S. and foreign debt balances.

SPECIAL ITEMS

Our pre-tax and tax special items were as follows:

TAXES

Our provision for income taxes for full year 2017 was $402 million, resulting in an effective tax rate of 4.9%, both lower than 2016, reflecting benefits for foreign tax credits expected to be realized in the foreseeable future, non-U.S. restructuring, and the impact of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017. 

Our full year 2017 adjusted effective tax rate, which excludes special items, was 15.4%, reflecting the same benefits from foreign tax credits mentioned above.

59

Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued)

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

At December 31, 2018, total balance sheet cash, cash equivalents, marketable securities, and restricted cash (including Ford Credit) was $34.1 billion.

We analyze our balance sheet on a “Company” basis which excludes Ford Credit. The key balance sheet metrics that we consider are: (i) Company cash, which includes cash equivalents, marketable securities, and restricted cash, excluding Ford Credit’s cash, cash equivalents, marketable securities, and restricted cash; and (ii) Company liquidity, which includes Company cash, less restricted cash, and total available committed credit lines.

Company excluding Ford Credit

Liquidity. One of our key priorities is to maintain a strong balance sheet, while at the same time having resources available to invest in and grow our business. Based on our planning assumptions, we believe we have sufficient liquidity and capital resources to continue to invest in new products and services, pay our debts and obligations as and when they come due, pay a regular dividend, and provide protection within an uncertain global economic environment.

At December 31, 2018, we had $23.1 billion of Company cash, with 90% held by consolidated entities domiciled in the United States. To be prepared for an economic downturn, we target to have an ongoing Company cash balance at or above $20 billion. We expect to have periods when we will be above or below this amount due to: (i) future cash flow expectations, such as for investments in future opportunities, capital investments, debt maturities, pension contributions, or restructuring requirements, (ii) short-term timing differences, and (iii) changes in the global economic environment.

Our Company cash investments primarily include U.S. Department of Treasury obligations, federal agency securities, bank time deposits with investment-grade institutions, investment-grade corporate securities, investment-grade commercial paper, and debt obligations of a select group of non-U.S. governments, non-U.S. governmental agencies, and supranational institutions. The average maturity of these investments is approximately one year and adjusted based on market conditions and liquidity needs. We monitor our Company cash levels and average maturity on a daily basis.

60

Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued)

In addition to our target for Company cash, we also target to maintain a corporate credit facility, discussed below, for our Automotive business of about $10 billion to protect against exogenous shocks. We assess the appropriate long-term target for total Company liquidity, which includes Company cash and the Automotive portion of the corporate credit facility, to be at or above $30 billion, which is an amount we believe is sufficient to support our business priorities and to protect our business. At December 31, 2018, we had $34.2 billion of Company liquidity. We may reduce our Company cash and liquidity targets over time, based on improved operating performance and changes in our risk profile. 

Changes in Company Cash. In 2018, we began reporting Company adjusted operating cash flow, which includes Automotive, Mobility, Corporate Other, and Interest on Debt cash flows, as well as Ford Credit distributions. Prior to 2018, Ford Credit distributions were reported as a non-operating cash flow.

In managing our business, we classify changes in Company cash into operating and other items. Operating items include: Company adjusted EBIT excluding Ford Credit, capital spending, depreciation and tooling amortization, changes in working capital, Ford Credit distributions, and all other and timing differences. Non-operating items include: separation payments, other transactions with Ford Credit, acquisitions and divestitures, changes in Automotive and Other debt, contributions to funded pension plans, and shareholder distributions.

With respect to “Changes in working capital,” in general we carry relatively low Automotive segment trade receivables compared with our trade payables because the majority of our Automotive wholesales are financed (primarily by Ford Credit) immediately upon sale of vehicles to dealers, which generally occurs shortly after being produced. In addition, our inventories are lean because we build to order, not for inventory. In contrast, our Automotive trade payables are based primarily on industry-standard production supplier payment terms generally ranging between 30 days to 45 days. As a result, our cash flow tends to improve as wholesale volumes increase, but can deteriorate significantly when wholesale volumes drop sharply. These working capital balances generally are subject to seasonal changes that can impact cash flow. For example, we typically experience cash flow timing differences associated with inventories and payables due to our annual summer and December shutdown periods when production, and therefore inventories and wholesale volumes, are usually at their lowest levels, while payables continue to come due and be paid. The net impact of this typically results in cash outflows from changes in our working capital balances during these shutdown periods.

In 2018, our cash flow was lower than 2017 primarily driven by lower EBIT. In 2019, we expect improved cash flow versus 2018.

61

Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued)

Changes in Company cash excluding Ford Credit are summarized below:

Capital spending was $7.7 billion in 2018 and is projected to be about the same in 2019. As we redesign our business, the ongoing amount of capital spending to support product development, growth, and infrastructure is expected to be about $7 billion annually through 2022.

Full year 2018 working capital was about $900 million negative, reflecting primarily higher inventory. 

All other and timing differences were negative $1.1 billion, reflecting primarily interest payments on Automotive and Other debt, cash taxes, and assorted timing differences.

Shareholder distributions were about $3.1 billion in 2018.

At December 31, 2018, our cash conversion rate was 409%, and our adjusted cash conversion rate was 40%.

Available Credit Lines. Total committed Company credit lines excluding Ford Credit at December 31, 2018 were $11.9 billion, consisting of $10.4 billion of our corporate credit facility and $1.5 billion of local credit facilities. At December 31, 2018, the utilized portion of the corporate credit facility was $27 million, representing amounts utilized for letters of credit. At December 31, 2018, the utilized portion of the local credit facilities was $735 million.

Lenders under our corporate credit facility have commitments to us totaling $13.4 billion, with 75% of the commitments maturing on April 30, 2023 and 25% of the commitments maturing on April 30, 2021. We have allocated $3 billion of commitments to Ford Credit on an irrevocable and exclusive basis to support its liquidity. We would guarantee any borrowings by Ford Credit under the corporate credit facility.

The corporate credit facility is unsecured and free of material adverse change conditions to borrowing, restrictive financial covenants (for example, interest or fixed-charge coverage ratio, debt-to-equity ratio, and minimum net worth requirements), and credit rating triggers that could limit our ability to obtain funding. The corporate credit facility contains a liquidity covenant that requires us to maintain a minimum of $4 billion in aggregate of domestic cash, cash equivalents, and loaned and marketable securities and/or availability under the facility. If our senior, unsecured, long-term debt does not maintain at least two investment grade ratings from Fitch, Moody’s, and S&P, the guarantees of certain subsidiaries will be required.

62

Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued)

Debt. As shown in Note 18 of the Notes to the Financial Statements, at December 31, 2018, Company debt excluding Ford Credit was $14.1 billion, including Automotive debt of $13.5 billion. Both balances were about $2.4 billion lower than at December 31, 2017, reflecting primarily foreign and U.S. debt repayments and exchange.

U.S. Department of Energy (“DOE”) Advanced Technology Vehicle Manufacturer (“ATVM”) Incentive Program. See Note 18 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for information regarding the ATVM loan.

Leverage. We manage Company debt (excluding Ford Credit) levels with a leverage framework to maintain investment grade credit ratings through a normal business cycle. The leverage framework includes a ratio of total company debt (excluding Ford Credit) adjusted to include unamortized discount/premium and issuance costs (excluding Ford Credit), operating lease minimum commitments and net pension liabilities excluding prepaid assets, divided by Company Adjusted EBIT, excluding Ford Credit EBT, and further adjusted to include depreciation and tooling amortization (excluding Ford Credit), operating lease expense, and certain pension costs. At December 31, 2018, our ratio of Company debt to net income attributable to Ford was 41.9:1, and our ratio of adjusted debt to EBITDA was 3.2:1.

Ford Credit’s leverage is calculated as a separate business as described in the Liquidity - Ford Credit Segment section of Item 2. Ford Credit is self-funding and its debt, which is used to fund its operations, is separate from our Automotive and Other debt.

63

Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued)

Ford Credit Segment

Funding Overview. Ford Credit’s primary funding objective is to be well capitalized with a strong balance sheet and ample liquidity to support its financing activities and growth under a variety of market conditions, including short-term and long-term market disruptions. Ford Credit’s funding strategy remains focused on diversification, and it plans to continue accessing a variety of markets, channels, and investors. 

Ford Credit’s liquidity profile continues to be diverse, robust, and focused on maintaining liquidity levels that meet its business and funding requirements. Ford Credit annually stress tests its balance sheet and liquidity to ensure that it continues to meet its financial obligations through economic cycles.

Funding Sources. Ford Credit’s funding sources include primarily unsecured debt and securitization transactions (including other structured financings). Ford Credit issues both short-term and long-term debt that is held by both institutional and retail investors, with long-term debt having an original maturity of more than 12 months. Ford Credit sponsors a number of securitization programs that can be structured to provide both short-term and long-term funding through institutional investors in the United States and international capital markets.

Ford Credit obtains short-term unsecured funding from the sale of demand notes under its Ford Interest Advantage program, through its Retail Deposit program at FCE Bank plc (“FCE”), and by issuing unsecured commercial paper in the United States and other international markets. At December 31, 2018, the principal amount outstanding of Ford Interest Advantage notes, which may be redeemed at any time at the option of the holders thereof without restriction, and FCE Deposits was $6 billion. At December 31, 2018, the principal amount outstanding of Ford Credit’s unsecured commercial paper was $4 billion, which primarily represents issuance under its commercial paper program in the United States. Ford Credit maintains multiple sources of readily available liquidity to fund the payment of its unsecured short-term debt obligations.

Funding Portfolio. The chart below shows the trends in funding for Ford Credit’s managed receivables:

Managed receivables of $155 billion as of December 31, 2018 were funded primarily with term debt and term asset-backed securities. Securitized funding as a percent of managed receivables was 39%. Ford Credit targets a mix of securitized funding between 35% and 40%. The calendarization of the funding plan will result in quarterly fluctuations of the securitized funding percentage.

64

Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued)

Public Term Funding Plan. The chart below shows Ford Credit’s issuances for full-year 2016, 2017, and 2018, and its planned issuances for full-year 2019, excluding short-term funding programs:

Ford Credit’s total unsecured public term funding plan is categorized by currency of issuance. 

In 2018, Ford Credit completed $27 billion of public term funding. For 2019, Ford Credit projects full-year public term funding in the range of $27 billion to $33 billion. Ford Credit plans to continue issuing its eurocurrency-denominated (e.g., euro and sterling) public unsecured debt from the United States. 

Through February 15, 2019, Ford Credit has completed $4 billion of public term issuances. 

65

Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued)

Liquidity. The chart below shows Ford Credit’s liquidity sources and utilization: 

Ford Credit’s liquidity available for use will fluctuate quarterly based on factors including near-term debt maturities, receivable growth, and timing of funding transactions. Ford Credit targets liquidity of about $25 billion. At December 31, 2018, Ford Credit’s liquidity available for use was $27.3 billion, $2.2 billion lower than year-end 2017. 

Ford Credit’s sources of liquidity include cash, committed asset-backed facilities, unsecured credit facilities, and the corporate credit facility allocation.

Ford Credit’s balance sheet is inherently liquid because of the short-term nature of its finance receivables, investment in operating leases, and cash. Ford Credit ensures its cumulative debt maturities have a longer tenor than its cumulative asset maturities. This positive maturity profile is intended to provide Ford Credit with additional liquidity after all of its assets have been funded.

66

Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued)

Leverage.  Ford Credit uses leverage, or the debt-to-equity ratio, to make various business decisions, including evaluating and establishing pricing for finance receivable and operating lease financing, and assessing its capital structure.

The chart below shows the calculation of Ford Credit’s financial statement leverage and managed leverage:

Ford Credit believes that managed leverage is useful to its investors because it reflects the way Ford Credit manages its business. Ford Credit deducts cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities (excluding amounts related to insurance activities) because they generally correspond to excess debt beyond the amount required to support its operations and amounts to support on-balance sheet securitization transactions. Ford Credit makes derivative accounting adjustments to its assets, debt, and equity positions to reflect the impact of interest rate instruments Ford Credit uses in connection with its term-debt issuances and securitization transactions. The derivative accounting adjustments related to these instruments vary over the term of the underlying debt and securitized funding obligations based on changes in market interest rates. Ford Credit generally repays its debt obligations as they mature. As a result, Ford Credit excludes the impact of these derivative accounting adjustments on both the numerator and denominator in order to exclude the interim effects of changes in market interest rates.

Ford Credit plans its managed leverage by considering prevailing market conditions and the risk characteristics of its business. At December 31, 2018, Ford Credit’s financial statement leverage was 9.4:1, and managed leverage was 8.8:1. Ford Credit targets managed leverage in the range of 8:1 to 9:1.

67

Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued)

Total Company

Pension Plan Contributions and Strategy. Our strategy is to reduce the risk of our funded defined benefit pension plans, including minimizing the volatility of the value of our pension assets relative to pension liabilities and the need for unplanned use of capital resources to fund the plans. The strategy reduces balance sheet, cash flow, and income exposures and, in turn, reduces our risk profile. We have made significant progress in implementing this strategy over the last several years. For example, we have limited liability growth by closing our funded plans to new participants and have reduced plan deficits through discretionary contributions. Going forward, we expect to:

•Limit our pension contributions to offset ongoing service cost or meet regulatory requirements, if any;

•Continue progressively re-balancing assets to more fixed income investments, with a target asset allocation of about 80% fixed income investments and 20% growth assets, which will provide a better matching of plan assets to the characteristics of the liabilities, thereby reducing our net exposure; and

•Evaluate strategic actions to reduce pension liabilities, such as plan design changes, curtailments, or settlements

Worldwide, our defined benefit pension plans were underfunded by $6.3 billion at December 31, 2018, an improvement of $300 million from December 31, 2017, primarily as a result of higher discount rates, demographics, and contributions offsetting lower asset returns. Of the $6.3 billion underfunded status at year-end 2018, about $6 billion is associated with our unfunded plans. These are “pay as you go,” with benefits paid from general Company cash. These unfunded plans primarily include certain plans in Germany, and U.S. defined benefit plans for senior management.

The U.S. weighted-average discount rate increased 69 basis points to 4.29% at year-end 2018 from 3.60% at year-end 2017. The non-U.S. weighted average discount rate increased 15 basis points to 2.48% at year-end 2018 from 2.33% at year-end 2017.

Asset returns in 2018 for our U.S. plans were negative 3.7%, reflecting fixed income losses as long-term interest rates increased. The fixed income mix in our U.S. plans at year-end 2018 was 78%, two percentage points higher than year-end 2017. Asset returns for our non-U.S. plans were negative 0.1%, reflecting varied results by market. The fixed income mix in our non-U.S. plans at year-end 2018 was 83%, three percentage points higher than year-end 2017.

68

Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued)

In 2018, we contributed about $400 million (most of which were mandatory contributions) to our global funded pension plans, a decrease of about $1 billion compared with 2017. The contributions in 2017 included a pull-ahead of about $500 million of 2018 planned funding into the fourth quarter of 2017 to achieve a cash tax benefit. During 2019, we expect to contribute about $650 million (including $140 million in discretionary contributions in the United States) from Company cash to our global funded pension plans. We also expect to make about $350 million of benefit payments to participants in unfunded plans, for a combined total of about $1 billion. Based on current assumptions and regulations, we do not expect to have a legal requirement to fund our major U.S. plans in 2019. After 2019, we expect contributions to our global funded plans of about $500 million to $650 million per year, limited to ongoing service cost. Our global funded plans are now fully funded in aggregate, which is an important milestone demonstrating the effectiveness of our de-risking strategy and our commitment to a strong balance sheet.

For a detailed discussion of our pension plans, see Note 17 of the Notes to the Financial Statements.

Return on Invested Capital. We analyze total Company performance using an adjusted Return on Invested Capital (“ROIC”) financial metric based on an after-tax rolling five-year average, which we believe is appropriate given our industry’s product and investment cycles. The following table contains the calculation of our ROIC for the years shown: 

69

Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued)

CREDIT RATINGS 

Our short-term and long-term debt is rated by four credit rating agencies designated as nationally recognized statistical rating organizations (“NRSROs”) by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission: DBRS, Fitch, Moody’s, and S&P.

In several markets, locally-recognized rating agencies also rate us. A credit rating reflects an assessment by the rating agency of the credit risk associated with a corporate entity or particular securities issued by that entity. Rating agencies’ ratings of us are based on information provided by us and other sources. Credit ratings are not recommendations to buy, sell, or hold securities, and are subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating agency. Each rating agency may have different criteria for evaluating company risk and, therefore, ratings should be evaluated independently for each rating agency.

There have been no rating actions taken by these NRSROs since the filing of our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2018.

The following chart summarizes certain of the credit ratings and outlook presently assigned by these four NRSROs:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

70

Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued)

2019 EXTERNAL FACTORS ASSUMPTIONS

Based on the current environment, we have assumed the following for 2019:

For 2019 GDP, we project continued growth globally and across our major markets. Relative to 2018, we expect a deterioration in the rate of growth in the United States, Europe, and China, but we do not expect a recession to occur in the United States during the year.

We expect global industry volume in 2019 to be about flat compared with 2018. This includes a decline in the United States, although industry sales will still be strong on an absolute basis, with retail down slightly and fleet down more (mainly rentals). We expect Europe industry volume to be about flat, and, in China, we expect industry volume to be down modestly with a strong second half of the year.

71

Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued)

OUTLOOK 

Based on our current assumptions, our Company guidance for 2019 includes the following:

For 2019, we see the potential for year-over-year improvement in the key metrics shown above, including our revenue to be greater than $160.3 billion, adjusted EBIT margin to be greater than 4.4%, adjusted ROIC to be greater than 7.1%, adjusted cash conversion to be greater than 40%, and adjusted debt to EBITDA to be lower than 3.2:1. 

We also expect Company adjusted operating cash flow to be stronger and Automotive EBIT to improve. From a business unit perspective, we expect North America, China, and Europe, where results were lower in 2018, to lead the potential EBIT improvement. Drivers of this would be the favorable effects of new products, fitness initiatives as they gain greater traction, and a turnaround, at least in part, of the major factors that led to our lower China performance in 2018.

Offsetting these positive effects, in part, will be higher investments in Mobility – both for our autonomous vehicle business and mobility services development – as well as lower, though still strong, EBT at Ford Credit, reflecting lower volume and financing margin and higher operating costs.

72

Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued)

Cautionary Note on Forward-Looking Statements

Statements included or incorporated by reference herein may constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are based on expectations, forecasts, and assumptions by our management and involve a number of risks, uncertainties, and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those stated, including, without limitation:

•Ford’s long-term competitiveness depends on the successful execution of fitness actions;

•Industry sales volume, particularly in the United States, Europe, or China, can be volatile and could decline if there is a financial crisis, recession, or significant geopolitical event;

•Ford’s new and existing products and mobility services are subject to market acceptance;

•Ford’s results are dependent on sales of larger, more profitable vehicles, particularly in the United States;

•Ford may face increased price competition resulting from industry excess capacity, currency fluctuations, or other factors;

•Fluctuations in commodity prices, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates can have a significant effect on results;

•With a global footprint, Ford’s results could be adversely affected by economic, geopolitical, protectionist trade policies, or other events, including Brexit;

•Ford’s production, as well as Ford’s suppliers’ production, could be disrupted by labor disputes, natural or man-made disasters, financial distress, production difficulties, or other factors; 

•Ford’s ability to maintain a competitive cost structure could be affected by labor or other constraints;

•Pension and other postretirement liabilities could adversely affect Ford’s liquidity and financial condition;

•Economic and demographic experience for pension and other postretirement benefit plans (e.g., discount rates or investment returns) could be worse than Ford has assumed; 

•Ford’s vehicles could be affected by defects that result in delays in new model launches, recall campaigns, or increased warranty costs;

•Ford may need to substantially modify its product plans to comply with safety, emissions, fuel economy, and other regulations that may change in the future;

•Ford could experience unusual or significant litigation, governmental investigations, or adverse publicity arising out of alleged defects in products, perceived environmental impacts, or otherwise;

•Ford’s receipt of government incentives could be subject to reduction, termination, or clawback;

•Operational systems, security systems, and vehicles could be affected by cyber incidents;

•Ford Credit’s access to debt, securitization, or derivative markets around the world at competitive rates or in sufficient amounts could be affected by credit rating downgrades, market volatility, market disruption, regulatory requirements, or other factors;

•Ford Credit could experience higher-than-expected credit losses, lower-than-anticipated residual values, or higher-than-expected return volumes for leased vehicles;

•Ford Credit could face increased competition from banks, financial institutions, or other third parties seeking to increase their share of financing Ford vehicles; and

•Ford Credit could be subject to new or increased credit regulations, consumer or data protection regulations, or other regulations.

We cannot be certain that any expectation, forecast, or assumption made in preparing forward-looking statements will prove accurate, or that any projection will be realized. It is to be expected that there may be differences between projected and actual results. Our forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of their initial issuance, and we do not undertake any obligation to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. For additional discussion, see “Item 1A. Risk Factors” above.

73

Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued)

NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURE RECONCILIATIONS

The following charts show our Non-GAAP financial measure reconciliations for: Adjusted EBIT, Adjusted Earnings Per Share, Adjusted Effective Tax Rate, Adjusted Operating Cash Flow, Adjusted Cash Conversion, Adjusted Debt to EBITDA, and Ford Credit Managed Receivables. The GAAP reconciliation for Ford Credit Managed Leverage can be found in the Ford Credit Segment section of “Liquidity and Capital Resources.”

74

Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued)

75

Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued)

76

Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued)

2018 SUPPLEMENTAL FINANCIAL INFORMATION

The tables below provide supplemental consolidating financial information and other financial information. Company excluding Ford Credit includes our Automotive and Mobility reportable segments, Corporate Other, Interest on Debt, and Special Items. Eliminations, where presented, primarily represent eliminations of intersegment transactions and deferred tax netting.

Selected Income Statement Information. The following table provides supplemental income statement information (in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a) Other includes Corporate Other, Interest on Debt, and Special Items

77

Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued)

Selected Balance Sheet Information. The following tables provide supplemental balance sheet information (in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

78

Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued)

Selected Cash Flow Information. The following tables provide supplemental cash flow information (in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

79

Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued)

Selected Other Information. 

Cost of sales and Selling, administrative, and other expenses for full year 2017 were $142.8 billion, an increase of $5.7 billion compared with 2016. Cost of sales and Selling, administrative, and other expenses for full year 2018 were $147.7 billion, an increase of $4.8 billion compared with 2017. The detail for the changes is shown below (in billions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Equity. At December 31, 2017, total equity attributable to Ford was $35.6 billion, an increase of $5.8 billion compared with December 31, 2016. At December 31, 2018, total equity attributable to Ford was $35.9 billion, an increase of about $400 million compared with December 31, 2017. The detail for the changes is shown below (in billions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

80

Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued)

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES

We consider an accounting estimate to be critical if: 1) the accounting estimate requires us to make assumptions about matters that were highly uncertain at the time the accounting estimate was made, and 2) changes in the estimate that are reasonably likely to occur from period to period, or use of different estimates that we reasonably could have used in the current period, would have a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations.

Management has discussed the development and selection of these critical accounting estimates with the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors. In addition, there are other items within our financial statements that require estimation, but are not deemed critical as defined above. Changes in estimates used in these and other items could have a material impact on our financial statements.

Warranty and Field Service Actions

Nature of Estimates Required. We provide warranties on the products we sell. Separately, we also periodically perform field service actions related to safety recalls, emission recalls, and other product campaigns. Pursuant to these warranties and field service actions, we will repair, replace, or adjust all parts on a vehicle that are defective in factory-supplied materials or workmanship. We accrue the estimated cost of both basic warranty coverages and field service actions at the time of sale. 

Assumptions and Approach Used. We establish estimates for warranty and field service action obligations using a patterned estimation model. We use historical information regarding the nature, frequency, and average cost of claims for each vehicle line by model year. We reevaluate our estimate of warranty and field service obligations on a regular basis. Experience has shown that initial data for any given model year may be volatile; therefore, our process relies on long-term historical averages until sufficient data are available. As actual experience becomes available, we use the data to modify the historical averages in order to ensure that the estimate is within the range of likely outcomes. We then compare the resulting accruals with present spending rates to ensure that the balances are adequate to meet expected future obligations. Based on this data, we revise our estimates as necessary. Warranty coverages vary; therefore, our warranty accruals vary depending upon the type of product and the geographic location of its sale for specific periods of time and/or mileage. Field service actions are distinguishable from warranties in that they may occur in periods beyond the basic warranty coverage period. Our best estimate of the obligation related to field service actions includes expected future payments.

Due to the uncertainty and potential volatility of these factors, changes in our assumptions could materially affect our financial condition and results of operations. See Note 23 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for information regarding warranty and product recall related costs.

Pensions and Other Postretirement Employee Benefits 

Nature of Estimates Required. The estimation of our defined benefit pension and OPEB plan obligations and expenses requires that we make use of estimates of the present value of the projected future payments to all participants, taking into consideration the likelihood of potential future events such as demographic experience and health care cost increases. Plan obligations and expenses are based on existing retirement plan provisions. No assumption is made regarding any potential future changes to benefit provisions beyond those to which we are presently committed (e.g., in existing labor contracts).

Assumptions and Approach Used. The assumptions used in developing the required estimates include the following key factors:

•Discount rates. Our discount rate assumption is based primarily on the results of a cash flow matching analysis, which matches the future cash outflows for each major plan to a yield curve based on high-quality bonds specific to the country of the plan. Benefit payments are discounted at the rates on the curve to determine the year-end obligations. 

•Expected long-term rate of return on plan assets. Our expected long-term rate of return considers various sources, primarily inputs from a range of advisors for capital market returns, inflation, bond yields, and other variables, adjusted for specific aspects of our investment strategy by plan. Historical returns also are considered where appropriate. The assumption is based on consideration of all inputs, with a focus on long-term trends to avoid short-term market influences. 

•Salary growth. Our salary growth assumption reflects our actual experience, long-term outlook, and assumed inflation.

•Inflation. Our inflation assumption is based on an evaluation of external market indicators, including real gross domestic product growth and central bank inflation targets.

81

Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued)

•Expected contributions. Our expected amount and timing of contributions are based on an assessment of minimum requirements, cash availability, and other considerations (e.g., funded status, avoidance of regulatory premiums and levies, and tax efficiency).

•Retirement rates. Retirement rates are developed to reflect actual and projected plan experience.

•Mortality rates. Mortality rates are developed to reflect actual and projected plan experience.

•Health care cost trends. Our health care cost trend assumptions are developed based on historical cost data, the near-term outlook, and an assessment of likely long-term trends. 

Assumptions are set at each year-end and are generally not changed during the year unless there is a major plan event such as a significant curtailment or settlement that would trigger a plan remeasurement.

See Note 17 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for more information regarding pension and OPEB costs and assumptions.

Pension Plans

Effect of Actual Results. The year-end 2018 weighted average discount rate was 4.29% for U.S. plans and 2.48% for non-U.S. plans, reflecting increases of 69 and 15 basis points, respectively, compared with year-end 2017. In 2018, the U.S. actual return on assets was negative 3.7%, which was lower than the expected long-term rate of return of 6.75%. Non-U.S. actual return on assets was negative 0.1%, which was lower than the expected long-term rate of return of 4.51%. In total, these differences, in addition to demographic and other updates, resulted in a net loss of $1.2 billion which has been recognized within net periodic benefit cost and reported as a special item.

For 2019, the expected long-term rate of return on assets is 6.75% for U.S. plans, unchanged from 2018, and 4.18% for non-U.S. plans, down about 33 basis points compared with a year ago, primarily reflecting an increased allocation to fixed income assets and a lower consensus on capital market return expectations from advisors.

De-risking Strategy. We employ a broad global de-risking strategy which increases the matching characteristics of our assets relative to our obligation as funded status improves. Changes in interest rates (which directly influence changes in discount rates), in addition to other factors, have a significant impact on the value of our pension obligation and fixed income asset portfolio. As we continue to de-risk our plans and increase the allocation to fixed income investments over time, our funded status sensitivity to changes in interest rates will continue to be reduced. Changes in interest rates should result in offsetting effects in the value of our pension obligation and the value of the fixed income asset portfolio.

Sensitivity Analysis. The December 31, 2018 pension funded status and 2019 expense are affected by year-end 2018 assumptions. Sensitivities to these assumptions may be asymmetric and are specific to the time periods noted. The effects of changes in the factors which generally have the largest impact on year-end funded status and pension expense are discussed below.

Discount rates and interest rates have the largest impact on our obligations and fixed income assets. The table below estimates the impact on our funded status of an increase/decrease in discount rates and interest rates (in millions): 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The fixed income asset sensitivity shown excludes other fixed income return components (e.g., changes in credit spreads, bond coupon and active management excess returns), and growth asset returns. Other factors that impact net funded status (e.g., contributions) are not reflected.

82

Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued)

Interest rates and the expected long-term rate of return on assets have the largest impact on pension expense. These assumptions are generally set at each year-end for expense recorded throughout the following year. The table below estimates the impact on pension expense of a higher/lower assumption for these factors (in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The impact of changing multiple factors simultaneously cannot be calculated by combining the individual sensitivities. The sensitivity of pension expense to an increase in discount rates assumptions may not be linear. 

Other Postretirement Employee Benefits

Effect of Actual Results. The weighted average discount rate used to determine the benefit obligation for worldwide OPEB plans at December 31, 2017 was 3.61%, compared with 4.08% at December 31, 2018, resulting in a worldwide gain of about $366 million which has been recognized within net periodic benefit cost and reported as a special item.

Sensitivity Analysis. Discount rates and interest rates have the largest impact on our OPEB obligation and expense. The table below estimates the impact on 2019 OPEB expense of higher/lower assumptions for these factors (in millions): 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Income Taxes

Nature of Estimates Required. We must make estimates and apply judgment in determining the provision for income taxes for financial reporting purposes. We make these estimates and judgments primarily in the following areas: (i) the calculation of tax credits, (ii) the calculation of differences in the timing of recognition of revenue and expense for tax and financial statement purposes that will ultimately be reported in tax returns, as well as (iii) the calculation of interest and penalties related to uncertain tax positions. Changes in these estimates and judgments may result in a material increase or decrease to our tax provision, which would be recorded in the period in which the change occurs.

Assumptions and Approach Used. We are subject to the income tax laws and regulations of the many jurisdictions in which we operate. These tax laws and regulations are complex and involve uncertainties in the application to our facts and circumstances that may be open to interpretation. We recognize benefits for these uncertain tax positions based upon a process that requires judgment regarding the technical application of the laws, regulations, and various related judicial opinions. If, in our judgment, it is more likely than not that the uncertain tax position will be settled favorably to us, we estimate an amount that ultimately will be realized. This process is inherently subjective, since it requires our assessment of the probability of future outcomes. We evaluate these uncertain tax positions on a quarterly basis, including consideration of changes in facts and circumstances, such as new regulations or recent judicial opinions, as well as the status of audit activities by taxing authorities. Changes to our estimate of the amount to be realized are recorded in our provision for income taxes during the period in which the change occurred.

We must also assess the likelihood that we will be able to recover our deferred tax assets against future sources of taxable income. GAAP requires a reduction of the carrying amount of deferred tax assets by recording a valuation allowance if, based on all available evidence, it is more likely than not (defined as a likelihood of more than 50%) that all or a portion of such assets will not be realized. 

We presently believe that a valuation allowance of $973 million is required, primarily related to deferred tax assets in various non-U.S. operations. We believe that we ultimately will recover the remaining $9.8 billion of deferred tax assets. We have assessed recoverability of these assets and concluded that no valuation allowance is required for these assets. 

For additional information regarding income taxes, see Note 7 of the Notes to the Financial Statements.

83

Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued)

Impairment of Goodwill and Long-Lived Assets

Nature of Estimates Required - Goodwill. Goodwill is subject to periodic assessments of impairment. We test goodwill for impairment annually during the fourth quarter, or when an event occurs or circumstances change that indicate the asset may be impaired. We assess qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, including goodwill. If a qualitative assessment indicates an impairment or we impair the assets of a reporting unit, then a quantitative goodwill impairment test is performed. If the carrying value of the reporting unit is above fair value, an impairment loss is recognized in an amount equal to the excess.

Nature of Estimates Required - Long-Lived Assets.  We test our long-lived asset groups when changes in circumstances indicate their carrying value may not be recoverable. Events that trigger a test for recoverability include material adverse changes in projected revenues and expenses, significant underperformance relative to historical and projected future operating results, and significant negative industry or economic trends or when there is a change in the asset grouping. When a triggering event occurs, we measure recoverability using our internal assumptions, comparing projected undiscounted future cash flows to the carrying value of the asset group. If the test for recoverability identifies a possible impairment, the asset group’s fair value is measured relying primarily on a discounted cash flow method. An impairment charge is recognized for the amount by which the carrying value of the asset group exceeds its estimated fair value. A test for recoverability also is performed when management has committed to a plan to sell or otherwise dispose of an asset group and the plan is expected to be completed within a year. When an impairment loss is recognized for assets to be held and used, the adjusted carrying amount of those assets is depreciated over their remaining useful life.

Assumptions and Approach Used - Goodwill and Long-Lived Assets. We measure the fair value of a reporting unit or asset group based on market prices (i.e., the amount for which the asset could be sold to a third party) when available. When market prices are not available, we estimate the fair value of the reporting unit or asset group using the income approach and/or the market approach. The income approach uses cash flow projections. Inherent in our development of cash flow projections are assumptions and estimates derived from a review of our operating results, business plan forecasts, expected growth rates, and cost of capital, similar to those a market participant would use to assess fair value. We also make certain assumptions about future economic conditions and other data. Many of the factors used in assessing fair value are outside the control of management, and these assumptions and estimates may change in future periods. 

Changes in assumptions or estimates can materially affect the fair value measurement of a reporting unit or asset group, and therefore can affect the test results. The following are key assumptions we use in making cash flow projections:

•Business projections. We make assumptions about the demand for our products in the marketplace. These

assumptions drive our planning assumptions for volume, mix, and pricing. We also make assumptions about our cost levels (e.g., capacity utilization, cost performance, etc.). These projections are derived using our internal business plan forecasts that are updated at least annually and reviewed by our Board of Directors.

•Long-term growth rate. A growth rate is used to calculate the terminal value of the business and is added to the present value of the debt-free interim cash flows. The growth rate is the expected rate at which a business unit’s earnings stream is projected to grow beyond the planning period.

•Discount rate. When measuring possible impairment, future cash flows are discounted at a rate that is consistent with a weighted-average cost of capital that we anticipate a potential market participant would use. Weighted-average cost of capital is an estimate of the overall risk-adjusted pre-tax rate of return expected by equity and debt holders of a business enterprise.

•Economic projections. Assumptions regarding general economic conditions are included in and affect our assumptions regarding industry sales and pricing estimates for our vehicles. These macro-economic assumptions include, but are not limited to, industry sales volumes, inflation, interest rates, prices of raw materials (i.e., commodities), and foreign currency exchange rates.

The market approach is another method for measuring the fair value of a reporting unit or asset group. This approach relies on the market value (i.e., market capitalization) of companies that are engaged in the same or similar line of business.

In addition, to the extent available we will also consider third-party valuations of our long-lived assets that were prepared for other business purposes.

84

Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued)

Goodwill related to our emerging businesses is assessed based on each entity’s performance compared to metrics established at the time the entity was purchased. In our Mobility segment, goodwill in our Chariot subsidiary of $40 million was fully impaired during the fourth quarter of 2018 as a result of the decision to cease operations.

During 2018, we embarked on a comprehensive strategy aimed at strengthening the competitive position and profitability of our operations. As part of this process, we are accelerating several key fitness actions aimed at reducing structural costs while at the same time consulting with our key stakeholders and partners with regard to a fundamental redesign of our operations. This redesign will include changes to the Company’s vehicle portfolio, expanding offerings and volumes in its most profitable growth vehicle segments, while improving or exiting less profitable vehicle lines and addressing underperforming markets.

Against this backdrop, we determined that there were triggering events related to our Ford Asia Pacific, China, Europe, and South America business units and tested our long-lived assets for impairment. Using our internal economic and business projections, as well as third-party valuations of certain long-lived assets, we determined that the carrying value of the long-lived assets in these business units was recoverable at December 31, 2018. If in future quarters our economic or business projections were to change as a result of our plans or changes in the business environment, or if there was a significant adverse change in the extent or manner in which a long-lived asset is being used, we would undertake additional testing, as appropriate, which could result in an impairment of long-lived assets.

Allowance for Credit Losses

The allowance for credit losses represents Ford Credit’s estimate of the probable credit loss inherent in finance receivables and operating leases as of the balance sheet date. The adequacy of Ford Credit’s allowance for credit losses is assessed quarterly and the assumptions and models used in establishing the allowance are evaluated regularly. Because credit losses can vary substantially over time, estimating credit losses requires a number of assumptions about matters that are uncertain. See Note 11 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for more information regarding allowance for credit losses.

Nature of Estimates Required. Ford Credit estimates the probable credit losses inherent in finance receivables and operating leases based on several factors.

Consumer Portfolio. Ford Credit estimates the allowance for credit losses on consumer receivables and on operating leases using a combination of measurement models and management judgment. The models consider factors such as historical trends in credit losses and recoveries (including key metrics such as delinquencies, repossessions, and bankruptcies), the composition of Ford Credit’s present portfolio (including vehicle brand, term, risk evaluation, and new/used vehicles), trends in historical used vehicle values, and economic conditions. Estimates from these models rely on historical information and may not fully reflect losses inherent in the present portfolio. Therefore, Ford Credit may adjust the estimate to reflect management judgment regarding observable changes in recent economic trends and conditions, portfolio composition, and other relevant factors.

Assumptions Used. Ford Credit’s allowance for credit losses is based on its assumptions regarding:

•Frequency. The number of finance receivables and operating lease contracts that are expected to default over the loss emergence period (“LEP”), measured as repossessions; repossession ratio reflects the number of finance receivables and operating lease contracts that we expect will default over a period of time divided by the average number of contracts outstanding; and

•Loss severity. The expected difference between the amount a customer owes when the finance contract is charged off and the amount received, net of expenses, from selling the repossessed vehicle.

Collective Allowance for Credit Losses. The collective allowance is evaluated primarily using a collective loss-to- receivables (“LTR”) model that, based on historical experience, indicates credit losses have been incurred in the portfolio even though the particular accounts that are uncollectible cannot be specifically identified. The LTR model is based on the most recent years of history. An LTR for each product is calculated by dividing credit losses (i.e., charge-offs net of recoveries) by average net finance receivables or average net investment in operating leases, excluding unearned interest supplements and residual support, allowance for credit losses, and other (primarily accumulated supplemental depreciation). The average LTR that is calculated for each product is multiplied by the end-of-period balances for that given product.

85

Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued)

Ford Credit’s largest markets also use a loss projection model to estimate losses inherent in the portfolio. The loss projection model applies recent monthly performance metrics, stratified by contract type (retail or lease), contract term (e.g., 60-month), and risk rating to Ford Credit’s active portfolio to estimate the losses that have been incurred.

The LEP is an assumption within Ford Credit’s models and represents the average amount of time between when a loss event first occurs to when it is charged off. This time period starts when the consumer begins to experience financial difficulty. It is evidenced, typically through delinquency, before eventually resulting in a charge-off. The LEP is a multiplier in the calculation of the collective consumer allowance for credit losses.

For accounts greater than 120 days past due, the uncollectible portion is charged off, such that the remaining recorded investment is equal to the estimated fair value of the collateral less costs to sell.

Specific Allowance for Impaired Receivables. Consumer receivables involved in Troubled Debt Restructurings are specifically assessed for impairment. A specific allowance is estimated based on the present value of the expected future cash flows of the receivable discounted at the contract’s original effective interest rate or the fair value of any collateral adjusted for estimated costs to sell.

After establishing the collective and specific allowance for credit losses, if Ford Credit management believes the allowance does not reflect all losses inherent in the portfolio due to changes in recent economic trends and conditions, or other relevant factors, an adjustment is made based on management judgment.

Sensitivity Analysis. Changes in the assumptions used to derive frequency and severity would affect the allowance for credit losses. The effect of the indicated increase/decrease in the assumptions for Ford Credit’s U.S. Ford and Lincoln retail financing and operating lease portfolio is as follows (in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Non-Consumer Portfolio. Ford Credit estimates the allowance for credit losses for non-consumer receivables based on historical LTR ratios, expected future cash flows, and the fair value of collateral.

Collective Allowance for Credit Losses. Ford Credit estimates an allowance for non-consumer receivables that are not specifically identified as impaired using an LTR model for each financing product based on historical experience. This LTR is an average of the most recent historical experience and is calculated consistent with the consumer receivables LTR approach. All accounts that are specifically identified as impaired are excluded from the calculation of the non-specific or collective allowance.

Specific Allowance for Impaired Receivables. Dealer financing is evaluated by segmenting individual loans by the risk characteristics of the loan (such as the amount of the loan, the nature of the collateral, and the financial status of the debtor). The loans are analyzed to determine whether individual loans are impaired, and a specific allowance is estimated based on the present value of the expected future cash flows of the receivable discounted at the loan’s original effective interest rate or the fair value of the collateral adjusted for estimated costs to sell.

After establishing the collective and specific allowance for credit losses, if Ford Credit management believes the allowance does not reflect all losses inherent in the portfolio due to changes in recent economic trends and conditions, or other relevant factors, an adjustment is made based on management judgment.

Changes in Ford Credit’s assumptions affect the Ford Credit interest, operating, and other expenses on our income statement and the allowance for credit losses contained within Ford Credit finance receivables, net and Net investment in operating leases on our balance sheet.

Accumulated Depreciation on Vehicles Subject to Operating Leases

Accumulated depreciation on vehicles subject to operating leases reduces the value of the leased vehicles in Ford Credit’s operating lease portfolio from their original acquisition value to their expected residual value at the end of the lease term. 

86

Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued)

Ford Credit monitors residual values each month, and it reviews the adequacy of accumulated depreciation on a quarterly basis. If Ford Credit believes that the expected residual values for its vehicles have changed, it revises depreciation to ensure that net investment in operating leases (equal to the acquisition value of the vehicles less accumulated depreciation) will be adjusted to reflect Ford Credit’s revised estimate of the expected residual value at the end of the lease term. Such adjustments to depreciation expense would result in a change in the depreciation rates of the vehicles subject to operating leases and are recorded prospectively on a straight-line basis.

Each lease customer has the option to buy the leased vehicle at the end of the lease or to return the vehicle to the dealer. 

Nature of Estimates Required.  Each operating lease in Ford Credit’s portfolio represents a vehicle it owns that has been leased to a customer. At the time Ford Credit purchases a lease, it establishes an expected residual value for the vehicle. Ford Credit estimates the expected residual value by evaluating recent auction values, return volumes for its leased vehicles, industrywide used vehicle prices, marketing incentive plans, and vehicle quality data.

Assumptions Used. Ford Credit’s accumulated depreciation on vehicles subject to operating leases is based on assumptions regarding:

•Auction value. Ford Credit’s projection of the market value of the vehicles when sold at the end of the lease; and

•Return volume. Ford Credit’s projection of the number of vehicles that will be returned at lease-end.

See Note 13 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for more information regarding accumulated depreciation on vehicles subject to operating leases.

Sensitivity Analysis. For returned vehicles, Ford Credit faces a risk that the amount it obtains from the vehicle sold at auction will be less than its estimate of the expected residual value for the vehicle. The impact of the change in assumptions on future auction values and return volumes would increase or decrease accumulated supplemental depreciation and depreciation expense over the remaining terms of the operating leases. The effect of the indicated increase/decrease in the assumptions for Ford Credit’s U.S. Ford and Lincoln operating lease portfolio is as follows (in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Adjustments to the amount of accumulated supplemental depreciation on operating leases would be reflected on our balance sheet as Net investment in operating leases and on the income statement in Ford Credit interest, operating, and other expenses.

87

Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued)

ACCOUNTING STANDARDS ISSUED BUT NOT YET ADOPTED

The Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) has issued the following Accounting Standards Updates (“ASU”). ASU 2016-02 and ASU 2016-13 are expected to have a material impact to our financial statements or financial statement disclosures. For additional information, see Note 3 of the Notes to the Financial Statements.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

_________

(a)Early adoption for each of the standards is permitted.

(b)The FASB has issued the following updates to the Leases standard: ASU 2018-01 (Land Easement Practical Expedient for Transition to Leases), ASU 2018-11 (Targeted Improvements to Leases), and ASU 2018-20 (Narrow-Scope Improvements for Lessors). We will adopt the new Leases standard effective January 1, 2019.

88

Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued)

AGGREGATE CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS

We are party to many contractual obligations involving commitments to make payments to third parties. Most of these are debt obligations incurred by our Ford Credit segment. Long-term debt may have fixed or variable interest rates. For long-term debt with variable-rate interest, we estimate the future interest payments based on projected market interest rates for various floating-rate benchmarks received from third parties. In addition, as part of our normal business practices, we enter into contracts with suppliers for purchases of certain raw materials, components, and services to facilitate adequate supply of these materials and services. These arrangements may contain fixed or minimum quantity purchase requirements. “Purchase obligations” are defined as off-balance sheet agreements to purchase goods or services that are enforceable and legally binding on the Company and that specify all significant terms. 

The table below summarizes our contractual obligations as of December 31, 2018 (in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

__________ 

(a)Excludes unamortized debt discounts/premiums, unamortized debt issuance costs, and fair value adjustments.

(b)Includes interest payments of $11 million.

(c)Amounts represent our estimate of contractually obligated deficit contributions to U.K. and Ford-Werke plans. See Note 17 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for further information regarding our expected 2019 pension contributions and funded status.

The amount of unrecognized tax benefits for 2018 of $2 billion (see Note 7 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for additional discussion) is excluded from the table above. Final settlement of a significant portion of these obligations will require bilateral tax agreements among us and various countries, the timing of which cannot reasonably be estimated.

For additional information regarding operating lease obligations, pension and OPEB obligations, and long-term debt, see Notes 14, 17, and 18, respectively, of the Notes to the Financial Statements.

89

ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk