Item 7A.Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk

Cash and marketable securities are deposited with major banks throughout the world. Such deposits are placed with high quality institutions and the amounts invested in any single institution are limited to the extent possible in order to minimize concentration of counterparty credit risk. Marketable securities consist of time deposits, registered money market funds, U.S. agency securities, U.S. Treasury securities, commercial paper, international government securities and corporate debt securities. The company has not incurred any credit risk losses related to deposits in cash and marketable securities.

Certain of the company's contracts are subject to foreign currency risk. The company limits exposure to foreign currency fluctuations in most of its engineering and construction contracts through provisions that require client payments in currencies corresponding to the currency in which cost is incurred. As a result, the company generally does not need to hedge foreign currency cash flows for contract work performed. However, in cases where revenue and expenses are not denominated in the same currency, the company may hedge its exposure, if material and if an efficient market exists, as discussed below.

42
The company utilizes derivative instruments to mitigate certain financial exposures, including currency and commodity price risk associated with engineering and construction contracts, currency risk associated with monetary assets and liabilities denominated in nonfunctional currencies and risk associated with interest rate volatility. As of December 31, 2018, the company had total gross notional amounts of $557 million of foreign currency contracts (primarily related to the British Pound, Kuwaiti Dinar, Indian Rupee, Philippine Peso, South Korean Won and Chinese Yuan). The foreign currency contracts are of varying duration, none of which extend beyond December 2021. The company's historical gains and losses associated with foreign currency contracts have typically been immaterial, and have largely mitigated the exposures being hedged. As of December 31, 2018, the company had total gross notional amounts of $31 million associated with contractual foreign currency payment provisions that were deemed embedded derivatives. There were no commodity contracts outstanding as of December 31, 2018. The company does not enter into derivative transactions for speculative purposes.

The company's results reported by foreign subsidiaries with non-U.S. dollar functional currencies are also affected by foreign currency volatility. When the U.S. dollar appreciates against the non-U.S. dollar functional currencies of these subsidiaries, the company's reported revenue, cost and earnings, after translation into U.S. dollars, are lower than what they would have been had the U.S. dollar depreciated against the same foreign currencies or if there had been no change in the exchange rates.

The company's long-term debt obligations typically carry a fixed-rate coupon, and therefore, its exposure to interest rate risk is not material.

Item 8.Financial Statements and Supplementary Data