Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and the related notes thereto included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In addition to historical financial information, the following discussion and analysis contains forward-looking statements that involve risks, uncertainties, and assumptions as described under the “Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements” that appears earlier in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated by these forward-looking statements as a result of many factors, including those discussed under Item 1A. “Risk Factors,” and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

 48
Executive Overview

We are a leading global provider of comprehensive PV solar energy solutions. We design, manufacture, and sell PV solar modules with an advanced thin film semiconductor technology and also develop, design, construct, and sell PV solar power systems that primarily use the modules we manufacture. Additionally, we provide O&M services to system owners. We have substantial, ongoing R&D efforts focused on module and system-level innovations. We are the world’s largest thin film PV solar module manufacturer and one of the world’s largest PV solar module manufacturers.

Certain of our financial results and other key operational developments for the year ended December 31, 2018 include the following:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Market Overview

The solar industry continues to be characterized by intense pricing competition, both at the module and system levels. In particular, module average selling prices in global markets have experienced an accelerated decline in recent years and are expected to continue to decline to some degree in the future. In the aggregate, we believe manufacturers of solar cells and modules have significant installed production capacity, relative to global demand, and the ability for additional capacity expansion. We believe the solar industry may from time to time experience periods of structural imbalance between supply and demand (i.e., where production capacity exceeds global demand), and that such periods will continue to put pressure on pricing. We believe the solar industry is currently in such a period, due in part to recent developments in China, which include feed-in-tariff reductions causing deferment of in-country project development. Additionally, intense competition at the system level may result in an environment in which pricing falls rapidly, thereby further increasing demand for solar energy solutions but constraining the ability for project developers, EPC companies, and vertically-integrated companies such as First Solar to sustain meaningful and consistent profitability. In light of such market realities, we are focusing on our strategies and points of differentiation, which include our advanced module and system technologies, our manufacturing process, our vertically-integrated business model, our financial viability, and the sustainability advantage of our modules and systems.

 49
Global solar markets continue to expand and develop, in part aided by demand elasticity resulting from declining industry average selling prices, both at the module and system levels, which make solar energy more affordable. We are developing, constructing, and operating multiple solar projects around the world as we continue to execute on our advanced-stage utility-scale project pipeline. We expect a significant portion of our future consolidated net sales, operating income, and cash flows to be derived from such projects. We also continue to develop our early-to-mid-stage project pipeline and evaluate acquisitions of projects to further expand both our early-to-mid-stage and advanced-stage pipelines. See the tables under “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Systems Project Pipeline” for additional information about projects within our advanced-stage pipeline.

Lower industry module and system pricing, which presents challenges for certain module manufacturers (particularly manufacturers with higher cost structures), is expected to continue to contribute to diversification in global electricity generation and further demand for solar energy solutions. Over time, we believe that solar energy generation will experience widespread adoption as it competes economically with traditional forms of energy generation. In the near term, however, declining average selling prices are expected to adversely affect our results of operations. If competitors reduce pricing to levels below their costs; bid aggressively low prices for module sale agreements, EPC agreements, and PPAs; or are able to operate at minimal or negative operating margins for sustained periods of time, our results of operations could be further adversely affected. In certain markets in California and elsewhere, an oversupply imbalance at the grid level may further reduce short-to-medium term demand for new solar installations relative to prior years, lower PPA pricing, and lower margins on module and system sales to such markets. However, the effects of such imbalance can be mitigated by modern solar power plants that offer a flexible operating profile, thereby promoting greater grid stability and enabling a higher penetration of solar energy. We continue to mitigate these uncertainties in part by executing on our module technology improvements, including our transition to Series 6 module manufacturing, continuing the development of key markets, partnering with grid operators and utility companies, and implementing certain other cost reduction initiatives, including both manufacturing, BoS, and other operating costs.

We face intense competition from manufacturers of crystalline silicon solar modules and developers of solar power projects. Solar module manufacturers compete with one another on price and on several module value attributes, including wattage (or conversion efficiency), energy yield, and reliability, and developers of systems compete on various factors such as net present value, return on equity, and LCOE, meaning the net present value of a system’s total life cycle costs divided by the quantity of energy that is expected to be produced over the system’s life. Many crystalline silicon cell and wafer manufacturers continue to transition from lower efficiency BSF multi-crystalline cells (the legacy technology against which we have generally competed in our markets) to higher efficiency PERC multi-crystalline and mono-crystalline cells at competitive cost structures. Additionally, while conventional solar modules, including the solar modules we produce, are monofacial, meaning their ability to produce energy is a function of direct and diffuse irradiance on their front side, certain manufacturers of mono-crystalline PERC modules are pursuing the commercialization of bifacial modules that also capture diffuse irradiance on the back side of a module. We believe the cost effective manufacture of bifacial PERC modules is being enabled, in part, by the expansion of inexpensive crystal growth and diamond wire saw capacity in China. Bifaciality compromises nameplate efficiency, but by converting both front and rear side irradiance, such technology may improve the overall energy production of a module relative to nameplate efficiency when applied in certain applications, which, after considering the incremental BoS costs, could potentially lower the overall LCOE of a system when compared to systems using conventional solar modules, including the modules we produce.

We believe we are among the lowest cost module manufacturers in the solar industry on a module cost per watt basis, based on publicly available information. This cost competitiveness allows us to compete favorably in markets where pricing for modules and fully integrated PV solar power systems is highly competitive. Our cost competitiveness is based in large part on our module conversion efficiency, proprietary manufacturing technology (which enables us to produce a CdTe module in less than 3.5 hours using a continuous and highly automated industrial manufacturing process, as opposed to a batch process), and our focus on operational excellence. In addition, our CdTe modules use approximately 1-2% of the amount of semiconductor material that is used to manufacture conventional crystalline silicon solar modules. The cost of polysilicon is a significant driver of the manufacturing cost of crystalline silicon solar modules, and the timing and rate of change in the cost of silicon feedstock and polysilicon could lead to changes in solar module pricing 

 50
levels. Polysilicon costs have declined in recent years, and polysilicon consumption per cell has been reduced through various initiatives, such as the adoption of diamond wire saw technology, contributing to a decline in our relative manufacturing cost competitiveness over conventional crystalline silicon module manufacturers.

Given the smaller size (sometimes referred to as form factor) of our Series 4 modules compared to certain types of crystalline silicon modules, we may incur higher labor and BoS costs associated with the construction of systems using our Series 4 modules. Thus, to compete effectively on an LCOE basis, our Series 4 modules may need to maintain a certain cost advantage per watt compared to crystalline silicon-based modules with larger form factors. Our next generation Series 6 modules have a larger form factor along with better product attributes and a lower manufacturing cost structure. Accordingly, the larger form factor and design of our Series 6 modules is expected to reduce the number of electrical connections, hardware, and labor required for system installation compared to current module technologies, including our Series 4 modules. The resulting cost savings are expected to improve project returns as BoS and labor costs represent a significant portion of the overall costs associated with the construction of a typical utility-scale system.

In terms of energy yield, in many climates, our CdTe modules provide a significant energy production advantage over most conventional crystalline silicon solar modules (including BSF and PERC technologies) of equivalent efficiency rating. For example, our CdTe solar modules provide a superior temperature coefficient, which results in stronger system performance in typical high insolation climates as the majority of a system’s generation, on average, occurs when module temperatures are well above 25°C (standard test conditions). In addition, our CdTe modules provide a superior spectral response in humid environments where atmospheric moisture alters the solar spectrum relative to laboratory standards. Our CdTe solar modules also provide a better shading response than conventional crystalline silicon solar modules, which may lose up to three times as much power as CdTe solar modules when shading occurs. As a result of these and other factors, our PV solar power systems typically produce more annual energy in real world field conditions than competing systems with the same nameplate capacity.

While our modules and systems are generally competitive in cost, reliability, and performance attributes, there can be no guarantee such competitiveness will continue to exist in the future to the same extent or at all. Any declines in the competitiveness of our products could result in additional margin compression, further declines in the average selling prices of our modules and systems, erosion in our market share for modules and systems, and/or declines in overall net sales. We continue to focus on enhancing the competitiveness of our solar modules and systems by accelerating progress along our module technology and cost reduction roadmaps, continuing to make technological advances at the system level, using innovative installation techniques and know-how, and leveraging volume procurement around standardized hardware platforms.

Certain Trends and Uncertainties

We believe that our operations may be favorably or unfavorably impacted by the following trends and uncertainties that may affect our financial condition and results of operations. See Item 1A. “Risk Factors” and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a discussion of other risks that may affect our financial condition and results of operations.

Our long-term strategic plans are focused on our goal to create long-term shareholder value through a balance of growth, profitability, and liquidity. In executing such plans, we are focusing on providing utility-scale PV solar energy solutions using our modules in key geographic markets that we believe have a compelling need for mass-scale PV electricity, including markets throughout the Americas, the Asia-Pacific region, Europe, and certain other strategic markets. Additionally, we are focusing on opportunities in which our PV solar energy solutions can compete directly with traditional forms of energy generation on an LCOE or similar basis, or complement such generation offerings. Our focus on our core module and utility-scale offerings exists within a current market environment that includes rooftop and distributed generation solar, particularly in the United States. While it is unclear how rooftop and distributed generation solar might impact our core utility-scale based offerings in the next several years, we believe that utility-scale solar will continue to be a compelling solar offering for companies with technology and cost leadership and will continue to represent an increasing portion of the overall electricity generation mix. Additionally, our ability to provide 

 51
utility-scale offerings on economically attractive terms depends, in part, on certain market factors outside of our control, such as interest rate fluctuations, domestic or international trade policies, and government support programs. Adverse changes in these factors could increase the cost of utility-scale systems, which could reduce demand for such systems and limit the number of potential buyers.

We are closely evaluating and managing the appropriate level of resources required as we pursue the most advantageous and cost effective projects and partnerships in our key markets. We have dedicated, and intend to continue to dedicate, significant capital and human resources to reduce the total installed cost of PV solar energy, to optimize the design and logistics around our PV solar energy solutions, and to ensure that our solutions integrate well into the overall electricity ecosystem of each specific market. We expect that, over time, the majority of our consolidated net sales, operating income, and cash flows will come from solar offerings in the key geographic markets described above. The timing, execution, and financial impacts of our long-term strategic plans are subject to risks and uncertainties, as described in Item 1A. “Risk Factors,” and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We are focusing our resources in those markets and energy applications in which solar power can be a least-cost, best-fit energy solution, particularly in regions with significant current or projected electricity demand, relatively high existing electricity prices, strong demand for renewable energy generation, and high solar resources.

Creating or maintaining a market position in certain strategically targeted markets and energy applications also requires us to adapt to new and changing market conditions. For example, our offerings from time to time may need to be competitively priced at levels associated with minimal gross profit margins, which may adversely affect our results of operations. We expect the profitability associated with our various sales offerings to vary from one another over time, and possibly vary from our internal long-range profitability expectations and targets, depending on the market opportunity and the relative competitiveness of our offerings compared with other energy solutions, traditional or otherwise, that are available to potential customers. In addition, as we execute on our long-term strategic plans, we will continue to monitor and adapt to any changing dynamics in emerging technologies, such as commercially viable energy storage solutions, which are expected to further enable PV solar power systems to compete with traditional forms of energy generation by shifting the delivery of energy generated by such systems to periods of greater demand. Storage solutions continue to evolve in terms of technology and cost, and cumulative global deployments of storage capacity are expected to exceed 900 GWDC by 2040, representing a significant increase in the potential market for renewable energy. We will also continue to monitor and adapt to changing dynamics in the market set of potential buyers of solar projects. Market environments with few potential project buyers and a higher cost of capital would generally exert downward pressure on the potential revenue from the solar projects we are developing, whereas, conversely, market environments with many potential project buyers and a lower cost of capital would likely have a favorable impact on the potential revenue from such solar projects.

On occasion, we may temporarily own and operate certain systems with the intention to sell them at a later date. We may also enter into business arrangements with strategic partners that result in us temporarily retaining an ownership interest in the underlying systems projects we develop, supply modules to, or construct, potentially for a period of up to several years. In these situations, we may retain such ownership interests in a consolidated or unconsolidated separate entity. We may also elect to construct and temporarily retain ownership interests in partially contracted or uncontracted systems for which there is a partial or no PPA with an off-taker, such as a utility, but rather an intent to sell a portion or all of the electricity produced by the system on an open contract basis until the system is sold. Expected revenue from projects without a PPA for the full offtake of the system is subject to greater variability and uncertainty based on market factors and is typically lower than projects with a PPA for the full offtake of the system. Furthermore, all system pricing is effected by the pricing of energy to be sold on an open contract basis following the termination of the PPA (i.e., merchant pricing curves), and changes in market assumptions regarding future open contract sales may also result in significant variability and uncertainty in the value of our systems projects.

We continually evaluate forecasted global demand, competition, and our addressable market and seek to effectively balance manufacturing capacity with market demand and the nature and extent of our competition. During 2018, we commenced commercial production of Series 6 modules at our manufacturing facilities in Perrysburg, Ohio; Kulim, Malaysia; and our previously idled manufacturing plant in Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam. In early 2019, we commenced 

 52
commercial production at our second manufacturing facility in Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam. We are also in the process of constructing an additional Series 6 manufacturing plant in Lake Township, Ohio, a short distance from our plant in Perrysburg, Ohio. These additional manufacturing plants, and any other potential investments to add or otherwise modify our existing manufacturing capacity in response to market demand and competition, may require significant internal and possibly external sources of liquidity, and may be subject to certain risks and uncertainties described in Item 1A. “Risk Factors,” including those described under the headings “Our future success depends on our ability to effectively balance manufacturing production with market demand, convert existing production facilities to support new product lines, such as our transition to Series 6 module manufacturing, and, when necessary, continue to build new manufacturing plants over time in response to such demand and add production lines in a cost-effective manner, all of which are subject to risks and uncertainties” and “If any future production lines are not built in line with committed schedules, it may adversely affect our future growth plans. If any future production lines do not achieve operating metrics similar to our existing production lines, our solar modules could perform below expectations and cause us to lose customers.”

Systems Project Pipeline

The following tables summarize, as of February 21, 2019, our approximately 2.6 GWAC advanced-stage project pipeline. The actual volume of modules installed in our projects will be greater than the project size in MWAC as module volumes required for a project are based upon MWDC, which will be greater than the MWAC size pursuant to a DC-AC ratio typically ranging from 1.2 to 1.3. Such ratio varies across different projects due to various system design factors. Projects are typically removed from our advanced-stage project pipeline tables below once we substantially complete construction of the project and after substantially all of the associated project revenue is recognized. Projects, or portions of projects, may also be removed from the tables below in the event an EPC-contracted or partner-developed project does not obtain permitting or financing, a project is not able to be sold due to the changing economics of the project or other factors, or we decide to temporarily own and operate, or retain interests in, such projects based on strategic opportunities or market factors.

Projects under Sales Agreements

(Includes uncompleted sold projects, projects under sales contracts subject to conditions precedent, and EPC agreements, including partner developed projects that we will be or are constructing.)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

 53
Projects with Executed PPAs Not under Sales Agreements

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

——————————

(1)Previously known as the Twiggs County Solar project

(2)Approximately 55 MWAC of the plant’s capacity is contracted with Transport for NSW

(3)Utility-owned generation

(4)Contracted but not specified

(5)Approximately 70 MWAC of the plant’s capacity is contracted under various PPAs

(6)Tokyo Electric Power Company – 27 MWAC and Hokuriku Electric Power Company – 17 MWAC  

(7)Gulbarga Electricity Supply Co. – 20 MWAC and Chamundeshwari Electricity Supply Co. – 20 MWAC 

 54
Results of Operations

The following table sets forth our consolidated statements of operations as a percentage of net sales for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017, and 2016:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Segment Overview

We operate our business in two segments. Our modules segment involves the design, manufacture, and sale of CdTe solar modules to third parties, and our systems segment includes the development, construction, operation, maintenance, and sale of PV solar power systems, including any modules installed in such systems and any revenue from energy generated by such systems. See Note 22. “Segment and Geographical Information” to our consolidated financial statements for more information on our operating segments. See also Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Systems Project Pipeline” for a description of the system projects in our advanced-stage project pipeline.

Net sales

Modules Business

We generally price and sell our solar modules per watt of nameplate power. During 2018, M.A. Mortenson Company, RCR O'Donnell Griffin Pty, Ltd, and Tampa Electric Company each accounted for more than 10% of our modules business net sales, and the majority of our solar modules were sold to integrators and operators of systems in the United States, Australia, and France. Substantially all of our modules business net sales during 2018 were denominated in U.S. dollars. We recognize revenue for module sales at a point in time following the transfer of control of the modules to the customer, which typically occurs upon shipment or delivery depending on the terms of the underlying contracts. The revenue recognition policies for module sales are further described in Note 2. “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” to our consolidated financial statements.

 55
Systems Business

During 2018, Tampa Electric Company, Capital Dynamics, Mitsui & Co., D.E. Shaw, and IDFC Alternatives each accounted for more than 10% of our systems business net sales, and the majority of our systems business net sales were in the United States, Japan, and India. Substantially all of our systems business net sales during 2018 were denominated in U.S. dollars, Japanese yen, and Indian rupees. We typically recognize revenue for sales of solar power systems using cost based input methods, which result in revenue being recognized as work is performed based on the relationship between actual costs incurred compared to the total estimated costs for a given contract. We may also recognize revenue for the sale of a system after the project has been completed due to the timing of when we enter into the associated sales contract with the customer. The revenue recognition policies for our systems business are further described in Note 2. “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” to our consolidated financial statements.

The following table shows net sales by reportable segment for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017, and 2016:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Net sales from our modules segment decreased by $304.4 million in 2018 primarily due to a 34% decrease in the volume of watts sold and a 6% decrease in the average selling price per watt. The decrease in the volume of watts sold in 2018 was driven by our transition to Series 6 manufacturing, which resulted in a temporary reduction in production capacity during the period. Net sales from our systems segment decreased by $392.9 million in 2018 primarily as a result of the sale of the Moapa and Switch Station projects in 2017, which were substantially complete when we entered into the associated sales contracts with the customers, and the sale of the California Flats project in 2017 relative to revenue recognized on the project in 2018 from ongoing construction activities, partially offset by the sale of the Willow Springs, Rosamond, Mashiko, Manildra, and certain India projects in 2018, and the completion of substantially all construction activities on the Balm Solar, Payne Creek, and Grange Hall projects in 2018.

Net sales from our modules segment increased by $130.9 million in 2017 primarily due to a 68% increase in the volume of watts sold, partially offset by a 29% decrease in the average selling price per watt. Net sales from our systems segment decreased by $94.2 million in 2017 primarily as a result of the completion of substantially all construction activities on a number of projects in 2016, including the Desert Stateline, Astoria, Taylor, East Pecos, Silver State South, Butler, and McCoy projects, partially offset by the sale of the Moapa, California Flats, Switch Station, and Cuyama projects in 2017.

Cost of sales

Modules Business

Our modules business cost of sales includes the cost of raw materials and components for manufacturing solar modules, such as glass, transparent conductive coatings, CdTe and other thin film semiconductors, laminate materials, connector assemblies, edge seal materials, and frames. In addition, our cost of sales includes direct labor for the manufacturing of solar modules and manufacturing overhead, such as engineering, equipment maintenance, quality and production control, and information technology. Our cost of sales also includes depreciation of manufacturing plant and equipment, facility-related expenses, environmental health and safety costs, and costs associated with shipping, warranties, and solar module collection and recycling (excluding accretion).

 56
Systems Business

For our systems business, project-related costs include development costs (legal, consulting, transmission upgrade, interconnection, permitting, and other similar costs), EPC costs (consisting primarily of solar modules, inverters, electrical and mounting hardware, project management and engineering, and construction labor), and site specific costs.

The following table shows cost of sales by reportable segment for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017, and 2016: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Cost of sales decreased $540.5 million, or 23%, and increased 1.2 percentage points as a percent of net sales when comparing 2018 with 2017. The decrease in cost of sales was driven by a $398.9 million decrease in our systems segment cost of sales primarily due to the size of projects sold or under construction and the timing of when all revenue recognition criteria were met. The decrease in cost of sales was also driven by a $141.6 million decrease in our modules segment cost of sales primarily as a result of the following:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Cost of sales increased $126.2 million, or 6%, and increased 3.3 percentage points as a percentage of net sales when comparing 2017 with 2016. The increase in cost of sales was driven by a $129.1 million increase in our modules segment cost of sales primarily due to the following:

•higher costs of $366.2 million from the increased volume of modules sold directly to third parties; partially offset by

•continued cost reductions in the cost per watt of our solar modules, which decreased cost of sales by $182.4 million;[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•lower inventory write-downs of $9.2 million.

Gross profit

Gross profit may be affected by numerous factors, including the selling prices of our modules and systems, our manufacturing costs, project development costs, BoS costs, the capacity utilization of our manufacturing facilities, and foreign exchange rates. Gross profit may also be affected by the mix of net sales from our modules and systems businesses.

 57
The following table shows gross profit for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017, and 2016:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Gross profit decreased 1.2 percentage points to 17.5% during 2018 from 18.7% during 2017 primarily as a result of higher under-utilization and certain other charges associated with the initial ramp of Series 6 manufacturing lines and the reduction to our product warranty liability in 2017 described above, partially offset by the mix of higher gross profit projects sold during the period and the settlement of a tax examination with the state of California, which affected our estimates of sales and use taxes due for certain projects.

Gross profit decreased 3.3 percentage points to 18.7% during 2017 from 22.0% during 2016 primarily due to a mix of lower gross profit projects sold and under construction during the period and reductions in the average selling price per watt of our modules sold directly to third parties, partially offset by the reductions in our product warranty liability and our module collection and recycling liability described above.

Selling, general and administrative

Selling, general and administrative expense consists primarily of salaries and other personnel-related costs, professional fees, insurance costs, and other business development and selling expenses.

The following table shows selling, general and administrative expense for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017, and 2016:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Selling, general and administrative expense in 2018 decreased compared to 2017 primarily from lower employee compensation expense, lower accretion expense associated with the reduction in our module collection and recycling liability described above, lower expenses related to project sales, and lower business development expense. This decrease was partially offset by higher charges for impairments of certain project assets in 2018. Selling, general and administrative expense in 2017 decreased compared to 2016 primarily due to higher impairments of certain project assets in 2016, lower employee compensation expense due to various restructuring activities, lower professional fees, lower infrastructure related expenses, and lower business development expenses.

Research and development

Research and development expense consists primarily of salaries and other personnel-related costs; the cost of products, materials, and outside services used in our R&D activities; and depreciation and amortization expense associated with R&D specific facilities and equipment. We maintain a number of programs and activities to improve our technology and processes in order to enhance the performance and reduce the costs of our solar modules and systems.

The following table shows research and development expense for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017, and 2016:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

 58
Research and development expense in 2018 decreased compared to 2017 primarily due to lower employee compensation expense, lower facilities expense, and reduced material and module testing costs, partially offset by higher impairment charges for certain equipment. Research and development expense in 2017 decreased compared to 2016 primarily due to lower costs for third-party contracted services, reduced material and module testing costs, the termination of certain R&D programs for legacy module technologies, and lower employee compensation expense resulting from reductions to our headcount as part of various restructuring activities.

Production start-up

Production start-up expense consists primarily of employee compensation and other costs associated with operating a production line before it has been qualified for full production, including the cost of raw materials for solar modules run through the production line during the qualification phase and applicable facility related costs. Costs related to equipment upgrades and implementation of manufacturing process improvements are also included in production start-up expense as well as costs related to the selection of a new site, related legal and regulatory costs, and costs to maintain our plant replication program to the extent we cannot capitalize these expenditures. In general, we expect production start-up expense per production line to be higher when we build an entirely new manufacturing facility compared with the addition or replacement of production lines at an existing manufacturing facility, primarily due to the additional infrastructure investment required when building an entirely new facility.

The following table shows production start-up expense for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017, and 2016:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

During 2018, we incurred production start-up expense for the commencement of Series 6 module manufacturing at our facility in Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam. We also incurred production start-up expense for the transition to Series 6 module manufacturing at our facilities in Kulim, Malaysia and Perrysburg, Ohio in 2017 and early 2018.

Restructuring and asset impairments

Restructuring and asset impairments consists of expenses incurred related to material restructuring initiatives and includes any associated asset impairments, costs for employee termination benefits, costs for contract terminations and penalties, and other restructuring related costs. Such restructuring initiatives are intended to align the organization with then current business conditions and to reduce costs.

The following table shows restructuring and asset impairments for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017, and 2016:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

In November 2016, our board of directors approved a set of initiatives to accelerate our transition to Series 6 module manufacturing and restructure our operations. In June 2016, we ended production of our crystalline silicon modules to focus on our core CdTe module and utility-scale systems. As a result of these decisions, we recorded restructuring and asset impairment charges of $41.8 million and $743.9 million during 2017 and 2016, respectively. In 2017, we also reversed a customs tax liability associated with a prior restructuring activity, which reduced our restructuring charges by $4.7 million during the period. See Note 4. “Restructuring and Asset Impairments” to our consolidated financial statements for additional information on these matters.

 59
Goodwill impairment

The following table shows goodwill impairments for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017, and 2016:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

As a result of our annual impairment analysis in the fourth quarter of 2016, we impaired the remaining $68.8 million of goodwill associated with our systems reporting unit primarily due to a strategic shift in the mix of our module and system net sales, which was approved by our board of directors in November 2016 as part of the restructuring activities described above. This shift involved an expected reduction in the annual megawatts sold through systems business projects. Other factors that contributed to the impairment included our reduced market capitalization and the challenging conditions within the solar industry as of the date of our testing. In June 2016, we also impaired the remaining $6.1 million of goodwill associated with our crystalline silicon modules reporting unit due to the decision to end the related manufacturing operations as further described above. See Note 6. “Goodwill and Intangible Assets” to our consolidated financial statements for additional information.

Foreign currency loss, net

Foreign currency loss, net consists of the net effect of gains and losses resulting from holding assets and liabilities and conducting transactions denominated in currencies other than our subsidiaries’ functional currencies.

The following table shows foreign currency loss, net for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017, and 2016:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Foreign currency loss, net decreased in 2018 compared to 2017 primarily due to lower costs associated with hedging activities related to our subsidiaries in Japan, India, and Europe. Foreign currency loss, net decreased in 2017 compared to 2016 primarily as a result of lower costs associated with hedging activities related to our subsidiaries in India, the weakening of the U.S. dollar relative to certain foreign currencies, and differences between our economic hedge positions and the underlying exposures.

Interest income

Interest income is earned on our cash, cash equivalents, marketable securities, and restricted cash and investments. Interest income also includes interest earned from notes receivable and late customer payments.

The following table shows interest income for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017, and 2016:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Interest income during 2018 increased compared to 2017 primarily as a result of higher time deposit balances and increased interest rates associated with cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities, partially offset by lower balances of cash and cash equivalents. Interest income during 2017 increased compared to 2016 primarily due to higher cash balances during the period, higher interest rates associated with such cash balances, and a promissory note with an affiliate issued in late 2016.

 60
Interest expense, net

Interest expense is primarily comprised of interest incurred on long-term debt, settlements of interest rate swap contracts, and changes in the fair value of interest rate swap contracts that do not qualify for hedge accounting in accordance with Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) 815. We may capitalize interest expense into our project assets or property, plant and equipment when such costs qualify for interest capitalization, which reduces the amount of net interest expense reported in any given period.

The following table shows interest expense, net for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017, and 2016:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Interest expense, net increased in 2018 compared to 2017 primarily due to changes in the fair value of interest rate swap contracts that do not qualify for hedge accounting and higher levels of project specific debt financings, partially offset by higher interest costs capitalized to certain projects under construction. Interest expense, net increased in 2017 compared to 2016 primarily due to changes in the fair value of interest rate swap contracts that do not qualify for hedge accounting and higher levels of project specific debt financings, partially offset by lower interest expense associated with certain Malaysian credit facilities that were fully repaid in 2016.

Other income, net

Other income, net is primarily comprised of miscellaneous items and realized gains and losses on the sale of marketable securities and restricted investments.

The following table shows other income, net for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017, and 2016:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Other income, net increased in 2018 compared to 2017 primarily due to realized gains of $55.4 million in 2018 from the sale of certain restricted investments, partially offset by a $26.8 million settlement from the resolution of an outstanding matter with a former customer in 2017 and higher withholding taxes on certain payments by our foreign subsidiaries.

Other income, net decreased in 2017 compared to 2016 primarily due to realized gains of $41.3 million in 2016 from the sale of certain restricted investments and a $7.4 million reversal of the outstanding contingent consideration associated with our TetraSun acquisition as a result of our crystalline silicon module manufacturing restructuring in 2016, partially offset by the customer settlement in 2017 described above.

Income tax expense 

In December 2017, the U.S. President signed into law the Tax Act, which significantly revised U.S. tax law by, among other things, lowering the statutory federal corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21% effective January 1, 2018, eliminating certain deductions, imposing a transition tax on certain accumulated earnings and profits of foreign corporate subsidiaries (the “transition tax”), introducing new tax regimes, and changing how foreign earnings are subject to U.S. tax. During 2017, we recognized certain provisional tax expenses associated with the Tax Act. We completed our accounting for the Tax Act in the fourth quarter of 2018 and recorded certain adjustments to our provisional tax expenses. 

Income tax expense or benefit, deferred tax assets and liabilities, and liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits reflect our best estimate of current and future taxes to be paid. We are subject to income taxes in both the United States and 

 61
numerous foreign jurisdictions in which we operate, principally Australia, India, and Malaysia. Significant judgments and estimates are required to determine our consolidated income tax expense. The statutory federal corporate income tax rate in the United States decreased from 35% to 21% beginning in January 2018. The tax rates in Australia, India, and Malaysia are 30%, 34.9%, and 24%, respectively. In Malaysia, we have been granted a long-term tax holiday, scheduled to expire in 2027, pursuant to which substantially all of our income earned in Malaysia is exempt from income tax, conditional upon our continued compliance with certain employment and investment thresholds.

The following table shows income tax expense for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017, and 2016:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Our tax rate is affected by recurring items, such as tax rates in foreign jurisdictions and the relative amounts of income we earn in those jurisdictions. The rate is also affected by discrete items that may occur in any given period, but are not consistent from period to period. Income tax expense decreased by $368.6 million during 2018 compared to 2017 primarily due to provisional tax expense of $408.1 million in 2017 related to the Tax Act and lower pretax income, partially offset by income earned in certain higher tax jurisdictions and a $42.1 million discrete tax benefit in 2017 associated with the acceptance of our election to classify certain of our German subsidiaries as disregarded entities of First Solar, Inc.

Income tax expense increased by $348.8 million during 2017 compared to 2016 primarily due to provisional tax expense related to the Tax Act as described above, higher pretax income, a $35.4 million reversal of an uncertain tax position in 2016 related to the income of a foreign subsidiary, and lower excess tax benefits associated with share-based compensation, partially offset by certain U.S. taxes in 2016 on a cash distribution received from a foreign subsidiary and a $42.1 million discrete tax benefit as described above. See Note 19. “Income Taxes” to our consolidated financial statements for additional information.

Equity in earnings, net of tax

Equity in earnings, net of tax represents our proportionate share of the earnings or losses from equity method investments as well as any gains or losses on the sale or disposal of such investments.

The following table shows equity in earnings, net of tax for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017, and 2016:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Equity in earnings, net of tax increased in 2018 compared to 2017 primarily due to the sale of our ownership interests in 8point3 Operating Company, LLC (“OpCo”) in June 2018, which resulted in a gain of $40.3 million, net of tax. See Note 12. “Equity Method Investments” to our consolidated financial statements for additional information. Equity in earnings, net of tax decreased in 2017 compared to 2016 primarily due to the recognition of a gain of $125.1 million, net of tax, in December 2016 from the sale of our residual interest in the Desert Stateline project to OpCo and lower equity in earnings from our investment in OpCo.

 62
Liquidity and Capital Resources

As of December 31, 2018, we believe that our cash, cash equivalents, marketable securities, cash flows from operating activities, advanced-stage project pipeline, availability under our Revolving Credit Facility (considering the minimum liquidity covenant requirements therein), and access to the capital markets will be sufficient to meet our working capital, systems project investment, and capital expenditure needs for at least the next 12 months. We monitor our working capital to ensure we have adequate liquidity, both domestically and internationally.

We intend to maintain appropriate debt levels based upon cash flow expectations, our overall cost of capital, and expected cash requirements for operations, capital expenditures, and strategic discretionary spending. In the future, we may also engage in additional debt or equity financings, including project specific debt financings. We believe that when necessary, we will have adequate access to the capital markets, although our ability to raise capital on terms commercially acceptable to us could be constrained if there is insufficient lender or investor interest due to industry-wide or company-specific concerns. Such financings could result in increased debt service expenses, dilution to our existing stockholders, or restrictive covenants, which could restrain our ability to pursue our strategic plans.

As of December 31, 2018, we had $2.5 billion in cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities compared to $3.0 billion as of December 31, 2017. Cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities as of December 31, 2018 decreased primarily as a result of purchases of property, plant and equipment and operating expenditures associated with the initial ramp of certain Series 6 manufacturing lines, partially offset by proceeds associated with the sale of our interests in 8point3 and its subsidiaries and net proceeds from borrowings under project specific debt financings. As of December 31, 2018 and 2017, $1.2 billion and $1.6 billion, respectively, of our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities was held by our foreign subsidiaries and was primarily based in U.S. dollar, Euro, and Japanese yen denominated holdings. 

We utilize a variety of tax planning and financing strategies in an effort to ensure that our worldwide cash is available in the locations in which it is needed. If certain international funds were needed for our operations in the United States, we may be required to accrue and pay certain U.S. and foreign taxes to repatriate such funds. We maintain the intent and ability to permanently reinvest our accumulated earnings outside of the United States, with the exception of our subsidiaries in Canada and Germany. In addition, changes to foreign government banking regulations may restrict our ability to move funds among various jurisdictions under certain circumstances, which could negatively impact our access to capital, resulting in an adverse effect on our liquidity and capital resources.

Our systems business requires significant liquidity and is expected to continue to have significant liquidity requirements in the future. The net amount of our project assets and related portion of deferred revenue, which approximates our net capital investment in the development and construction of systems projects, was $467.3 million as of December 31, 2018. Solar power project development and construction cycles, which span the time between the identification of a site location and the commercial operation of a system, vary substantially and can take many years to mature. As a result of these long project cycles and strategic decisions to finance the construction of certain projects using our working capital, we may need to make significant up-front investments of resources in advance of the receipt of any cash from the sale of such projects. Delays in construction or in completing the sale of our systems projects that we are self-financing may also impact our liquidity. In certain circumstances, we may need to finance construction costs exclusively using working capital, if project financing becomes unavailable due to market-wide, regional, or other concerns.

From time to time, we may develop projects in certain markets around the world where we may hold all or a significant portion of the equity in a project for several years. Given the duration of these investments and the currency risk relative to the U.S. dollar in some of these markets, we continue to explore local financing alternatives. Should these financing alternatives be unavailable or too cost prohibitive, we could be exposed to significant currency risk and our liquidity could be adversely impacted.

Additionally, we may elect to retain an ownership interest in certain systems projects after they become operational if we determine it would be of economic and strategic benefit to do so. If, for example, we cannot sell a systems project 

 63
at economics that are attractive to us or potential customers are unwilling to assume the risks and rewards typical of PV solar power system ownership, we may instead elect to temporarily own and operate such systems until we can sell the systems on economically attractive terms. The decision to retain ownership of a system impacts liquidity depending upon the size and cost of the project. As of December 31, 2018, we had $308.6 million of net PV solar power systems that had been placed in service, primarily in international markets. We have elected, and may in the future elect, to enter into temporary or long-term project financing to reduce the impact on our liquidity and working capital with regards to such projects and systems. We may also consider entering into tax equity or other arrangements with respect to ownership interests in certain of our projects, which could cause a portion of the economics of such projects to be realized over time.

The following additional considerations have impacted or may impact our liquidity in 2019 and beyond:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•Our failure to obtain raw materials and components that meet our quality, quantity, and cost requirements in a timely manner could interrupt or impair our ability to manufacture our solar modules or increase our manufacturing costs. Accordingly, we may enter into long-term supply agreements to mitigate potential risks related to the procurement of key raw materials and components, and such agreements may be noncancelable or cancelable with a significant penalty. For example, we have entered into long-term supply agreements for the purchase of certain specified minimum volumes of substrate glass and cover glass for our PV solar modules. Our actual purchases under these supply agreements are expected to be approximately $2.4 billion of substrate glass and $500 million of cover glass. We have the right to terminate these agreements upon payment of specified termination penalties (which are up to $430 million in the aggregate and decline over time during the respective supply periods).

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•We may commit significant working capital over the next several years to advance the construction of various U.S. systems projects or procure the associated BoS parts by specified dates for such projects to qualify for certain federal investment tax credits. Among other requirements, such credits require projects to commence construction in 2019, which may be achieved by certain qualifying procurement activities, to receive a 30% investment tax credit. The credit will step down to 26% for projects that commence construction in 2020, 22% for projects that commence construction in 2021, and 10% for projects that commence construction thereafter.

 64
•We may also commit working capital to acquire solar power projects in various stages of development, including advanced-stage projects with PPAs, and to continue developing those projects as necessary. Depending upon the size and stage of development, the costs to acquire such solar power projects could be significant. When evaluating project acquisition opportunities, we consider both the strategic and financial benefits of any such acquisitions.

Cash Flows

The following table summarizes key cash flow activity for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017, and 2016 (in thousands):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Operating Activities

The decrease in net cash provided by operating activities during 2018 was primarily driven by lower cash proceeds from sales of systems projects, including the sales of the Moapa, California Flats, Switch Station, and Cuyama projects in 2017, higher liabilities assumed by customers as part of the consideration for certain projects sold, and operating expenditures associated with our ongoing transition to Series 6 module manufacturing. The increase in net cash provided by operating activities during 2017 was primarily driven by the sale of the projects described above, partially offset by expenditures for the construction of certain projects.

Investing Activities

The increase in net cash used in investing activities during 2018 was primarily due to higher purchases of property, plant and equipment driven by our transition to Series 6 module manufacturing and an increase in net purchases of marketable securities and restricted investments, partially offset by proceeds associated with the sale of our interests in 8point3 and its subsidiaries. The increase in net cash used in investing activities during 2017 was primarily due to (i) proceeds from sales of equity method investments in 2016, including the sale of our remaining interest in the Desert Stateline project, (ii) an increase in purchases of property, plant and equipment driven by our transition to Series 6 module manufacturing, and (iii) net higher net purchases of marketable securities and restricted investments. 

Financing Activities

The increase in net cash provided by financing activities during 2018 was primarily the result of higher net proceeds from borrowings under long-term debt arrangements associated with the construction of certain projects in Australia, Japan, and India and lower payments for contingent obligations associated with the acquisition of certain projects in Japan, partially offset by lower proceeds from commercial letters of credit for the construction of certain projects in India. The increase in net cash provided by financing activities during 2017 was primarily the result of net proceeds from borrowings under long-term debt arrangements associated with the construction of certain projects in Japan, India, and Australia and proceeds from commercial letters of credit for the construction of certain projects in India. 

 65
Contractual Obligations

The following table presents the payments due by fiscal year for our outstanding contractual obligations as of December 31, 2018 (in thousands):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

——————————

(1)Includes estimated cash interest to be paid over the remaining terms of the underlying debt. Interest payments are based on fixed and floating rates as of December 31, 2018.

(2)Purchase obligations represent agreements to purchase goods or services, including open purchase orders and contracts with fixed volume commitments, that are noncancelable or cancelable with a significant penalty. Purchase obligations for our long-term supply agreements for the purchase of substrate glass and cover glass represent specified termination penalties, which are up to $430 million in the aggregate under the agreements. Our actual purchases under these supply agreements are expected to be approximately $2.4 billion of substrate glass and $500 million of cover glass.

(3)In connection with business or project acquisitions, we may agree to pay additional amounts to the selling parties upon achievement of certain milestones. See Note 15. “Commitments and Contingencies” to our consolidated financial statements for further information.

(4)Transition tax obligations represent estimated payments for U.S. federal taxes associated with accumulated earnings and profits of our foreign corporate subsidiaries. See Note 19. “Income Taxes” to our consolidated financial statements for further information.

(5)Includes expected letter of credit fees and unused revolver fees.

We have excluded $72.2 million of unrecognized tax benefits from the amounts presented above as the timing of such obligations is uncertain.

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

As of December 31, 2018, we had no off-balance sheet debt or similar obligations, other than financial assurance related instruments and operating leases, which are not classified as debt. We do not guarantee any third-party debt. See Note 15. “Commitments and Contingencies” to our consolidated financial statements for further information about our financial assurance related instruments.

Recent Accounting Pronouncements

See Note 3. “Recent Accounting Pronouncements” to our consolidated financial statements for a summary of recent accounting pronouncements.

 66
Critical Accounting Estimates

In preparing our consolidated financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (“U.S. GAAP”), we make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts of reported assets, liabilities, revenues, and expenses, as well as the disclosure of contingent liabilities. Some of our accounting policies require the application of significant judgment in the selection of the appropriate assumptions for making these estimates. By their nature, these judgments are subject to an inherent degree of uncertainty. We base our judgments and estimates on our historical experience, our forecasts, and other available information as appropriate. The actual results experienced by us may differ materially and adversely from our estimates. To the extent there are material differences between our estimates and the actual results, our future results of operations will be affected. Our significant accounting policies are described in Note 2. “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” to our consolidated financial statements. The accounting policies that require the most significant judgment and estimates include the following:

Revenue Recognition – Solar Power System Sales and/or EPC Services. We generally recognize revenue for sales of solar power systems and/or EPC services over time as our performance creates or enhances an energy generation asset controlled by the customer. Furthermore, the sale of a solar power system when combined with EPC services represents a single performance obligation for the development and construction of a single generation asset. For such sale arrangements, we recognize revenue using cost based input methods, which recognize revenue and gross profit as work is performed based on the relationship between actual costs incurred compared to the total estimated costs of the contract. For sales of solar power systems in which we obtain an interest in the project sold to the customer, we recognize all of the revenue for the consideration received, including the fair value of the noncontrolling interest we obtained, and defer any profit associated with the interest obtained through “Equity in earnings, net of tax.” We may also recognize revenue for the sale of a solar power system after it has been completed due to the timing of when we enter into the associated sales contract with the customer.

Estimating the fair value of a noncontrolling interest we obtain begins with the valuation of the entire solar project (i.e., solar power system) being sold to the customer. Such valuation generally uses an income based valuation technique in which relevant cash flows are discounted to estimate the expected economic earnings capacity of the project. Typical factors considered in a project’s valuation include expected energy generation, the duration and pricing of the PPA, the pricing of energy to be sold on an open contract basis following the termination of the PPA (i.e., merchant pricing curves), other offtake agreements, the useful life of the system, tax attributes such as accelerated depreciation and tax credits, sales of renewable energy certificates, interconnection rights, operating agreements, and the cost of capital. Once the overall project valuation is agreed upon with the customer, we determine the relative value related to our specific ownership interests conveyed through the transaction agreements, including the membership interest purchase and sale agreement and the limited liability company agreement (or equivalent) of the project or its holding company. 

In applying cost based input methods of revenue recognition, we use the actual costs incurred relative to the total estimated costs (including solar module costs) to determine our progress towards contract completion and to calculate the corresponding amount of revenue and gross profit to recognize. Cost based input methods of revenue recognition are considered a faithful depiction of our efforts to satisfy long-term construction contracts and therefore reflect the transfer of goods to a customer under such contracts. Costs incurred that do not contribute to satisfying our performance obligations (“inefficient costs”) are excluded from our input methods of revenue recognition as the amounts are not reflective of our transferring control of the system to the customer. Costs incurred towards contract completion may include costs associated with solar modules, direct materials, labor, subcontractors, and other indirect costs related to contract performance. We recognize solar module and direct material costs as incurred when such items have been installed in a system. Cost based input methods of revenue recognition require us to make estimates of net contract revenues and costs to complete our projects. In making such estimates, significant judgment is required to evaluate assumptions related to the amount of net contract revenues, including the impact of any performance incentives, liquidated damages, and other payments to customers. Significant judgment is also required to evaluate assumptions related to the costs to complete our projects, including materials, labor, contingencies, and other system costs.

 67
If the estimated total costs on any contract, including any inefficient costs, are greater than the net contract revenues, we recognize the entire estimated loss in the period the loss becomes known. The cumulative effect of revisions to estimates related to net contract revenues or costs to complete contracts are recorded in the period in which the revisions to estimates are identified and the amounts can be reasonably estimated. The effect of the changes on future periods are recognized as if the revised estimates had been used since revenue was initially recognized under the contract. Such revisions could occur in any reporting period, and the effects may be material depending on the size of the contracts or the changes in estimates.

As part of our solar power system sales, we conduct performance testing of a system prior to substantial completion to confirm the system meets its operational and capacity expectations noted in the EPC agreement. In addition, we may provide an energy performance test during the first or second year of a system’s operation to demonstrate that the actual energy generation for the applicable period meets or exceeds the modeled energy expectation, after certain adjustments. These tests are based on meteorological, energy, and equipment performance data measured at the system’s location as well as certain projections of such data over the remaining measurement period. In certain instances, a bonus payment may be received at the end of the applicable test period if the system performs above a specified level. Conversely, if there is an underperformance event with regards to these tests, we may incur liquidated damages as a percentage of the EPC contract price. Such performance guarantees represent a form of variable consideration and are estimated at contract inception at their most likely amount and updated at the end of each reporting period as additional performance data becomes available and only to the extent that it is probable that a significant reversal of any incremental revenue will not occur.

Revenue Recognition – Operations and Maintenance. We recognize revenue for standard, recurring O&M services over time as customers receive and consume the benefits of such services. Costs of O&M services are expensed in the period in which they are incurred. As part of our O&M service offerings, we typically offer an effective availability guarantee, which stipulates that a system will be available to generate a certain percentage of total possible energy during a specific period after adjusting for factors outside of our control as the service provider. These tests are based on meteorological, energy, and equipment performance data measured at the system’s location as well as certain projections of such data over the remaining measurement period. If system availability exceeds a contractual threshold, we may receive a bonus payment, or if system availability falls below a separate threshold, we may incur liquidated damages for certain lost energy under the PPA. Such bonuses or liquidated damages represent a form of variable consideration and are estimated and recognized over time as customers receive and consume the benefits of the O&M services.

Accrued Solar Module Collection and Recycling Liability. When applicable, we recognize expense at the time of sale for the estimated cost of our obligations to collect and recycle solar modules covered by our solar module collection and recycling program. We estimate the cost of our collection and recycling obligations based on the present value of the expected probability-weighted future cost of collecting and recycling the solar modules, which includes estimates for the cost of packaging materials; the cost of freight from the solar module installation sites to a recycling center; material, labor, and capital costs; the scale of recycling centers; and an estimated third-party profit margin and return on risk for collection and recycling services. We base these estimates on (i) our experience collecting and recycling our solar modules, (ii) the expected timing of when our solar modules will be returned for recycling, and (iii) the expected economic factors at the time the solar modules will be collected and recycled. In the periods between the time of sale and the related settlement of the collection and recycling obligation, we accrete the carrying amount of the associated liability by applying the discount rate used for its initial measurement. We periodically review our estimates of expected future recycling costs and may adjust our liability accordingly.

Product Warranties. We provide a limited PV solar module warranty covering defects in materials and workmanship under normal use and service conditions for approximately 10 years. We also typically warrant that modules installed in accordance with agreed-upon specifications will produce at least 98% of their labeled power output rating during the first year, with the warranty coverage reducing by 0.5% every year thereafter throughout the approximate 25-year limited power output warranty period. 

 68
As an alternative form of our standard limited module power output warranty, we also offer an aggregated or system-level limited module performance warranty. This system-level limited module performance warranty is designed for utility-scale systems and provides 25-year system-level energy degradation protection. This warranty represents a practical expedient to address the challenge of identifying, from the potential millions of modules installed in a utility-scale system, individual modules that may be performing below warranty thresholds by focusing on the aggregate energy generated by the system rather than the power output of individual modules. The system-level limited module performance warranty is typically calculated as a percentage of a system’s expected energy production, adjusted for certain actual site conditions, with the warranted level of performance declining each year in a linear fashion, but never falling below 80% during the term of the warranty. 

In addition to our limited solar module warranties described above, for PV solar power systems we construct, we typically provide limited warranties for defects in engineering design, installation, and BoS part workmanship for a period of one to two years following the substantial completion of a system or a block within the system.

When we recognize revenue for module or system sales, we accrue liabilities for the estimated future costs of meeting our limited warranty obligations. We make and revise these estimates based primarily on the number of our solar modules under warranty installed at customer locations, our historical experience with warranty claims, our monitoring of field installation sites, our internal testing of and the expected future performance of our solar modules and BoS parts, and our estimated per-module replacement costs. As a result of such factors, we estimate our limited product warranties based on warranty return rates of approximately 1% to 3% for modules covered under warranty, depending on the series of module technology.

Income Taxes. We are subject to the income tax laws of the United States, its states and municipalities, and those of the foreign jurisdictions in which we have significant business operations. Such tax laws are complex and subject to different interpretations by the taxpayer and the relevant taxing authorities. We make judgments and interpretations regarding the application of these inherently complex tax laws when determining our provision for income taxes and also make estimates about when in the future certain items are expected to affect taxable income in the various tax jurisdictions. Disputes over interpretations of tax laws may be settled with the relevant taxing authority upon examination or audit. We regularly evaluate the likelihood of assessments in each of our taxing jurisdictions resulting from current and future examinations, and we record tax liabilities as appropriate.

In preparing our consolidated financial statements, we calculate our income tax provision based on our interpretation of the tax laws and regulations in the various jurisdictions where we conduct business. This requires us to estimate our current tax obligations, assess uncertain tax positions, and assess temporary differences between the financial statement carrying amounts and the tax basis of assets and liabilities. These temporary differences result in deferred tax assets and liabilities. We must also assess the likelihood that each of our deferred tax assets will be realized. To the extent we believe that realization of any of our deferred tax assets is not more likely than not, we establish a valuation allowance. When we establish a valuation allowance or increase this allowance in a reporting period, we generally record a corresponding tax expense. Conversely, to the extent circumstances indicate that a valuation allowance is no longer necessary, that portion of the valuation allowance is reversed, which generally reduces our overall income tax expense.

We establish liabilities for potential additional taxes based on our assessment of the outcome of our tax positions. Once established, we adjust these liabilities when additional information becomes available or when an event occurs requiring an adjustment. Significant judgment is required in making these estimates and the actual cost of a tax assessment, fine, or penalty may ultimately be materially different from our recorded liabilities, if any.

We continually explore initiatives to better align our tax and legal entity structure with the footprint of our global operations and recognize the tax impact of these initiatives, including changes in the assessment of uncertain tax positions, indefinite reinvestment exception assertions, and the realizability of deferred tax assets, in the period when we believe all necessary internal and external approvals associated with such initiatives have been obtained, or when the initiatives are materially complete.

 69
Asset Impairments. We assess long-lived assets classified as “held and used,” including our property, plant and equipment; project assets; PV solar power systems; and intangible assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances arise, including consideration of technological obsolescence, that may indicate that the carrying amount of such assets may not be recoverable, and these assessments require significant judgment in determining whether such events or changes have occurred. Relevant considerations may include a significant decrease in the market price of a long-lived asset; a significant adverse change in the extent or manner in which a long-lived asset is being used or in its physical condition; a significant adverse change in the business climate that could affect the value of a long-lived asset; an accumulation of costs significantly in excess of the amount originally expected for the acquisition or construction of a long-lived asset; a current-period operating or cash flow loss combined with a history of such losses or a projection of future losses associated with the use of a long-lived asset; or a current expectation that, more likely than not, a long-lived asset will be sold or otherwise disposed of significantly before the end of its previously estimated useful life. For purposes of recognition and measurement of an impairment loss, long-lived assets are grouped with other assets and liabilities at the lowest level for which identifiable cash flows are largely independent of the cash flows of other assets and liabilities, and we must also exercise judgment in assessing such groupings and levels.

When impairment indicators are present, we compare undiscounted future cash flows, including the eventual disposition of the asset group at market value, to the asset group’s carrying value to determine if the asset group is recoverable. If the carrying value of the asset group exceeds the undiscounted future cash flows, we measure any impairment by comparing the fair value of the asset group to its carrying value. Fair value is generally determined by considering (i) internally developed discounted cash flows for the asset group, (ii) third-party valuations, and/or (iii) information available regarding the current market value for such assets. If the fair value of an asset group is determined to be less than its carrying value, an impairment in the amount of the difference is recorded in the period that the impairment indicator occurs. Estimating future cash flows requires significant judgment, and such projections may vary from the cash flows eventually realized.

Goodwill. Goodwill represents the excess of the purchase price of acquired businesses over the estimated fair value assigned to the individual assets acquired and liabilities assumed. We do not amortize goodwill, but instead are required to test goodwill for impairment at least annually. We perform impairment tests between the scheduled annual test in the fourth quarter if facts and circumstances indicate that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit that has goodwill is less than its carrying value. 

We may first make a qualitative assessment of whether it is more likely than not that a reporting unit’s fair value is less than its carrying value to determine whether it is necessary to perform a quantitative goodwill impairment test. Such qualitative impairment test considers various factors, including macroeconomic conditions, industry and market considerations, cost factors, the overall financial performance of a reporting unit, and any other relevant events affecting our company or a reporting unit. If we determine through the qualitative assessment that a reporting unit’s fair value is more likely than not greater than its carrying value, the quantitative impairment test is not required. If the qualitative assessment indicates it is more likely than not that a reporting unit’s fair value is less than its carrying value, we perform a quantitative impairment test. We may also elect to proceed directly to the quantitative impairment test without considering qualitative factors. 

The quantitative impairment test is the comparison of the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount, including goodwill. Our reporting units consist of our modules business and our fully integrated systems business. We define the fair value of a reporting unit as the price that would be received to sell the unit as a whole in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. We primarily use an income approach to estimate the fair value of our reporting units. Significant judgment is required when estimating the fair value of a reporting unit, including the forecasting of future operating results and the selection of discount and expected future growth rates used to determine projected cash flows. If the estimated fair value of a reporting unit exceeds its carrying value, goodwill is not impaired, and no further analysis is required. Conversely, if the carrying value of a reporting unit exceeds its estimated fair value, we record an impairment loss equal to the excess, not to exceed the total amount of goodwill allocated to the reporting unit. 

 70
Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk