Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

The overall financial risk management program is under the responsibility of the Chief Financial Officer with support from the Financial Risk Council which reviews and, where appropriate, approves strategies to be pursued to mitigate these risks. The Financial Risk Council comprises members of our management and functions under the oversight of the Audit Committee and Finance Committee of the Board of Directors. The Audit Committee and Finance Committee assist and guide the Board of Directors in its oversight of our financial and risk management strategies. A risk management control framework is utilized to monitor the strategies, risks and related hedge positions in accordance with the policies and procedures approved by the Financial Risk Council. Our financial risk management policy is designed to protect against risk arising from extreme adverse market movements on our key exposures. 

Automotive The following analyses provide quantitative information regarding exposure to foreign currency exchange rate risk and interest rate risk. Sensitivity analysis is used to measure the potential loss in the fair value of financial instruments with exposure to market risk. The models used assume instantaneous, parallel shifts in exchange rates and interest rate yield curves. For options and other instruments with nonlinear returns, models appropriate to these types of instruments are utilized to determine the effect 

 41
GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

of market shifts. There are certain shortcomings inherent in the sensitivity analyses presented, due primarily to the assumption that interest rates change in a parallel fashion and that spot exchange rates change instantaneously. In addition the analyses are unable to reflect the complex market reactions that normally would arise from the market shifts modeled and do not contemplate the effects of correlations between foreign currency exposures, offsetting long-short positions in currency or other exposures such as interest rates which may significantly reduce the potential loss in value.

Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk We have foreign currency exposures related to buying, selling and financing in currencies other than the functional currencies of our operations. At December 31, 2018 our most significant foreign currency exposures were between the U.S. Dollar and the Canadian Dollar, Brazilian Real, Euro, Chinese Yuan, Australian Dollar, Mexican Peso, and Argentine Peso. Derivative instruments such as foreign currency forwards, swaps and options are used primarily to hedge exposures with respect to forecasted revenues, costs and commitments denominated in foreign currencies. Such contracts had remaining maturities of up to 12 months at December 31, 2018.

The net fair value liability of financial instruments with exposure to foreign currency risk was $0.9 billion and $0.8 billion at December 31, 2018 and 2017. These amounts are calculated utilizing a population of foreign currency exchange derivatives and foreign currency denominated debt and exclude the offsetting effect of foreign currency cash, cash equivalents and other assets. The potential loss in fair value for such financial instruments from a 10% adverse change in all quoted foreign currency exchange rates would have been $0.1 billion at December 31, 2018 and 2017.

We are exposed to foreign currency risk due to the translation and remeasurement of the results of certain international operations into U.S. Dollars as part of the consolidation process. We had foreign currency derivatives with notional amounts of $2.7 billion and $4.0 billion at December 31, 2018 and 2017. The fair value of these derivative financial instruments was insignificant. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates can therefore create volatility in the results of operations and may adversely affect our financial condition.

The following table summarizes the amounts of automotive foreign currency translation and transaction and remeasurement (gains) losses:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Interest Rate Risk We are subject to market risk from exposure to changes in interest rates related to certain financial instruments, primarily debt, capital lease obligations and certain marketable securities. We did not have any interest rate swap positions to manage interest rate exposures in our automotive operations at December 31, 2018 and 2017. The fair value liability of debt and capital leases was $13.5 billion and $15.1 billion at December 31, 2018 and 2017. The potential increase in fair value resulting from a 10% decrease in quoted interest rates would have been $0.8 billion and $0.7 billion at December 31, 2018 and 2017. 

We had marketable securities of $6.0 billion and $8.3 billion classified as available-for-sale at December 31, 2018 and 2017. The potential decrease in fair value from a 50 basis point increase in interest rates would have had an insignificant effect at December 31, 2018 and 2017.

Automotive Financing - GM Financial

Interest Rate Risk Fluctuations in market interest rates can affect GM Financial's gross interest rate spread, which is the difference between interest earned on finance receivables and interest paid on debt. Typically retail finance receivables purchased by GM Financial bear fixed interest rates and are funded by variable or fixed rate debt. Commercial finance receivables originated by GM Financial bear variable interest rates and are funded by variable rate debt. The variable rate debt is subject to adjustments to reflect prevailing market interest rates. To help mitigate interest rate risk or mismatched funding, GM Financial may employ hedging strategies to lock in the interest rate spread.

Fixed interest rate receivables purchased by GM Financial may be pledged to secure borrowings under its credit facilities. Amounts borrowed under these credit facilities bear interest at variable rates that are subject to frequent adjustments to reflect prevailing market interest rates. To protect the interest rate spread within each credit facility, GM Financial is contractually required to enter into interest rate cap agreements in connection with borrowings under its credit facilities.

 42
GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

In GM Financial's securitization transactions it can transfer fixed rate finance receivables to securitization trusts that, in turn, sell either fixed rate or floating rate securities to investors. Derivative financial instruments, such as interest rate swaps and caps, are used to manage the gross interest rate spread on the floating rate transactions.

Quantitative Disclosure  We measure the sensitivity of our net interest income to changes in interest rates by using interest rate scenarios that assume a hypothetical, instantaneous parallel shift of one hundred basis points in all interest rates across all maturities, as well as a base case that assumes that rates perform at the current market forward curve. However, interest rate changes are rarely instantaneous or parallel and rates could move more or less than the one percentage point assumed in our analysis. Therefore, the actual impact to net interest income could be higher or lower than the results detailed in the table below. These interest rate scenarios are purely hypothetical and do not represent our view of future interest rate movements. 

Under these interest rate scenarios, we are asset-sensitive, meaning that we expect more assets than liabilities to re-price within the next twelve months. During a period of rising interest rates, the interest earned on our assets will increase more than the interest paid on our debt, which would initially increase our net interest income. During a period of falling interest rates, we would expect our net interest income to initially decrease. The following table presents our net interest income sensitivity to interest rate movement:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

__________

(a)Net interest income sensitivity given a one hundred basis point decrease in interest rates requires an assumption of negative interest rates in markets where existing interest rates are below one percent.

Additional Model Assumptions The sensitivity analysis presented is our best estimate of the effect of the hypothetical interest rate scenarios; however, our actual results could differ. Our estimates are also based on assumptions including the amortization and prepayment of the finance receivable portfolio, originations of finance receivables and leases, refinancing of maturing debt, replacement of maturing derivatives and exercise of options embedded in debt and derivatives. Our prepayment projections are based on historical experience. If interest rates or other factors change, our actual prepayment experience could be different than projected.

Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk GM Financial is exposed to foreign currency risk due to the translation and remeasurement of the results of certain international operations into U.S. Dollars as part of the consolidation process. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates can therefore create volatility in the results of operations and may adversely affect GM Financial's financial condition. 

GM Financial primarily finances its receivables and leased assets with debt in the same currency. When a different currency is used GM Financial may use foreign currency swaps to convert substantially all of its foreign currency debt obligations to the local currency of the receivables and lease assets to minimize any impact to earnings. 

GM Financial had foreign currency swaps with notional amounts of $3.9 billion and $2.8 billion at December 31, 2018 and 2017. The fair value of these derivative financial instruments was insignificant.

The following table summarizes GM Financial's foreign currency translation and transaction and remeasurement (gains) losses:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

* * * * * * *

 43
REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 

To the Shareholders and the Board of Directors of General Motors Company

Opinion on the Financial Statements

We have audited the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheet of General Motors Company and subsidiaries (the Company) as of December 31, 2018, the related Consolidated Statements of Income, Comprehensive Income, Cash Flows, and Equity for the year ended December 31, 2018, and the related notes (collectively referred to as the “consolidated financial statements”). In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company at December 31, 2018, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for the year ended December 31, 2018, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.

We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB), the Company's internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2018, based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013 framework) and our report dated February 6, 2019 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.

Adoption of Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No. 2014-09

As discussed in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company changed its method of accounting for revenue from contracts with customers in 2018 due to the adoption of ASU No. 2014-09, "Revenue from Contracts with Customers," as amended.

Basis for Opinion

These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’s financial statements based on our audit. We are a public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.

We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement, whether due to error or fraud. Our audit included performing procedures to assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to error or fraud, and performing procedures that respond to those risks. Such procedures included examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. Our audit also included evaluating the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

 44
REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 

To the Shareholders and the Board of Directors of General Motors Company 

Opinion on Internal Control over Financial Reporting

We have audited General Motors Company and subsidiaries’ internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2018, based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013 framework) (the COSO criteria). In our opinion, General Motors Company and subsidiaries (the Company) maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2018, based on the COSO criteria.

We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB), the Consolidated Balance Sheet of the Company as of December 31, 2018, the related Consolidated Statements of Income, Comprehensive Income, Cash Flows and Equity for the year ended December 31, 2018, and the related notes and our report dated February 6, 2019 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.

Basis for Opinion

The Company’s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting included in the accompanying Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. We are a public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.

We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects.

Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.

Definition and Limitations of Internal Control Over Financial Reporting

A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

/s/ ERNST & YOUNG LLP

Detroit, Michigan

February 6, 2019

 45
REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 

To the shareholders and the Board of Directors of General Motors Company: 

Opinion on the Financial Statements

We have audited the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheet of General Motors Company and subsidiaries (the "Company") as of December 31, 2017, the related Consolidated Statements of Income, Comprehensive Income, Cash Flows, and Equity for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, and the related notes (collectively referred to as the "financial statements"). In our opinion, the 2017 and 2016 financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company as of December 31, 2017, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.

Basis for Opinion

These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company's financial statements based on our audits. We are a public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.

We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement, whether due to error or fraud. Our audits included performing procedures to assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to error or fraud, and performing procedures that respond to those risks. Such procedures included examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. Our audits also included evaluating the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

We began serving as the Company's auditor in 1918. In 2018 we became the predecessor auditor.

 46
GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data