Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.

Overview 

We are a global retailer offering apparel, accessories, and personal care products for men, women, and children under the Old Navy, Gap, Banana Republic, Athleta, Intermix, and Hill City brands. We have Company-operated stores in the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom, France, Ireland, Japan, Italy, China, Hong Kong, Taiwan, and Mexico. We have franchise agreements with unaffiliated franchisees to operate Old Navy, Gap, and Banana Republic stores throughout Asia, Europe, Latin America, the Middle East, and Africa. Under these agreements, third parties operate, or will operate, stores that sell apparel and related products under our brand names. Our products are also available to customers online through Company-owned websites and through the use of third parties that provide logistics and fulfillment services. In addition to operating in the specialty, outlet, online, and franchise channels, we also use our omni-channel capabilities to bridge the digital world and physical stores to further enhance our shopping experience for our customers. Our omni-channel services, including order-in-store, reserve-in-store, find-in-store, and ship-from-store, as well as enhanced mobile experiences, are tailored uniquely across our portfolio of brands. Most of the products sold under our brand names are designed by us and manufactured by independent sources. We also sell products that are designed and manufactured by branded third parties, primarily at our Intermix brand. 

We identify our operating segments according to how our business activities are managed and evaluated. As of February 2, 2019, our operating segments included Old Navy Global, Gap Global, Banana Republic Global, Athleta, and Intermix. We have determined that each of our operating segments share similar economic and other qualitative characteristics, and therefore the results of our operating segments are aggregated into one reportable segment. 

On February 28, 2019, the Company announced plans to restructure the specialty fleet and revitalize the Gap brand, including closing about 230 Gap specialty stores during fiscal 2019 and fiscal 2020. The Company believes these actions will drive a healthier specialty fleet and will serve as a more appropriate foundation for brand revitalization. 

During the two-year period, the Company estimates pre-tax costs associated with these closure actions to be about $250 million to $300 million, with the majority expected to be cash expenditures for lease-related costs. The remaining charges are expected to primarily include employee-related costs and the net impact of write-offs related to long-term assets and liabilities. The Company estimates an annualized sales loss of approximately $625 million as a result of these store closures, with resulting annualized pre-tax savings of about $90 million.

On February 28, 2019, the Company also announced that its Board of Directors approved a plan to separate the Company into two independent publicly-traded companies: Old Navy and a yet-to-be-named company (“NewCo”), which will consist of Gap brand, Athleta, Banana Republic, Intermix, and Hill City. The separation is intended to enable both companies to capitalize on their respective opportunities and act decisively in an evolving retail environment by creating distinct financial profiles, tailored operating priorities and unique capital allocation strategies. Both companies will be positioned to create value for customers, shareholders and employees with enhanced focus and flexibility, aligned investments and incentives to meet the unique strategic goals, and optimized cost structures to deliver growth. The transaction is targeted to be completed in 2020 and is subject to certain conditions, including final approval by the Company’s Board of Directors, receipt of a tax opinion from counsel, and the filing and effectiveness of a registration statement with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.

21

During the first quarter of fiscal 2018, the Company adopted the new revenue recognition standard, Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") 606, using the modified retrospective transition method and recorded an increase to opening retained earnings of $36 million, net of tax. The comparative information has not been restated and continues to be reported under the accounting standards in effect for those periods. The adoption of this standard had a significant impact on the presentation of certain line items within the Consolidated Statements of Income, but did not have a material impact to operating income, net income or earnings per share for fiscal year 2018. The presentation changes primarily consist of $443 million for the fiscal year ended February 2, 2019 for revenue sharing associated with our credit card programs and breakage revenue for gift cards and credit vouchers, which now is recorded as net sales and previously was recorded as a reduction to operating expenses in our Consolidated Statements of Income; and $176 million for the fiscal year ended February 2, 2019, for reimbursements of loyalty program discounts associated with our credit card programs, which now is recorded as net sales and previously was recorded as a reduction to cost of goods sold and occupancy expenses in our Consolidated Statements of Income. See Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional disclosures about the adoption of the new revenue standard. 

On August 29, 2016, a fire occurred in one of the buildings at a Company-owned distribution center campus in Fishkill, New York ("the Fishkill fire"). In January 2018, we agreed upon a final settlement with our insurers and all insurance proceeds were received as of February 3, 2018. 

Fiscal 2018 and 2016 consisted of 52 weeks versus 53 weeks in fiscal 2017. Net sales and operating results, as well as other metrics derived from the Consolidated Statement of Income, include the impact of the additional week; however, the comparable sales calculation excludes the 53rd week.

Financial results for fiscal 2018 are as follows:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•Comparable sales for fiscal 2018 were flat.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Our business priorities in fiscal 2019 are as follows:

•offering product that is consistently brand-appropriate and on-trend with high customer acceptance, with a focus on expanding our advantage in core businesses and loyalty categories; and leading customer-focused product innovation; 

•preparing for successful separation;

•restructuring the Gap brand specialty fleet globally to create a healthier, more profitable base from which to grow;

•investing in digital and customer capabilities as well as store experience to create a unique and differentiated converged retail experience that attracts new customers, retains existing customers, and builds loyalty;

•increasing productivity by leveraging our scale and streamlining operations and processes throughout the organization; 

•attracting and retaining strong talent in our businesses and functions; and 

22

•continuing to integrate social and environmental sustainability into business practices to support long term growth.

In fiscal 2019, while we work through the plan for separation, we are focused on investing strategically in the business while maintaining operating expense discipline and driving efficiency through our productivity initiative. One of our primary objectives is to continue transforming our product to market process, with the development of a more efficient operating model. Furthermore, we expect to continue our investment in customer experience, both in stores and online, to drive higher customer engagement and loyalty across all of our brands and channels, resulting in market share gains. Finally, we will continue to invest in strengthening brand awareness, customer acquisition, and digital capabilities. Underpinning these strategies is a focus on utilizing data, analytics, and technology to respond faster while making decisions that will fuel market share gains and lead to a more nimble organization. 

Results of Operations

Net Sales

See Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Note 16 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for net sales by brand and region.

Comparable Sales ("Comp Sales")

Fiscal 2018 consisted of 52 weeks versus 53 weeks in fiscal 2017. Due to the 53rd week in fiscal 2017, in order to maintain consistency, comparable ("Comp") sales for the fifty-two weeks ended February 2, 2019, are compared to the fifty-two weeks ended February 3, 2018.

The percentage change in Comp Sales by global brand and for total Company, as compared with the preceding year, is as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Comp Sales include merchandise sales in Company-operated stores and merchandise sales through online channels in those countries where we have existing comparable store sales. The calculation of The Gap, Inc. Comp Sales includes the results of Athleta and Intermix but excludes the results of our franchise business. 

A store is included in the Comp Sales calculations when it has been open and operated by the Company for at least one year and the selling square footage has not changed by 15 percent or more within the past year. A store is included in the Comp Sales calculations on the first day it has comparable prior year sales. Stores in which the selling square footage has changed by 15 percent or more as a result of a remodel, expansion, or reduction are excluded from the Comp Sales calculations until the first day they have comparable prior year sales.

A store is considered non-comparable (“Non-comp”) when it has been open and operated by the Company for less than one year or has changed its selling square footage by 15 percent or more within the past year.

A store is considered “Closed” if it is temporarily closed for three or more full consecutive days or it is permanently closed. When a temporarily closed store reopens, the store will be placed in the Comp/Non-comp status it was in prior to its closure. If a store was in Closed status for three or more days in the prior year, the store will be in Non-comp status for the same days the following year.

Current year foreign exchange rates are applied to both current year and prior year Comp Sales to achieve a consistent basis for comparison.

23

Store Count and Square Footage Information

Net sales per average square foot is as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

__________

(1)Excludes net sales associated with our online and franchise businesses. Online sales includes both sales through our online channels as well as ship-from-store sales.

(2)Reflects the adoption of ASC 606. Prior period amounts have not been restated and continue to be reported under accounting standards in effect for those periods.

(3)Fiscal 2017 includes incremental sales attributable to the 53rd week.

Store count, openings, closings, and square footage for our stores are as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Gap and Banana Republic outlet and factory stores are reflected respectively within each brand.

24

In fiscal 2019, we expect to open about 140 and close about 190 Company-operated store locations. Openings will be primarily focused on Old Navy and Athleta. Closures are primarily driven by the specialty fleet restructuring. 

Net Sales Discussion

Our net sales for fiscal 2018 increased $725 million, or 5 percent, compared with fiscal 2017, primarily driven by the impact of significant presentation changes of $619 million resulting from the adoption of the new revenue recognition standard, and an increase in net sales for Old Navy Global and Athleta; partially offset by a decrease in net sales for Gap Global. The translation of net sales in foreign currencies to U.S. dollars had a favorable impact of about $17 million for fiscal 2018 and is calculated by translating net sales for fiscal 2017 at exchange rates applicable during fiscal 2018. 

Our net sales for fiscal 2017 increased $339 million, or 2 percent, compared with fiscal 2016 primarily due to an increase in net sales at Old Navy Global and Athleta, partially offset by a decrease in net sales at Gap Global and Banana Republic Global. The translation of net sales in foreign currencies to U.S. dollars had an unfavorable impact of about $11 million for fiscal 2017 and is calculated by translating net sales for fiscal 2016 at exchange rates applicable during fiscal 2017. Fiscal 2017 includes incremental sales attributable to the 53rd week.

Cost of Goods Sold and Occupancy Expenses

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Cost of goods sold and occupancy expenses increased 0.2 percentage points as a percentage of net sales in fiscal 2018 compared with fiscal 2017, which includes $176 million of presentation changes resulting from the adoption of the new revenue recognition standard.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Cost of goods sold and occupancy expenses decreased 2.0 percentage points as a percentage of net sales in fiscal 2017 compared with fiscal 2016.

•Cost of goods sold decreased 1.3 percentage points as a percentage of net sales in fiscal 2017 compared with fiscal 2016, primarily driven by higher margins achieved as a result of improved average selling price per unit at all global brands; partially offset by higher average unit cost at all global brands. This was offset by a negative foreign exchange impact for our foreign subsidiaries as our merchandise purchases are primarily in U.S. dollars.

•Occupancy expenses decreased 0.7 percentage points as a percentage of net sales in fiscal 2017 compared with fiscal 2016, primarily driven by an increase in online sales, international store closures, and higher sales from the impact of the 53rd week; partially offset by real estate expenses for the Times Square New York location for Gap and Old Navy. 

In fiscal 2019, we do not expect significant year-over-year impacts on gross margins due to fluctuations in foreign currencies.

25

Operating Expenses and Operating Margin

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Operating expenses increased $373 million or 1.0 percentage points as a percentage of net sales in fiscal 2018 compared with fiscal 2017 primarily due to the following:

•an increase of $443 million related to the presentation changes resulting from the adoption of new revenue recognition standard; and

•a gain from insurance proceeds of $64 million during fiscal 2017 related to the fire that occurred at the Fishkill, New York Company-owned distribution center; partially offset by

•a decrease in expenses related to payroll and benefits, primarily driven by a decrease in bonus expense.

Operating expenses increased $138 million or 0.2 percentage points as a percentage of net sales in fiscal 2017 compared with fiscal 2016 primarily due to the following: 

•an increase in variable costs, such as payroll-related costs, due to the growth in Old Navy Global and Athleta brands, increase in bonus expense, and the 53rd week impact;

•an increase in advertising; and

•an increase in overhead costs related to productivity work including investments in customer and digital initiatives as well as severance expenses and the impacts of store closures; partially offset by

•a gain from insurance proceeds of $64 million related to the Fishkill fire recorded in the second quarter of fiscal year 2017;

•a decrease of $197 million of restructuring costs incurred in fiscal year 2016; and

•a decrease of $71 million related to a goodwill impairment charges for Intermix in fiscal year 2016.

Interest Expense

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Interest expense for fiscal 2018, 2017 and 2016 is primarily comprised of interest on our $1.25 billion long-term debt. 

Income Taxes

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The decrease in the effective tax rate for fiscal 2018 compared with fiscal 2017 was primarily due to the reduction in the U.S. federal statutory tax rate from 35% to 21%, enacted as part of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (the “TCJA”), and measurement period adjustments to reduce our fiscal 2017 estimated net charge for the effects of the TCJA, offset by increases in unrecognized tax benefits recorded in connection with examinations by taxing authorities. 

26

During fiscal 2017, we calculated and recorded a $57 million net charge for our best estimate of the impact of the TCJA one-time transition tax on the deemed repatriation of foreign income and the impact of TCJA on deferred tax assets and liabilities.

During fiscal 2018, we recorded a $33 million measurement period adjustment to reduce our fiscal 2017 provisional estimated net charge related to the transition tax and recorded certain other immaterial measurement period adjustments to reduce our fiscal 2017 provisional estimated impact of the remeasurement of our deferred tax assets and liabilities to reflect the TCJA rate reduction. We have evaluated the TCJA and interpreted additional guidance issued by the U.S. Treasury Department and Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) during fiscal 2018 and our accounting for the impact of the TCJA is complete as of February 2, 2019.

The increase in the effective tax rate for fiscal 2017 compared with fiscal 2016 was primarily due to the impact of the TCJA, partially offset by the recognition of certain tax benefits associated with legal structure changes.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

Our largest source of cash flows is cash collections from the sale of our merchandise. Our primary uses of cash include merchandise inventory purchases, occupancy costs, personnel-related expenses, purchases of property and equipment, and payment of taxes. In addition, we may have dividend payments, debt repayments, and share repurchases. 

We consider the following to be measures of our liquidity and capital resources:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

As of February 2, 2019, the majority of our cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments were held in the United States and is generally accessible without any limitations. In addition, as of February 2, 2019, there was restricted cash of $320 million held by a third party in connection with the purchase of a building recorded in other long-term assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheet.

In April 2011, the Company entered into a $1.25 billion aggregate principal amount of 5.95 percent notes (the "Notes"), which are due April 2021. 

In October 2015, the Company entered into a $400 million unsecured term loan (the "Term Loan"), which was fully repaid in January 2017.

In January 2014, the Company entered into a 15 billion Japanese yen, four-year, unsecured term loan ("Japan Term Loan"), which was fully repaid in June 2017. 

We believe that current cash balances and cash flows from our operations will be sufficient to support our business operations, including the purchase of a building and expansion costs related to the buildout of our Ohio distribution center, for the next 12 months and beyond. 

We are also able to supplement near-term liquidity, if necessary, with our $500 million revolving credit facility or other available market instruments.

27

Cash Flows from Operating Activities

Net cash provided by operating activities during fiscal 2018 was flat compared with fiscal 2017, which was comprised of the following significant changes:

Net income

•an increase of $155 million in net income.

Changes in operating assets and liabilities

•an increase of $165 million related to income taxes payable, net of prepaid and other tax-related items, driven primarily by the timing of payments; offset by 

•a decrease of $230 million related to accrued expenses and other current liabilities, driven primarily by a decrease in bonus accrual for fiscal 2018 compared with an increase for fiscal 2017; and 

•a decrease of $51 million related to other current assets and long-term assets driven in part by the receipt of insurance claims receivable related to the Fishkill fire during fiscal 2017.

Net cash provided by operating activities during fiscal 2017 decreased $339 million compared with fiscal 2016, primarily due to the following:

Net income

•an increase of $172 million in net income.

Non-cash items

•a decrease of $79 million in store asset impairment charges in fiscal 2017 compared with fiscal 2016 in part due to restructuring activities in fiscal 2016; and

•a decrease of $71 million due to a goodwill impairment charge related to Intermix during fiscal 2016. 

Changes in operating assets and liabilities

•a decrease of $236 million related to accounts payable primarily due to timing of payments;

•a decrease of $188 million related to merchandise inventory primarily due to the volume and timing of receipts; and

•a decrease of $71 million related to income taxes payable, net of prepaid and other tax-related items, primarily due to the timing of tax payments, partially offset by an increase in estimated current expense in fiscal 2017 compared with fiscal 2016; partially offset by

•an increase of $115 million related to the recognition of deferred tax expense in fiscal 2017 compared with deferred tax benefit in fiscal 2016 primarily due to the deferred tax impact of federal tax reform and favorable current year temporary differences.

We fund inventory expenditures during normal and peak periods through cash flows from operating activities and available cash. Our business follows a seasonal pattern, with sales peaking during the end-of-year holiday period. The seasonality of our operations may lead to significant fluctuations in certain asset and liability accounts between fiscal year-end and subsequent interim periods.

Cash Flows from Investing Activities

Net cash used for investing activities during fiscal 2018 increased $335 million compared with fiscal 2017, primarily due to the following: 

•$287 million of net purchases of available-for-sale securities during fiscal 2018; and 

•$66 million of insurance proceeds allocated to the loss on property and equipment during fiscal 2017.

In fiscal 2018, cash used for purchases of property and equipment was $705 million related to information technology and supply chain to support our omni and digital strategies, and store investments. 

Net cash used for investing activities during fiscal 2017 increased $139 million compared with fiscal 2016, primarily due to:

•$207 million increase for purchases of property and equipment in fiscal 2017 compared with fiscal 2016 primarily related to the rebuilding of the Company's Fishkill, New York distribution center campus; partially offset by

•$66 million related to insurance proceeds allocated to loss on property and equipment in fiscal 2017 primarily related to the Fishkill fire compared with no insurance proceeds allocated to loss on property and equipment in fiscal 2016.

28

In fiscal 2017, cash used for purchases of property and equipment was $731 million primarily related to investments in stores, information technology, and supply chain, including costs associated with the rebuilding of the Company's Fishkill, New York distribution center campus. 

Cash Flows from Financing Activities

Net cash used for financing activities during fiscal 2018 increased $18 million compared with fiscal 2017, primarily due to the following:

•$83 million higher repurchases of common stock during fiscal 2018; offset by

•$67 million cash outflow related to the final repayment of the Japan term loan during fiscal 2017.

Net cash used for financing activities during fiscal 2017 decreased $46 million compared with fiscal 2016, primarily due to the following:

•$67 million related to the final repayment of the Japan term loan in full in June 2017 compared with a $421 million payment of debt in fiscal 2016; partially offset by

•$315 million of cash used for repurchases of common stock in fiscal 2017 compared with no repurchases of common stock in fiscal 2016.

Free Cash Flow

Free cash flow is a non-GAAP financial measure. We believe free cash flow is an important metric because it represents a measure of how much cash a company has available for discretionary and non-discretionary items after the deduction of capital expenditures, net of insurance proceeds to loss on property and equipment, as we require regular capital expenditures to build and maintain stores and purchase new equipment to improve our business. We use this metric internally, as we believe our sustained ability to generate free cash flow is an important driver of value creation. However, this non-GAAP financial measure is not intended to supersede or replace our GAAP result. Free cash flow for fiscal 2017 is adjusted for insurance proceeds allocated to loss on property and equipment, as our cash used for purchases of property and equipment for fiscal 2017 includes certain capital expenditures related to the rebuilding of the Company-owned distribution center which was impacted by the Fishkill fire.

The following table reconciles free cash flow, a non-GAAP financial measure, from net cash provided by operating activities, a GAAP financial measure.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Debt and Credit Facilities

Certain financial information about the Company's debt and credit facilities is set forth under the headings "Debt" and "Credit Facilities" in Notes 4 and 5, respectively, of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, of this Form 10-K. 

Dividend Policy

In determining whether and at what level to declare a dividend, we consider a number of factors including sustainability, operating performance, liquidity, and market conditions.

We paid an annual dividend of $0.97 per share in fiscal 2018 and $0.92 per share in fiscal 2017. We plan to pay an annual dividend of $0.97 per share in fiscal 2019.

Share Repurchases

Certain financial information about the Company's share repurchases is set forth under the heading "Share Repurchases" in Note 8 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, of this Form 10-K. 

29

Contractual Cash Obligations

We are party to many contractual obligations involving commitments to make payments to third parties. The following table provides summary information concerning our future contractual obligations as of February 2, 2019. These obligations impact our short-term and long-term liquidity and capital resource needs. Certain of these contractual obligations are reflected on the Consolidated Balance Sheet as of February 2, 2019, while others are disclosed as future obligations.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

__________

(1)Represents principal maturities, excluding interest. See Note 4 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for discussion on debt.

(2)Excludes maintenance, insurance, taxes, and contingent rent obligations. See Note 11 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for discussion of our operating leases.

(3)Represents estimated open purchase orders to purchase inventory as well as commitments for products and services used in the normal course of business. In addition, includes consideration related to the purchase of a building expected to be completed within one year.

There is $156 million of long-term liabilities recorded in lease incentives and other long-term liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheet as of February 2, 2019 that is excluded from the table above as the amount relates to uncertain tax positions and deferred compensation, and we are not able to reasonably estimate the timing of the payments or the amount by which the liability will increase or decrease over time.

Commercial Commitments

We have commercial commitments, not reflected in the table above, that were incurred in the normal course of business to support our operations, including standby letters of credit of $13 million, surety bonds of $45 million, and bank guarantees of $25 million outstanding (of which $16 million was issued under the unsecured revolving credit facilities for our operations in foreign locations) as of February 2, 2019.

Other Cash Obligations Not Reflected on the Consolidated Balance Sheet (Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements)

The majority of our contractual obligations relate to operating leases for our stores. Future minimum operating lease payments represent commitments under non-cancelable operating leases and are disclosed in the table above with additional information provided under the heading "Leases" in Note 11 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, of this Form 10-K.

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates

The preparation of financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("U.S. GAAP") requires management to adopt accounting policies and make significant judgments and estimates to develop amounts reflected and disclosed in the financial statements. In many cases, there are alternative policies or estimation techniques that could be used. We maintain a thorough process to review the application of our accounting policies and to evaluate the appropriateness of the many estimates that are required to prepare the financial statements of a large, global corporation. However, even under optimal circumstances, estimates routinely require adjustment based on changing circumstances and the receipt of new or better information.

30

Our significant accounting policies can be found under the heading "Organization and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies" in Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, of this Form 10-K. The policies and estimates discussed below include the financial statement elements that are either judgmental or involve the selection or application of alternative accounting policies and are material to our financial statements. Management has discussed the development and selection of these critical accounting policies and estimates with the Audit and Finance Committee of our Board of Directors, which has reviewed our disclosure relating to critical accounting policies and estimates in this annual report on Form 10-K.

Merchandise Inventory

We value inventory at the lower of cost or net realizable value (“LCNRV”), with cost determined using the weighted-average cost method. We review our inventory levels in order to identify slow-moving merchandise and broken assortments (items no longer in stock in a sufficient range of sizes or colors), and we primarily use promotions and markdowns to clear merchandise. We record an adjustment to inventory when future estimated selling price is less than cost. Our LCNRV adjustment calculation requires management to make assumptions to estimate the selling price and amount of slow-moving merchandise and broken assortments subject to markdowns, which is dependent upon factors such as historical trends with similar merchandise, inventory aging, forecasted consumer demand, and the promotional environment. In addition, we estimate and accrue shortage for the period between the last physical count and the balance sheet date. Our shortage estimate can be affected by changes in merchandise mix and changes in actual shortage trends. Historically, actual shortage has not differed materially from our estimates.

We do not believe there is a reasonable likelihood that there will be a material change in the future estimates or assumptions we use to calculate our LCNRV or inventory shortage adjustments. However, if estimates regarding consumer demand are inaccurate or actual physical inventory shortage differs significantly from our estimate, our operating results could be affected. We have not made any material changes in the accounting methodology used to calculate our LCNRV or inventory shortage adjustments in the past three fiscal years. 

Impairment of Long-Lived Assets, Goodwill, and Intangible Assets

We review the carrying amount of long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset or asset group may not be recoverable. Events that result in an impairment review include a significant decrease in the operating performance of the long-lived asset, or the decision to close a store, corporate facility, or distribution center. Long-lived assets are considered impaired if the carrying amount exceeds the estimated undiscounted future cash flows of the asset or asset group. For impaired assets, we recognize a loss equal to the difference between the carrying amount of the asset or asset group and its estimated fair value. The estimated fair value of the asset or asset group is based on estimated discounted future cash flows of the asset or asset group using a discount rate commensurate with the related risk. The asset group is defined as the lowest level for which identifiable cash flows are available and largely independent of the cash flows of other groups of assets. The asset group for our retail stores is reviewed for impairment primarily at the store level. Our estimate of future cash flows requires management to make assumptions and to apply judgment, including forecasting future sales and expenses and estimating useful lives of the assets. These estimates can be affected by factors such as future store results, real estate demand, store closure plans, and economic conditions that can be difficult to predict. We have not made any material changes in the methodology to assess and calculate impairment of long-lived assets in the past three fiscal years. We recorded a charge for the impairment of long-lived assets of $14 million, $28 million, and $107 million for fiscal 2018, 2017, and 2016, respectively, related to store assets, which is recorded in operating expenses on the Consolidated Statements of Income.

We also review the carrying amount of goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment annually in the fourth quarter of the fiscal year and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that it is more likely than not that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. Events that result in an impairment review include significant changes in the business climate, declines in our operating results, or an expectation that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.

31

We adopted ASU No. 2017-04, Intangibles—Goodwill and Other: Simplifying the Test for Goodwill Impairment in the first quarter of fiscal 2017. The amendments simplify the subsequent measurement of goodwill impairment by eliminating the requirement to calculate the implied fair value of goodwill to measure a goodwill impairment charge. Under the ASU, the impairment test is simply the comparison of the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount, with the impairment charge being the deficit in fair value but not exceeding the total amount of goodwill allocated to that reporting unit. The simplified one-step impairment test applies to all reporting units (including those with zero or negative carrying amounts). 

In connection with the acquisitions of Athleta in September 2008 and Intermix in December 2012, we recorded $99 million and $81 million of goodwill, respectively. Goodwill is reviewed for impairment using the applicable reporting unit, which is an operating segment or a business unit one level below that operating segment for which discrete financial information is prepared and regularly reviewed by segment management. We have deemed Athleta and Intermix to be the reporting units at which goodwill is tested for Athleta and Intermix, respectively. 

We assess whether events or circumstances indicate that goodwill is impaired every quarter, and evaluate goodwill impairment annually in the fourth quarter of the fiscal year. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018, we completed our annual impairment test of goodwill, and we did not recognize any impairment charges. 

We did not recognize any impairment charges for goodwill in fiscal 2017.

In fiscal 2016, the Company performed the goodwill impairment test under the previous Accounting Standards Codification No. 350, Intangibles - Goodwill and Other, as the annual impairment test was performed prior to January 1, 2017. At the end of each of the first three quarters of fiscal 2016, given the information available at the time of those assessments, we determined that there were no events or circumstances that indicated any impairment for goodwill related to Intermix. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2016, management updated the fiscal 2017 budget and financial projections beyond fiscal 2017 for Intermix. There were several factors that caused the financial projections and estimates to significantly decrease from the previous estimates, which included: poor fourth quarter of fiscal 2016 holiday performance at Intermix stores, the decision to reduce expected future store openings, the approval of additional store closures in fiscal 2017, and the budgeting of additional headcount required to support increased focus on the online business. These factors arising during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2016 had a significant and negative impact on the estimated fair value of the Intermix reporting unit, and we determined that the Intermix reporting unit’s carrying value exceeded its fair value as of the date of our annual impairment review. As such, we performed the second step of the goodwill impairment test which resulted in an impairment charge of $71 million for goodwill related to Intermix in fiscal 2016. This impairment charge reduced the $81 million of purchase price allocated to goodwill in connection with the acquisition of Intermix in December 2012 to $10 million as of January 28, 2017. 

As of February 2, 2019, the aggregate carrying value of trade names was $92 million, which consisted of $54 million and $38 million related to Athleta and Intermix, respectively. A trade name is considered impaired if the carrying amount exceeds its estimated fair value. If a trade name is considered impaired, we recognize a loss equal to the difference between the carrying amount and the estimated fair value of the trade name. The fair value of the trade names is determined using the relief from royalty method. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018, we completed our annual impairment review of the trade names, and we did not recognize any impairment charges. 

These analyses require management to make assumptions and to apply judgment, including forecasting future sales and expenses, and selecting appropriate discount rates and royalty rates, which can be affected by economic conditions and other factors that can be difficult to predict.

If actual store and online results and brand performance, real estate market conditions, and economic conditions including interest rates are not consistent with our estimates and assumptions used in our calculations, we may be exposed to additional impairment losses that could be material.

32

Revenue Recognition and Deferred Revenue

The Company’s revenues include merchandise sales at stores, online, and through franchise agreements. We also receive revenue sharing from our credit card agreement for private label and co-branded credit cards, and breakage revenue related to our gift cards, credit vouchers, and outstanding loyalty points, which are realized based upon historical redemption patterns. For online sales and catalog sales, the Company has elected to treat shipping and handling as fulfillment activities and not a separate performance obligation. Accordingly, we recognize revenue for our single performance obligation related to online sales and catalog sales at the time control of the merchandise passes to the customer, which is generally at the time of shipment. We also record an allowance for estimated returns based on our historical return patterns and various other assumptions that management believes to be reasonable, which is presented on a gross basis on our Consolidated Balance Sheet. Revenues are presented net of any taxes collected from customers and remitted to governmental authorities.

In addition, we defer revenue when cash payments are received in advance of performance for unsatisfied obligations related to our gift cards, credit vouchers, outstanding loyalty points, and reimbursements of loyalty program discounts associated with our credit card agreement. For fiscal 2018, the opening balance of deferred revenue for these obligations was $232 million, of which $200 million was recognized as revenue during the period. The closing balance of deferred revenue related to gift cards, credit vouchers, outstanding loyalty points, and reimbursements of loyalty program discounts was $227 million as of February 2, 2019. 

See Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, of this Form 10-K for recent accounting pronouncements related to revenue recognition.

Income Taxes 

We record a valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets when it is more likely than not that some portion or all of such deferred tax assets will not be realized. In determining the need for a valuation allowance, management is required to make assumptions and to apply judgment, including forecasting future income, taxable income, and the geographic mix of income or losses in the jurisdictions in which we operate. Our effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may also be materially impacted by changes in the geographic mix and level of income or losses, changes in the expected outcome of audits, changes in the deferred tax valuation allowance, guidance related to the enactment of U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (“TCJA”) that is issued by the U.S. Treasury Department and Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) or new tax legislation.

At any point in time, many tax years are subject to or in the process of being audited by various taxing authorities. To the extent our estimates of settlements change or the final tax outcome of these matters is different from the amounts recorded, such differences will impact the income tax provision in the period in which such determinations are made. Our income tax expense includes changes in our estimated liability for exposures associated with our various tax filing positions. Determining the income tax expense for these potential assessments requires management to make assumptions that are subject to factors such as proposed assessments by tax authorities, changes in facts and circumstances, issuance of new regulations, and resolution of tax audits.

We believe the judgments and estimates discussed above are reasonable. However, if actual results are not consistent with our estimates or assumptions, we may be exposed to losses or gains that could be material.

See Note 12 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, of this Form 10-K for additional information on the impact of the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act enacted on December 22, 2017 on income taxes.

Recent Accounting Pronouncements

See "Organization and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies" in Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, of this Form 10-K for recent accounting pronouncements, including the expected dates of adoption and estimated effects on our Consolidated Financial Statements.

33

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.