Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.

Derivative Financial Instruments

Certain financial information about the Company's derivative financial instruments is set forth under the heading "Derivative Financial Instruments" in Note 7 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, of this Form 10-K.

We have performed a sensitivity analysis as of February 2, 2019 based on a model that measures the impact of a hypothetical 10 percent adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates to U.S. dollars (with all other variables held constant) on our underlying estimated major foreign currency exposures, net of derivative financial instruments. The foreign currency exchange rates used in the model were based on the spot rates in effect as of February 2, 2019. The sensitivity analysis indicated that a hypothetical 10 percent adverse movement in foreign currency exchange rates would have an unfavorable impact on the underlying cash flow, net of our foreign exchange derivative financial instruments, of $27 million as of February 2, 2019.

Debt

Certain financial information about the Company's debt is set forth under the heading "Debt" in Note 4 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, of this Form 10-K. 

Our $1.25 billion aggregate principal amount of 5.95 percent notes due April 2021 has a fixed interest rate and is exposed to interest rate risk that is limited to changes in fair value. Changes in interest rates do not impact our cash flows.

Cash Equivalents and Short-Term Investments

Certain financial information about the Company's cash equivalents and short-term investments is set forth under the heading "Fair Value Measurements" in Note 6 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, of this Form 10-K. 

We have highly liquid fixed and variable income investments classified as cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments. All highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less at the time of purchase are classified as cash and cash equivalents. Our cash equivalents are placed primarily in time deposits, money market funds, and commercial paper. We generally value these investments at their original purchase prices plus interest that has accrued at the stated rate. We also have highly liquid investments with original maturities of greater than three months and less than two years that are classified as short-term investments. These securities are recorded at fair value using market prices.

Changes in interest rates impact the fair value of our investments that are considered available-for-sale. As of February 2, 2019, the Company held $288 million of available-for-sale debt securities with original maturity dates greater than three months and less than two years within short-term investments on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. In addition, as of February 2, 2019, the Company held $16 million of available-for-sale debt securities with original maturities of less than three months at the time of purchase within cash and cash equivalents. Unrealized gains or losses on available-for-sale debt securities included in accumulated other comprehensive income were immaterial as of February 2, 2019. 

Changes in interest rates also impact the interest income derived from our cash equivalents and short-term investments. In fiscal 2018, we earned interest income of $33 million.

34

Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.