ITEM 1A.Risk Factors 

The section below discusses the most significant risk factors that may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.

As set forth below, we believe that the risks we face generally fall into the following categories:

•risks related to our business and operations;

•risks related to our capital structure and market conditions;

•risks related to other events; and

•risks related to tax, including REIT-related risks.

10
Risks Related to Our Business and Operations

We depend on one tenant and operator, Brookdale, for a significant percentage of our revenues and net operating income. Continuing adverse developments, including operational challenges, in Brookdale’s business and affairs or financial condition would likely have a materially adverse effect on us.

We own our senior housing properties utilizing triple-net lease and RIDEA structures. As of December 31, 2018, Brookdale (i) leased 43 properties in our senior housing triple-net segment, (ii) managed on our behalf 35 properties in our SHOP segment, and (iii) managed 15 CCRCs and one additional SHOP property owned by our unconsolidated joint ventures with Brookdale in our Other segment. These properties represent a significant portion of our portfolio, revenues and operating income.

Properties managed by Brookdale in our SHOP segment as of December 31, 2018, accounted for 7% of our real estate investments based on total assets. Under RIDEA, we are required to engage a third-party operator, such as Brookdale, that meets the requirements of an “eligible independent contractor” to manage and operate the day-to-day business of the properties. As required under RIDEA, the operator provides comprehensive property management and accounting services for these properties and we are limited in our ability to control or influence operations. Accordingly, we rely on the operator’s personnel, expertise, technical resources, regulatory compliance programs, information systems, proprietary information, good faith and judgment to manage and operate these properties efficiently and effectively. We also must rely on the operator to set appropriate resident fees, manage occupancy, provide accurate and complete property-level financial results for these properties in a timely manner and otherwise operate them in compliance with the terms of our management agreements and all applicable laws and regulations. However, as the owner of the property under a RIDEA structure, we are ultimately responsible for any operating deficits and other liabilities resulting from the operation of these properties, subject to limited exceptions such as gross negligence or willful misconduct by our operators. See, “—We assume operational risks with respect to our SHOP properties managed in RIDEA structures that could have a material adverse effect our business, results of operations and financial condition.”

Properties leased by Brookdale in our triple-net segment accounted for 6% of our total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2018. In its capacity as a triple-net tenant, Brookdale is contractually obligated to pay all insurance, tax, utilities, maintenance and repair expenses in connection with the leased properties. Brookdale may not have sufficient assets, income and access to financing to enable it to satisfy its obligations to us, and any failure by Brookdale to do so would have a material adverse effect on us. In addition, we depend on Brookdale’s maintenance and repair of the properties to remain competitive and attract and retain patients and residents. Adverse developments in Brookdale’s business and related declining rent coverage ratios have increased its credit risk. If these adverse developments result in prolonged inadequate property maintenance or improvements, or impair Brookdale’s access to capital necessary for maintenance or improvements, it could lead to a reduction in occupancy rates and market rents and have a materially adverse effect on us.

Brookdale has experienced challenges in recent years, including with respect to operational performance and stockholder activism, among others. Brookdale, as well as other operators, have been adversely affected by increased competition that has negatively impacted occupancy rates, as well as by increases in expenses, including increased labor costs. Brookdale’s challenges could divert management’s attention, increase employee turnover, and impair its ability to operate our properties efficiently and effectively. These challenges and any adverse developments in Brookdale’s business, affairs and financial results could result in, among other adverse events, declining operational and financial performance of our properties.

We have been in the process of reducing our exposure to Brookdale through asset sales and transitions to other operators (see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—2018 Transaction Overview—Brookdale Transactions Update” for more information). If we determine to sell or transition additional properties currently leased to or managed by Brookdale, we may experience operational challenges and/or significantly declining financial performance for those properties, as we did with Brookdale properties sold or transitioned in 2018. Any failure of Brookdale to maintain the performance of our properties or to meet its obligations to us under its leases and management agreements could materially reduce our cash flow, net operating income and results of operations and have other materially adverse effects on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 

We assume operational risks with respect to our SHOP properties managed in RIDEA structures that could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.

RIDEA permits REITs, such as us, to own or partially own qualified healthcare properties in a structure through which we can participate directly in the cash flow of the properties’ operations (as compared to receiving only contractual rent payments under a triple-net lease) in compliance with REIT requirements. The criteria for operating a qualified healthcare property in a RIDEA structure requires us to lease the property to an affiliate TRS and for such affiliate TRS to engage an independent qualifying management company, or operator (also known as an eligible independent contractor) to manage and operate the day-to-day business of the property. The operator performs its services in exchange for a management fee. As a result, under a RIDEA structure, 

11
we are required to rely on our operator to manage and operate the property, including hiring and training all employees, entering into all third-party contracts for the benefit of the property, including resident/patient agreements, complying with laws, including but not limited to healthcare laws, and providing resident care. However, as the owner of the property under a RIDEA structure, our TRS, and hence we, are ultimately responsible for all operational risks and other liabilities of the property, other than those arising out of certain actions by our operator, such as gross negligence or willful misconduct. Operational risks include, and our resulting revenues therefore depend on, among other things: occupancy rates; the entrance fees and rental rates charged to residents; Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement rates, to the extent applicable; our operator’s reputation and ability to attract and retain residents; general economic conditions and market factors that impact seniors; competition from other senior housing providers; compliance with federal, state, local and industry-regulated licensure, certification and inspection laws, regulations and standards; litigation involving our properties or residents/patients; the availability and cost of general and professional liability insurance coverage; and the ability to control operating expenses. Although we are permitted under a RIDEA structure to have certain general oversight approval rights (e.g., budgets, material contracts, etc.) and the right to review operational and financial reporting information, our operators are ultimately in control of the day-to-day business of the property. As a result, we have limited rights to direct or influence the business or operations of our properties in the SHOP segment and we depend on our operators to operate these properties in a manner that complies with applicable law, minimizes legal risk and maximizes the value of our investment.

When we use a RIDEA structure, our TRS is generally required to be the holder of the applicable healthcare license and is the entity that is enrolled in government healthcare programs (i.e., Medicare, Medicaid), where applicable. As the holder of a healthcare license, our TRS and we (through our ownership interest in our TRS) are subject to various regulatory laws. Most states regulate and inspect healthcare property operations, patient care, construction and the safety of the physical environment. However, we are required under RIDEA to rely on our operators to oversee and direct these aspects of the properties’ operations to ensure compliance with these applicable laws and regulations. If one or more of our healthcare properties fails to comply with applicable laws, our TRS would be responsible (except in limited circumstances, such as the gross negligence or willful misconduct of our operators, where we would have a contractual claim against them), which could subject our TRS to penalties including loss or suspension of licenses and certificates of need, certification or accreditation, exclusion from government healthcare programs (i.e., Medicare, Medicaid), administrative sanctions and civil monetary penalties. Some states also reserve the right to sanction affiliates of a licensee when they take administrative action against the licensee. Additionally, when we receive individually identifiable health information relating to residents of our healthcare properties, we are subject to federal and state data privacy and security laws and rules, and could be subject to liability in the event of an audit, complaint, cybersecurity attack or data breach. Furthermore, our TRS has exposure to professional liability claims that could arise out of resident claims, such as quality of care, and the associated litigation costs.

Rents received from the TRS in a RIDEA structure are treated as qualifying rents from real property for REIT tax purposes only if (i) they are paid pursuant to a lease of a “qualified healthcare property” and (ii) the operator qualifies as an “eligible independent contractor,” as defined in the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”). If either of these requirements are not satisfied, then the rents will not be qualifying rents.

Decreases in our tenants’, operators’ or borrowers’ revenues or increases in their expenses could affect their ability to meet their financial and other contractual obligations to us.

Our leases consist of triple-net leases, in which we lease our properties directly to tenants and operators, as well as RIDEA leases, in which we lease our properties to an affiliate TRS that enters into a management agreement with an eligible independent contractor, or operator, to manage and oversee the day-to-day business and operations of the properties. We are also a direct or indirect lender to various tenants and operators and separately provide loans to certain third parties. We have very limited control over the success or failure of our tenants’, operators’ and borrowers’ businesses, regardless of the structure of our relationship with them. Any of our triple-net tenants or operators under a RIDEA structure may experience a downturn in their business that materially weakens their financial condition. As a result, they may fail to make payments or perform their obligations when due. Although we generally have arrangements and other agreements that give us the right under specified circumstances to terminate a lease, evict a tenant or terminate our operator, or demand immediate repayment of outstanding loan amounts or other obligations to us, we may not be able to enforce such rights or we may determine not to do so if we believe that enforcement of our rights would be more detrimental to our business than seeking alternative approaches.

Our senior housing tenants and our SHOP segment under a RIDEA structure primarily depend on private sources for their revenues and the ability of their patients and residents to pay fees. Costs associated with independent and assisted living services are not generally reimbursable under governmental reimbursement programs such as Medicare and Medicaid. Accordingly, our tenants and operators of our SHOP segments depend on attracting seniors with appropriate levels of income and assets, which may be affected by many factors including prevailing economic and market trends, consumer confidence and demographics. Consequently, if our tenants or operators on our behalf fail to effectively conduct their operations, or to maintain and improve our properties, it could adversely affect our business reputation as the owner of the properties, as well as the business reputation of our tenants or 

12
operators and their ability to attract and retain patients and residents in our properties, which could have a materially adverse effect on our and our tenant’s or operator’s business, results of operations and financial condition.

Our senior housing tenants and our SHOP segment under a RIDEA structure also rely on reimbursements from governmental programs for a portion of the revenues from certain properties. Changes in reimbursement policies and other governmental regulation, such as potential changes to, or repeal of, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, along with the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 (the “Affordable Care Act”), that may result from actions by Congress or executive orders, may result in reductions in our tenants’ revenues or in our revenues from our RIDEA structures, operations and cash flows and affect our tenants’ ability to meet their obligations to us or our financial performance through a RIDEA structure. In addition, failure to comply with reimbursement regulations or other laws applicable to healthcare providers could result in penalties, fines, litigation costs, lost revenue or other consequences, which could adversely impact our tenants’ ability to make contractual rent payments to us under a triple-net lease or our cash flows from operations under a RIDEA structure. For a further discussion of the legislation and regulation that are applicable to us and our tenants, operators and borrowers, see “—The requirements of, or changes to, government reimbursement programs such as Medicare or Medicaid, may adversely affect our tenants’, operators’ and borrowers’ ability to meet their financial and other contractual obligations to us.”

Revenues of our senior housing tenants and our SHOP segment under a RIDEA structure are also dependent on a number of other factors, including licensed bed capacity, occupancy, the healthcare needs of residents, the rate of reimbursement, the income and assets of seniors in the regions in which we own properties, and social and environmental factors. For example, due to generally increased vulnerability to illness, a severe flu season, an epidemic or any other widespread illness could result in early move-outs or delayed move-ins during quarantine periods, which would reduce our operators’ revenues. Additionally, new and evolving payor and provider programs in the United States, including but not limited to Medicare Advantage, Dual Eligible, Accountable Care Organizations, Bundled Payments and other value-based reimbursement arrangements, have resulted in reduced reimbursement rates, average length of stay and average daily census, particularly for higher acuity patients. If our tenants fail to maintain revenues sufficient to meet their financial obligations to us, our business, results of operations and financial condition would be materially adversely affected. Similarly, if our operators under a RIDEA structure underperform, our business, results of operations and financial condition would also be materially adversely affected.

Increased competition and market changes have resulted and may further result in lower net revenues for some of our tenants, operators and borrowers and may affect their ability to meet their financial and other contractual obligations to us.

The healthcare industry is highly competitive. The occupancy levels at, and rental income from, our properties are dependent on our ability and the ability of our tenants, operators and borrowers to compete with other tenants and operators on a number of different levels, including the quality of care provided, reputation, the physical appearance of a property, price, the range of services offered, family preference, alternatives for healthcare delivery, the supply of competing properties, physicians, staff, referral sources, location, and the size and demographics of the population in the surrounding area. In addition, our tenants, operators and borrowers face an increasingly competitive labor market for skilled management personnel and nurses. An inability to attract and retain skilled management personnel and nurses and other trained personnel could negatively impact the ability of our tenants, operators and borrowers to meet their obligations to us. A shortage of nurses or other trained personnel, union activities or general inflationary pressures on wages may force tenants, operators and borrowers to enhance pay and benefits packages to compete effectively for skilled personnel, or to use more expensive contract personnel, but they be unable to offset these added costs by increasing the rates charged to residents. Any increase in labor costs and other property operating expenses or any failure by our tenants, operators or borrowers to attract and retain qualified personnel could adversely affect our cash flow and have a materially adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.

Our tenants, operators and borrowers also compete with numerous other companies providing similar healthcare services or alternatives such as home health agencies, life care at home, community-based service programs, retirement communities and convalescent centers. This competition, which is due, in part, to over-development in some segments in which we invest, has caused the occupancy rate of newly constructed buildings to slow and the monthly rate that many newly built and previously existing properties were able to obtain for their services to decrease. Our tenants, operators and borrowers may be unable to achieve occupancy and rate levels, and to manage their expenses, in a way that will enable them to meet all of their obligations to us. Further, many competing companies may have resources and attributes that are superior to those of our tenants, operators and borrowers. Our tenants, operators and borrowers may encounter increased competition that could limit their ability to maintain or attract residents or expand their businesses or to manage their expenses, which could materially adversely affect their ability to meet their financial and other contractual obligations to us, potentially decreasing our revenues, impairing our assets and/or increasing collection and dispute costs.

The financial deterioration, insolvency or bankruptcy of one or more of our major tenants, operators or borrowers may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.

13
A downturn in any of our tenants’, operators’ or borrowers’ businesses could ultimately lead to voluntary or involuntary bankruptcy or similar insolvency proceedings, including but not limited to assignment for the benefit of creditors, liquidation, or winding-up. Bankruptcy and insolvency laws afford certain rights to a defaulting tenant, operator or borrower that has filed for bankruptcy or reorganization that may render certain of our remedies unenforceable or, at the least, delay our ability to pursue such remedies and realize any related recoveries. For example, we cannot evict a tenant or operator solely because of its bankruptcy filing.

A debtor has the right to assume, or to assume and assign to a third party, or to reject its executory contracts and unexpired leases in a bankruptcy proceeding. If a debtor were to reject its leases with us, obligations under such rejected leases would cease. The claim against the rejecting debtor would be an unsecured claim, which would be limited by the statutory cap set forth in the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. This statutory cap may be substantially less than the remaining rent actually owed under the lease. In addition, a debtor may also assert in bankruptcy proceedings that leases should be re-characterized as financing agreements, which could result in our being deemed a lender instead of a landlord. A lender’s rights and remedies, as compared to a landlord’s, generally are materially less favorable, and our rights as a lender may be subordinated to other creditors’ rights.

Furthermore, the automatic stay provisions of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code would preclude us from enforcing our remedies unless we first obtain relief from the court having jurisdiction over the bankruptcy case. This would effectively limit or delay our ability to collect unpaid rent or interest payments, and we may ultimately not receive any payment at all. In addition, we would likely be required to fund certain expenses and obligations (e.g., real estate taxes, insurance, debt costs and maintenance expenses) to preserve the value of our properties, avoid the imposition of liens on our properties or transition our properties to a new tenant or operator. Additionally, we lease many of our properties to healthcare providers who provide long-term custodial care to the elderly. Evicting these operators for failure to pay rent while the property is occupied may involve specific procedural or regulatory requirements and may not be successful. Even if eviction is possible, we may determine not to do so due to reputational or other risks. 

Bankruptcy or insolvency proceedings typically also result in increased costs to the operator, significant management distraction and performance declines. If we are unable to transition affected properties, they would likely experience prolonged operational disruption, leading to lower occupancy rates and further depressed revenues. Publicity about the operator’s financial condition and insolvency proceeds may also negatively impact their and our reputations, decreasing customer demand and revenues. Any or all of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, results of operations and cash flows. These risks would be magnified where we lease multiple properties to a single operator under a master lease, as an operator failure or default under a master lease would expose us to these risks across multiple properties.

We depend on investments in the healthcare property sector, making our profitability more vulnerable to a downturn or slowdown in that specific sector than if we were investing in multiple industries.

We concentrate our investments in the healthcare property sector. As a result, we are subject to risks inherent to investments in a single industry. A downturn or slowdown in the healthcare property sector would have a greater adverse impact on our business than if we had investments in multiple industries. Specifically, a downturn in the healthcare property sector could negatively impact the ability of our tenants, operators and borrowers to meet their obligations to us, as well as the ability to maintain rental and occupancy rates. This could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, a downturn in the healthcare property sector could adversely affect the value of our properties and our ability to sell properties at prices or on terms acceptable to us.

In addition, we are exposed to the risks inherent in concentrating our investments in real estate, which investments are relatively illiquid due to a number of factors, including restrictions on our ability to sell properties under applicable REIT tax laws, other tax-related considerations, regulatory hurdles and market conditions. Our ability to quickly sell or transition any of our properties in response to changes in the performance of our properties or economic and other conditions is limited. We may be unable to recognize full value for any property that we seek to sell for liquidity reasons. Our inability to respond rapidly to changes in the performance of our investments could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. 

Tenants and operators that fail to comply with federal, state, local and international laws and regulations, including licensure, certification and inspection requirements, may cease to operate or be unable to meet their financial and other contractual obligations to us.

Our tenants, operators and borrowers are subject to or impacted by extensive, frequently changing federal, state, local and international laws and regulations. These laws and regulations include, among others: laws protecting consumers against deceptive practices; laws relating to the operation of our properties and how our tenants and operators conduct their business, such as fire, health and safety, data security and privacy laws; federal and state laws affecting hospitals, clinics and other healthcare communities that participate in both Medicare and Medicaid that specify reimbursement rates, pricing, reimbursement procedures and limitations, quality of services and care, background checks, food service and physical plants, and similar foreign laws regulating the healthcare 

14
industry; resident rights laws (including abuse and neglect laws) and fraud laws; anti-kickback and physician referral laws; the ADA and similar state and local laws; and safety and health standards set by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration or similar foreign agencies. Certain of our properties may also require a license, registration and/or certificate of need to operate. 

Our tenants’, operators’ or borrowers’ failure to comply with any of these laws, regulations or requirements could result in loss of accreditation, denial of reimbursement, imposition of fines, suspension or decertification from government healthcare programs, civil liability, and in certain limited instances, criminal penalties, loss of license or closure of the property and/or the incurrence of considerable costs arising from an investigation or regulatory action, which may have an adverse effect on properties that we own and lease to a third party tenant, that we own and operate through a RIDEA structure or on which we hold a mortgage, and therefore may materially adversely impact us. See “Item 1—Business—Government Regulation, Licensing and Enforcement—Healthcare Licensure and Certificate of Need” above.

If we must replace any of our tenants or operators, we may have difficulty identifying replacements and we may be required to incur substantial renovation costs to make certain of our healthcare properties suitable for other tenants and operators.

Our tenants may not renew existing leases or our operators may not renew their management agreements beyond their current terms. If we or our tenants or operators terminate or do not renew the leases or management agreements for our properties, we would attempt to reposition those properties with another tenant or operator. We may also voluntarily change operators for a variety of reasons. For example, in November 2017, we announced a plan to transition a significant number of properties managed by Brookdale to other operators as part of our strategic plan to reduce our concentration of properties managed or leased by Brookdale. Healthcare properties are typically highly customized. The improvements generally required to conform a property to healthcare use, such as upgrading electrical, gas and plumbing infrastructure, are costly and at times tenant-specific and are typically subject to regulatory requirements. A new or replacement tenant or operator may require different features in a property, depending on that tenant’s or operator’s particular business. In addition, infrastructure improvements for life science properties typically are significantly more costly than improvements to other property types due to the highly specialized nature of the properties and the greater lease square footage often required by life science tenants. We may be unable to recover part or all of these higher costs. Therefore, if a current tenant or operator is unable to pay rent and/or vacates a property, we may incur substantial expenditures to modify a property and experience delays before we are able to secure another tenant or operator or to accommodate multiple tenants or operators. These expenditures or renovations and delays may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.

Additionally, we may fail to identify suitable replacements or enter into leases, management agreements or other arrangements with new tenants or operators on a timely basis or on terms as favorable to us as our current leases, if at all. Furthermore, during transition periods to new tenants or operators, we anticipate that the attention of existing tenants or operators will be diverted from the performance of the properties, which would cause the financial and operational performance at these properties to decline. For example, Brookdale properties we intended to sell or transition performed significantly worse during 2018 than our senior housing properties as a whole. Following a decline in performance, we may not be able to rehabilitate the property to previous performance levels, which would adversely impact our results of operations. We also may be required to fund certain expenses and obligations such as real estate taxes, debt costs and maintenance expenses, to preserve the value of, and avoid the imposition of liens on, our properties while they are being repositioned. In addition, we may incur certain obligations and liabilities, including obligations to indemnify the replacement tenant or operator, which could have a materially adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.

We face additional risks associated with property development and redevelopment that can render a project less profitable or not profitable at all and, under certain circumstances, prevent completion of development activities once undertaken.

Property development and redevelopment is a significant component of our growth strategy. At December 31, 2018, our active development and redevelopment pipeline was approximately $1.5 billion with remaining costs to complete of approximately $913 million. Large-scale, ground-up development of healthcare properties presents additional risks for us, including risks that:

•a development opportunity may be abandoned after expending significant resources resulting in the loss of deposits or failure to recover expenses already incurred;

•the development and construction costs of a project may exceed original estimates due to increased interest rates and higher costs relating to materials, transportation, labor, leasing, negligent construction or construction defects, damage, vandalism or accidents, among others, which could make the completion of the development project less profitable;

•the project may not be completed on schedule as a result of a variety of factors that are beyond our control, including natural disasters, labor conditions, material shortages, regulatory hurdles, civil unrest and acts of war or terrorism, which result in 

15
increases in construction costs and debt service expenses or provide tenants or operators with the right to terminate pre-construction leases; and

•occupancy rates and rents at a newly completed property may not meet expected levels and could be insufficient to make the property profitable.

Any of the foregoing risks could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.

Changes within the life science industry may adversely impact our revenues and results of operations.

For the year ended December 31, 2018, properties in our life science segment accounted for approximately 21% of our total revenues. Our life science investments could be adversely affected if the life science industry is impacted by an economic, financial, or banking crisis or if the life science industry migrates from the U.S. to other countries or to areas outside of primary life science markets in South San Francisco, California, San Diego, California, and greater Boston, Massachusetts. Our ability to negotiate contractual rent escalations on future leases and to achieve increases in rental rates will depend upon market conditions and the demand for life science properties at the time the leases are negotiated and the increases are proposed. If economic, financial or industry conditions adversely affect our life science tenants, we may not be able to lease or re-lease our properties in a timely manner or at favorable rates, which would negatively impact our revenues and results of operations. For example, some of our properties may be better suited for a particular life science industry client tenant and could require modification before we are able to re-lease vacant space to another life science industry client tenant, which may delay the re-leasing process and result in unrecovered costs. Additionally, some of our life science properties may not be suitable for lease to traditional office client tenants without significant expenditures on renovations, which could delay an attempt to reposition the property for rent to non-life science tenants. Because infrastructure improvements for life science properties typically are significantly more costly than improvements to other property types due to the highly specialized nature of the properties, and life science tenants typically require greater lease square footage relative to medical office tenants, repositioning efforts would have a disproportionate adverse effect on our life science segment performance. See “—If we must replace any of our tenants or operators, we may have difficulty identifying replacements and we may be required to incur substantial renovation costs to make certain of our healthcare properties suitable for other tenants and operators.”

It is common for businesses in the life science industry to undergo mergers or consolidations. Future mergers or consolidations of life science entities could reduce the amount of rentable square footage requirements of our client tenants and prospective client tenants, which may adversely impact our revenues from lease payments and results of operations.

Our tenants in the life science industry face high levels of regulation, funding requirements, expense and uncertainty.

Life science tenants, particularly those involved in developing and marketing pharmaceutical products, are subject to certain unique risks, including the following:

•some of our tenants require significant funding for the research, development, clinical testing, manufacture and commercialization of their products and technologies, as well as to fund their obligations, including rent payments due to us. If venture capital firms, private investors, the public markets, companies in the life science industry, the government or other sources of funding are difficult to obtain or unavailable to support such activities, including as a result of general economic conditions, adverse market conditions or government shutdowns that limit our tenants’ ability to raise capital, a tenant’s business would be adversely affected or fail; our tenants’ ability to raise capital depends on the viability of their products and technologies, their financial and operating condition and outlook, and the overall financial, banking and economic environment;

•the research, development, clinical testing, manufacture and marketing of some of our tenants’ products require federal, state and foreign regulatory approvals which may be costly or difficult to obtain, may take several years and be subject to delay, may not be obtained at all, require validation through clinical trials and the use of substantial resources, and may often be unpredictable;

•even after a life science tenant gains regulatory approval and market acceptance, the product may still present significant regulatory and liability risks, including, among others, the possible later discovery of safety concerns and other defects and potential loss of approvals, competition from new products and the expiration of patent protection for the product;

•our tenants with marketable products may be adversely affected by healthcare reform and the reimbursement policies of government or private healthcare payors;

•our tenants with marketable products may be unable to successfully manufacture their drugs economically;

16
•our tenants depend on the commercial success of certain products, which may be reliant on the efficacy of the product, as well as acceptance among doctors and patients; negative publicity or negative results or safety signals from the clinical trials of competitors may reduce demand or prompt regulatory actions; and

•our tenants may be unable to adapt to the rapid technological advances in the industry and to adequately protect their intellectual property under patent, copyright or trade secret laws and defend against third-party claims of intellectual property violations.

If our tenants’ businesses are adversely affected, they may fail to make their rent payments to us, which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.

The hospitals on whose campuses our MOBs are located and their affiliated healthcare systems could fail to remain competitive or financially viable, which could adversely impact their ability to attract physicians and physician groups to our MOBs and our other properties that serve the healthcare industry.

Our MOBs and other properties that serve the healthcare industry depend on the viability of the hospitals on whose campuses our MOBs are located and their affiliated healthcare systems in order to attract physicians and other healthcare-related users. The viability of these hospitals, in turn, depends on factors such as the quality and mix of healthcare services provided, competition, demographic trends in the surrounding community, market position and growth potential, as well as the ability of the affiliated healthcare systems to provide economies of scale and access to capital. If a hospital whose campus is located on or near one of our MOBs is unable to meet its financial obligations, and if an affiliated healthcare system is unable to support that hospital, the hospital may not be able to compete successfully or could be forced to close or relocate, which could adversely impact its ability to attract physicians and other healthcare-related users. Because we rely on our proximity to and affiliations with these hospitals to create tenant demand for space in our MOBs, their inability to remain competitive or financially viable, or to attract physicians and physician groups, could adversely affect our MOB operations and have a materially adverse effect on us.

In addition, changes to or replacement of the Affordable Care Act and related regulations could result in significant changes to the scope of insurance coverage and reimbursement policies, which could put negative pressure on the operations and revenues of our MOBs.

We may be unable to maintain or expand our relationships with our existing and future hospital and health system clients.

The success of our medical office portfolio depends, to a large extent, on past, current and future relationships with hospitals and their affiliated health systems. We invest significant amounts of time in developing relationships with both new and existing clients. If we fail to maintain these relationships, including through a lack of responsiveness, failure to adapt to the current market or employment of individuals with adequate experience, our reputation and relationships will be harmed and we may lose business to competitors. If our relationships with hospitals and their affiliated health systems deteriorate, it could have a materially adverse effect on us.

Economic and other conditions that negatively affect geographic areas from which a greater percentage of our revenue is recognized could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.

For the year ended December 31, 2018, 26% of our revenue was derived from properties located in California, which is also where most of our life science portfolio is located. As a result, we are subject to increased exposure to adverse conditions affecting California, including downturns in local economies, changes in local real estate conditions, increased competition or decreased demand, changes in state-specific legislation and local climate events and natural disasters (such as earthquakes, flooding, wildfires and hurricanes), which could cause significant disruption in our businesses in the region, harm our ability to compete effectively, result in increased costs and divert more management attention, any or all of which could adversely affect our business and results of operations.

We may experience uninsured or underinsured losses, which could result in a significant loss of the capital invested in a property, lower than expected future revenues or unanticipated expense.

We maintain and regularly review the comprehensive insurance coverage on our properties with terms, conditions, limits and deductibles that we believe are adequate and appropriate given the relative risk and costs of such coverage. However, a large number of our properties are located in areas exposed to earthquake, windstorm, flood and other natural disasters. In particular, a significant portion of our life science development projects and approximately 90% of our existing life science portfolio (based on gross asset value) is concentrated in California, which is known to be subject to earthquakes, wildfires and other natural disasters. While we purchase insurance coverage for earthquake, fire, windstorm, flood and other natural disasters that we believe is adequate in light of current industry practice and analyses prepared by outside consultants, such insurance may not fully cover such losses. These losses can result in decreased anticipated revenues from a property and the loss of all or a portion of the capital we have invested in a property. Following these events, we may remain liable for any mortgage debt or other financial obligations related 

17
to the property. The insurance market for such exposures can be very volatile, and we may be unable to purchase the limits and terms we desire on a commercially reasonable basis. In addition, there are certain exposures for which we do not purchase insurance because we do not believe it is economically feasible to do so or where there is no viable insurance market.

We maintain earthquake insurance for our properties that are located in the vicinity of active earthquake zones in amounts and with deductibles we believe are commercially reasonable. Because of our significant concentration in the seismically active regions of South San Francisco, California and San Diego, California, a damaging earthquake in these areas could significantly impact multiple properties, which may amount to a significant portion of our life science portfolio. As a result, aggregate deductible amounts may be material, and our insurance coverage may be materially insufficient to cover our losses, either of which would adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

If one of our properties experiences a loss that is uninsured or that exceeds policy coverage limits, we could lose our investment in the damaged property as well as the anticipated future cash flows from such property. If the damaged property is subject to recourse indebtedness, we could continue to be liable for the indebtedness even if the property is irreparably damaged.

In addition, even if damage to our properties is covered by insurance, a disruption of business caused by a casualty event may result in loss of revenues for us. Any business interruption insurance may not fully compensate the lender or us for such loss of revenue.

Our use of joint ventures may limit our flexibility with jointly owned investments.

We have and may continue to develop and/or acquire properties in joint ventures with other persons or entities when circumstances warrant the use of these structures. Our participation in joint ventures is subject to risks that may not be present with other methods of ownership, including:

•our joint venture partners could have investment and financing goals that are not consistent with our objectives, including the timing, terms and strategies for any investments, and what levels of debt to incur or carry;

•we could experience an impasse on certain decisions because we do not have sole decision-making authority, which could require us to expend additional resources on resolving such impasses or potential disputes, including litigation or arbitration;

•our joint venture partners may have competing interests in our markets that could create conflict of interest issues;

•our ability to transfer our interest in a joint venture to a third party may be restricted and the market for our interest may be limited and/or valued lower than fair market value;

•our joint venture partners may be structured differently than us for tax purposes, and this could create conflicts of interest and risks to our REIT status; and

•our joint venture partners might become insolvent, fail to fund their share of required capital contributions or fail to fulfill their obligations as a joint venture partner, which may require us to infuse our own capital into the venture on behalf of the partner despite other competing uses for such capital.

For example, with respect to our minority ownership position in our unconsolidated CCRC joint venture with Brookdale, we are limited in our ability to control or influence operations, and in our ability to exit or transfer our interest in the joint venture to a third party. As a result, we may not receive full value for our ownership interest if we tried to sell it to a third party. 

In addition, in some instances, we and/or our joint venture partner will have the right to cause us to sell our interest, or acquire our partner’s interest, at a time when we otherwise would not have initiated such a transaction. Our ability to acquire our partner’s interest will be limited if we do not have sufficient cash, available borrowing capacity or other capital resources. This would require us to sell our interest in the joint venture when we would otherwise prefer to retain it. Any of the foregoing risks could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.

We have now, and may have in the future, contingent rent provisions and/or rent escalators based on the Consumer Price Index, which could hinder our profitability and growth.

We derive a significant portion of our revenues from leasing properties pursuant to leases that generally provide for fixed rental rates, subject to annual escalations. Under certain leases, a portion of the tenant’s rental payment to us is based on the property’s revenues (i.e., contingent rent). If, as a result of weak economic conditions or other factors, the property’s revenue declines, our rental revenues would decrease and our results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Additionally, some of our leases provide that annual rent escalates based on changes in the Consumer Price Index or other thresholds (i.e., contingent rent escalators). If the Consumer Price Index does not increase or other applicable thresholds are not met, rental rates may not increase and our growth and profitability may be hindered. Furthermore, if strong economic conditions result in significant increases in 

18
the Consumer Price Index, but the escalations under our leases with contingent rent escalators are capped, our growth and profitability also may be limited.

Competition may make it difficult to identify and purchase, or develop, suitable healthcare properties to grow our investment portfolio, to finance acquisitions on favorable terms, or to retain or attract tenants and operators.

We face significant competition from other REITs, investment companies, private equity and hedge fund investors, sovereign funds, healthcare operators, lenders, developers and other institutional investors, some of whom may have greater resources and lower costs of capital than we do. Increased competition makes it more challenging for us to identify and successfully capitalize on opportunities that meet our business goals and could improve the bargaining power of property owners seeking to sell, thereby impeding our investment, acquisition and development activities. Similarly, our properties face competition for tenants and operators from other properties in the same market, which may affect our ability to attract and retain tenants and operators, or may reduce the rents we are able to charge. If we cannot capitalize on our development pipeline, identify and purchase a sufficient quantity of healthcare properties at favorable prices, finance acquisitions on commercially favorable terms, or attract and retain profitable tenants and operators, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially adversely affected.

From time to time we have made, and we may seek to make, one or more material acquisitions, which may involve the expenditure of significant funds.

We regularly review potential transactions in order to maximize stockholder value. Our review process may require significant management attention and a potential transaction could be abandoned or rejected by us or the other parties involved after we expend significant resources and time. In addition, future acquisitions may require the issuance of securities, the incurrence of debt, assumption of contingent liabilities or incurrence of significant expenditures, each of which could materially adversely impact our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, the financing required for acquisitions may not be available on commercially favorable terms or at all.

From time to time, we may acquire other companies, and if we are unable to successfully integrate these operations, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially adversely affected.

Acquisitions require the integration of companies that have previously operated independently. Successful integration of the operations of these companies depends primarily on our ability to consolidate operations, systems, procedures, properties and personnel, and to eliminate redundancies and costs. We may encounter difficulties in these integrations. Potential difficulties associated with acquisitions include our ability to effectively monitor and manage our expanded portfolio of properties, the loss of key employees, the disruption of our ongoing business or that of the acquired entity, possible inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies, and the assumption of unexpected liabilities, including:

•liabilities relating to the cleanup or remediation of undisclosed environmental conditions;

•unasserted claims of vendors, residents, patients or other persons dealing with the seller;

•liabilities, claims and litigation, whether or not incurred in the ordinary course of business, relating to periods prior to our acquisition;

•claims for indemnification by general partners, directors, officers and others indemnified by the seller;

•claims for return of government reimbursement payments; and

•liabilities for taxes relating to periods prior to our acquisition.

In addition, the acquired companies and their properties may fail to perform as expected, including in respect of estimated cost savings. Inaccurate assumptions regarding future rental or occupancy rates could result in overly optimistic estimates of future revenues. Similarly, we may underestimate future operating expenses or the costs necessary to bring properties up to standards established for their intended use or for property improvements.

If we have difficulties with any of these areas, or if we later discover additional liabilities or experience unforeseen costs relating to our acquired companies, we might not achieve the economic benefits we expect from our acquisitions, and this may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.

Our tenants, operators and borrowers face litigation and may experience rising liability and insurance costs.

In some states, advocacy groups have been created to monitor the quality of care at healthcare properties, and these groups have brought litigation against the tenants and operators of such properties. Also, in several instances, private litigation by patients, 

19
residents or “whistleblowers” has sought, and sometimes resulted in, large damage awards. See “Risks Related to Our Business and Operations—The requirements of, or changes to, governmental reimbursement programs such as Medicare or Medicaid, may adversely affect our tenants’, operators’ and borrowers’ ability to meet their financial and other contractual obligations to us.” The effect of this litigation and other potential litigation may materially increase the costs incurred by our tenants, operators and borrowers for monitoring and reporting quality of care compliance, which under a RIDEA structure would be borne by us. In addition, their cost of liability and medical malpractice insurance can be significant and may increase or not be available at a reasonable cost. Cost increases could cause our tenants and borrowers to be unable to make their lease or mortgage payments or fail to purchase the appropriate liability and malpractice insurance, or cause our borrowers to be unable to meet their obligations to us, potentially decreasing our revenues and increasing our collection and litigation costs. Furthermore, with respect to our senior housing properties operated in RIDEA structures, we directly bear the costs of any such increases in litigation, monitoring, reporting and insurance due to our direct exposure to the cash flows of such properties.

In addition, as a result of our ownership of healthcare properties, we may be named as a defendant in lawsuits arising from the alleged actions of our tenants or operators. With respect to our triple-net leases, our tenants generally have agreed to indemnify us for various claims, litigation and liabilities in connection with their leasing and operation of our triple-net leased properties. With respect to our RIDEA structured properties, we are responsible for these claims, litigation and liabilities, with limited indemnification rights against our operator typically based on the gross negligence or willful misconduct by the operator. Although our leases provide us with certain information rights with respect to our tenants, one or more of our tenants may be or become party to pending litigation or investigation to which we are unaware or do not have a right to participate or evaluate. In such cases, we would be unable to determine the potential impact of such litigation or investigation on our tenants or our business or results. Moreover, negative publicity of any of our operators’ or tenants’ litigation, other legal proceedings or investigations may also negatively impact their and our reputation, resulting in lower customer demand and revenues, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow.

Required regulatory approvals can delay or prohibit transfers of our healthcare properties.

Transfers of healthcare properties to successor tenants or operators are typically subject to regulatory approvals or ratifications, including, but not limited to, change of ownership approvals and Medicare and Medicaid provider arrangements that are not required for transfers of other types of commercial operations and other types of real estate. The replacement of any tenant or operator could be delayed by the regulatory approval process of any federal, state or local government agency necessary for the transfer of the property or the replacement of the operator licensed to manage the property, during which time the property may experience performance declines. If we are unable to find a suitable replacement tenant or operator upon favorable terms, or at all, we may take possession of a property, which could expose us to successor liability, require us to indemnify subsequent operators to whom we transfer the operating rights and licenses, or require us to spend substantial time and funds to preserve the value of the property and adapt the property to other uses, all of which may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.

Compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act and fire, safety and other regulations may require us to make expenditures that adversely affect our cash flows.

Our properties must comply with applicable ADA and any similar state and local laws. This may require removal of barriers to access by persons with disabilities in public areas of our properties. Noncompliance could result in the incurrence of additional costs associated with bringing the properties into compliance, the imposition of fines or an award of damages to private litigants in individual lawsuits or as part of a class action. While the tenants to whom we lease our properties are obligated to comply with the ADA and similar state and local provisions, and typically under tenant leases are obligated to cover costs associated with compliance, if required changes involve greater expenditures than anticipated, or if the changes must be made on a more accelerated basis than anticipated, the ability of these tenants to cover costs could be adversely affected. As a result, we could be required to expend funds to comply with the provisions of the ADA and similar state and local laws on behalf of tenants, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, with respect to our SHOP properties managed in RIDEA structures, we are ultimately responsible for such litigation and compliance costs due to our direct exposure to the cash flows of the properties.

In addition, we are required to operate our properties in compliance with fire and safety regulations, building codes and other land use regulations. New and revised regulations and codes may be adopted by governmental agencies and bodies and become applicable to our properties. For example, new safety laws for senior housing properties were adopted following the particularly damaging 2018 hurricane season. Compliance could require substantial capital expenditures, and may restrict our ability to renovate our properties. These expenditures and restrictions could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and cash flows.

20
The requirements of, or changes to, governmental reimbursement programs such as Medicare or Medicaid, may adversely affect our tenants’, operators’ and borrowers’ ability to meet their financial and other contractual obligations to us.

Certain of our tenants, operators and borrowers are affected, directly or indirectly, by an extremely complex set of federal, state and local laws and regulations pertaining to governmental reimbursement programs. These laws and regulations are subject to frequent and substantial changes that are sometimes applied retroactively. See “Item 1—Business—Government Regulation, Licensing and Enforcement.” For example, to the extent that our tenants, operators or borrowers receive a significant portion of their revenues from governmental payors, primarily Medicare and Medicaid, they are generally subject to, among other things:

•statutory and regulatory changes;

•retroactive rate adjustments;

•recovery of program overpayments or set-offs;

•federal, state and local litigation and enforcement actions;

•administrative proceedings;

•policy interpretations;

•payment or other delays by fiscal intermediaries or carriers;

•government funding restrictions (at a program level or with respect to specific properties); 

•interruption or delays in payments due to any ongoing governmental investigations and audits at such properties;

•reputational harm of publicly disclosed enforcement actions, audits or investigations related to billing and reimbursements.

The failure to comply with the extensive laws, regulations and other requirements applicable to their business and the operation of our properties could result in, among other challenges: (i) becoming ineligible to receive reimbursement from governmental reimbursement programs; (ii) becoming subject to prepayment reviews or claims for overpayments; (iii) bans on admissions of new patients or residents; (iv) civil or criminal penalties; and (v) significant operational changes, including requirements to increase staffing or the scope of care given to residents. These laws and regulations are enforced by a variety of federal, state and local agencies and can also be enforced by private litigants through, among other things, federal and state false claims acts, which allow private litigants to bring qui tam or “whistleblower” actions. Our tenants, operators and borrowers could be adversely affected by the resources required to respond to an investigation or other enforcement action. In such event, the results of operations and financial condition of our tenants and the results of operations of our properties operated by those entities could be materially adversely affected, which, in turn, could have a materially adverse effect on us.

We are unable to predict future federal, state and local regulations and legislation, including the Medicare and Medicaid statutes and regulations, or the intensity of enforcement efforts with respect to such regulations and legislation. Any changes in the regulatory framework could have a materially adverse effect on our tenants and operators. If, in turn, such tenants or operators fail to make contractual rent payments to us or, with respect to our SHOP segment, cash flows are adversely affected, it could have a materially adverse effect on us.

Sometimes, governmental payors freeze or reduce payments to healthcare providers, or provide annual reimbursement rate increases that are smaller than expected, due to budgetary and other pressures. Healthcare reimbursement will likely continue to be of significant importance to federal and state authorities. We cannot make any assessment as to the ultimate timing or the effect that any future legislative reforms may have on our tenants’, operators’ and borrowers’ costs of doing business and on the amount of reimbursement by government and other third-party payors. The failure of any of our tenants, operators or borrowers to comply with these laws and regulations, and significant limits on the scope of services reimbursed and on reimbursement rates and fees, could materially adversely affect their ability to meet their financial and contractual obligations to us.

Furthermore, executive orders and legislation may amend or repeal the Affordable Care Act and related regulations in whole or in part. A federal court in Texas recently declared the Affordable Care Act’s individual mandate unconstitutional and the remaining provisions non-severable from the mandate, thus making them invalid (Texas v. United States, Case 4:18-cv-00167-1, Slip Opinion (N.D. Tex. Dec. 14, 2018). The decision has been stayed pending appeal. We also anticipate that Congress, state legislatures, and third-party payors may continue to review and assess alternative healthcare delivery and payment systems and may propose and adopt legislation or policy changes or implementations effecting additional fundamental changes in the healthcare system. For example, the Department of Health and Human Services has focused on tying Medicare payments to quality or value through 

21
alternative payment models, which generally aim to make providers attentive to the total costs of treatments. Additionally, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services recently finalized a new patient driven payment model, which, effective October 1, 2019, will be used to calculate reimbursement rates for patients in skilled nursing properties. We cannot quantify or predict the likely impact of these changes on the revenues and profitability of our tenants, operators and borrowers. However, if any such changes significantly and adversely affect our tenants’ profitability, they could in turn negatively affect our tenants’ ability and willingness to comply with the terms of their leases with us and/or renew their leases with us upon expiration, which could impact our business, prospects, financial condition or results of operations.

Legislation to address federal government operations and administration decisions affecting the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services could have a materially adverse effect on our tenants’, operators’ and borrowers’ liquidity, financial condition or results of operations.

Congressional consideration of legislation pertaining to the federal debt ceiling, the Affordable Care Act, tax reform and entitlement programs, including reimbursement rates for physicians, could have a materially adverse effect on our tenants’, operators’ and borrowers’ liquidity, financial condition or results of operations. In particular, reduced funding for entitlement programs such as Medicare and Medicaid would result in increased costs and fees for programs such as Medicare Advantage Plans and additional reductions in reimbursements to providers. Amendments to or repeal of the Affordable Care Act in whole or in part and decisions by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services could impact the delivery of services and benefits under Medicare, Medicaid or Medicare Advantage Plans and could affect our tenants and operators and the manner in which they are reimbursed by such programs. Such changes could have a materially adverse effect on our tenants’, operators’ and borrowers’ liquidity, financial condition or results of operations, which could adversely affect their ability to satisfy their obligations to us and could have a materially adverse effect on us.

We may be unable to successfully foreclose on the collateral securing our real estate-related loans, and even if we are successful in our foreclosure efforts, we may be unable to successfully operate, occupy or reposition the underlying real estate, which may adversely affect our ability to recover our investments.

If a tenant or operator defaults under one of our mortgages or mezzanine loans, we may have to foreclose on the loan or protect our interest by acquiring title to the collateral and thereafter making substantial improvements or repairs in order to maximize the property’s investment potential. In some cases, the collateral consists of the equity interests in an entity that directly or indirectly owns the applicable real property or interests in operating properties and, accordingly, we may not have full recourse to assets of that entity, or that entity may have incurred unexpected liabilities. Tenants, operators or borrowers may contest enforcement of foreclosure or other remedies, seek bankruptcy protection against our exercise of enforcement or other remedies and/or bring claims for lender liability in response to actions to enforce mortgage obligations. Foreclosure-related costs, high loan-to-value ratios or declines in the value of the property may prevent us from realizing an amount equal to our mortgage or mezzanine loan upon foreclosure, and we may be required to record a valuation allowance for such losses. Even if we are able to successfully foreclose on the collateral securing our real estate-related loans, we may inherit properties for which we may be unable to expeditiously secure tenants or operators, if at all, or we may acquire equity interests that we are unable to immediately resell due to limitations under the securities laws, either of which would adversely affect our ability to fully recover our investment.

Risks Related to Our Capital Structure and Market Conditions

Changes or increases in interest rates could result in a decrease in our stock price and increased interest costs on new debt and existing variable rate debt, which could materially adversely impact our ability to refinance existing debt, sell properties and conduct acquisition, investment and development activities.

An increase in interest rates could reduce the amount investors are willing to pay for our common stock. Because REIT stocks are often perceived as high-yield investments, investors may perceive less relative benefit to owning REIT stocks as interest rates and the yield on government treasuries and other bonds increase.

Additionally, we have existing debt obligations that are variable rate obligations with interest and related payments that vary with the movement of certain indices. If interest rates increase, so would our interest costs for any variable rate debt and for new debt. This increased cost would make the financing of any acquisition and development activity more costly. In addition, an increase in interest rates could decrease the amount third parties are willing to pay for our properties, thereby limiting our ability to reposition our portfolio promptly in response to changes in economic or other conditions.

Rising interest rates could limit our ability to refinance existing debt when it matures, or cause us to pay higher interest rates upon refinancing and increase interest expense on refinanced indebtedness. For example, we have $800 million of senior notes that are maturing in 2020 on which we pay 2.625% interest, which is lower than prevailing interest rates throughout 2018. If interest rates 

22
remain higher than the interest rates of our senior notes reaching maturity, we will incur additional interest expense upon any replacement debt.

We manage a portion of our exposure to interest rate risk by accessing debt with staggered maturities and through the use of derivative instruments, primarily interest rate swap agreements. However, no amount of hedging activity can fully insulate us from the risks associated with changes in interest rates. Swap agreements involve risk, including that counterparties may fail to honor their obligations under these arrangements, that these arrangements may not be effective in reducing our exposure to interest rate changes, that the amount of income we earn from hedging transactions may be limited by federal tax provisions governing REITs and that these arrangements may cause us to pay higher interest rates on our debt obligations than would otherwise be the case. Failure to hedge effectively against interest rate risk could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.

Cash available for distribution to stockholders may be insufficient to make dividend distributions at expected levels and are made at the discretion of our Board of Directors.

If cash available for distribution generated by our properties decreases as a result of our announced dispositions or otherwise, we may be unable to make dividend distributions at expected levels. Our inability to make expected distributions would likely result in a decrease in the market price of our common stock. All distributions are made at the discretion of our Board of Directors in accordance with Maryland law and depend on our earnings, our financial condition, debt and equity capital available to us, our expectations of our future capital requirements and operating performance, restrictive covenants in our financial or other contractual arrangements (including those in our credit facility agreement), maintenance of our REIT qualification, restrictions under Maryland law and other factors as our Board of Directors may deem relevant from time to time. Additionally, our ability to make distributions will be adversely affected if any of the risks described herein, or other significant adverse events, occur.

We rely on external sources of capital to fund future capital needs, and if access to such capital is unavailable on acceptable terms or at all, it could have a materially adverse effect on our ability to meet commitments as they become due or make future investments necessary to grow our business.

We may not be able to fund all future capital needs, including capital expenditures, debt maturities and other commitments, from cash retained from operations and dispositions. If we are unable to obtain enough internal capital, we may need to rely on external sources of capital (including debt and equity financing) to fulfill our capital requirements. Our access to capital depends upon a number of factors, some of which we have little or no control over, including but not limited to:

•general availability of capital, including less favorable terms, rising interest rates and increased borrowing costs;

•the market price of the shares of our equity securities and the credit ratings of our debt and any preferred securities we may issue;

•the market’s perception of our growth potential and our current and potential future earnings and cash distributions;

•our degree of financial leverage and operational flexibility;

•the financial integrity of our lenders, which might impair their ability to meet their commitments to us or their willingness to make additional loans to us, and our inability to replace the financing commitment of any such lender on favorable terms, or at all;

•the stability of the market value of our properties;

•the financial performance and general market perception of our tenants and operators;

•changes in the credit ratings on U.S. government debt securities or default or delay in payment by the United States of its obligations;

•issues facing the healthcare industry, including, but not limited to, healthcare reform and changes in government reimbursement policies; and

•the performance of the national and global economies generally.

If access to capital is unavailable on acceptable terms or at all, it could have a materially adverse impact on our ability to fund operations, repay or refinance our debt obligations, fund dividend payments, acquire properties and make the investments needed to grow our business.

23
Adverse changes in our credit ratings could impair our ability to obtain additional debt and equity financing on favorable terms, if at all, and negatively impact the market price of our securities, including our common stock.

Our credit ratings can affect the amount and type of capital we can access, as well as the terms of any financing we may obtain. The credit ratings of our senior unsecured debt are based on, among other things, our operating performance, liquidity and leverage ratios, overall financial position, level of indebtedness and pending or future changes in the regulatory framework applicable to our operators and our industry. We may be unable to maintain our current credit ratings, and in the event that our current credit ratings deteriorate, we would likely incur higher borrowing costs, which would make it more difficult or expensive to obtain additional financing or refinance existing obligations and commitments. Also, a downgrade in our credit ratings would trigger additional costs or other potentially negative consequences under our current and future credit facilities and debt instruments. 

Our level of indebtedness may increase and materially adversely affect our future operations.

Our outstanding indebtedness as of December 31, 2018 was approximately $5.6 billion. We may incur additional indebtedness, including in connection with the development or acquisition of properties, which may be substantial. Any significant additional indebtedness would likely negatively affect the credit ratings of our debt and require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow to interest and principal payments due on our indebtedness. Greater demands on our cash resources may reduce funds available to us to pay dividends, conduct development activities, make capital expenditures and acquisitions or carry out other aspects of our business strategy. Increased indebtedness can also make us more vulnerable to general adverse economic and industry conditions and create competitive disadvantages for us compared to other companies with relatively lower debt levels. Increased future debt service obligations may limit our operational flexibility, including our ability to finance or refinance our properties, contribute properties to joint ventures or sell properties as needed.

Covenants in our debt instruments limit our operational flexibility, and breaches of these covenants could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.

The terms of our current secured and unsecured debt instruments and other indebtedness that we may incur, require or will require us to comply with a number of customary financial and other covenants, such as maintaining leverage ratios, minimum tangible net worth requirements, REIT status and certain levels of debt service coverage. Our continued ability to incur additional debt and to conduct business in general is subject to compliance with these financial and other covenants, which limit our operational flexibility. For example, mortgages on our properties contain customary covenants such as those that limit or restrict our ability, without the consent of the lender, to further encumber or sell the applicable properties, or to replace the applicable tenant or operator. Breaches of certain covenants may result in defaults under the mortgages on our properties and cross-defaults under certain of our other indebtedness, even if we satisfy our payment obligations to the respective obligee. Covenants that limit our operational flexibility as well as defaults resulting from the breach of any of these covenants could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.

Volatility, disruption or uncertainty in the financial markets may impair our ability to raise capital, obtain new financing or refinance existing obligations and fund real estate and development activities.

We may be affected by general market and economic conditions. Increased or prolonged market disruption, volatility or uncertainty could materially adversely impact our ability to raise capital, obtain new financing or refinance our existing obligations as they mature and fund real estate and development activities. Market volatility could also lead to significant uncertainty in the valuation of our investments and those of our joint ventures, which may result in a substantial decrease in the value of our properties and those of our joint ventures. As a result, we may be unable to recover the carrying amount of such investments and the associated goodwill, if any, which may require us to recognize impairment charges in earnings.

We may be adversely affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates.

We have certain investments in international markets where the U.S. dollar is not the denominated currency. The ownership of investments located outside of the United States subjects us to risk from fluctuations in exchange rates between foreign currencies and the U.S. dollar. A significant change in the value of the British pound sterling (“GBP”) may have a materially adverse effect on our financial position, debt covenant ratios, results of operations and cash flow.

We may attempt to manage the impact of foreign currency exchange rate changes through the use of derivative contracts or other methods. For example, we currently utilize GBP denominated liabilities as a natural hedge against our GBP denominated assets. Additionally, we executed currency swap contracts to hedge the risk related to a portion of the forecasted interest receipts on these investments. However, no amount of hedging activity can fully insulate us from the risks associated with changes in foreign currency exchange rates, and the failure to hedge effectively against foreign currency exchange rate risk, if we choose to engage in such activities, could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, any international 

24
currency gain recognized with respect to changes in exchange rates may not qualify under the 75% gross income test or the 95% gross income test that we must satisfy annually in order to qualify and maintain our status as a REIT.

Risk Related to Other Events

We rely on information technology in our operations, and any material failure, inadequacy, interruption or security failure of that technology could harm our business.

We rely on information technology networks and systems, including the Internet, to process, transmit and store electronic information, and to manage or support a variety of business processes, including financial transactions and records, and maintaining personal identifying information and tenant and lease data. We purchase some of our information technology from vendors, on whom our systems depend. We rely on commercially available systems, software, tools and monitoring to provide security for the processing, transmission and storage of confidential tenant and customer data, including individually identifiable information relating to financial accounts. Although we have taken steps to protect the security of our information systems and the data maintained in those systems, it is possible that our safety and security measures will not prevent the systems’ improper functioning or damage, or the improper access or disclosure of personally identifiable information such as in the event of cyber-attacks. The risk of security breaches has generally increased as the number, intensity and sophistication of attacks and intrusions have increased. In addition, the pace and unpredictability of cyber threats generally quickly renders long-term implementation plans designed to address cybersecurity risks obsolete. Because our operators also rely on information technology networks, systems and software, we may be exposed to cyber-attacks on our operators. 

Security breaches of our or our operators’ networks and systems, including those caused by physical or electronic break-ins, computer viruses, malware, worms, attacks by hackers or foreign governments, disruptions from unauthorized access and tampering, including through social engineering such as phishing attacks, coordinated denial-of-service attacks and similar breaches, could result in, among other things, system disruptions, shutdowns, unauthorized access to or disclosure of confidential information, misappropriation of our or our business partners’ proprietary or confidential information, breach of our legal, regulatory or contractual obligations, inability to access or rely upon critical business records or systems or other delays in our operations. In some cases, it may be difficult to anticipate or immediately detect such incidents and the damage they cause. We may be required to expend significant financial resources to protect against or to remediate such security breaches. In addition, our technology infrastructure and information systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from natural disasters, power loss and telecommunications failures. Any failure to maintain proper function, security and availability of our and our operators’ information systems and the data maintained in those systems could interrupt our operations, damage our reputation, subject us to liability claims or regulatory penalties, harm our business relationships or increase our security and insurance costs, which could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.

We are subject to certain provisions of Maryland law and our charter relating to business combinations which may prevent a transaction that may otherwise be in the interest of our stockholders.

The Maryland Business Combination Act provides that unless exempted, a Maryland corporation may not engage in business combinations, including a merger, consolidation, share exchange or, in circumstances specified in the statute, an asset transfer or issuance or reclassification of equity securities with an “interested stockholder” or an affiliate of an interested stockholder for five years after the most recent date on which the interested stockholder became an interested stockholder, and thereafter unless specified criteria are met. An interested stockholder is generally a person owning or controlling, directly or indirectly, 10% or more of the voting power of the outstanding voting stock of a Maryland corporation. Unless our Board of Directors takes action to exempt us, generally or with respect to certain transactions, from this statute, the Maryland Business Combination Act will be applicable to business combinations between us and other persons.

In addition to the restrictions on business combinations contained in the Maryland Business Combination Act, our charter also contains restrictions on business combinations. Our charter requires that, except in certain circumstances, “business combinations,” including a merger or consolidation, and certain asset transfers and issuances of securities, with a “related person,” including a beneficial owner of 10% or more of our outstanding voting stock, be approved by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 90% of our outstanding voting stock.

The restrictions on business combinations provided under Maryland law and contained in our charter may delay, defer or prevent a change of control or other transaction even if such transaction involves a premium price for our common stock or our stockholders believe that such transaction is otherwise in their best interests.

25
Unfavorable resolution of litigation matters and disputes could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition.

From time to time, we are involved in legal proceedings, lawsuits and other claims. We may also be named as defendants in lawsuits arising out of our alleged actions or the alleged actions of our tenants and operators for which such tenants and operators have agreed to indemnify, defend and hold us harmless. An unfavorable resolution of any such litigation may have a materially adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Regardless of the outcome, litigation or other legal proceedings may result in substantial costs, disruption of our normal business operations and the diversion of management attention. We may be unable to prevail in, or achieve a favorable settlement of, any pending or future legal action against us. See "Item 3—Legal Proceedings" of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Loss of our key personnel could temporarily disrupt our operations and adversely affect us.

We depend on the efforts of our executive officers for the success of our business, and competition for these individuals is intense. Although they are covered by our Executive Severance Plan and Change in Control Plan, which provide many of the benefits typically found in executive employment agreements, none of our executive officers have employment agreements with us. The loss or limited availability of the services of any of our executive officers, or our inability to recruit and retain qualified personnel, could, at least temporarily, have a materially adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and the value of our common stock.

Environmental compliance costs and liabilities associated with our real estate-related investments may be substantial and may materially impair the value of those investments.

Federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations may require us, as a current or previous owner of real estate, to investigate and clean up certain hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum released at a property. We may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage and for investigation and cleanup costs incurred by the third parties in connection with the contamination. The costs of cleanup and remediation could be substantial. In addition, some environmental laws create a lien on the contaminated site in favor of the government for damages and the costs it incurs in connection with the contamination.

Although we currently carry environmental insurance on our properties in an amount that we believe is commercially reasonable and generally require our tenants and operators to indemnify us for environmental liabilities they cause, such liabilities could exceed the amount of our insurance, the financial ability of the tenant or operator to indemnify us or the value of the contaminated property. As the owner of a site, we may also be held liable to third parties for damages and injuries resulting from environmental contamination emanating from the site. We may also experience environmental liabilities arising from conditions not known to us. The cost of defending against these claims, complying with environmental regulatory requirements, conducting remediation of any contaminated property, or paying personal injury or other claims or fines could be substantial and could have a materially adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.

In addition, the presence of contamination or the failure to remediate contamination may materially adversely affect our ability to use, sell or lease the property or to borrow using the property as collateral.

Risk Related to Tax, including REIT-Related Risks 

Loss of our tax status as a REIT would substantially reduce our available funds and would have materially adverse consequences for us and the value of our common stock.

Qualification as a REIT involves the application of numerous highly technical and complex provisions of the Code, for which there are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations, as well as the determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control. We intend to continue to operate in a manner that enables us to qualify as a REIT. However, our qualification and taxation as a REIT depend upon our ability to meet, through actual annual operating results, asset diversification, distribution levels and diversity of stock ownership, the various qualification tests imposed under the Code. For example, to qualify as a REIT, at least 95% of our gross income in any year must be derived from qualifying sources, and we must make distributions to our stockholders aggregating annually to at least 90% of our REIT taxable income, excluding net capital gains. In addition, new legislation, regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions could change the tax laws or interpretations of the tax laws regarding qualification as a REIT, or the federal income tax consequences of that qualification, in a manner that is materially adverse to our stockholders. Accordingly, there is no assurance that we have operated or will continue to operate in a manner so as to qualify or remain qualified as a REIT.

If we lose our REIT status, we will face serious tax consequences that will substantially reduce the funds available to make payments of principal and interest on the debt securities we issue and to make distributions to stockholders. If we fail to qualify as a REIT:

26
•we will not be allowed a deduction for distributions to stockholders in computing our taxable income;

•we will be subject to corporate-level income tax on our taxable income at regular corporate rates;

•we will be subject to increased state and local income taxes; and

•unless we are entitled to relief under relevant statutory provisions, we will be disqualified from taxation as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year during which we fail to qualify as a REIT.

As a result of all these factors, our failure to qualify as a REIT could also impair our ability to expand our business and raise capital and could materially adversely affect the value of our common stock.

Recent changes to the U.S. tax laws could have a significant negative impact on the overall economy, our tenants, and our business.

On December 20, 2017, the House of Representatives and the Senate passed a tax reform bill, which was signed into law on December 22, 2017 (the “Tax Reform Legislation”). Among other things, the Tax Reform Legislation:

•restricted the deductibility of interest expense by businesses (generally, to 30% of the business’ adjusted taxable income) except, among others, real property businesses electing out of such restriction; generally, we expect our business to qualify as a real property business, but businesses conducted by our taxable REIT subsidiaries may not qualify; 

•required real property businesses to use the less favorable alternative depreciation system to depreciate real property in the event businesses elect to avoid the interest deduction restriction above;

•restricted the benefits of like-kind exchanges that defer capital gains for tax purposes to exchanges of real property; and

•generally allowed a deduction for individuals equal to 20% of certain income from pass-through entities, including ordinary dividends distributed by a REIT (excluding capital gain dividends and qualified dividend income).

Many of the provisions in the Tax Reform Legislation expire at the end of 2025. 

The Tax Reform Legislation was a far-reaching and complex revision to the existing U.S. federal income tax laws with disparate and, in some cases, countervailing impacts on different categories of taxpayers and industries and will require subsequent rulemaking and interpretation in a number of areas. As a result, we cannot predict the long-term impact of the Tax Reform Legislation on the overall economy, government revenues, our tenants, us, and the real estate industry. Furthermore, the Tax Reform Legislation may negatively impact certain of our tenants’ operating results, financial condition, and future business plans. This in turn could negatively impact our operating results, financial condition, and operations.

Further changes to U.S. federal income tax laws could materially and adversely affect us and our stockholders.

The present federal income tax treatment of REITs may be modified, possibly with retroactive effect, by legislative, judicial or administrative action at any time, which could affect the federal income tax treatment of an investment in us. The federal income tax rules dealing with U.S. federal income taxation and REITs are constantly under review by persons involved in the legislative process, the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (the “IRS”) and the U.S. Treasury Department, which results in statutory changes as well as frequent revisions to regulations and interpretations. We cannot predict how changes in the tax laws might affect our investors or us. Revisions in federal tax laws and interpretations thereof could significantly and negatively affect our ability to qualify as a REIT, as well as the tax considerations relevant to an investment in us, or could cause us to change our investments and commitments.

We could have potential deferred and contingent tax liabilities from corporate acquisitions that could limit, delay or impede future sales of our properties.

If, during the five-year period beginning on the date we acquire certain companies, we recognize a gain on the disposition of any property acquired, then, to the extent of the excess of (i) the fair market value of such property as of the acquisition date over (ii) our adjusted income tax basis in such property as of that date, we will be required to pay a corporate-level federal income tax on this gain at the highest regular corporate rate. There can be no assurance that these triggering dispositions will not occur, and these requirements could limit, delay or impede future sales of our properties.

In addition, the IRS may assert liabilities against us for corporate income taxes for taxable years prior to the time that we acquire certain companies, in which case we will owe these taxes plus interest and penalties, if any.

27
There are uncertainties relating to the calculation of non-REIT tax earnings and profits (“E&P”) in certain acquisitions, which may require us to distribute E&P.

In order to remain qualified as a REIT, we are required to distribute to our stockholders all of the accumulated non-REIT E&P of certain companies that we acquire, prior to the close of the first taxable year in which the acquisition occurs. Failure to make such E&P distributions would result in our disqualification as a REIT. The determination of the amount to be distributed in such E&P distributions is a complex factual and legal determination. We may have less than complete information at the time we undertake our analysis, or we may interpret the applicable law differently from the IRS. We currently believe that we have satisfied the requirements relating to such E&P distributions. There are, however, substantial uncertainties relating to the determination of E&P, including the possibility that the IRS could successfully assert that the taxable income of the companies acquired should be increased, which would increase our non-REIT E&P. Moreover, an audit of the acquired company following our acquisition could result in an increase in accumulated non-REIT E&P, which could require us to pay an additional taxable distribution to our then-existing stockholders, if we qualify under rules for curing this type of default, or could result in our disqualification as a REIT.

Thus, we might fail to satisfy the requirement that we distribute all of our non-REIT E&P by the close of the first taxable year in which the acquisition occurs. Moreover, although there are procedures available to cure a failure to distribute all of our E&P, we cannot now determine whether we will be able to take advantage of these procedures or the economic impact on us of doing so.

Our international investments and operations may result in additional tax-related risks.

We own a 49% noncontrolling interest in a joint venture that owns senior housing properties in the U.K. Although we expect to sell our remaining 49% interest in the joint venture by no later than 2020, we currently remain exposed to risks associated with international investments and operations, including tax-related risks, which are different from those we face with respect to our domestic properties and operations. These risks include, but are not limited to: 

•international currency gain recognized as a result of changes in exchange rates may in certain circumstances be treated as income that does not qualify under the 75% gross income test or the 95% gross income test that we must satisfy annually in order to qualify and maintain our status as a REIT;

•challenges with respect to the repatriation of foreign earnings and cash; and

•challenges of complying with foreign tax rules (including the possible revisions in tax treaties or other laws and regulations, including those governing the taxation of our international income).

Our charter contains ownership limits with respect to our common stock and other classes of capital stock.

Our charter contains restrictions on the ownership and transfer of our common stock and preferred stock that are intended to assist us in preserving our qualification as a REIT. Under our charter, subject to certain exceptions, no person or entity may own, actually or constructively, more than 9.8% (by value or by number of shares, whichever is more restrictive) of the outstanding shares of our common stock or any class or series of our preferred stock.

Additionally, our charter has a 9.9% ownership limitation on the direct or indirect ownership of our voting shares, which may include common stock or other classes of capital stock. Our Board of Directors, in its sole discretion, may exempt a proposed transferee from either ownership limit. The ownership limits may delay, defer or prevent a transaction or a change of control that might involve a premium price for our common stock or might otherwise be in the best interests of our stockholders.

ITEM 1B.Unresolved Staff Comments

None.

ITEM 2.Properties