Part II - Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Item 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

(Dollar amounts in millions, except for per share data, unless otherwise stated)

The Hartford provides projections and other forward-looking information in the following discussions, which contain many forward-looking statements, particularly relating to the Company’s future financial performance. These forward-looking statements are estimates based on information currently available to the Company, are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and are subject to the cautionary statements set forth on pages 4 and 5 of this Form 10-K. Actual results are likely to differ, and in the past have differed, materially from those forecast by the Company, depending on the outcome of various factors, including, but not limited to, those set forth in the following discussion and in Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors, and those identified from time to time in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Hartford undertakes no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise.

On August 22, 2018, the Company announced it entered into a definitive agreement to acquire all outstanding common shares of The Navigators Group, Inc. ("Navigators Group"), a global specialty underwriter, for $70 a share, or $2.1 billion in cash. The transaction is expected to close in late March or April 2019, subject to customary closing conditions, including receipt of regulatory approvals.

On May 31, 2018, Hartford Holdings, Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, completed the sale of the issued and outstanding equity of Hartford Life, Inc. (“HLI”), a holding company, and its life and annuity operating subsidiaries. For discussion of this transaction, see Note 20 - Business Dispositions and Discontinued Operations of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

On February 16, 2018, The Hartford entered into a renewal rights agreement with the Farmers Exchanges, of the Farmers Insurance Group of Companies, to acquire its Foremost-branded small commercial business sold through independent agents. Written premium from this agreement began in the third quarter of 2018.

On November 1, 2017, Hartford Life and Accident Insurance Company ("HLA"), a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, completed the acquisition of Aetna's U.S. group life and disability business through a reinsurance transaction. Aetna's U.S. group life and disability revenue and earnings since the acquisition date are included in the operating results of the Company's Group Benefits reporting segment. For discussion of this transaction, see Note 2 - Business Acquisitions of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

On May 10, 2017, the Company completed the sale of its U.K. 

property and casualty run-off subsidiaries. The operating results of the Company's U.K. property and casualty run-off subsidiaries are included in the P&C Other Operations reporting segment. For discussion of this transaction, see Note 20 - Business Dispositions and Discontinued Operations of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

On July 29, 2016, the Company completed the acquisition of Maxum Specialty Insurance Group and Lattice Strategies LLC. Maxum's revenue and earnings since the acquisition date are included in the operating results of the Company's Commercial Lines reporting segment. Lattice's revenue and earnings since the acquisition date are included in the operating results of the Company's Hartford Funds reporting segment. For discussion of these transactions, see Note 2 - Business Acquisitions of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

Certain reclassifications have been made to historical financial information presented in Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ("MD&A") to conform to the current period presentation. 

Distribution costs within the Hartford Funds segment that were previously netted against fee income are presented gross in insurance operating costs and other expenses.

The Hartford defines increases or decreases greater than or equal to 200% as “NM” or not meaningful.

Index 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

32

Part II - Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

KEY PERFORMANCE MEASURES AND RATIOS

The Company considers the measures and ratios in the following discussion to be key performance indicators for its businesses. Management believes that these ratios and measures are useful in understanding the underlying trends in The Hartford’s businesses. However, these key performance indicators should only be used in conjunction with, and not in lieu of, the results presented in the segment discussions that follow in this MD&A. These ratios and measures may not be comparable to other performance measures used by the Company’s competitors.

Definitions of Non-GAAP and Other Measures and Ratios

Assets Under Management (“AUM”)- include mutual fund and exchange-traded products ("ETP") assets. AUM is a measure used by the Company's Hartford Funds segment because a significant portion of the Company’s mutual fund and ETP revenues are based upon asset values. These revenues increase or decrease with a rise or fall in AUM whether caused by changes in the market or through net flows.

Book Value per Diluted Share excluding accumulated other comprehensive income ("AOCI")- is calculated based upon a non-GAAP financial measure. It is calculated by dividing (a) common stockholders' equity, excluding AOCI, after tax, by (b) common shares outstanding and dilutive potential common shares. Book value per diluted share is the most directly comparable U.S. GAAP ("GAAP") measure. The Company provides this measure to enable investors to analyze the amount of the Company's net worth that is primarily attributable to the Company's business operations. The Company believes it is useful to investors because it eliminates the effect of items in AOCI that can fluctuate significantly from period to period, primarily based on changes in interest rates. 

Current Accident Year Catastrophe Ratio- a component of the loss and loss adjustment expense ratio, represents the ratio of catastrophe losses incurred in the current accident year (net of reinsurance) to earned premiums. A catastrophe is an event that causes $25 or more in industry insured property losses and affects a significant number of property and casualty policyholders and insurers, as defined by the Property Claim Service office of Verisk. The current accident year catastrophe ratio includes the effect of catastrophe losses, but does not include the effect of reinstatement premiums.

Combined Ratio- the sum of the loss and loss adjustment expense ratio, the expense ratio and the policyholder dividend ratio. This ratio is a relative measurement that describes the related cost of losses and expenses for every $100 of earned premiums. A combined ratio below 100 demonstrates underwriting profit; a combined ratio above 100 demonstrates underwriting losses.

Core Earnings- a non-GAAP measure, is an important measure of the Company’s operating performance. The Company believes that core earnings provides investors with a valuable measure of the underlying performance of the Company’s businesses because it reveals trends in our insurance and financial services businesses that may be obscured by including the net effect of certain realized capital gains and losses, certain restructuring and other costs, loss on extinguishment of debt, pension settlements, integration and transaction costs in connection with an acquired business, gains and losses on reinsurance transactions, income tax benefit from a reduction in deferred income tax valuation allowance, impact of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 ("Tax Reform") on net deferred tax assets, and results of discontinued operations. Some realized capital gains and losses are primarily driven by investment decisions and external economic developments, the nature and timing of which are unrelated to the insurance and underwriting aspects of our business. Accordingly, core earnings excludes the effect of all realized gains and losses that tend to be variable from period to period based on capital market conditions. The Company believes, however, that some realized capital gains and losses are integrally related to our insurance operations, so core earnings includes net realized gains and losses such as net periodic settlements on credit derivatives. These net realized gains and losses are directly related to an offsetting item included in the income statement such as net investment income. Core earnings are net of preferred stock dividends declared since they are a cost of financing more akin to interest expense on debt and are expected to be a recurring expense as long as the preferred stock is outstanding. Net income (loss), net income (loss) available to common stockholders and income (loss) from continuing operations, net of tax, available to common stockholders are the most directly comparable U.S. GAAP measures to core earnings. Core earnings should not be considered as a substitute for net income (loss), net income (loss) available to common stockholders or income (loss) from continuing operations, net of tax, available to common stockholders and does not reflect the overall profitability of the Company’s business. Therefore, the Company believes that it is useful for investors to evaluate net income (loss), net income (loss) available to common stockholders, income (loss) from continuing operations, net of tax, available to common stockholders and core earnings when reviewing the Company’s performance.

33

Part II - Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Reconciliation of Net Income (Loss) to Core Earnings

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[1]Includes income tax benefit on items not included in core earnings and other federal income tax benefits and charges, including an $877 charge in 2017 primarily due to a reduction in net deferred tax assets as a result of the decrease in the Federal income tax rate from 35% to 21%.

Core Earnings Margin- a non-GAAP financial measure that the Company uses to evaluate, and believes is an important measure of, the Group Benefits segment’s operating performance. Core earnings margin is calculated by dividing (a) core earnings by (b) revenues excluding buyouts and realized gains (losses). Net income margin is the most directly comparable U.S. GAAP measure. The Company believes that core earnings margin provides investors with a valuable measure of the performance of Group Benefits because it reveals trends in the business that may be obscured by the effect of buyouts and realized gains (losses) on revenues or obscured by the effect on net income of realized capital gains (losses), integration costs, and the impact of Tax Reform on net deferred tax assets. Core earnings margin should not be considered as a substitute for net income margin and does not reflect the overall profitability of Group Benefits. Therefore, the Company believes it is important for investors to evaluate both net income margin and core earnings margin when reviewing performance. A reconciliation of net income margin to core earnings margin is set forth in the Results of Operations section within MD&A - Group Benefits.

Expense Ratio- for the underwriting segments of Commercial Lines and Personal Lines is the ratio of underwriting expenses less fee income, to earned premiums. Underwriting expenses include the amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs ("DAC") and insurance operating costs and expenses, including certain centralized services costs and bad debt expense. Deferred policy acquisition costs include commissions, taxes, licenses and fees and other incremental direct underwriting expenses and are amortized over the policy term.

The expense ratio for Group Benefits is expressed as the ratio of insurance operating costs and other expenses including amortization of intangibles and amortization of DAC, to premiums and other considerations, excluding buyout premiums. The expense ratio does not include integration and other transaction costs associated with an acquired business.

Fee Income- is largely driven from amounts earned as a result of contractually defined percentages of assets under management in our Hartford Funds business. These fees are generally earned on a daily basis. Therefore, the growth in assets 

under management either through positive net flows or favorable market performance will have a favorable impact on fee income. Conversely, either negative net flows or unfavorable market performance will reduce fee income.

Loss and Loss Adjustment Expense Ratio- a measure of the cost of claims incurred in the calendar year divided by earned premium and includes losses and loss adjustment expenses incurred for both the current and prior accident years. Among other factors, the loss and loss adjustment expense ratio needed for the Company to achieve its targeted return on equity fluctuates from year to year based on changes in the expected investment yield over the claim settlement period, the timing of expected claim settlements and the targeted returns set by management based on the competitive environment.

The loss and loss adjustment expense ratio is affected by claim frequency and claim severity, particularly for shorter-tail property lines of business, where the emergence of claim frequency and severity is credible and likely indicative of ultimate losses. Claim frequency represents the percentage change in the average number of reported claims per unit of exposure in the current accident year compared to that of the previous accident year. Claim severity represents the percentage change in the estimated average cost per claim in the current accident year compared to that of the previous accident year. As one of the factors used to determine pricing, the Company’s practice is to first make an overall assumption about claim frequency and severity for a given line of business and then, as part of the ratemaking process, adjust the assumption as appropriate for the particular state, product or coverage.

Loss and Loss Adjustment Expense Ratio before Catastrophes and Prior Accident Year Development- a measure of the cost of non-catastrophe loss and loss adjustment expenses incurred in the current accident year divided by earned premiums. Management believes that the current accident year loss and loss adjustment expense ratio before catastrophes is a performance measure that is useful to investors as it removes the impact of volatile and unpredictable catastrophe losses and prior accident year development.

34

Part II - Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Loss Ratio, excluding Buyouts- utilized for the Group Benefits segment and is expressed as a ratio of benefits, losses and loss adjustment expenses to premiums and other considerations, excluding buyout premiums. Since Group Benefits occasionally buys a block of claims for a stated premium amount, the Company excludes this buyout from the loss ratio used for evaluating the profitability of the business as buyouts may distort the loss ratio. Buyout premiums represent takeover of open claim liabilities and other non-recurring premium amounts.

Mutual Fund and Exchange-Traded Product Assets- are owned by the shareholders of those products and not by the Company and, therefore, are not reflected in the Company’s consolidated financial statements except in instances where the Company seeds new investment products and holds an investment in the fund for a period of time. Mutual fund and ETP assets are a measure used by the Company primarily because a significant portion of the Company’s Hartford Funds segment revenues are based upon asset values. These revenues increase or decrease with a rise or fall in AUM whether caused by changes in the market or through net flows.

New Business Written Premium- represents the amount of premiums charged for policies issued to customers who were not insured with the Company in the previous policy term. New business written premium plus renewal policy written premium equals total written premium.

Policies in Force- represents the number of policies with coverage in effect as of the end of the period. The number of policies in force is a growth measure used for Personal Lines and standard commercial lines within Commercial Lines and is affected by both new business growth and policy count retention.

Policy Count Retention- represents the ratio of the number of policies renewed during the period divided by the number of policies available to renew. The number of policies available to renew represents the number of policies, net of any cancellations, written in the previous policy term. Policy count retention is affected by a number of factors, including the percentage of renewal policy quotes accepted and decisions by the Company to non-renew policies because of specific policy underwriting concerns or because of a decision to reduce premium writings in certain classes of business or states. Policy count retention is also affected by advertising and rate actions taken by competitors.

Policyholder Dividend Ratio- the ratio of policyholder dividends to earned premium.

Prior Accident Year Loss and Loss Adjustment Expense Ratio- represents the increase (decrease) in the estimated cost of settling catastrophe and non-catastrophe claims incurred in prior accident years as recorded in the current calendar year divided by earned premiums.

Reinstatement Premiums- represents additional ceded premium paid for the reinstatement of the amount of reinsurance coverage that was reduced as a result of the Company ceding losses to reinsurers.

Renewal Earned Price Increase (Decrease)- Written premiums are earned over the policy term, which is six months for certain Personal Lines automobile business and 

twelve months for substantially all of the remainder of the Company’s Property and Casualty business. Since the Company earns premiums over the six to twelve month term of the policies, renewal earned price increases (decreases) lag renewal written price increases (decreases) by six to twelve months.

Renewal Written Price Increase (Decrease)- for Commercial Lines, represents the combined effect of rate changes, amount of insurance and individual risk pricing decisions per unit of exposure on policies that renewed. For Personal Lines, renewal written price increases represent the total change in premium per policy since the prior year on those policies that renewed and includes the combined effect of rate changes, amount of insurance and other changes in exposure. For Personal Lines, other changes in exposure include, but are not limited to, the effect of changes in number of drivers, vehicles and incidents, as well as changes in customer policy elections, such as deductibles and limits. The rate component represents the change in rate filed with and approved by state regulators during the period and the amount of insurance represents the change in the value of the rating base, such as model year/vehicle symbol for automobiles, building replacement costs for property and wage inflation for workers’ compensation. A number of factors affect renewal written price increases (decreases) including expected loss costs as projected by the Company’s pricing actuaries, rate filings approved by state regulators, risk selection decisions made by the Company’s underwriters and marketplace competition. Renewal written price changes reflect the property and casualty insurance market cycle. Prices tend to increase for a particular line of business when insurance carriers have incurred significant losses in that line of business in the recent past or the industry as a whole commits less of its capital to writing exposures in that line of business. Prices tend to decrease when recent loss experience has been favorable or when competition among insurance carriers increases. Renewal written price statistics are subject to change from period to period, based on a number of factors, including changes in actuarial estimates and the effect of subsequent cancellations and non-renewals, and modifications made to better reflect ultimate pricing achieved.

Return on Assets (“ROA”), Core Earnings- a non-GAAP financial measure that the Company uses to evaluate, and believes is an important measure of, the Hartford Funds segment’s operating performance. ROA, core earnings is calculated by dividing core earnings by a daily average AUM. ROA is the most directly comparable U.S. GAAP measure. The Company believes that ROA, core earnings, provides investors with a valuable measure of the performance of the Hartford Funds segment because it reveals trends in our business that may be obscured by the effect of realized gains (losses). ROA, core earnings, should not be considered as a substitute for ROA and does not reflect the overall profitability of our Hartford Funds business. Therefore, the Company believes it is important for investors to evaluate both ROA, and ROA, core earnings when reviewing the Hartford Funds segment performance. A reconciliation of ROA to ROA, core earnings is set forth in the Results of Operations section within MD&A - Hartford Funds.

Underlying Combined Ratio- a non-GAAP financial measure, represents the combined ratio before catastrophes and prior accident year development. Combined ratio is the most directly comparable U.S. GAAP measure. The Company believes the underlying combined ratio is an important measure of the trend in profitability since it removes the impact of volatile and 

35

Part II - Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

unpredictable catastrophe losses and prior accident year loss and loss adjustment expense reserve development. A reconciliation of combined ratio to underlying combined ratio is set forth in the Results of Operations section within MD&A - Commercial Lines and Personal Lines.

Underwriting Gain (Loss)- The Company's management evaluates profitability of the P&C businesses primarily on the basis of underwriting gain (loss). Underwriting gain (loss) is a before tax measure that represents earned premiums less incurred losses, loss adjustment expenses, amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs, underwriting expenses, amortization of other intangible assets and dividends to policyholders. Underwriting gain (loss) is influenced significantly by earned premium growth and the adequacy of the Company's pricing. Underwriting profitability over time is also greatly influenced by the Company's pricing and underwriting discipline, which seeks to manage exposure to loss through favorable risk selection and diversification, its management of claims, its use of reinsurance and its ability to manage its expense ratio, which it accomplishes through economies of scale and its management of acquisition costs and other underwriting expenses. Net income (loss) is the most directly comparable GAAP measure. The Company believes that underwriting gain (loss) provides investors with a valuable measure of before tax profitability derived from underwriting activities, which are managed separately from the Company's investing activities. A reconciliation of net income (loss) to underwriting gain (loss) for Commercial Lines, Personal Lines and Property & Casualty Other Operations is set forth in segment sections of MD&A.

Written and Earned Premiums- Written premium is a statutory accounting financial measure which represents the amount of premiums charged for policies issued, net of reinsurance, during a fiscal period. Earned premium is a U.S. GAAP and statutory measure. Premiums are considered earned and are included in the financial results on a pro rata basis over the policy period. Management believes that written premium is a performance measure that is useful to investors as it reflects current trends in the Company’s sale of property and casualty insurance products. Written and earned premium are recorded net of ceded reinsurance premium.

Traditional life and disability insurance type products, such as those sold by Group Benefits, collect premiums from policyholders in exchange for financial protection for the policyholder from a specified insurable loss, such as death or disability. These premiums, together with net investment income earned, are used to pay the contractual obligations under these insurance contracts. Two major factors, new sales and persistency, impact premium growth. Sales can increase or decrease in a given year based on a number of factors including, but not limited to, customer demand for the Company’s product offerings, pricing competition, distribution channels and the Company’s reputation and ratings. Persistency refers to the percentage of premium remaining in-force from year-to-year.

THE HARTFORD'S OPERATIONS

Overview

The Hartford conducts business principally in five reporting segments including Commercial Lines, Personal Lines, Property & Casualty Other Operations, Group Benefits and Hartford Funds, as well as a Corporate category. The Company includes in the Corporate category investment management fees and expenses related to managing third party business, including management of the invested assets of Talcott Resolution, discontinued operations related to the life and annuity business sold in May 2018, reserves for run-off structured settlement and terminal funding agreement liabilities, capital raising activities (including debt financing and related interest expense), purchase accounting adjustments related to goodwill and other expenses not allocated to the reporting segments. In addition, Corporate includes a 9.7% ownership interest in the legal entity that acquired the life and annuity business sold in May 2018. 

The Company derives its revenues principally from: (a) premiums earned for insurance coverage provided to insureds; (b) management fees on mutual fund and ETP assets; (c) net investment income; (d) fees earned for services provided to third parties; and (e) net realized capital gains and losses. Premiums charged for insurance coverage are earned principally on a pro rata basis over the terms of the related policies in-force. 

The profitability of the Company's property and casualty insurance businesses over time is greatly influenced by the Company’s underwriting discipline, which seeks to manage exposure to loss through favorable risk selection and diversification, its management of claims, its use of reinsurance, the size of its in force block, actual mortality and morbidity experience, and its ability to manage its expense ratio which it accomplishes through economies of scale and its management of acquisition costs and other underwriting expenses. Pricing adequacy depends on a number of factors, including the ability to obtain regulatory approval for rate changes, proper evaluation of underwriting risks, the ability to project future loss cost frequency and severity based on historical loss experience adjusted for known trends, the Company’s response to rate actions taken by competitors, its expense levels and expectations about regulatory and legal developments. The Company seeks to price its insurance policies such that insurance premiums and future net investment income earned on premiums received will cover underwriting expenses and the ultimate cost of paying claims reported on the policies and provide for a profit margin. For many of its insurance products, the Company is required to obtain approval for its premium rates from state insurance departments.

Similar to Property & Casualty, profitability of the Group Benefits business depends, in large part, on the ability to evaluate and price risks appropriately and make reliable estimates of mortality, morbidity, disability and longevity. To manage the pricing risk, Group Benefits generally offers term insurance policies, allowing for the adjustment of rates or policy terms in order to minimize the adverse effect of market trends, loss costs, declining interest rates and other factors. However, as policies are typically sold with rate guarantees of up to three years, pricing for the 

36

Part II - Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Company’s products could prove to be inadequate if loss and expense trends emerge adversely during the rate guarantee period. For some of its products, the Company is required to obtain approval for its premium rates from state insurance departments. New and renewal business for group benefits business, particularly for long-term disability, are priced using an assumption about expected investment yields over time. While the Company employs asset-liability duration matching strategies to mitigate risk and may use interest-rate sensitive derivatives to hedge its exposure in the Group Benefits investment portfolio, cash flow patterns related to the payment of benefits and claims are uncertain and actual investment yields could differ significantly from expected investment yields, affecting profitability of the business. In addition to appropriately evaluating and pricing risks, the profitability of the Group Benefits business depends on other factors, including the Company’s response to pricing decisions and other actions taken by competitors, its ability to offer voluntary products and self-service capabilities, the persistency of its sold business and its ability to manage its expenses which it seeks to achieve through economies of scale and operating efficiencies.

The financial results of the Company’s mutual fund and ETP businesses depend largely on the amount of assets under management and the level of fees charged based, in part, on asset share class and product type. Changes in assets under management are driven by two main factors, net flows and the market return of the funds, which are heavily influenced by the return realized in the equity and bond markets. Net flows are 

comprised of new sales less redemptions by mutual fund and ETP stockholders. Financial results are highly correlated to the growth in assets under management since these products generally earn fee income on a daily basis.

The investment return, or yield, on invested assets is an important element of the Company’s earnings since insurance products are priced with the assumption that premiums received can be invested for a period of time before benefits, losses and loss adjustment expenses are paid. Due to the need to maintain sufficient liquidity to satisfy claim obligations, the majority of the Company’s invested assets have been held in available-for-sale securities, including, among other asset classes, corporate bonds, municipal bonds, government debt, short-term debt, mortgage-backed securities, asset-backed securities and collateralized loan obligations. 

The primary investment objective for the Company is to maximize economic value, consistent with acceptable risk parameters, including the management of credit risk and interest rate sensitivity of invested assets, while generating sufficient after tax income to meet policyholder and corporate obligations. Investment strategies are developed based on a variety of factors including business needs, regulatory requirements and tax considerations. 

For further information on the Company's reporting segments, refer to Part I, Item 1, Business — Reporting Segments.

Financial Highlights

Net Income (Loss) Available to Common StockholdersNet Income (Loss) Available to Common Stockholders per Diluted ShareBook Value per Diluted Share

Net Income (loss) available to common stockholders of $1,801, or $5.03 per basic share and $4.95 per diluted share, compared with prior year net loss of $3,131, or $8.61 per basic and diluted share. The change from net loss in 2017 to a net income in 2018 was primarily due to a number of charges in 2017, including a $3.3 billion loss on the life and annuity business sold in May 2018, net of tax, $877 of income tax expense primarily from reducing net deferred tax assets due to the reduction of the corporate Federal income tax rate, and the effect of a pension settlement charge of $488, net of tax. Apart from these charges in 2017, net income available to common stockholders increased, driven by higher net income in Commercial Lines, Group Benefits and Hartford Funds that was partially attributable to a lower corporate Federal income tax rate in 2018.

37

Part II - Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Book value per diluted common share decreased to $35.06 from $37.11 as of December 31, 2017 as a result of a 5% decrease in common stockholders' equity resulting primarily from a decrease in AOCI over the period, partially offset by net income in excess of stockholder dividends. 

Net Investment Income Investment Yield After Tax

Net investment income increased 11% to $1,780 compared with the prior year primarily due to higher average fixed maturities asset levels during 2018 as compared to 2017 largely driven by the acquisition of Aetna's U.S. group life and disability business in November 2017 and, to a lesser extent, higher income from partnerships and other alternative investments and a higher reinvestment rate on fixed maturities.

Net realized capital gains (losses) changed to net losses of $112 from net gains of $165 for the year ended December 31, 2017, with losses in 2018 primarily driven by net losses on sales of fixed maturity securities due to sector repositioning and duration, liquidity and credit management as well as net losses on equity securities resulting from depreciation in value due to lower equity market levels, partially offset by gains on sales due to tactical repositioning. 

Annualized investment yield, after tax of 3.3%, was up 30 basis points from 2017 primarily due to the effect of a lower corporate Federal income tax rate.

Net unrealized gains, after tax for fixed maturities in the investment portfolio decreased by $2,180 compared with the prior year primarily due to the effect of credit spread widening and higher interest rates and the removal of AOCI related to the life and annuity business sold in May 2018.

P&C Written PremiumsP&C Combined Ratio 

Written premiums for Property & Casualty decreased 1.0% compared with the prior year, reflecting a decrease in Personal Lines, largely offset by an increase in Commercial Lines.

38

Part II - Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Combined ratio for Property & Casualty decreased 2.2 points to 97.8 compared with a combined ratio of 100.0 for 2017 largely due to a lower current accident year loss and loss adjustment expense ratio for Personal Lines and favorable prior accident year development, partially offset by higher expenses.

Catastrophe losses of $821, before tax, decreased from catastrophe losses of $836, before tax, in the prior year, with catastrophes in both years including losses from California wildfires, hurricanes, winter storms and various wind and hail events.

Prior accident year development for property and casualty was a net favorable $167, before tax, in 2018 primarily due to a decrease in reserves for workers' compensation, automobile liability and 2017 catastrophes, partially offset by an increase in reserves for general liability. Reserve development was a net favorable $41, before tax, in 2017 primarily due to a decrease in reserves for workers compensation and package business, partially offset by a reserve increase for customs bond claims.

Group Benefits Net Income Margin

Net income margin for Group Benefits declined from 7.2% in 2017 to 5.6% in 2018 primarily due to net realized capital losses of $39, net of tax, in 2018 as compared to net realized capital gains of $19, net of tax, in 2017, integration costs of $37, net of tax, in 2018 as compared to $11, net of tax, in 2017, and a tax benefit of $52 in 2017 from reducing net deferred tax liabilities due to the lower corporate income tax rate, partially offset by an increase in favorable prior incurral year development on long-term disability and premium waiver primarily due to favorable incidence trends and the effect of scale from the acquisition of Aetna’s U.S. group life and disability business on fixed expenses. Prior accident year development, pre-tax, for Group Benefits increased from $185 in 2017 to $324 in 2018 with most of that development from the 2017 incurral year as incidence trends become known after the elimination period is satisfied. 

CONSOLIDATED RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

The Consolidated Results of Operations should be read in conjunction with the Company's Consolidated Financial Statements and the related Notes beginning on page F-1 as well as with the segment operating results sections of MD&A.

39

Part II - Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Consolidated Results of Operations

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Year ended December 31, 2018 compared to year ended December 31, 2017

Net income (loss) available to common stockholders increased from a net loss in 2017, primarily due to a number of charges in 2017, including a $3.3 billion after tax loss on sale of the life and annuity business sold in May 2018, $877 of income tax expense primarily from reducing net deferred tax assets due to the reduction of the corporate Federal income tax rate, and the effect of a pension settlement charge of $488, after tax. Apart from these charges in 2017, net income available to common stockholders increased, driven by higher net income in Commercial Lines, Group Benefits and Hartford Funds that was partially attributable to a lower corporate Federal income tax rate in 2018. Higher earned premium and net investment income in Commercial Lines and Group Benefits, including from the acquisition of Aetna’s U.S. group life and disability business, increased fee income in Hartford Funds, more favorable prior accident year development in workers’ compensation, a lower current accident year loss ratio before catastrophes in Personal Lines and improved long term disability results, were partially offset by the effect of lower Personal Lines earned premium and higher insurance operating costs and other expenses, and a change to net realized capital losses.

Earned premiums increased primarily due to the acquisition of Aetna's U.S. group life and disability benefits business that has increased earned premiums in the Group Benefits segment. Earned premiums in Property and Casualty declined reflecting an 8% decline in Personal Lines, partially 

offset by a 3% increase in Commercial Lines. For a discussion of the Company's operating results by segment, see MD&A - Segment Operating Summaries.

Fee income increased, reflecting higher income in Group Benefits related to an increase in administrative service contracts as a result of the acquisition from Aetna and in Hartford Funds largely due to higher average daily AUM during the year despite a decline in AUM at the end of the year.

Net investment income increased primarily due to a higher level of invested assets due to the acquisition of Aetna's U.S. group life and disability business. For further discussion of investment results, see MD&A - Investment Results, Net Investment Income.

Net realized capital losses of $112 in 2018 were down from net realized capital gains of $165 in 2017. Net losses in 2018 were primarily driven by net losses on sales of fixed maturity securities due to sector repositioning and duration, liquidity and credit management as well as net losses on equity securities resulting from depreciation in value due to lower equity market levels, partially offset by gains on sales due to tactical repositioning. For further discussion of investment results, see MD&A - Investment Results, Net Realized Capital Gains.

Benefits, losses and loss adjustment expenses increased in Group Benefits, partially offset by a decrease in Property & Casualty with the increase in Group Benefits primarily due to the effect of growth in earned premium 

40

Part II - Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

largely resulting from the acquisition of Aetna's U.S. group life and disability business, partially offset by a lower group disability loss ratio. The decrease in incurred losses for Property & Casualty was driven by:

•Current accident year loss and loss adjustment expenses before catastrophes in Property & Casualty decreased, primarily resulting from the effect of lower Personal Lines earned premium and lower loss costs in auto, homeowners and general liability, partially offset by higher loss costs in workers’ compensation.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs was relatively flat year over year as an increase in Commercial Lines was largely offset by a decrease in Personal Lines.

Insurance operating costs and other expenses decreased due to a $750 pension settlement charge in the 2017 period, partially offset by an increase in operating costs associated with the acquisition of Aetna's U.S. group life and disability business, increased commissions in Commercial Lines, and higher variable expenses in Hartford Funds.

Amortization of other intangible assets increased, reflecting the amortization of customer relationship intangibles in the Group Benefits segment that arose from the acquisition of the Aetna U.S. group life and disability business.

Income tax expense decreased primarily due to an $877 charge in 2017 due to a reduction in net deferred tax assets as a result of the lower corporate Federal income tax rate partially offset by an increase in before tax income and the effect of a lower corporate Federal income tax rate in 2018. Differences between the Company's effective income tax rate and the U.S. statutory rate of 21% and 35% in 2018 and 2017, respectively, are due primarily to tax-exempt interest earned on invested assets, stock-based compensation, non-deductible executive compensation and the effects of Tax Reform on net deferred tax 

assets. For further discussion of income taxes, see Note 16 - Income Taxes of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

Income from discontinued operations, net of tax of $322 in 2018, increased from a net loss from discontinued operations of $2.9 billion in 2017. The $322 of income from discontinued operations in 2018 was mostly attributable to recognizing additional retained tax benefits from the sale of the life and annuity business in May 2018 and the reclassification of $193 of stranded tax effects from AOCI to retained earnings related to this sale, both of which reduced the estimated loss on sale. The reclassification of stranded tax effects resulted in a corresponding increase in AOCI related to the assets held for sale. For more information on the reclassification of stranded tax effects, see Note 1 - Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The $2.9 billion net loss on discontinued operations in 2017 was driven by a $3.3 billion net loss on the sale of the life and annuity business which closed on May 31, 2018. 

Year ended December 31, 2017 compared to the year ended December 31, 2016 

Net income (loss) available to common stockholders decreased from net income in 2016 to a net loss in 2017 primarily due to a loss on discontinued operations of $2.9 billion related to the pending sale of the life and annuity business, a charge to income tax expense of $877 arising primarily from the reduction of net deferred tax assets due to the enactment of lower Federal income tax rates and a pension settlement charge of $488 after tax. Partially offsetting the decline were the effects of a $179 after tax change from net realized capital losses in 2016 to net realized capital gains in 2017, the effect of a $423 after tax charge in 2016 related to a loss on reinsurance covering the Company’s asbestos and environmental exposures and a reduction in the valuation allowance on capital loss carryovers in 2016. In addition, a $324 after tax improvement in P&C prior accident year development and higher earnings in Group Benefits and Hartford Funds were largely offset by a $273 after tax increase in current accident year catastrophes and higher variable incentive compensation.

Earned premiums increased by $444, before tax, reflecting growth of 3% in Commercial Lines, including the effect of the Maxum acquisition, and 14% in Group Benefits, including the effect of acquiring the Aetna U.S. group life and disability business, partially offset by a 5% decrease in Personal Lines. For a discussion of the Company's operating results by segment, see MD&A - Results of Operations by segment.

Fee income increased reflecting a 15% increase in Hartford Funds due to higher assets under management driven by market appreciation and positive net flows and the addition of Schroders funds in the fourth quarter of 2016. For a discussion of the Company's operating results by segment, see MD&A - Results of Operations by segment.

Net investment income increased 2%, primarily due to higher income from limited partnerships and other alternative investments, partially offset by lower make-whole payment income on fixed maturities and increased investment expenses. For further discussion of investment results, see MD&A - Investment Results, Net Investment Income (Loss).

41

Part II - Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Net realized capital gains of $165 before tax compared to net realized capital losses of $110 before tax in 2016, primarily due to higher net gains on sales, lower impairments and the effect of losses in 2016 related to the sale of the Company's U.K. property and casualty run-off subsidiaries and the write-down of investments in solar energy partnerships in 2016 that generated tax benefits. For further discussion of investment results, see MD&A - Investment Results, Net Realized Capital Gains (Losses).

Benefits, losses and loss adjustment expenses increased 11% in Group Benefits and decreased 1% in P&C. The increase in Group Benefits was largely due to the acquisition of Aetna’s U.S. group life and disability business. The decrease in P&C was primarily due to the effect of unfavorable prior accident year reserve development in 2016, largely offset by higher catastrophe losses in 2017.

•Current accident year losses and loss adjustment expenses before catastrophes in Property & Casualty were relatively flat, primarily resulting from improved loss ratios and lower earned premiums in Personal Lines, offset by higher loss ratios in workers' compensation and general liability. 

•Current accident year catastrophe losses of $836, before tax, compared to $416, before tax, for the prior year period. Catastrophe losses in 2017 were primarily due to hurricanes Harvey and Irma, California wildfires and multiple wind and hail events across various U.S. geographic regions, primarily in the Midwest, Colorado, Texas and the Southeast. Catastrophe losses in 2016 were primarily due to multiple wind and hail and winter storm events across various U.S. geographic regions, concentrated in Texas and the central and southern plains and, to a lesser extent, winter storms and hurricane Matthew. For additional information, see MD&A - Critical Accounting Estimates, Property & Casualty Insurance Product Reserves, Net of Reinsurance.

•Favorable prior accident year reserve development in Property & Casualty of $41, before tax, compared to unfavorable reserve development of $457, before tax, for the prior year period. Prior accident year development in 2017 primarily included decreases in reserves for workers’ compensation and small commercial package business, partially offset by an increase in reserves for bond claims. Prior accident year development in 2016 was largely due to a $268 increase in asbestos and environmental reserves and a $160 increase in Personal Lines automobile liability reserves. For additional information, see MD&A - Critical Accounting Estimates, Reserve Rollforwards and Development.

Amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs was relatively flat as higher amortization on higher earned premium for Commercial Lines was offset by lower amortization on lower earned premium for Personal Lines.

Insurance operating costs and other expenses increased primarily due to a $750 pre-tax pension 

settlement charge. Apart from the pension settlement charge, insurance operating costs and other expenses increased by 9%, primarily driven by higher variable incentive plan compensation, increased IT costs in Commercial Lines, higher variable expenses in Hartford Funds and $20, before tax, of state guaranty fund assessments in Group Benefits, partially offset by lower direct marketing and operation costs in Personal Lines. Effective with awards granted in March 2017, long-term incentive compensation awards to retirement-eligible employees now fully vest when they are granted, which resulted in an accelerated recognition of compensation expense in 2017 of $22 before tax. For additional information on the pension settlement charge in second quarter 2017, see Note 15 - Employee Benefit Plans of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.

Amortization of other intangible assets increased by $10 largely due to amortization of identifiable intangible assets recorded as a result of the acquisition of the Aetna U.S. group life and disability business, including in-force contracts, customer relationships and a marketing agreement with Aetna. 

Income tax expense increased primarily due to a charge of $877 as a result of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act ("Tax Reform") enacted in December, 2017. Among other changes, Tax Reform reduced the Federal corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21% effective January 1, 2018 which resulted in a reduction of the Company's net deferred tax assets, including its net operating loss carryovers. Also contributing to the increase in income tax expense were Federal income tax benefits of $113 in 2016 arising from investments in solar energy partnerships that generated tax benefits and the effect of a federal income tax benefit of $65 in 2016 related to the sale of the Company's U.K. property and casualty run-off subsidiaries. 

Differences between the Company's effective income tax rate and the U.S. statutory rate of 35% are due primarily to the effects of Tax Reform on net deferred tax assets, tax exempt interest earned on invested assets, changes in the valuation allowance recorded on capital loss carryovers and federal tax credits associated with investments in solar energy partnerships. For further discussion of income taxes, see Note 16 - Income Taxes of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of tax decreased from income of $283 in 2016 to a net loss of $2.9 billion in 2017 with the net loss in 2017 due to a loss on sale of the Company’s life and annuity business of $3.3 billion, partially offset by operating income from discontinued operations of $388. Operating income from discontinued operations increased from $283 in 2016 primarily due to lower net realized capital losses in 2017. Apart from the reduction in net realized capital losses, earnings were relatively flat as an increase in the unlock benefit and lower interest credited were largely offset by lower net investment income and lower fee income due to the continued run off of the variable annuity block.

42

Part II - Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

INVESTMENT RESULTS

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[1]Effective January 1, 2018, with the adoption of new accounting standards for financial instruments, equity securities, AFS were reclassified to equity securities at fair value.

[2]Primarily consists of investments of consolidated investment funds and derivative instruments which are carried at fair value. 

Year ended December 31, 2018 compared to the year ended December 31, 2017 

Total investments increased primarily due to an increase in short-term investments and mortgage loans, largely offset by a decrease in fixed maturities, AFS.

Fixed maturities, AFS decreased primarily due to a decrease in valuations due to widening of spreads and higher interest rates.

Short-term investments increased due to proceeds from the sale of the life and annuity business sold in May 2018 and holding additional short-term investments in preparation to fund the Navigators acquisition and debt that matured in January 2019. 

Mortgage Loans increased largely due to new originations of commercial mortgage loans within the industrial, multifamily and single family markets. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[1]Yields calculated using annualized net investment income divided by the monthly average invested assets at amortized cost as applicable, excluding repurchase agreement and securities lending collateral, if any, and derivatives book value. 

[2]Includes net investment income on short-term investments.

[3]Primarily includes income from derivatives that qualify for hedge accounting and hedge fixed maturities.

Year ended December 31, 2018 compared to the year ended December 31, 2017

Total net investment income increased primarily due to higher income from fixed maturities as a result of higher average asset levels during 2018 as compared to 2017 largely driven by the acquisition of Aetna's U.S. group life and disability business in November 2017. In addition, total net investment 

income increased due to higher returns on private equity and real estate limited partnership investments as well as a higher reinvestment rate on fixed maturities.

Annualized net investment income yield, excluding non-routine items which include prepayment penalties on mortgage loans and make-whole payments on fixed maturities, was 3.7% in 2018 up from 3.6% for the same period for 2017. 

43

Part II - Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Average reinvestment rate, excluding certain U.S. Treasury securities and cash equivalent securities, for the year ended December 31, 2018, was approximately 4.0% which was above the average yield of sales and maturities of 3.7% for the same period. For the year ended December 31, 2018, the average reinvestment rate of 4.0% increased from 3.5% for the 2017 period, due to higher interest rates. 

We expect the annualized net investment income yield for the 2019 calendar year, excluding limited partnerships and other alternative investments, to approximate the portfolio yield earned in 2018 though it could be higher depending on if reinvestment rates stay above the sales/maturity yield. The estimated impact on net investment income yield is subject to change as the composition of the portfolio changes through portfolio management and changes in market conditions.

Year ended December 31, 2017 compared to the year ended December 31, 2016 

Total net investment income increased primarily due to higher income from limited partnerships and other alternative investments, partially offset by lower make whole payment income on fixed maturities and increased investment expense. Income from limited partnerships and other alternative investments increased due to higher valuation write-ups of private equity partnerships and strong returns on real estate investments in 2017.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[1]Effective January 1, 2018. with the adoption of new accounting standards for equity securities at fair value, includes all changes in fair value and trading gains and losses for equity securities.

[2]See Other-Than-Temporary Impairments within the Investment Portfolio Risks and Risk Management section of the MD&A.

[3]See Valuation Allowances on Mortgage Loans within the Investment Portfolio Risks and Risk Management section of the MD&A.

[4]Primarily consists of changes in value of non-qualifying derivatives, including credit derivatives and interest rate derivatives used to manage duration. Also included for the year ended December 31, 2016, is a loss related to the write-down of investments in solar energy partnerships, which generated tax benefits, and a loss related to the sale of the Company's U.K. property and casualty run-off subsidiaries.

Year ended December 31, 2018

Gross gains and losses on sales were primarily the result of sector repositioning and duration, liquidity and credit management within corporate securities, U.S. treasury securities and tax-exempt municipal bonds.

Equity securities net losses were driven by depreciation of equity securities due to lower equity market levels, partially offset by gains on sales due to tactical repositioning.

Other, net losses included losses of $11 related to credit derivatives due to credit spread widening.

Year ended December 31, 2017

Gross gains and losses on sales were primarily a result of duration, liquidity and credit management within corporate securities, U.S. treasury securities, equity securities, and tax-exempt municipal bonds.

Other, net gain included gains of $21 related to credit derivatives due to credit spread tightening, partially offset by losses of $7 related to equity derivatives hedging against the 

impact of a decline in the equity market on the investment portfolio.

Year ended December 31, 2016

Gross gains and losses on sales were primarily a result of duration, liquidity and credit management within corporate securities, U.S. treasury securities, equity securities, and tax-exempt municipal bonds.

Other, net loss included losses of $96 related to the write-down of investments in solar energy partnerships that generated solar tax credits and losses of $81 associated with the Company's U.K. property and casualty run-off subsidiaries that were sold in May 2017. In addition, there were losses of $15 related to equity derivatives which were hedging against the impact of a decline in the equity market on the investment portfolio.

44

Part II - Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ, and in the past have differed, from those estimates.

The Company has identified the following estimates as critical in that they involve a higher degree of judgment and are subject to a significant degree of variability:

•property and casualty insurance product reserves, net of reinsurance;

•group benefit long-term disability (LTD) reserves, net of reinsurance;

•evaluation of goodwill for impairment;

•valuation of investments and derivative instruments including evaluation of other-than-temporary impairments on available-for-sale securities and valuation allowances on mortgage loans;

•valuation allowance on deferred tax assets; and

•contingencies relating to corporate litigation and regulatory matters.

Certain of these estimates are particularly sensitive to market conditions, and deterioration and/or volatility in the worldwide debt or equity markets could have a material impact on the Consolidated Financial Statements. In developing these estimates 

management makes subjective and complex judgments that are inherently uncertain and subject to material change as facts and circumstances develop. Although variability is inherent in these estimates, management believes the amounts provided are appropriate based upon the facts available upon compilation of the financial statements.

Property & Casualty Insurance Product Reserves 

P&C Loss and Loss Adjustment Expense Reserves, 

Net of Reinsurance, by Segment as of December 31, 2018

Loss and LAE Reserves, Net of Reinsurance as of December 31, 2018

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[1]Commercial Lines policy packages that include property and general liability coverages are generally referred to as the package line of business.

For descriptions of the coverages provided under the lines of 

45

Part II - Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

business shown above, see Part I - Item1, Business.

Overview of Reserving for Property and Casualty Insurance Claims

It typically takes many months or years to pay claims incurred under a property and casualty insurance product; accordingly, the Company must establish reserves at the time the loss is incurred. Most of the Company’s policies provide for occurrence-based coverage where the loss is incurred when a claim event happens like an automobile accident, house or building fire or injury to an employee under a workers’ compensation policy. Some of the Company's policies, mostly for directors and officers insurance and errors and omissions insurance, are claims-made policies where the loss is incurred in the period the claim event is reported to the Company even if the loss event itself occurred in an earlier period.

Loss and loss adjustment expense reserves provide for the estimated ultimate costs of paying claims under insurance policies written by the Company, less amounts paid to date. These reserves include estimates for both claims that have been reported and those that have not yet been reported, and include estimates of all expenses associated with processing and settling these claims. Incurred but not reported (“IBNR”) reserves represent the difference between the estimated ultimate cost of all claims and the actual loss and loss adjustment expenses reported to the Company by claimants (“reported losses”). Reported losses represent cumulative loss and loss adjustment expenses paid plus case reserves for outstanding reported claims. Company actuaries evaluate the total reserves (IBNR and case reserves) on an accident year basis. An accident year is the calendar year in which a loss is incurred, or, in the case of claims-made policies, the calendar year in which a loss is reported.

Factors that Change Reserve Estimates- Reserve estimates can change over time because of unexpected changes in the external environment. Inflation in medical care, hospital care, automobile parts, wages and home and building repair would cause claims to settle for more than they are initially reserved. Changes in the economy can cause an increase or decrease in the number of reported claims (claim frequency). For example, an improving economy could result in more automobile miles driven and a higher number of automobile reported claims, or a change in economic conditions can lead to more or less workers’ compensation reported claims. An increase in the number or percentage of claims litigated can increase the average settlement amount per claim (claim severity). Changes in the judicial environment can affect interpretations of damages and how policy coverage applies which could increase or decrease claim severity. Over time, judges or juries in certain jurisdictions may be more inclined to determine liability and award damages. New legislation can also change how damages are defined resulting in greater frequency or severity. In addition, new types of injuries may arise from exposures not contemplated when the policies were written. Past examples include pharmaceutical products, silica, lead paint, molestation or abuse and construction defects.

Reserve estimates can also change over time because of changes in internal Company operations. A delay or acceleration in handling claims may signal a need to increase or reduce reserves from what was initially estimated. New lines of business may have loss development patterns that are not well established. Changes in the geographic mix of business, changes in the mix of business 

by industry and changes in the mix of business by policy limit or deductible can increase the risk that losses will ultimately develop differently than the loss development patterns assumed in our reserving. In addition, changes in the quality of risk selection in underwriting and changes in interpretations of policy language could increase or decrease ultimate losses from what was assumed in establishing the reserves.

In the case of assumed reinsurance, all of the above risks apply. The Company assumes insurance risk from certain pools and associations and, prior to 2004, assumed property and casualty risks from other insurance companies. Changes in the case reserving and reporting patterns of insurance companies ceding to The Hartford can create additional uncertainty in estimating the reserves. Due to the inherent complexity of the assumptions used, final claim settlements may vary significantly from the present estimates of direct and assumed reserves, particularly when those settlements may not occur until well into the future.

Reinsurance Recoverables- Through both facultative and treaty reinsurance agreements, the Company cedes a share of the risks it has underwritten to other insurance companies. The Company records reinsurance recoverables for loss and loss adjustment expenses ceded to its reinsurers representing the anticipated recovery from reinsurers of unpaid claims, including IBNR. 

The Company estimates the portion of losses and loss adjustment expenses to be ceded based on the terms of any applicable facultative and treaty reinsurance, including an estimate of how IBNR for losses will ultimately be ceded.

The Company provides an allowance for uncollectible reinsurance, reflecting management’s best estimate of reinsurance cessions that may be uncollectible in the future due to reinsurers’ unwillingness or inability to pay. The estimated allowance considers the credit quality of the Company's reinsurers, recent outcomes in arbitration and litigation in disputes between reinsurers and cedants and recent communication activity between reinsurers and cedants that may signal how the Company’s own reinsurance claims may settle. Where its reinsurance contracts permit, the Company secures funding of future claim obligations with various forms of collateral, including irrevocable letters of credit, secured trusts, funds held accounts and group-wide offsets. The allowance for uncollectible reinsurance was $126 as of December 31, 2018, comprised of $20 related to Commercial Lines, $1 related to Personal Lines and $105 related to Property & Casualty Other Operations.

The Company’s estimate of reinsurance recoverables, net of an allowance for uncollectible reinsurance, is subject to similar risks and uncertainties as the estimate of the gross reserve for unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses for direct and assumed exposures.

Review of Reserve Adequacy- The Hartford regularly reviews the appropriateness of reserve levels at the line of business or more detailed level, taking into consideration the variety of trends that impact the ultimate settlement of claims. For Property & Casualty Other Operations, asbestos and environmental (“A&E”) reserves are reviewed by type of event rather than by line of business. 

Reserve adjustments, which may be material, are reflected in the operating results of the period in which the adjustment is 

46

Part II - Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

determined to be necessary. In the judgment of management, information currently available has been properly considered in establishing the reserves for unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses and in recording the reinsurance recoverables for ceded unpaid losses.

Reserving Methodology

For a discussion of how A&E reserves are set, see MD&A - P&C Insurance Product Reserves, Reserving for Asbestos and Environmental Claims within Property & Casualty Other Operations. The following is a discussion of the reserving methods used for the Company's property and casualty lines of business other than asbestos and environmental.

How Reserves Are Set- Reserves are set by line of business within the operating segments. A single line of business may be written in more than one segment. Case reserves are established by a claims handler on each individual claim and are adjusted as new information becomes known during the course of handling the claim. Lines of business for which reported losses emerge over a long period of time are referred to as long-tail lines of business. Lines of business for which reported losses emerge more quickly are referred to as short-tail lines of business. The Company’s shortest-tail lines of business are homeowners, commercial property and automobile physical damage. The longest tail lines of business include workers’ compensation, general liability, professional liability and assumed reinsurance. For short-tail lines of business, emergence of paid loss and case reserves is credible and likely indicative of ultimate losses. For long-tail lines of business, emergence of paid losses and case reserves is less credible in the early periods after a given accident year and, accordingly, may not be indicative of ultimate losses.

Use of Actuarial Methods and Judgments- The Company’s reserving actuaries regularly review reserves for both current and prior accident years using the most current claim data. A variety of actuarial methods and judgments are used for most lines of business to arrive at selections of estimated ultimate losses and loss adjustment expenses. In 2018, new methods were added to inform these selections where appropriate. The reserve selections incorporate input, as appropriate, from claims personnel, pricing actuaries and operating management about reported loss cost trends and other factors that could affect the reserve estimates. Most reserves are reviewed fully each quarter, including loss and loss adjustment expense reserves for homeowners, commercial property, automobile physical damage, automobile liability, package property business, and workers’ compensation. Other reserves, including most general liability and professional liability lines, are reviewed semi-annually. Certain additional reserves are also reviewed semi-annually or annually, including reserves for losses incurred in accident years older than twelve years for Personal Lines and older than twenty years for Commercial Lines, as well as reserves for bond, assumed reinsurance, latent exposures such as construction defects, and unallocated loss adjustment expenses. For reserves that are reviewed semi-annually or annually, management monitors the emergence of paid and reported losses in the intervening quarters and, if necessary, performs a reserve review to determine whether the reserve estimate should change.

An expected loss ratio is used in initially recording the reserves for both short-tail and long-tail lines of business. This expected 

loss ratio is determined by starting with the average loss ratio of recent prior accident years and adjusting that ratio for the effect of expected changes to earned pricing, loss frequency and severity, mix of business, ceded reinsurance and other factors. For short-tail lines, IBNR for the current accident year is initially recorded as the product of the expected loss ratio for the period, earned premium for the period and the proportion of losses expected to be reported in future calendar periods for the current accident period. For long-tailed lines, IBNR reserves for the current accident year are initially recorded as the product of the expected loss ratio for the period and the earned premium for the period, less reported losses for the period.

As losses emerge or develop in periods subsequent to a given accident year, reserving actuaries use other methods to estimate ultimate unpaid losses in addition to the expected loss ratio method. These primarily include paid and reported loss development methods, frequency/severity techniques and the Bornhuetter-Ferguson method (a combination of the expected loss ratio and paid development or reported development method). Within any one line of business, the methods that are given more influence vary based primarily on the maturity of the accident year, the mix of business and the particular internal and external influences impacting the claims experience or the methods. The output of the reserve reviews are reserve estimates that are referred to herein as the “actuarial indication”.

Reserve Discounting- Most of the Company’s property and casualty insurance product reserves are not discounted. However, the Company has discounted liabilities funded through structured settlements and has discounted certain reserves for indemnity payments due to permanently disabled claimants under workers’ compensation policies. For further discussion of these discounted liabilities, see Note 1 - Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

Differences Between GAAP and Statutory Basis Reserves- As of December 31, 2018 and 2017, U.S. property and casualty insurance product reserves for losses and loss adjustment expenses, net of reinsurance recoverables, reported under U.S. GAAP were less than net reserves reported on a statutory basis. The primary difference between the statutory and GAAP reserve amounts is due to a reinsurance recoverable on ceded asbestos and environmental adverse reserve development under a retroactive reinsurance agreement between the Company and National Indemnity Company ("NICO"), a subsidiary of Berkshire Hathaway Inc. ("Berkshire"), which is included as a reduction of other liabilities under statutory accounting. 

Reserving Methods by Line of Business- Apart from A&E which is discussed in the following section on Property & Casualty Other Operations, below is a general discussion of which reserving methods are preferred by line of business. Because the actuarial estimates are generated at a much finer level of detail than line of business (e.g., by distribution channel, coverage, accident period), other methods than those described for the line of business may also be employed for a coverage and accident year within a line of business. Also, as circumstances change, the methods that are given more influence will change.

47

Part II - Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Preferred Reserving Methods by Line of Business

Commercial property, homeowners and automobile physical damageThese short-tailed lines are fast-developing and paid and reported development techniques are used as these methods use historical data to develop paid and reported loss development patterns, which are then applied to cumulative paid and reported losses by accident period to estimate ultimate losses. In addition to paid and reported development methods, for the most immature accident months, the Company uses frequency and severity techniques and the initial expected loss ratio. The advantage of frequency/severity techniques is that frequency estimates are generally easier to predict and external information can be used to supplement internal data in estimating average severity.

Personal automobile liabilityFor automobile liability, and bodily injury in particular, the Company performs a greater number of techniques than it does for commercial property, homeowners and automobile physical damage. In addition to traditional paid and reported development methods, the Company relies on frequency/severity techniques and Berquist-Sherman techniques. Because the paid development technique is affected by changes in claim closure patterns and the reported development method is affected by changes in case reserving practices, the Company uses Berquist-Sherman techniques which adjust these patterns to reflect current settlement rates and case reserving practices. The Company generally uses the reported development method for older accident years and a combination of reported development, frequency/severity and Berquist-Sherman methods for more recent accident years. For older accident periods, reported losses are a good indicator of ultimate losses given the high percentage of ultimate losses reported to date. For more recent periods, the frequency/severity techniques are not affected as much by changes in case reserve practices and changing disposal rates and the Berquist-Sherman techniques specifically adjust for these changes. 

Automobile liability for commercial linesFor older, more mature accident years, the Company primarily uses reported development techniques. For more recent accident years, the Company relies on several methods that incorporate expected loss ratios, reported loss development, paid loss development, frequency/severity, case reserve adequacy, and claim settlement rates.

Professional liabilityReported and paid loss development patterns for this line tend to be volatile. Therefore, the Company typically relies on frequency and severity techniques.

General liability, bond and large deductible workers’ compensationFor these long-tailed lines of business, the Company generally relies on the expected loss ratio and reported development techniques. The Company generally weights these techniques together, relying more heavily on the expected loss ratio method at early ages of development and more on the reported development method as an accident year matures.

Workers’ compensationWorkers’ compensation is the Company’s single largest reserve line of business and a wide range of methods are used. Methods include paid and reported development techniques, the expected loss ratio and Bornhuetter-Ferguson methods, and an in-depth analysis on the largest states. In recent years, we have seen an acceleration of paid losses relative to historical patterns and have adjusted our expected loss development patterns accordingly. This acceleration is due to an increase in lump sum settlements to claimants across multiple accident years. Adjusting for the effect of an acceleration in payments compared to historical patterns, paid loss development techniques are generally preferred for the workers' compensation line, particularly for more mature accident years. For less mature accident years, the Company places greater reliance on expected loss ratio methods.

Assumed reinsurance and all otherFor these lines, the Company tends to rely mostly on reported development techniques. In assumed reinsurance, assumptions are influenced by information gained from claim and underwriting audits.

Allocated loss adjustment expenses (ALAE)For some lines of business (e.g., professional liability and assumed reinsurance), ALAE and losses are analyzed together. For most lines of business, however, ALAE is analyzed separately, using paid development techniques and a ratio of paid ALAE to paid loss is applied to loss reserves to estimate unpaid ALAE.

Unallocated loss adjustment expenses (ULAE)ULAE is analyzed separately from loss and ALAE. For most lines of business, incurred ULAE costs to be paid in the future are projected based on an expected claim handling cost per claim year, the anticipated claim closure pattern and the ratio of paid ULAE to paid loss is applied to estimated unpaid losses.

In the final step of the reserve review process, senior reserving actuaries and senior management apply their judgment to determine the appropriate level of reserves considering the actuarial indications and other factors not contemplated in the actuarial indications. Those factors include, but are not limited to, the assessed reliability of key loss trends and assumptions used in the current actuarial indications, the maturity of the accident year, pertinent trends observed over the recent past, the level of volatility within a particular line of business, and the improvement or deterioration of actuarial indications in the current period as compared to the prior periods. The Company also considers the magnitude of the difference between the actuarial indication and the recorded reserves. As of December 31, 2018, recorded reserves were above the actuarial indications by an amount comparable with December 31, 2017. 

Based on the results of the quarterly reserve review process, the Company determines the appropriate reserve adjustments, if any, to record. In general, adjustments are made more quickly to more mature accident years and less volatile lines of business. Such 

adjustments of reserves are referred to as “prior accident year development”. Increases in previous estimates of ultimate loss costs are referred to as either an increase in prior accident year reserves or as unfavorable reserve development. Decreases in previous estimates of ultimate loss costs are referred to as either a decrease in prior accident year reserves or as favorable reserve development. Reserve development can influence the comparability of year over year underwriting results.

For a discussion of changes to reserve estimates recorded in 2018, see the Reserve Development section below.

Current Trends Contributing to Reserve Uncertainty

The Hartford is a multi-line company in the property and casualty insurance business. The Hartford is therefore subject to reserve uncertainty stemming from changes in loss trends and other conditions which could become material at any point in time. As market conditions and loss trends develop, management must 

48

Part II - Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

assess whether those conditions constitute a long-term trend that should result in a reserving action (i.e., increasing or decreasing the reserve).

General liability- Within Commercial Lines and Property & Casualty Other Operations, the Company has exposure to general liability claims, including from bodily injury, property damage and product liability. Reserves for these exposures can be particularly difficult to estimate due to the long development pattern and uncertainty about how cases will settle. In particular, the Company has exposure to bodily injury claims that is the result of long-term or continuous exposure to harmful products or substances. Examples include, but are not limited to, pharmaceutical products, silica, talcum powder, head injuries and lead paint. The Company also has exposure to claims from construction defects, where property damage or bodily injury from negligent construction is alleged. In addition, the Company has exposure to claims asserted against religious institutions and other organizations relating to molestation or abuse. Such exposures may involve potentially long latency periods and may implicate coverage in multiple policy periods. These factors make reserves for such claims more uncertain than other bodily injury or property damage claims. With regard to these exposures, the Company monitors trends in litigation, the external environment, the similarities to other mass torts and the potential impact on the Company’s reserves.

Workers’ compensation- Included in middle market and specialty commercial, workers’ compensation is the Company’s single biggest line of business and the property and casualty line of business with the longest pattern of loss emergence. To the extent that patterns in the frequency of settlement payments deviate from historical patterns, loss reserve estimates would be less reliable. Medical costs make up approximately 50% of workers’ compensation payments. As such, reserve estimates for workers’ compensation are particularly sensitive to changes in medical inflation, the changing use of medical care procedures and changes in state legislative and regulatory environments. In addition, a deteriorating economic environment can reduce the ability of an injured worker to return to work and lengthen the time a worker receives disability benefits. Within specialty commercial, reserves for large deductible workers’ compensation insurance require estimating losses attributable to the deductible amount that will be paid by the insured; if such losses are not paid by the insured due to financial difficulties, the Company is contractually liable. 

Commercial Lines automobile-Uncertainty in estimated claim severity causes reserve variability for commercial automobile losses including reserve variability due to changes in internal claim handling and case reserving practices as well as due to changes in the external environment. 

Directors' and officers' insurance- Uncertainty regarding the number and severity of class action suits can result in reserve volatility for both directors' and officers' insurance claims. Additionally, the Company’s exposure to losses under directors’ and officers’ insurance policies is primarily in excess layers, making estimates of loss more complex. 

Personal Lines automobile- In Personal Lines, while claims emerge over relatively shorter periods, estimates can still vary due to a number of factors, including uncertain estimates of frequency and severity trends, particularly for auto liability 

claims. Severity trends are affected by changes in internal claim handling and case reserving practices as well as by changes in the external environment. Changes in claim practices increase the uncertainty in the interpretation of case reserve data, which increases the uncertainty in recorded reserve levels. Severity trends have increased in recent accident years, in part driven by more expensive parts associated with new automobile technology, causing additional uncertainty about the reliability of past patterns. In addition, the introduction of new products and class plans has led to a different mix of business by type of insured than the Company experienced in the past. Such changes in mix increase the uncertainty of the reserve projections, since historical data and reporting patterns may not be applicable to the new business.

Impact of Key Assumptions on Reserves 

As stated above, the Company’s practice is to estimate reserves using a variety of methods, assumptions and data elements within its reserve estimation process. The Company does not consistently use statistical loss distributions or confidence levels around its reserve estimate and, as a result, does not disclose reserve ranges.

Across most lines of business, the most important reserve assumptions are future loss development factors applied to paid or reported losses to date. The trend in loss cost frequency and severity is also a key assumption, particularly in the most recent accident years, where loss development factors are less credible.

The following discussion discloses possible variation from current estimates of loss reserves due to a change in certain key indicators of potential losses. For automobile liability lines in both Personal Lines and Commercial Lines, the key indicator is the annual loss cost trend, particularly the severity trend component of loss costs. For workers’ compensation and general liability, loss development patterns are a key indicator, particularly for more mature accident years. For workers’ compensation, paid loss development patterns have been impacted by medical cost inflation and other changes in loss cost trends. For general liability, loss development patterns have been impacted by, among other things, emergence of new types of claims (e.g., construction defect claims) and a shift in the mixture between smaller, more routine claims and larger, more complex claims. 

Each of the impacts described below is estimated individually, without consideration for any correlation among key indicators or among lines of business. Therefore, it would be inappropriate to take each of the amounts described below and add them together in an attempt to estimate volatility for the Company’s reserves in total. For any one reserving line of business, the estimated variation in reserves due to changes in key indicators is a reasonable estimate of possible variation that may occur in the future, likely over a period of several calendar years. The variation discussed is not meant to be a worst-case scenario, and, therefore, it is possible that future variation may be more than the amounts discussed below.

49

Part II - Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Reserving for Asbestos and Environmental Claims

How A&E Reserves are Set- The process for establishing reserves for asbestos and environmental claims first involves estimating the required reserves gross of ceded reinsurance and then estimating reinsurance recoverables. In establishing reserves for gross asbestos claims, the Company evaluates its insureds’ estimated liabilities for such claims by examining exposures for individual insureds and assessing how coverage applies. The Company considers a variety of factors, including the jurisdictions where underlying claims have been brought, past, pending and anticipated future claim activity, the level of plaintiff demands, disease mix, past settlement values of similar claims, dismissal rates, allocated loss adjustment expense, and potential impact of other defendants being in bankruptcy.

Similarly, the Company reviews exposures to establish gross environmental reserves. The Company considers several factors in estimating environmental liabilities, including historical values of similar claims, the number of sites involved, the insureds’ alleged activities at each site, the alleged environmental damage, the respective shares of liability of potentially responsible parties, the appropriateness and cost of remediation, the nature of governmental enforcement activities or mandated remediation efforts and potential impact of other defendants being in bankruptcy.

After evaluating its insureds’ probable liabilities for asbestos and/or environmental claims, the Company evaluates the insurance coverage in place for such claims. The Company considers its insureds’ total available insurance coverage, including the coverage issued by the Company. The Company also considers relevant judicial interpretations of policy language, the nature of how policy limits are enforced on multi-year policies and applicable coverage defenses or determinations, if any.

The estimated liabilities of insureds and the Company’s exposure to the insureds depends heavily on an analysis of the relevant legal issues and litigation environment. This analysis is conducted by the Company’s lawyers and is subject to applicable privileges.

For both asbestos and environmental reserves, the Company also analyzes its historical paid and reported losses and expenses year by year, to assess any emerging trends, fluctuations or characteristics suggested by the aggregate paid and reported activity. The historical losses and expenses are analyzed on both a direct basis and net of reinsurance. 

Once the gross ultimate exposure for indemnity and allocated loss adjustment expense is determined for its insureds by each policy year, the Company calculates its ceded reinsurance projection based on any applicable facultative and treaty reinsurance and the Company’s experience with reinsurance collections. See the section that follows entitled Adverse Development Cover that discusses the impact the reinsurance agreement with NICO may have on future adverse development of asbestos and environmental reserves, if any.

Uncertainties Regarding Adequacy of A&E Reserves- A number of factors affect the variability of estimates for gross asbestos and environmental reserves including assumptions with respect to the frequency of claims, the average severity of those claims settled with payment, the dismissal rate of claims with no payment, resolution of coverage disputes with our policyholders and the expense to indemnity ratio. Reserve estimates for gross asbestos and environmental reserves are subject to greater variability than reserve estimates for more traditional exposures. 

The process of estimating asbestos and environmental reserves remains subject to a wide variety of uncertainties, which are detailed in Note 14 - Commitments and Contingencies of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The Company believes that its current asbestos and environmental reserves are appropriate. Future developments could cause the Company to change its estimates of its gross asbestos and environmental reserves and if cumulative ceded losses under the adverse development cover (“ADC”) with NICO exceed the ceded premium paid of $650, there could be significant variability in net income due to timing differences between when gross reserves are increased and when reinsurance recoveries are recognized. Consistent with past practice, the Company will continue to monitor its reserves in Property & Casualty Other Operations regularly, including its annual reviews of asbestos liabilities, reinsurance recoverables, the allowance for uncollectible reinsurance, and environmental liabilities. Where future developments indicate, we will make appropriate adjustments to the reserves at that time. In 2018 and 2017, the Company completed the comprehensive annual review of asbestos and environmental reserves during the fourth quarter, instead of the second quarter as it had done in previous years.

Total P&C Insurance Product Reserves Development

In the opinion of management, based upon the known facts and current law, the reserves recorded for the Company’s property and casualty insurance products at December 31, 2018 represent the Company’s best estimate of its ultimate liability for losses and loss adjustment expenses related to losses covered by policies written by the Company. However, because of the significant 

50

Part II - Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

uncertainties surrounding reserves, it is possible that management’s estimate of the ultimate liabilities for these claims may change in the future and that the required adjustment to 

currently recorded reserves could be material to the Company’s results of operations and liquidity.

Rollforward of Property and Casualty Insurance Product Liabilities for Unpaid Losses and LAE for the Year Ended December 31, 2018 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[1]The “loss and loss expense paid ratio” represents the ratio of paid losses and loss adjustment expenses to earned premiums.

[2]“Prior accident year development (pts)” represents the ratio of prior accident year development to earned premiums.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[1]Refers to reinsurance recoverable under the Company's Property Aggregate treaty. For further information on the treaty, refer to Part II, Item 7, MD&A — Enterprise Risk Management — Insurance Risk.

51

Part II - Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

During 2018, the Company’s re-estimates of prior accident year reserves included the following significant reserve changes:

Workers’ compensation reserves were reduced in small commercial and middle market, primarily for accident years 2014 and 2015, as claim severity has emerged favorably compared to previous reserve estimates. Also contributing was a reduction in estimated reserves for unallocated loss adjustment expense ("ULAE").

General liability reserves were increased, primarily due to an increase in reserves for higher hazard general liability exposures in middle market for accident years 2009 to 2017, partially offset by a decrease in reserves for other lines within middle market, including premises and operations, umbrella and products liability, principally for accident years 2015 and prior. Contributing to the increase in reserves for higher hazard general liability exposures was an increase in average claim severity, including from large losses and, in more recent accident years, an increase in claim frequency. Contributing to the reduction in reserves for other middle market lines were more favorable outcomes due to initiatives to reduce legal expenses. In addition, reserve increases for claims with lead paint exposure were offset by reserve decreases for other mass torts and extra-contractual liability claims.

Package business reserves were reduced, primarily due to lower reserve estimates for both liability and property for accident years 2010 and prior, including a recovery of loss adjustment expenses for the 2005 accident year.

Commercial property reserves were reduced, driven by an increase in estimated reinsurance recoverables on middle market property losses from the 2017 accident year.

Professional liability reserves were reduced, principally for accident years 2014 and prior, for directors and 

officers liability claims principally due to a number of older claims closing with limited or no payment.

Automobile liability reserves were reduced, primarily driven by reduced estimates of loss adjustment expenses in small commercial for recent accident years and favorable development in personal automobile liability for accident years 2014 to 2017, principally due to lower severity, including with uninsured and underinsured motorist claims.

Homeowners reserves were reduced, primarily in accident years 2013 to 2017, driven by lower than expected severity across multiple perils.

Asbestos and environmental reserves were unchanged as $238 of adverse development arising from the fourth quarter 2018 comprehensive annual review was offset by a $238 recoverable from NICO. For additional information related to the adverse development cover with NICO, see Note 8 - Reinsurance and Note 14 - Commitments and Contingencies of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

Catastrophe reserves were reduced, primarily as a result of lower estimated net losses from 2017 catastrophes, principally related to hurricanes Harvey and Irma. Before reinsurance, estimated losses for 2017 catastrophe events decreased by $133, resulting in a decrease in reinsurance recoverables of $90 as the Company no longer expects to recover under the 2017 Property Aggregate reinsurance treaty as aggregate ultimate losses for 2017 catastrophe events are now projected to be less than $850.

Uncollectible reinsurance reserves were increased due to lower anticipated recoveries related to older accident years.

Other reserve re-estimates, net, primarily represents an increase in ULAE reserves in Property & Casualty 

52

Part II - Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Other Operations that was principally driven by an increase in expected claim handling costs associated with asbestos and environmental and mass tort claims. 

Rollforward of Property and Casualty Insurance Product Liabilities for Unpaid Losses and LAE for the Year Ended December 31, 2017 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[1]The “loss and loss expense paid ratio” represents the ratio of paid losses and loss adjustment expenses to earned premiums and fee income.

[2]“Prior accident year development (pts)” represents the ratio of prior accident year development to earned premiums.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[1]Includes catastrophe losses from Hurricane Harvey and Hurricane Irma of $170 and $121, respectively.

[2]Refers to reinsurance recoverable under the Company's Property Aggregate treaty. For further information on the treaty, refer to Part II, Item 7, MD&A — Enterprise Risk Management — Insurance Risk.

53

Part II - Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

During 2017, the Company’s re-estimates of prior accident year reserves included the following significant reserve changes:

Workers’ compensation reserves were reduced in small commercial and middle market, given the continued emergence of favorable frequency, primarily for accident years 2013 to 2015, as well as a reduction in estimated reserves for ULAE, partially offset by strengthening reserves for captive programs within specialty commercial. 

General liability reserves were increased for the 2013 to 2016 accident years on a class of business that insures service and maintenance contractors. This increase was partially offset by a decrease in recent accident year reserves for other middle market general liability reserves.

Package business reserves were reduced for accident years 2013 and prior largely due to reducing the Company’s estimate of allocated loss adjustment expenses incurred to settle the claims.

Bond business reserves increased for customs bonds written between 2000 and 2010 which was partly offset by a reduction in reserves for recent accident years as reported losses for commercial and contract surety have emerged favorably.

Automobile liability reserves within Commercial Lines were increased in small commercial and large national accounts for the 2013 to 2016 accident years, driven by higher frequency of more severe accidents, including litigated claims.

Asbestos and environmental reserves were unchanged as $285 of adverse development arising from the fourth quarter 2017 comprehensive annual review was offset by a $285 recoverable from NICO. For additional information related to the adverse development cover with NICO, see Note 8 - Reinsurance and Note 14 - Commitments and Contingencies of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

Catastrophes reserves were reduced primarily due to lower estimates of 2016 wind and hail event losses and a decrease in losses on a 2015 wildfire.

Uncollectible reinsurance reserves decreased as a result of giving greater weight to favorable collectibility experience in recent calendar periods in estimating future collections.

54

Part II - Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Rollforward of Property and Casualty Insurance Product Liabilities for Unpaid Losses and LAE for the Year Ended December 31, 2016 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[2]The “loss and loss expense paid ratio” represents the ratio of paid losses and loss adjustment expenses to earned premiums and fee income.

[3]“Prior accident year development (pts)” represents the ratio of prior accident year development to earned premiums.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

55

Part II - Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

During 2016, the Company’s re-estimates of prior accident year reserves included the following significant reserve changes:

Workers' compensation reserves consider favorable emergence on reported losses for recent accident years as well as a partially offsetting adverse impact related to two recent Florida Supreme Court rulings that have increased the Company’s exposure to workers’ compensation claims in that state. The favorable emergence has been driven by lower frequency and, to a lesser extent, lower medical severity and management has placed additional weight on this favorable experience as it becomes more credible.

General liability reserves increased for accident years 2012 - 2015 primarily due to higher severity losses incurred on a class of business that insures service and maintenance contractors and increased for accident years 2008 and 2010 primarily due to indemnity losses and legal costs associated with a litigated claim.

Package business reserves increased due to higher than expected severity on liability claims, principally for accident years 2013 - 2015. Severity for these accident years has developed unfavorably and management has placed more weight on emerged experience.

Professional liability reserves decreased for claims made years 2008 - 2013, primarily for large accounts, including on non-securities class action cases. Claim costs have emerged favorably as these years have matured and management has placed more weight on the emerged experience.

Automobile liability reserves increased due to increases in both commercial lines automobile and personal lines automobile. Commercial automobile liability reserves increased, predominately for the 2015 accident year, primarily due to increased frequency of large claims. Personal automobile liability reserves increased, primarily related to increased bodily injury 

frequency and severity for the 2015 accident year, including for uninsured and under-insured motorist claims, and increased bodily injury severity for the 2014 accident year. Increases in automobile liability loss costs were across both the direct and agency distribution channels.

Asbestos and environmental reserves were increased during the period as a result of the second quarter 2016 comprehensive annual review.

Uncollectible reinsurance reserves decreased as a result of giving greater weight to favorable collectibility experience in recent calendar periods in estimating future collections.

Property & Casualty Other Operations 

Net reserves and reserve activity in Property & Casualty Other Operations are categorized and reported as Asbestos, Environmental, and “All other”. The “All other” category of reserves covers a wide range of insurance and assumed reinsurance coverages, including, but not limited to, potential liability for construction defects, lead paint, silica, pharmaceutical products, head injuries, molestation and other long-tail liabilities. In addition to various insurance and assumed reinsurance exposures, "All other" includes unallocated loss adjustment expense reserves. "All other" also includes the Company’s allowance for uncollectible reinsurance. When the Company commutes a ceded reinsurance contract or settles a ceded reinsurance dispute, net reserves for the related cause of loss (including asbestos, environmental or all other) are increased for the portion of the allowance for uncollectible reinsurance attributable to that commutation or settlement. 

56

Part II - Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

P&C Other Operations

 Total Reserves, Net of Reinsurance 

Asbestos and Environmental Reserves

Reserves for asbestos and environmental are primarily within P&C Other Operations with less significant amounts of asbestos and environmental reserves included within Commercial Lines and Personal Lines. The following tables include all asbestos and environmental reserves, including reserves in P&C Other Operations and Commercial Lines and Personal Lines.

Asbestos and Environmental Net Reserves

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Property & Casualty Reserves

Asbestos and Environmental Summary as of December 31, 2018

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Rollforward of Asbestos and Environmental Losses and LAE

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[1]Cumulative incurred losses of $523, net, have been ceded to NICO under an adverse development cover reinsurance agreement. See the section that follows entitled ADC for additional information.

[2]Included $289 related to the settlement in 2016 of PPG Industries, Inc. ("PPG") asbestos liabilities, net of reinsurance billed to third-party reinsurers. 

[3]A&E liabilities classified as held for sale related to the sale of the Company's U.K. property and casualty run-off subsidiaries.

[4]Related to the reclassification of an allowance for uncollectible reinsurance from the "All Other" category of P&C Other Operations reserves.

57

Part II - Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Adverse Development Cover

Effective December 31, 2016, the Company entered into an A&E ADC reinsurance agreement with NICO, a subsidiary of Berkshire Hathaway Inc., to reduce uncertainty about potential adverse development. Under the ADC, the Company paid a reinsurance premium of $650 for NICO to assume adverse net loss and allocated loss adjustment expense reserve development up to $1.5 billion above the Company’s existing net A&E reserves as of December 31, 2016 of approximately $1.7 billion. The $650 reinsurance premium was placed in a collateral trust account as security for NICO’s claim payment obligations to the Company. The Company has retained the risk of collection on amounts due from other third-party reinsurers and continues to be responsible for claims handling and other administrative services, subject to certain conditions. The ADC covers substantially all the Company’s A&E reserve development up to the reinsurance limit.

Under retroactive reinsurance accounting, net adverse A&E reserve development after December 31, 2016, will result in an offsetting reinsurance recoverable up to the $1.5 billion limit. Cumulative ceded losses up to the $650 reinsurance premium paid are recognized as a dollar-for-dollar offset to net losses incurred before ceding to the ADC. Cumulative ceded losses exceeding the $650 reinsurance premium paid would result in a deferred gain. The deferred gain would be recognized over the claim settlement period in the proportion of the amount of cumulative ceded losses collected from the reinsurer to the estimated ultimate reinsurance recoveries. Consequently, until periods when the deferred gain is recognized as a benefit to earnings, cumulative adverse development of A&E claims after December 31, 2016 in excess of $650 may result in significant charges against earnings.

As of December 31, 2018, the Company has incurred a cumulative $523 in adverse development on A&E reserves that have been ceded under the ADC treaty with NICO, leaving approximately $977 of coverage available for future adverse net reserve development, if any.

Net and Gross Survival Ratios

Net and gross survival ratios are a measure of the quotient of the carried reserves divided by average annual payments (net of reinsurance and on a gross basis) and is an indication of the number of years that carried reserves would last (i.e. survive) if future annual payments were consistent with the calculated historical average.

The survival ratios shown below are calculated for the one and three year periods ended December 31, 2018. The net basis survival ratio has been materially affected by the adverse development cover entered into between the Company and NICO. The Company cedes adverse asbestos and environmental development in excess of its December 31, 2016 net carried reserves of $1.7 billion to NICO up to a limit of $1.5 billion. Since December 31, 2016, net reserves for asbestos and environmental have been declining as the Company has had no net incurred losses but continues to pay down net loss reserves. This has the effect of reducing the one- and three-year net survival ratios shown in the table below. For asbestos, the table also presents the net survival ratios excluding the effect of the PPG settlement in 2016. See section that follows entitled Major Categories of Asbestos Accounts for discussion of the PPG settlement. 

Net and Gross Survival Ratios

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Asbestos and Environmental

 Paid and Incurred Losses and LAE Development 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Annual Reserve Reviews

Review of Asbestos Reserves

Since 2017, the Company has performed its regular comprehensive annual review of asbestos reserves in the fourth quarter. As part of the evaluation in the fourth quarter of 2018, the Company reviewed all of its open direct domestic insurance accounts exposed to asbestos liability, as well as assumed reinsurance accounts.

During the 2018 fourth quarter review, the Company increased estimated reserves before NICO reinsurance by $167, primarily due to an increase in average mesothelioma settlement values driven by elevated plaintiff demands and defendant bankruptcies. The rise in plaintiff demands also resulted in higher than anticipated defense costs for a small subset of peripheral defendants with a high concentration of asbestos filings in specific, adverse jurisdictions. In addition, the Company observed unfavorable developments in the application of coverage that resulted in increased liability shares on certain insureds. An 

58

Part II - Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

increase in reserves from umbrella and excess policies in the 1981-1985 policy years contributed to the adverse development. The increase in reserves was offset by a $167 reinsurance recoverable under the NICO treaty.

As a result of the 2017 fourth quarter review, the Company increased estimated reserves before NICO reinsurance by $183, primarily due to mesothelioma claim filings not declining as expected, unfavorable developments in coverage law in some jurisdictions and continued filings in specific, adverse jurisdictions. An increase in reserves from umbrella and excess policies in the 1981-1985 policy years contributed to the adverse development. This increase in reserves was offset by a $183 reinsurance recoverable under the NICO treaty.

During the 2016 second quarter review, a substantial majority of the Company’s direct accounts trended as expected, and the Company observed no material changes in the underlying legal environment. However, mesothelioma claims filings have not declined as expected for a small subset of peripheral defendants with a high concentration of asbestos filings in specific, adverse jurisdictions. As a result, aggregate indemnity and defense costs did not decline as expected. While the mesothelioma and adverse jurisdiction claim trends observed in the 2016 comprehensive annual review were similar to the 2015 comprehensive annual review, most of the defendants that had reserve increases in the 2016 review did not have a material impact in the 2015 review. Based on this evaluation, the Company increased its net asbestos reserves for prior year development by $197 in second quarter 2016.

Review of Environmental Reserves

Since 2017, the Company has performed its regular comprehensive annual review of environmental reserves in the fourth quarter. As part of its evaluation in the fourth quarter of 2018, the Company reviewed all of its open direct domestic insurance accounts exposed to environmental liability, as well as assumed reinsurance accounts.

As a result of the 2018 fourth quarter review, the Company increased estimated reserves before NICO reinsurance by $71 due to increased defense and clean-up costs associated with increasingly complex remediation plans at Superfund sites, intensifying regulatory scrutiny by state agencies (particularly in the Pacific Northwest), and increased liability shares due to unavailability of other responsible parties. The increase in environmental reserves was offset by a $71 reinsurance recoverable under the NICO treaty.

As a result of the 2017 comprehensive annual review, the Company increased estimated reserves before NICO reinsurance by $102. This increase was offset by a reinsurance recoverable of $102 under the NICO cover. A substantial majority of the Company’s direct environmental accounts trended as expected. However, a small percentage of the Company’s direct accounts exhibited deterioration due to increased clean-up costs and liability shares associated with Superfund sites and sediments in waterways, as well as adverse legal rulings, most notably from jurisdictions in the Pacific Northwest. 

During the 2016 comprehensive annual review, a substantial majority of the Company's direct environmental accounts trended as expected. However, a small percentage of the Company's direct accounts exhibited deterioration associated with the tendering of new sites for coverage, increased defense 

costs stemming from individual bodily injury liability suits, and increased clean-up costs associated with waterways. Based on this evaluation, the Company increased its net environmental reserves for prior year development by $71 in second quarter 2016.

Major Categories of Asbestos Accounts

Direct asbestos exposures include both Known and Unallocated Direct Accounts. [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Review of "All Other" Reserves in Property & Casualty Other Operations

In the fourth quarters of 2018, 2017 and 2016, the Company completed evaluations of certain of its non-asbestos and non-environmental reserves in Property & Casualty Other Operations, including its assumed reinsurance liabilities, unallocated loss adjustment expense reserves, and allowance for uncollectible reinsurance. Overall prior year development on all other reserves resulted in increases (decreases) of $65, $18 and $(20), respectively for calendar years 2018, 2017 and 2016. Included in the 2018 adverse reserve development was a $38 increase in reserves for unallocated loss adjustment expenses, primarily due to an increase in expected aggregate claim handling costs associated with asbestos and environmental claims.

The Company provides an allowance for uncollectible reinsurance, reflecting management’s best estimate of reinsurance cessions that may be uncollectible in the future due to reinsurers’ unwillingness or inability to pay. During the second and third quarters of 2018, the Company increased the allowance by $19, largely driven by potential coverage disputes on a limited number of claims. During the fourth quarters of 2018 and 2017, and second quarter of 2016, the Company completed its annual evaluations of the collectability of the reinsurance recoverables and the adequacy of the allowance for uncollectible reinsurance associated with older, long-term casualty liabilities reported in 

59

Part II - Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Property & Casualty Other Operations. In conducting these evaluations, the company used its most recent detailed evaluations of ceded liabilities reported in the segment. The Company analyzed the overall credit quality of the Company’s reinsurers, recent trends in arbitration and litigation outcomes in disputes between cedants and reinsurers, and recent developments in commutation activity between reinsurers and cedants. As of December 31, 2018, 2017, and 2016 the allowance for uncollectible reinsurance for Property & Casualty Other Operations totaled $105, $86 and $136, respectively. Due to the inherent uncertainties as to collection and the length of time before reinsurance recoverables become due, particularly for older, long-term casualty liabilities, it is possible that future adjustments to the Company’s reinsurance recoverables, net of the allowance, could be required.

Impact of Re-estimates on Property and Casualty Insurance Product Reserves

Estimating property and casualty insurance product reserves uses a variety of methods, assumptions and data elements. 

Ultimate losses may vary materially from the current estimates. Many factors can contribute to these variations and the need to change the previous estimate of required reserve levels. Prior accident year reserve development is generally due to the emergence of additional facts that were not known or anticipated at the time of the prior reserve estimate and/or due to changes in interpretations of information and trends.

The table below shows the range of annual reserve re-estimates experienced by The Hartford over the past ten years. The amount of prior accident year development (as shown in the reserve rollforward) for a given calendar year is expressed as a percent of the beginning calendar year reserves, net of reinsurance. The ranges presented are significantly influenced by the facts and circumstances of each particular year and by the fact that only the last ten years are included in the range. Accordingly, these percentages are not intended to be a prediction of the range of possible future variability. For further discussion of the potential for variability in recorded loss reserves, see Preferred Reserving Methods by Line of Business - Impact of Changes in Key Assumptions on Reserve Volatility section.

Range of Prior Accident Year Unfavorable (Favorable) Development for the Ten Years Ended December 31, 2018

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The potential variability of the Company’s property and casualty insurance product reserves would normally be expected to vary by segment and the types of loss exposures insured by those segments. Illustrative factors influencing the potential reserve variability for each of the segments are discussed under Critical Accounting Estimates for Property & Casualty Insurance Product Reserves and Asbestos and Environmental Reserves. See the section entitled Property & Casualty Other Operations, Annual Reserve Reviews about the impact that the ADC retroactive reinsurance agreement with NICO may have on net reserve changes of asbestos and environmental reserves going forward.

The following table summarizes the effect of reserve re-estimates, net of reinsurance, on calendar year operations for the ten-year period ended December 31, 2018. The total of each column details the amount of reserve re-estimates made in the indicated calendar year and shows the accident years to which the re-estimates are applicable. The amounts in the total column on the far right represent the cumulative reserve re-estimates during the ten year period ended December 31, 2018 for the indicated accident year in each row. 

60

Part II - Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Effect of Net Reserve Re-estimates on Calendar Year Operations

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Accident years 2008 and Prior

The net increases in estimates of ultimate losses for accident years 2008 and prior are driven mostly by increased reserves for asbestos and environmental reserves, and also by increased estimates for customs bonds and other mass torts claims.

Partially offsetting these reserve increases was favorable development in general liability and workers’ compensation. Additionally, reserves for professional liability were reduced due to a lower estimate of claim severity in both directors’ and officers’ and errors and omissions insurance claims. Reserves for personal automobile liability claims were reduced largely due to improvement in emerged claim severity.

Accident year 2009 

Estimates of ultimate losses have emerged favorably for accident year 2009 mainly related to personal automobile liability.

Accident years 2010 and 2011

Unfavorable changes in estimates of ultimate losses on accident years 2010 and 2011 were primarily related to workers' compensation and commercial automobile liability. Workers' compensation loss cost trends were higher than initially expected as an increase in frequency outpaced a moderation of severity trends. Unfavorable commercial automobile liability reserve re-estimates were driven by higher frequency of large loss bodily injury claims.

Accident years 2012 and 2013 

Estimates of ultimate losses were decreased for accident years 2012 and 2013 due to favorable frequency and/or medical severity trends for workers’ compensation, favorable professional liability claim emergence, and lower frequency of late emerging general liability claims for the 2012 accident year. Favorable emergence of property lines of business, including catastrophes, for the 2013 accident year, is partially offset by increased reserves in automobile liability due to increased severity of large claims.

Accident years 2014 and 2015

Changes in estimates of ultimate losses for accident years 2014 and 2015 were largely driven by unfavorable frequency and 

severity trends for personal and commercial automobile liability and increased severity of liability claims on package business, offset by favorable frequency and medical severity trends for workers' compensation.

Accident year 2016 

Estimates of ultimate losses were decreased for the 2016 accident year largely due to reserve decreases on short-tail lines of business, where results emerge more quickly, somewhat offset by unfavorable reserve estimates for higher hazard general liability exposures due to increased frequency and severity trends.

Accident year 2017

Ultimate loss estimates were increased for the 2017 accident year mainly due to unfavorable reserve estimates in general liability, bond and commercial auto liability, largely offset by a reserve release related to catastrophes. General liability was related to higher hazard exposures which experienced increased frequency and severity trends. Unfavorable bond reserve re-estimates were driven by one large claim.

Group Benefit Long-term Disability ("LTD") Reserves, Net of Reinsurance

The Company establishes reserves for group life and accident & health contracts, including long-term disability coverage, for both outstanding reported claims and claims related to insured events that the Company estimates have been incurred but have not yet been reported. These reserve estimates can change over time based on facts and interpretations of circumstances, and consideration of various internal factors including The Hartford’s experience with similar cases, claim payment patterns, loss control programs and mix of business. In addition, the reserve estimates are influenced by various external factors including court decisions and economic conditions. The effects of inflation are implicitly considered in the reserving process. Long-tail claim liabilities are discounted because the payment pattern and the ultimate costs are reasonably fixed and determinable on an 

61

Part II - Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

individual claim basis. The majority of Group Benefits’ reserves are for LTD claimants who are known to be disabled and are currently receiving benefits. The Company held $6,767 and $6,807 of LTD unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses, net of reinsurance, as of December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.

Reserving Methodology

How Reserves are Set - A Disabled Life Reserve ("DLR") is calculated for each LTD claim. The DLR for each claim is the expected present value of all future benefit payments starting with the known monthly gross benefit which is reduced for estimates of the expected claim recovery due to return to work or claimant death, offsets from other income including offsets from Social Security benefits, and discounting where the discount rate is tied to expected investment yield at the time the claim is incurred. Estimated future benefit payments represent the monthly income benefit that is paid until recovery, death or expiration of benefits. Claim recoveries are estimated based on claim characteristics such as age and diagnosis and represent an estimate of benefits that will terminate, generally as a result of the claimant returning to work or being deemed able to return to work. For claims recently closed due to recovery, a portion of the DLR is retained for the possibility that the claim reopens upon further evidence of disability. In addition, a reserve for estimated unpaid claim expenses is included in the DLR. 

The DLR also includes a liability for potential payments to pending claimants beyond the elimination period who have not yet been approved for LTD. In these cases, the present value of future benefits is reduced for the likelihood of claim denial based on Company experience. 

Estimates for incurred but not reported ("IBNR") claims are made by applying completion factors to expected emerged experience by line of business. Included within IBNR are bulk reserves for claims reported but still within the waiting period, typically 3 or 6 months depending on the contract. Completion factors are derived from standard actuarial techniques using triangles that display historical claim count emergence by incurral month. These estimates are reviewed for reasonableness and are adjusted for current trends and other factors expected to cause a change in claim emergence. The reserves include an estimate of unpaid claim expenses, including a provision for the cost of initial set-up of the claim once reported.

For all products, including LTD, there is a period generally ranging from two to twelve months, depending on the product and line of business, where emerged claims for an incurral year are not yet credible enough to be a basis for estimating reserves. In these cases, the ultimate loss is estimated using earned premium multiplied by an expected loss ratio based on pricing assumptions of claim incidence, claim severity, and earned pricing.

Current Trends Contributing to Reserve Uncertainty

In group insurance, LTD has the longest pattern of loss emergence and the highest reserve amount. One significant risk to the reserve would be a slowdown in recoveries. In particular, the economic environment can affect the ability of a disabled employee to return-to-work and the length of time an employee receives disability benefits. Another significant risk is a change in benefit offsets. Often the Company pays a reduced benefit due to offsets from other income sources such as pensions or Social Security Disability Insurance ("SSDI"). Possible changes to the frequency, timing, or amount of offsets, such as a change in SSDI 

approval standards or benefit offerings, create a risk that the amount to settle open claims will exceed initial estimates. Since the monthly income benefit for a claimant is established based on the individual’s salary at the time of disability and the level of coverages and benefits provided, inflation is not considered a significant risk to the reserve estimate. Few of the Company’s LTD policies provide for cost of living adjustments to the monthly income benefit. 

Impact of Key Assumptions on Reserves

The key assumptions affecting our group life and accident & health reserves include:

Discount Rate - The discount rate is the interest rate at which expected future claim cash flows are discounted to determine the present value. A higher selected discount rate results in a lower reserve. If the discount rate is higher than our future investment returns, our invested assets will not earn enough investment income to cover the discount accretion on our claim reserves which would negatively affect our profits. For each incurral year, the discount rates are estimated based on investment yields expected to be earned net of investment expenses. The incurral year is the year in which the claim is incurred and the estimated settlement pattern is determined. Once established, discount rates for each incurral year are unchanged except that LTD reserves assumed from the acquisition of Aetna's U.S. group life and disability business are all discounted using current rates as of the November 1, 2017 acquisition date. The weighted average discount rate on LTD reserves was 3.4% and 3.5% in 2018 and 2017, respectively. Had the discount rate for each incurral year been 10 basis points lower at the time they were established, our LTD unpaid loss and loss adjustment expense reserves would be higher by $32, pretax, as of December 31, 2018.

Claim Termination Rates (inclusive of mortality, recoveries, and expiration of benefits) - Claim termination rates are an estimate of the rate at which claimants will cease receiving benefits during a given calendar year. Terminations result from a number of factors, including death, recoveries and expiration of benefits. The probability that benefits will terminate in each future month for each claim is estimated using a predictive model that uses past Company experience, contract provisions, job characteristics and other claimant-specific characteristics such as diagnosis, time since disability began, and age. Actual claim termination experience will vary from period to period. Over the past 10 years, claim termination rates for a single incurral year have generally increased and have ranged from 6% below to 13% above current assumptions over that time period. For a single recent incurral year (such as 2018), a one percent decrease in our assumption for LTD claim termination rates would increase our reserves by $9. For all incurral years combined, as of December 31, 2018, a one percent decrease in our assumption for our LTD claim termination rates would increase our Group Benefits unpaid losses and loss adjustment expense reserves by $22.

62

Part II - Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Evaluation of Goodwill for Impairment

Goodwill balances are reviewed for impairment at least annually, or more frequently if events occur or circumstances change that would indicate that a triggering event for a potential impairment has occurred. The goodwill impairment test follows a two-step process. In the first step, the fair value of a reporting unit is compared to its carrying value. If the carrying value of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, the second step of the impairment test is performed for purposes of measuring the impairment. In the second step, the fair value of the reporting unit is allocated to all of the assets and liabilities of the reporting unit to determine an implied goodwill value. If the carrying amount of the reporting unit’s goodwill exceeds the implied goodwill value, an impairment loss is recognized in an amount equal to that excess, not to exceed the goodwill carrying value.

The estimated fair value of each reporting unit incorporates multiple inputs into discounted cash flow calculations including assumptions that market participants would make in valuing the reporting unit. Assumptions include levels of economic capital, future business growth, earnings projections, assets under management for Hartford Funds, and the weighted average cost of capital used for purposes of discounting. Decreases in business growth, decreases in earnings projections and increases in the weighted average cost of capital will all cause a reporting unit’s fair value to decrease, increasing the possibility of impairment.

A reporting unit is defined as an operating segment or one level below an operating segment. The Company’s reporting units, for which goodwill has been allocated include small commercial within the Commercial Lines segment, Group Benefits, Personal Lines and Hartford Funds.

The carrying value of goodwill is $1,290 as of December 31, 2018 and is comprised of $38 for small commercial, $272 for Hartford Funds, $861 for Group Benefits and $119 for Personal Lines.

The annual goodwill assessment for the small commercial, Hartford Funds, Group Benefits and Personal Lines reporting units was completed as of October 31, 2018, and resulted in no write-downs of goodwill for the year ended December 31, 2018. All reporting units passed the first step of the annual impairment test with a significant margin. For information regarding the 2017 and 2016 impairment tests see Note 10 -Goodwill & Other Intangible Assets of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

Valuation of Investments and Derivative Instruments 

Fixed Maturities, Equity Securities, Short-term Investments and Free-standing Derivatives

The Company generally determines fair values using valuation techniques that use prices, rates, and other relevant information evident from market transactions involving identical or similar instruments. Valuation techniques also include, where appropriate, estimates of future cash flows that are converted into a single discounted amount using current market expectations. The Company uses a "waterfall" approach comprised of the following pricing sources which are listed in 

priority order: quoted prices, prices from third-party pricing services, internal matrix pricing, and independent broker quotes. The fair value of free-standing derivative instruments are determined primarily using a discounted cash flow model or option model technique and incorporate counterparty credit risk. In some cases, quoted market prices for exchange-traded transactions and transactions cleared through central clearing houses ("OTC-cleared") may be used and in other cases independent broker quotes may be used. For further discussion, see the Fixed Maturities, Equity Securities, Short-term Investments and Free-standing Derivatives section in Note 5 - Fair Value Measurements of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

Evaluation of OTTI on Available-for-sale Securities and Valuation Allowances on Mortgage Loans

Each quarter, a committee of investment and accounting professionals evaluates investments to determine if an other-than-temporary impairment (“impairment”) is present for AFS securities or a valuation allowance is required for mortgage loans. This evaluation is a quantitative and qualitative process, which is subject to risks and uncertainties. For further discussion of the accounting policies, see the Significant Investment Accounting Policies Section in Note 1 - Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. For a discussion of impairments recorded, see the Other-than-temporary Impairments within the Investment Portfolio Risks and Risk Management section of the MD&A.

Valuation Allowance on Deferred Tax Assets

Deferred tax assets represent the tax benefit of future deductible temporary differences and certain tax carryforwards. Deferred tax assets are measured using the enacted tax rates expected to be in effect when such benefits are realized if there is no change in tax law. Under U.S. GAAP, we test the value of deferred tax assets for impairment on a quarterly basis at the entity level within each tax jurisdiction, consistent with our filed tax returns. Deferred tax assets are reduced by a valuation allowance if, based on the weight of available evidence, it is more likely than not that some portion, or all, of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. The determination of the valuation allowance for our deferred tax assets requires management to make certain judgments and assumptions. In evaluating the ability to recover deferred tax assets, we have considered all available evidence as of December 31, 2018, including past operating results, forecasted earnings, future taxable income, and prudent and feasible tax planning strategies. In the event we determine it is more likely than not that we will not be able to realize all or part of our deferred tax assets in the future, an increase to the valuation allowance would be charged to earnings in the period such determination is made. Likewise, if it is later determined that it is more likely than not that those deferred tax assets would be realized, the previously provided valuation allowance would be reversed. Our judgments and assumptions are subject to change given the inherent uncertainty in predicting future performance and specific industry and investment market conditions.

As of December 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, the Company had no valuation allowance. The reduction in the valuation 

63

Part II - Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

allowance in 2016 stems primarily from taxable gains on the termination of derivatives during the period. The Company’s net operating loss carryovers, if unused, would expire between 2026 and 2036. As of December 31, 2018, the Company projects there will be sufficient future taxable income to fully recover the remainder of its loss carryovers, though the Company's estimate of the likely realization may change over time. As of December 31, 2018, the Company had AMT credit carryovers of $841 which are reflected as a current income tax receivable within Other Assets in the accompanying consolidated balance sheet. AMT credits may be used to offset a regular tax liability for any taxable year beginning after December 31, 2017, and are refundable at an amount equal to 50 percent of the excess of the minimum tax credit for the taxable year over the amount of the credit allowable for the year against regular tax liability. Any remaining credits not used against regular tax liability are refundable in the 2021 tax year to be realized in 2022. For additional information about Tax Reform, see Note - 16, Income Taxes of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

In assessing the need for a valuation allowance, management considered future taxable temporary difference reversals, future taxable income exclusive of reversing temporary differences and carryovers, taxable income in open carry back years and other tax planning strategies. From time to time, tax planning strategies could include holding a portion of debt securities with market value losses until recovery, altering the level of tax exempt securities held, making investments which have specific tax characteristics, and business considerations such as asset-liability matching. Management views such tax planning strategies as prudent and feasible, and would implement them, if necessary, to realize the deferred tax assets. 

Contingencies Relating to Corporate Litigation and Regulatory Matters

Management evaluates each contingent matter separately. A loss is recorded if probable and reasonably estimable. Management 

establishes reserves for these contingencies at its “best estimate,” or, if no one number within the range of possible losses is more probable than any other, the Company records an estimated reserve at the low end of the range of losses.

The Company has a quarterly monitoring process involving legal and accounting professionals. Legal personnel first identify outstanding corporate litigation and regulatory matters posing a reasonable possibility of loss. These matters are then jointly reviewed by accounting and legal personnel to evaluate the facts and changes since the last review in order to determine if a provision for loss should be recorded or adjusted, the amount that should be recorded, and the appropriate disclosure. The outcomes of certain contingencies currently being evaluated by the Company, which relate to corporate litigation and regulatory matters, are inherently difficult to predict, and the reserves that have been established for the estimated settlement amounts are subject to significant changes. Management expects that the ultimate liability, if any, with respect to such lawsuits, after consideration of provisions made for estimated losses, will not be material to the consolidated financial condition of the Company. In view of the uncertainties regarding the outcome of these matters, as well as the tax-deductibility of payments, it is possible that the ultimate cost to the Company of these matters could exceed the reserve by an amount that would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s consolidated results of operations and liquidity in a particular quarterly or annual period.

64

Part II - Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

SEGMENT OPERATING SUMMARIES

COMMERCIAL LINES

Results of Operations

Underwriting Summary

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[1]For discussion of current accident year catastrophes and prior accident year development, see MD&A - Critical Accounting Estimates, Property and Casualty Insurance Product Reserves Development, Net of Reinsurance.

[2]For discussion of consolidated investment results, see MD&A - Investment Results.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Premium Measures [1]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[1]Standard commercial lines consists of small commercial and middle market. Standard commercial premium measures exclude Maxum, higher hazard general liability in middle market and livestock lines of business. 

65

Part II - Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Underwriting Ratios

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

2019 Outlook

The Company expects higher Commercial Lines written premiums in 2019, driven by continued strong policy retention in small commercial and national accounts, growth in industry verticals in middle market and an increase in new business across Commercial Lines. Management expects positive renewal written pricing in all lines of business except workers' compensation, which is expected to be flat to down modestly. In addition to the impact of pricing trends, written premium growth in 2019 will depend on economic conditions as economic growth is expected to moderate in 2019.

Pricing varies significantly by product line with low-to-mid single digit pricing increases expected in property and general liability and higher written pricing increases expected in commercial automobile. In workers’ compensation, given favorable profitability trends, rates are expected to decline in 2019.

The Company expects the Commercial Lines combined ratio will be between approximately 94.5 and 96.5 for 2019, compared to 92.6 in 2018, largely due to lower favorable prior year development, partially offset by lower catastrophe losses expected in 2019. The underlying combined ratio is expected to be flat to slightly higher as earned pricing increases may not keep pace with moderate increases in loss costs, and the Company continues to invest in the business . Current accident year catastrophes are assumed to be 3.0 points of the combined ratio in 2019 compared to 3.9 points in 2018.

Net Income 

Year ended December 31, 2018 compared to the year ended December 31, 2017

Net income increased in 2018 due to a higher underwriting gain, a lower corporate Federal income tax rate and, to a lesser extent, an increase in net investment income, partially offset by a shift from net realized capital gains in 2017 to net realized capital losses in 2018. (For further discussion of investment results, see MD&A - Investment Results).

Year ended December 31, 2017 compared to the year ended December 31, 2016 

Net income decreased in 2017 due to a lower underwriting gain, partially offset by increases in net investment income and net realized capital gains. (For further discussion of investment results, see MD&A - Investment Results).

Underwriting Gain 

Year ended December 31, 2018 compared to the year ended December 31, 2017

Underwriting gain increased in 2018 primarily due to more favorable prior accident year reserve development in 2018 compared to 2017, lower current accident year catastrophes, and higher earned premium, partially offset by higher underwriting expenses, including higher amortization of DAC.

66

Part II - Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Year ended December 31, 2017 compared to the year ended December 31, 2016 

Underwriting gain decreased in 2017 primarily due to higher catastrophe losses and higher underwriting expenses largely driven by an increase in variable incentive compensation and higher IT costs. Also contributing to the decrease were higher current accident year loss costs for workers’ compensation, general liability and non-catastrophe property, offset by the effect of earned premium growth and a change from unfavorable prior accident year development in 2016 to favorable development in 2017.

Earned Premiums

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Year ended December 31, 2018 compared to the year ended December 31, 2017

Earned premiums increased in 2018 reflecting written premium growth over the preceding twelve months.

Written premiums increased in 2018 primarily due to growth in middle market, small commercial and specialty commercial. In standard commercial lines, renewal written price increases declined in 2018, mostly attributable to bigger rate decreases in small commercial workers' compensation. New business and renewal written premium increased across most lines of business, particularly in middle market, partially offset by declines in small commercial workers' compensation.

•Small commercial written premium increased in 2018, primarily driven by the business acquired under a renewal 

rights agreement with Farmers Group to acquire its Foremost-branded small commercial business. The increase in new business premium was largely offset by the decline in renewal premium. The decline in renewal premium was driven by the effect of lower policy retention, partially offset by renewal written price increases.

•Middle market written premium growth in 2018 was primarily due to strong new business growth, improved retention and higher renewal written price increases.

•Specialty commercial written premium increased in 2018 driven by growth in financial products and bond, partially offset by a decline in National Accounts.

Year ended December 31, 2017 compared to the year ended December 31, 2016 

Earned premiums increased in 2017 reflecting written premium growth over the preceding twelve months.

Written premiums increased in 2017 primarily due to growth in small commercial.

•Small commercial written premium growth for 2017 was primarily due to higher renewal premium driven by renewal written price increases and growth from the acquisition of Maxum, partially offset by lower new business premium, excluding Maxum, and the effect of lower policy retention.

•Middle market written premiums in 2017 were up modestly as higher new and renewal premium was partially offset by modestly higher property reinsurance costs.

•Specialty commercial written premiums in 2017 were up slightly as growth in Bond was largely offset by new business declines in National Accounts.

67

Part II - Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Loss and LAE Ratio before Catastrophes and Prior Accident Year Development

Year ended December 31, 2018 compared to the year ended December 31, 2017

Loss and LAE ratio before catastrophes and prior accident year development decreased slightly in 2018, primarily due to a lower loss and loss adjustment expense ratio in general liability and commercial auto. The current accident year loss and loss adjustment expense ratio for workers' compensation was relatively flat as the effect of higher claim frequency was largely offset by the benefit of increased audit premium driven by higher than initially estimated insured payroll.

Year ended December 31, 2017 compared to the year ended December 31, 2016 

Loss and LAE ratio before catastrophes and prior accident year development increased in 2017, primarily due to a higher loss and loss adjustment expense ratio in both workers' compensation and general liability, as well as higher commercial property losses in middle market. The workers’ compensation current accident year loss ratio deteriorated from 2016 to 2017 as increases in average claim severity outpaced the effect of earned pricing and a modest reduction in loss cost frequency.

Catastrophes and Prior Accident Year Development 

Year ended December 31, 2018 compared to the year ended December 31, 2017

Current accident year catastrophe losses for 2018 were lower than in 2017 with catastrophes in 2018 primarily from hurricanes Florence and Michael in the Southeast, wildfires in California, wind and hail storms in Colorado, and various wind storms and winter storms across the country. Catastrophe losses in 2018 are net of an estimated reinsurance recoverable of $28 under the 2018 Property Aggregate reinsurance treaty that was allocated to Commercial Lines. Catastrophe losses in 2017 were primarily from hurricanes Harvey and Irma as well as from wind and hail events in the Midwest, Texas and Colorado. 

Prior accident year development was a net favorable $200, before tax, for 2018 compared to favorable $22, before tax, for 2017. Net reserve decreases for 2018 were primarily related to decreases for workers' compensation, catastrophes and unallocated loss adjustment expense reserves, partially offset by an increase in general liability reserves. Estimated losses for 2017 catastrophe events in Commercial Lines decreased by $93 in 2018 resulting in a decrease in reinsurance recoverables of $43 as the Company no longer expects to recover under the 2017 Property Aggregate reinsurance treaty. 

Year ended December 31, 2017 compared to the year ended December 31, 2016

Current accident year catastrophe losses for 2017 were primarily from hurricanes Harvey and Irma as well as from wind and hail events in the Midwest, Texas and Colorado. Catastrophe losses for 2016 were primarily due to wind and hail events and winter storms across various U.S. geographic regions.

Prior accident year development was favorable in 2017 compared to unfavorable prior accident year development 

68

Part II - Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

in 2016. Net reserve decreases for 2017 were primarily related to reduced loss reserve estimates for workers' compensation and small commercial package business, partially offset by reserve increases for bond.

PERSONAL LINES

Results of Operations

Underwriting Summary

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[1]For discussion of current accident year catastrophes and prior accident year development, see MD&A - Critical Accounting Estimates, Property and Casualty Insurance Product Reserves, Net of Reinsurance.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[3]For discussion of consolidated investment results, see MD&A - Investment Results.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Written and Earned Premiums

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

69

Part II - Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Premium Measures

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Underwriting Ratios

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Product Combined Ratios

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

2019 Outlook

In 2019, the Company expects the level of pricing increases for automobile and homeowners across the industry to decrease, as loss cost trends have moderated. Accordingly, the Company expects written pricing increases in 2019 to be in the mid single-digits for automobile and high single-digits for homeowners. Written premium is expected to decline slightly in 2019 as non-renewal of premium more than offsets new business growth, particularly in the agency channel. The Company expects to drive new business growth in more states in 2019, particularly in the direct channel.

The Company expects the combined ratio for Personal Lines will be between approximately 97.5 and 99.5 for 2019 compared to 106.3 in 2018, primarily due to lower current accident year catastrophes with the underlying combined ratio flat to slightly higher, as the Company increases spending on marketing. Current accident year catastrophes are budgeted to be 6.5 points of the combined ratio in 2019 compared with 16.1 points in 2018. For automobile, we expect the underlying combined ratio to improve slightly as a modest loss ratio improvement is partially offset by an increase in acquisition costs to increase new business. While management actions, including the effect of earned pricing, are expected to modestly exceed an increase in loss cost severity, 

70

Part II - Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

those will be partially offset by an increase in direct marketing and other expenses to generate new business. The underlying combined ratio for homeowners is expected to increase slightly in 2019, driven by a return to a more normal level of non-catastrophe weather loss experience and higher acquisition costs, partially offset by earned pricing increases.

Net Loss 

Year ended December 31, 2018 compared to the year ended December 31, 2017 

Net loss was higher in 2018 than in 2017 due to a higher underwriting loss, a change to net realized capital losses and the effect of a lower corporate income tax rate, partially offset by higher net investment income.

Year ended December 31, 2017 compared to the year ended December 31, 2016 

Net loss in 2017 was unchanged from 2016 as lower underwriting loss and higher net realized capital gains was offset by $33 of income tax expense arising primarily from the reduction of net deferred tax assets due to the enactment of lower Federal income tax rates.

Underwriting Loss 

Year ended December 31, 2018 compared to the year ended December 31, 2017

Underwriting loss increased in 2018 primarily due to higher current accident year catastrophe losses, higher underwriting expenses and the effect of lower earned premium, partially offset by lower current accident year loss ratios before catastrophes in both auto and homeowners and lower amortization of DAC. The increase in underwriting expenses was largely driven by an increase in direct marketing spending, selling expenses, and operational costs to generate new business.

Year ended December 31, 2017 compared to the year ended December 31, 2016 

Underwriting loss decreased in 2017 primarily due to a change from unfavorable prior accident year development in 2016 to favorable development in 2017 and lower current accident year loss costs in both auto and homeowners, partially offset by higher current accident year catastrophe losses. The decrease in underwriting expenses was primarily due to lower marketing and operations costs, partially offset by higher variable incentive compensation and the decrease in DAC amortization was driven primarily by lower Agency commissions.

Earned Premiums

Year ended December 31, 2018 compared to the year ended December 31, 2017 

Earned premiums decreased in 2018, reflecting a decline in written premium over the prior six to twelve months in both Agency channels and, to a lesser extent, in AARP Direct.

Written premiums decreased in 2018 in AARP Direct and both Agency channels. Despite an increase in new business and stable policy count retention in both auto and homeowners, written premium declined primarily due to not generating enough new business to offset the loss of non-renewed premium.

Renewal written pricing increases in 2018 were higher in homeowners driven by actions taken to improve profitability and were lower in automobile as loss cost trends have moderated and the Company has sought to increase new business.

Policy count retention increased in automobile as renewal written price increases decreased. Policy count 

71

Part II - Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

retention in homeowners was flat despite higher renewal written price increases.

Policies in-force decreased in 2018 in both automobile and homeowners, driven by not generating enough new business to offset the loss of non-renewed policies.

Year ended December 31, 2017 compared to the year ended December 31, 2016 

Earned premiums decreased in 2017, reflecting a decline in written premium over the prior six to twelve months in the Other Agency channel and, to a lesser extent, in AARP Direct.

Written premiums decreased in 2017 in AARP Direct and both Agency channels primarily due to a decline in new business and lower policy count retention in both automobile and homeowners partially offset by the effect of renewal written price increases.

Renewal written pricing increases were higher in 2017 in both automobile and home, as the Company increased rates to improve profitability.

Policy count retention decreased in 2017 in both automobile and homeowners, driven in part by renewal written pricing increases.

Loss and Loss Adjustment Expense Ratio before Catastrophes and Prior Accident Year Development

Year ended December 31, 2018 compared to the year ended December 31, 2017

Loss and loss adjustment expense ratio before catastrophes and prior accident year development decreased in 2018, primarily due to the effect of earned pricing increases in both automobile and homeowners and lower non-catastrophe weather-related homeowners loss costs.

Year ended December 31, 2017 compared to the year ended December 31, 2016 

Loss and loss adjustment expense ratio before catastrophes and prior accident year development decreased in 2017, primarily as a result of lower automobile liability and auto physical damage frequency and lower non-catastrophe weather-related homeowners losses and the effect of earned pricing increases.

Current Accident Year Catastrophes and Unfavorable (Favorable) Prior Accident Year Development

Year ended December 31, 2018 compared to the year ended December 31, 2017

Current accident year catastrophe losses for 2018 were primarily from wildfires in California, wind and hail storms in Colorado, hurricanes Florence and Michael in the Southeast and various wind storms and winter storms across the country. Catastrophe losses in 2018 are net of an estimated 

72

Part II - Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

reinsurance recoverable of $54 under the 2018 Property Aggregate reinsurance treaty that was allocated to Personal Lines. Catastrophe losses for 2017 were primarily due to hurricanes Harvey and Irma and wildfires in California as well as multiple wind and hail events across various U.S. geographic regions, concentrated in Texas, Colorado, the Midwest and the Southeast.

Prior accident year development was less favorable in 2018 than in 2017 with favorable development in 2018 primarily in automobile liability.

Year ended December 31, 2017 compared to the year ended December 31, 2016 

Current accident year catastrophe losses  for 2017 were primarily due to hurricanes Harvey and Irma and wildfires in California as well as multiple wind and hail events across various U.S. geographic regions, concentrated in Texas, Colorado, the Midwest and the Southeast. Catastrophe losses for 2016 were primarily due to multiple wind and hail events across various U.S. geographic regions, concentrated in the Midwest and central plains.

Prior accident year development was favorable for 2017 compared to unfavorable prior accident year development for 2016. Net reserves decreased in 2017 primarily due to decreases in reserves for prior accident year catastrophes and homeowners. 

PROPERTY & CASUALTY OTHER OPERATIONS

Results of Operations

Underwriting Summary

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[1]For discussion of prior accident year development, see MD&A - Critical Accounting Estimates, Property and Casualty Insurance Product Reserves, Net of Reinsurance.

[2]For discussion of consolidated investment results, see MD&A - Investment Results.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

73

Part II - Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Net Income (Loss) 

Year ended December 31, 2018 compared to the year ended December 31, 2017 

Net income decreased from 2017 to 2018, primarily due to greater adverse reserve development in 2018 related to unallocated loss adjustment expenses, the allowance for uncollectible reinsurance and certain mass torts. Also contributing to the decrease was lower net investment income driven by the decline in invested assets associated with this run-off business.

Year ended December 31, 2017 compared to the year ended December 31, 2016 

Net loss improved from a loss of $529 to net income of $69 primarily due to ceded premium of $423 after tax incurred in 2016 for an Adverse Reserve Development ("ADC") reinsurance cover on asbestos and environmental reserves after 2016. (For further discussion on the ADC, see MD&A - Critical Accounting Estimates, Property and Casualty Other Operations). Prior accident year asbestos and environmental losses in 2016 before execution of the ADC also contributed to the year over year improvement. 

Pre-tax Charge for Asbestos and Environmental Reserve Increases

Year ended December 31, 2018 compared to the year ended December 31, 2017 

Asbestos Reserves reflected no net incurred losses and allocated loss adjustment expenses in 2018 as a $167 increase in estimated reserves before NICO reinsurance was offset by $167 of losses recoverable under the NICO treaty. The increase in reserves before NICO reinsurance was primarily due to a higher than previously expected number of mesothelioma claim filings, an increase in the average settlement value of mesothelioma claims, an increase in defense costs, and the Company assuming a greater share of liability due to unfavorable interpretations of coverage. An increase in reserves from umbrella and excess policies in the 1981-1985 policy years contributed to the adverse development. 

Environmental Reserves reflected no net incurred losses and allocated loss adjustment expenses in 2018 as a $71 increase in estimated reserves before NICO reinsurance was offset by $71 of loss recoverable under the NICO treaty. The increase in reserves before NICO reinsurance was primarily due to increased clean-up costs and liability shares associated with Superfund sites and sediment in waterways, increased defense costs and adverse legal rulings, most notably from jurisdictions in the Pacific Northwest.

Year ended December 31, 2017 compared to the year ended December 31, 2016 

Asbestos Reserves reflected no net incurred losses and allocated loss adjustment expenses in 2017 as a $183 increase in estimated reserves before NICO reinsurance was offset by $183 of losses recoverable under the NICO treaty. The increase in reserves before NICO reinsurance was primarily due to mesothelioma claim filings not declining as expected, unfavorable developments in coverage law in some jurisdictions and continued filings in specific, adverse jurisdictions. An increased share of adverse development from the fourth quarter review is from umbrella and excess policies in the 1981-1985 policy years.

Environmental Reserves reflected no net incurred losses and allocated loss adjustment expenses in 2017 as a $102 increase in estimated reserves before NICO reinsurance was offset by $102 of loss recoverable under the NICO treaty. The 

74

Part II - Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

increase in reserves before NICO reinsurance was primarily due to increased clean-up costs and liability shares associated with Superfund sites and sediment in waterways, as well as adverse 

legal rulings, most notably from jurisdictions in the Pacific Northwest.

GROUP BENEFITSResults of Operations

Operating Summary

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[2]For discussion of consolidated investment results, see MD&A - Investment Results.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Premiums and Other Considerations

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Ratios, Excluding Buyouts

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][1] Integration and transaction costs related to the acquisition of Aetna's U.S. group life and disability business are not included in the expense ratio.

Margin

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

75

Part II - Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

2019 Outlook

The Company expects Group Benefits fully insured ongoing premiums to be relatively flat in 2019, driven by an expected decrease in sales, partly due to the introduction of the New York Paid Family Leave product in 2018, offset by strong persistency. In 2019, the segment's net income margin is expected to be between 5.5% and 6.5%, compared to a net income margin of 5.6% in 2018. The expected increase largely reflects net realized capital losses and higher integration costs associated with the acquired business in 2018. Management expects that the 2019 core earnings margin, which does not include the effect of net realized capital gains (losses) or integration costs associated with the acquired business, will be in the range of 6.0% to 7.0%, down from prior year as strong investment returns from limited partnerships in 2018 are not assumed to repeat in 2019. The total loss ratio and expense ratio are expected to be consistent with 2018. 

Net Income 

Year ended December 31, 2018 compared to the year ended December 31, 2017

Net income increased in 2018 compared to 2017, primarily due to higher premiums and other considerations and higher net investment income, including from the acquisition of Aetna's U.S. group life and disability business, a lower loss ratio, and the benefit of a lower corporate income tax rate, partially offset by higher insurance operating costs and other expenses, including integration costs, and amortization of intangible assets in connection with the acquisition, and a change to net realized capital losses. The benefit of the lower corporate income tax rate was largely offset by a $52 tax benefit in 2017 that was primarily due to reducing net deferred tax liabilities given the reduction in the corporate income tax rate.

Insurance operating costs and other expenses increased 40% primarily due to the acquisition of Aetna's U.S. group life and disability business, including integration costs and amortization of intangible assets, partially offset by state guaranty fund assessments of $20 before tax related to the liquidation of a life and health insurance company in 2017. Integration costs were $47 in 2018 compared to $17 in 2017.

Year ended December 31, 2017 compared to the year ended December 31, 2016 

Net income increased in 2017 compared to 2016, primarily due to $52 of income tax benefits arising primarily from the reduction of net deferred tax liabilities due to the enactment of lower Federal income tax rates. In addition, net income increased as a result of growth in premiums and other considerations and a lower group disability loss ratio, partially offset by an increase in insurance operating costs and other expenses due, in part, to higher variable incentive compensation as well as integration and transaction costs related to the acquisition of Aetna's U.S. group life and disability business. Insurance operating costs and other expenses in 2017 also included state guaranty fund assessments of $20 before tax related to the liquidation of a life and health insurance company. The acquisition of Aetna's U.S. group life and disability business, which closed on November 1, 2017, did not have a material impact on results in 2017.

Insurance operating costs and other expenses increased 18%, primarily due to the inclusion of two months of expenses for the acquired Aetna's U.S. group life and disability business, state guaranty fund assessments of $20 before tax related to the liquidation of a life and health insurance company and an increase in variable incentive compensation.

Fully Insured Ongoing Premiums

Year ended December 31, 2018 compared to the year ended December 31, 2017 

Fully insured ongoing premiums increased 52% in 2018 driven primarily by the acquisition of Aetna's U.S. group life and disability business, sales in excess of cancellations with strong group life and disability persistency, and premium from the New York Paid Family Leave product. 

Fully insured ongoing sales, excluding buyouts increased 57% primarily due to new business generated by our larger combined sales force following the acquisition of Aetna's U.S. group life and disability business. The 

76

Part II - Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Company also saw an increase in the sale of voluntary products and sales of fully insured disability in 2018 due, in part, to the addition of the New York Paid Family Leave product.

Year ended December 31, 2017 compared to the year ended December 31, 2016 

Fully insured ongoing premiums increased in 2017, in part, because it included two months of premiums for the acquired Aetna's U.S. group life and disability business. Excluding the impact of the acquisition, fully insured ongoing premiums increased 3% due to sales, strong persistency and modest group disability pricing increases.

Fully insured ongoing sales, excluding buyouts were essentially flat to prior year reflecting higher group disability sales offset by lower group life and other sales.

Ratios

Year ended December 31, 2018 compared to the year ended December 31, 2017 

Total loss ratio decreased 0.8 points from 2017 to 2018 as a decrease in the group disability loss ratio was partially offset by an increase in the group life loss ratio. The group disability loss ratio decreased 3.4 points driven by continued favorable incidence trends, including favorable prior incurral year development of approximately $230 with most of that development from the 2017 incurral year as incidence trends become known after the elimination period is satisfied. In addition, the group disability loss ratio benefited from the lower discount accretion associated with the disability business acquired from Aetna.

The group life loss ratio increased 1.7 points primarily driven by higher expected loss ratios associated with the group life business acquired from Aetna. Group life business (including group life premium waiver) included favorable prior incurral year development of approximately $90 in 2018, mostly from the 2017 incurral year. 

Expense ratio decreased 1.7 points due to a greater mix of lower commission national accounts business due to the acquisition of Aetna's group life and disability business, higher revenues to cover fixed costs and the effect of state guaranty assessments in 2017 related to the liquidation of a life and health 

insurance company, partially offset by higher intangible asset amortization incurred in 2018.

Year ended December 31, 2017 compared to the year ended December 31, 2016 

Total loss ratio decreased 1.9 points, primarily due to a lower group disability loss ratio. The group disability loss ratio decreased 4.9 points, driven by continued improvements in incidence trends, higher recoveries and modest pricing increases. The group life loss ratio increased 1.0 points, primarily driven by favorable changes in reserve estimates of 1.3 points in 2016 partially offset by favorable mortality in the current year.

Expense ratio increased 0.6 points primarily due to state guaranty fund assessments related to the liquidation of a life and health insurance company, an increase in variable incentive compensation and amortization of intangible assets recorded in connection with the acquisition of Aetna's U.S. group life and disability business. Integration and transaction costs of $17 in 2017 related to the acquisition are not included in the expense ratio.

77

Part II - Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

HARTFORD FUNDSResults of Operations

Operating Summary

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[3]Represents annualized earnings divided by a daily average of assets under management, as measured in basis points.

Hartford Funds Segment AUM

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[1]ETP AUM has been combined with mutual fund AUM. Previously ETPs were shown separately.

[2]Represents AUM of the life and annuity business sold in May, 2018 that is still managed by the Company's Hartford Funds segment.

Mutual Fund AUM by Asset Class

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[1]Includes balanced, allocation, and alternative investment products.

78

Part II - Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

2019 Outlook

Due in large part to the effect of the decline in markets on assets under management since October 2018, the Company expects net income for Hartford Funds to be relatively flat from 2018 to 2019, provided the Company continues to deliver strong fund performance and generates positive net flows. The Company expects to increase net sales in 2019 from a diversified lineup of mutual funds and ETPs, though net flows are more uncertain given the increased volatility in the markets. Assuming the Company can generate positive net flows and fund performance is strong, assets under management are expected to increase modestly despite the continued decline of the Talcott Resolution AUM.

Net Income 

Year ended December 31, 2018 compared to the year ended December 31, 2017 

Net income increased in 2018 due to higher investment management fees driven by higher average daily assets under management, partially offset by higher variable costs. Also contributing to the increase was the effect of a lower corporate Federal income tax rate.

Year ended December 31, 2017 compared to the year ended December 31, 2016 

Net income increased in 2017 due to higher investment management fees resulting from higher daily average AUM levels driven in part by the addition of Schroders' funds in late 2016, as well as a reduction in estimated state income tax expense, partially offset by higher variable costs including sub-advisory and distribution and service expenses.

Hartford Funds AUM

Year ended December 31, 2018 compared to the year ended December 31, 2017 

Hartford Funds AUM decreased from December 31, 2017 to December 31, 2018 largely due to a decline in markets in the fourth quarter of 2018 and the continued expected decline of the Talcott Resolution AUM still managed by the Company. Despite the decline in AUM in the fourth quarter of 2018, average daily assets under management for the year were up 9% due to market appreciation and net positive flows during the first 9 months of 2018.

Year ended December 31, 2017 compared to the year ended December 31, 2016 

Hartford Funds AUM increased in 2017 primarily due to positive net flows and market appreciation, partially offset by the continued expected decline of the Talcott Resolution AUM still managed by the Company.

79

Part II - Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

CORPORATEResults of Operations

Operating Summary

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[1]Represents benefits expense on life and annuity business previously underwritten by the Company.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Net Income (Loss) 

Year ended December 31, 2018 compared to the year ended December 31, 2017 

Net income compared to a net loss in 2017, primarily due to a number of charges in 2017, including a $3.3 billion after tax loss on the life and annuity business sold in May 2018, $867 of income tax expense primarily from reducing net deferred tax assets due to the reduction of the corporate Federal income tax rate from 35% to 21%, and the effect of a pension settlement charge of 

$488, after tax. The settlement charge in 2017 related to the purchase of a group annuity contract to transfer $1.6 billion of certain U.S. qualified pension plan liabilities to a third party. Apart from the effect of these charges in 2017, an increase in fee income from managing Talcott Resolution invested assets post-sale and lower interest expense, as well as higher net investment income and lower benefits and losses incurred related to run-off structured settlement and terminal funding agreement liabilities was partially offset by higher investment management expenses and a lower tax benefit due to the reduction in the corporate Federal income tax rate. Other revenue in 2018 from providing transition services to Talcott Resolution was offset by the cost of providing those services.

Insurance operating costs and other expenses increased in 2018 largely due to costs incurred to manage the invested assets of Talcott Resolution post-sale, partially offset by a reduction in centralized services costs previously allocated to the life and annuity business sold in May 2018.

Income (loss) from discontinued operations increased from loss of $2,869 in 2017 to income of $322 in 2018 with the net loss in 2017 due to a loss on sale of the Company’s life and annuity business of $3.3 billion in 2017. A $202 reduction in loss on sale in 2018 was largely offset by a decline in operating income from the life and annuity business sold in May 2018. The reduction in loss on sale was largely attributable to an increase in 

80

Part II - Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

the estimated retained net operating loss carryover tax benefits from the life and annuity business sold in May 2018 as well as the reclassification to retained earnings of $193 of tax effects stranded in AOCI due to the accounting for Tax Reform. For more information on the reclassification of stranded tax effects, see Note 1-Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies within Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Year ended December 31, 2017 compared to the year ended December 31, 2016

Net loss increased primarily due to a $3.3 billion estimated loss on sale of the life and annuity business, $867 of income tax expense arising primarily from the reduction of net deferred tax assets due to the enactment of lower Federal income tax rates and a $488 after tax pension settlement charge.

Insurance operating costs and other expenses decreased in 2017 largely due lower centralized services costs and lower estimated state income tax expense. Upon reporting the life and annuity business as discontinued operations, centralized services costs were reallocated to Corporate for all periods presented and those reallocated costs declined from 2016 to 2017 principally due to a lower allocation of IT costs.

Income (loss) from discontinued operations decreased from income of $283 in 2016 to a net loss of $2.9 billion in 2017 with the net loss in 2017 due to a loss on sale of the Company’s life and annuity business of $3.3 billion, partially offset by operating income from discontinued operations of $388. Operating income from discontinued operations increased from $283 in 2016 primarily due to lower net realized capital losses in 2017. Apart from the reduction in net realized capital losses, earnings were relatively flat as an increase in the assumption study benefit and lower interest credited were largely offset by lower net investment income and lower fee income due to the continued run off of the variable annuity block.

Interest Expense

Year ended December 31, 2018 compared to the year ended December 31, 2017

Interest expense decreased primarily due to the redemption of junior subordinated debentures. On June 15, 2018, The Hartford redeemed $500 aggregate principal amount of its 8.125% Fixed-to-Floating Rate Junior Subordinated Debentures due 2068 and recognized a $6 loss on extinguishment of debt for unamortized deferred debt issuance costs. On March 15, 2018, the Company issued $500 of 4.4% senior notes due March 15, 2048 for net proceeds of approximately $490. The Company used a portion of the net proceeds to repay the Company's $320 of 6.3% senior notes at maturity. See Note 13 -Debt of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Year ended December 31, 2017 compared to the year ended December 31, 2016

Interest expense decreased primarily due to a decrease in outstanding debt due to debt maturities and the paydown of senior notes.

ENTERPRISE RISK MANAGEMENT

The Company’s Board of Directors has ultimate responsibility for risk oversight, as described more fully in our Proxy Statement, while management is tasked with the day-to-day management of the Company’s risks.

The Company manages and monitors risk through risk policies, controls and limits. At the senior management level, an Enterprise Risk and Capital Committee (“ERCC”) oversees the risk profile and risk management practices of the Company. As illustrated below, a number of functional committees sit underneath the ERCC, providing oversight of specific risk areas and recommending risk mitigation strategies to the ERCC. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

81

Part II - Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The Company's enterprise risk management ("ERM") function supports the ERCC and functional committees, and is tasked with, among other things:

•risk identification and assessment;

•the development of risk appetites, tolerances, and limits;

•risk monitoring; and

•internal and external risk reporting.

The Company categorizes its main risks as insurance risk, operational risk and financial risk, each of which is described in more detail below.

Insurance Risk

Insurance risk is the risk of losses of both a catastrophic and non-catastrophic nature on the P&C and group benefits products the Company has sold. Catastrophe insurance risk is the exposure arising from both natural (e.g., weather, earthquakes, wildfires, pandemics) and man-made catastrophes (e.g., terrorism, cyber-attacks) that create a concentration or aggregation of loss across the Company's insurance or asset portfolios.

Sources of Insurance Risk Non-catastrophe insurance risks exist within each of the Company's divisions except Hartford Funds and include:

•Property- Risk of loss to personal or commercial property from automobile related accidents, weather, explosions, smoke, shaking, fire, theft, vandalism, inadequate installation, faulty equipment, collisions and falling objects, and/or machinery mechanical breakdown resulting in physical damage and other covered perils.

•Liability- Risk of loss from automobile related accidents, uninsured and underinsured drivers, lawsuits from accidents, defective products, breach of warranty, negligent acts by professional practitioners, environmental claims, latent exposures, fraud, coercion, forgery, failure to fulfill obligations per contract surety, liability from errors and omissions, losses from political and credit coverages, losses derivative lawsuits, and other securities actions and covered perils.

•Mortality- Risk of loss from unexpected trends in insured deaths impacting timing of payouts from group life insurance, personal or commercial automobile related accidents, and death of employees or executives during the course of employment, while on disability, or while collecting workers compensation benefits.

•Morbidity- Risk of loss to an insured from illness incurred during the course of employment or illness from other covered perils.

•Disability- Risk of loss incurred from personal or commercial automobile related losses, accidents arising outside of the workplace, injuries or accidents incurred during the course of employment, or from equipment, with each loss resulting in short term or long-term disability payments.

•Longevity- Risk of loss from increased life expectancy trends among policyholders receiving long-term benefit payments.

Catastrophe risk primarily arises in the property, automobile, group life, group disability, and workers' compensation product lines.

Impact Non-catastrophe insurance risk can arise from unexpected loss experience, underpriced business and/or underestimation of loss reserves and can have significant effects on the Company’s earnings. Catastrophe insurance risk can arise from various unpredictable events and can have significant effects on the Company's earnings and may result in losses that could constrain its liquidity.

Management The Company's policies and procedures for managing these risks include disciplined underwriting protocols, exposure controls, sophisticated risk-based pricing, risk modeling, risk transfer, and capital management strategies. The Company has established underwriting guidelines for both individual risks, including individual policy limits, and risks in the aggregate, including aggregate exposure limits by geographic zone and peril. The Company uses both internal and third-party models to estimate the potential loss resulting from various catastrophe events and the potential financial impact those events would have on the Company's financial position and results of operations across its businesses. 

In addition, certain insurance products offered by The Hartford provide coverage for losses incurred due to cyber events and the Company has assessed and modeled how those products would respond to different events in order to manage its aggregate exposure to losses incurred under the insurance policies we sell. The Company models numerous deterministic scenarios including losses caused by malware, data breach, distributed denial of service attacks, intrusions of cloud environments and attacks of power grids. 

Among specific risk tolerances set by the Company, risk limits are set for natural catastrophes, terrorism risk and pandemic risk.

82

Part II - Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

RiskDefinitionDetails and Company Limits

Natural catastropheExposure arising from natural phenomena (e.g., earthquakes, wildfires, etc.) that create a concentration or aggregation of loss across the Company's insurance or asset portfolios and the inherent volatility of weather or climate pattern changes. The Company generally limits its estimated pre-tax loss as a result of natural catastrophes for property & casualty exposures from a single 250-year event to less than 30% of statutory surplus of the property and casualty insurance subsidiaries prior to reinsurance and to less than 15% of statutory surplus of the property and casualty insurance subsidiaries after reinsurance. From time to time the estimated loss to natural catastrophes from a single 250-year event prior to reinsurance may fluctuate above or below these limits due to changes in modeled loss estimates, exposures or statutory surplus.

 - The estimated 250 year pre-tax probable maximum loss from earthquake events is estimated to be $917 before reinsurance and $470 net of reinsurance. [1]

 - The estimated 250 year pre-tax probable maximum losses from hurricane events are estimated to be $1.6 billion before reinsurance and $877 net of reinsurance. [1]

TerrorismThe risk of losses from terrorist attacks, including losses caused by single-site and multi-site conventional attacks, as well as the potential for attacks using nuclear, biological, chemical or radiological weapons (“NBCR”). Enterprise limits for terrorism apply to aggregations of risk across property-casualty, group benefits and specific asset portfolios and are defined based on a deterministic, single-site conventional terrorism attack scenario. The Company manages its potential estimated loss from a conventional terrorism loss scenario, up to $2.0 billion net of reinsurance and $2.5 billion gross of reinsurance, before coverage under the Terrorism Risk Insurance Program established under “TRIPRA”. In addition, the Company monitors exposures monthly and employs both internally developed and vendor-licensed loss modeling tools as part of its risk management discipline. Our modeled exposures to conventional terrorist attacks around landmark locations may fluctuate above and below our stated limits.

PandemicThe exposure to loss arising from widespread influenza or other pathogens or bacterial infections that create an aggregation of loss across the Company's insurance or asset portfolios. The Company generally limits its estimated pre-tax loss from a single 250 year pandemic event to less than 18% of statutory surplus of the property and casualty and group benefits insurance subsidiaries. In evaluating these scenarios, the Company assesses the impact on group life policies, short-term and long-term disability, property & casualty claims, and losses in the investment portfolio associated with market declines in the event of a widespread pandemic. While ERM has a process to track and manage these limits, from time to time, the estimated loss for pandemics may fluctuate above or below these limits due to changes in modeled loss estimates, exposures, or statutory surplus. 

[1]The loss estimates represent total property losses for hurricane events and property and workers compensation losses for earthquake events resulting from a single event. The estimates provided are based on 250-year return period loss estimates that have a 0.4% likelihood of being exceeded in any single year. The net loss estimates provided assume that the Company is able to recover all losses ceded to reinsurers under its reinsurance programs. The Company also manages natural catastrophe risk for group life and group disability, which in combination with property and workers compensation loss estimates are subject to separate enterprise risk management net aggregate loss limits as a percent of enterprise surplus.

Reinsurance as a Risk Management Strategy

In addition to the policies and procedures outlined above, the Company uses reinsurance to transfer certain risks to reinsurance companies based on specific geographic or risk concentrations. A variety of traditional reinsurance products are used as part of the Company's risk management strategy, including excess of loss occurrence-based products that reinsure property and workers' compensation exposures, and individual risk (including facultative reinsurance) or quota share arrangements, that reinsure losses from specific classes or lines of business. The Company has no significant finite risk contracts in 

place and the statutory surplus benefit from all such prior year contracts is immaterial. The Hartford also participates in governmentally administered reinsurance facilities such as the Florida Hurricane Catastrophe Fund (“FHCF”), the Terrorism Risk Insurance Program (“TRIPRA”) and other reinsurance programs relating to particular risks or specific lines of business.

Reinsurance for Catastrophes- The Company has catastrophe reinsurance programs, including reinsurance treaties that cover property and workers’ compensation losses aggregating from single catastrophe events. 

83

Part II - Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Primary Catastrophe Treaty Reinsurance Coverages as of January 1, 2019 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[1]In addition to the Property Occurrence Treaty, for Florida events, The Hartford has purchased the mandatory FHCF reinsurance for the period from 6/1/2018 to 5/30/2019. Retention and coverage varies by writing company. The writing company with the largest coverage under FHCF is Hartford Insurance Company of the Midwest, with coverage for $84 of per event losses in excess of a $29 retention.

[2]Portions of this layer of coverage extend beyond the traditional one year term.

[3]The aggregate treaty is not limited to a single event; rather, it is designed to provide reinsurance protection for the aggregate of all events designated as catastrophes by PCS (Property Claims Services/Verisk) with a $350 limit on any one event.

[4]In addition to the limits shown, the worker's compensation reinsurance includes a non-catastrophe, industrial accident layer, providing coverage for 80% of $30 in per event losses in excess of a $20 retention.

In addition to the property catastrophe reinsurance coverage described in the above table, the Company has other reinsurance agreements that cover property catastrophe losses. The Per Occurrence Property Catastrophe Treaty and Workers' Compensation Catastrophe Treaty include a provision to reinstate limits in the event that a catastrophe loss exhausts limits on one or more layers under the treaties. 

Reinsurance for Terrorism- For the risk of terrorism, private sector catastrophe reinsurance capacity is generally limited and largely unavailable for terrorism losses caused by nuclear, biological, chemical or radiological attacks. As such, the Company's principal reinsurance protection against large-scale terrorist attacks is the coverage currently provided through TRIPRA to the end of 2020. 

TRIPRA provides a backstop for insurance-related losses resulting from any “act of terrorism”, which is certified by the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of Homeland Security and the Attorney General, for losses that exceed a threshold of industry losses of $180 in 2019, with the threshold increasing to $200 by 2020. Under the program, in any one calendar year, the federal government would pay a percentage of losses incurred from a certified act of terrorism after an insurer's losses exceed 20% of the Company's eligible direct commercial earned premiums of the prior calendar year up to a combined annual aggregate limit for the federal government and all insurers of $100 billion. The percentage of losses paid by the federal government is 81% in 2019, decreasing to 80% in 2020. The Company's estimated deductible under the program is $1.3 billion for 2019. If an act of terrorism or acts of terrorism result in covered losses exceeding the $100 billion annual industry aggregate limit, Congress would be responsible for determining how additional losses in excess of $100 billion will be paid. 

Reinsurance for A&E Reserve Development- Under an ADC reinsurance agreement, NICO assumes adverse net loss and allocated loss adjustment expense reserve development up to $1.5 billion above the Company’s net A&E reserves recorded as of December 31, 2016. Under retroactive reinsurance accounting, net adverse A&E reserve development after December 31, 2016 results in an offsetting reinsurance recoverable up to the $1.5 billion limit. Cumulative ceded losses up to the $650 reinsurance premium paid for the ADC are recognized as a dollar-for-dollar offset to direct losses incurred. As of December 31, 2018, $523 of incurred asbestos and environmental losses had been ceded to NICO, leaving approximately $977 of coverage available for future adverse net reserve development, if any. Cumulative ceded losses exceeding the $650 reinsurance premium paid would result in a deferred gain. The deferred gain would be recognized over the claim settlement period in the proportion of the amount of cumulative ceded losses collected from the reinsurer to the estimated ultimate reinsurance recoveries. Consequently, until periods when the deferred gain is recognized as a benefit to earnings, cumulative adverse development of A&E claims after December 31, 2016 in excess of $650 may result in significant charges against earnings. Furthermore, there is a risk that cumulative adverse development of A&E claims could ultimately exceed the $1.5 billion treaty limit in which case all adverse development in excess of the treaty limit would be absorbed as a charge to earnings by the Company. In these scenarios, the effect of these charges could be material to the Company’s consolidated operating results and liquidity.

Reinsurance Recoverables

Property and casualty insurance product reinsurance recoverables represent loss and loss adjustment expense recoverables from a number of entities, including reinsurers and pools. 

84

Part II - Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Property & Casualty Reinsurance Recoverables

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

As shown in the following table, a portion of the total gross reinsurance recoverables relates to the Company’s mandatory participation in various involuntary assigned risk pools and the value of annuity contracts held under structured settlement agreements. Reinsurance recoverables due from mandatory pools are backed by the financial strength of the property and casualty insurance industry. Annuities purchased from third-party life insurers under structured settlements are recognized as reinsurance recoverables in cases where the Company has not obtained a release from the claimant. Of the remaining gross reinsurance recoverables, the portion of recoverables due from companies rated by A.M. Best is as follows:

Distribution of Gross Reinsurance Recoverables

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

To manage reinsurer credit risk, a reinsurance security review committee evaluates the credit standing, financial performance, management and operational quality of each potential reinsurer. In placing reinsurance, the Company considers the nature of the risk reinsured, including the expected liability payout duration, and establishes limits tiered by reinsurer credit rating.

Where its contracts permit, the Company secures future claim obligations with various forms of collateral, including irrevocable letters of credit, secured trusts, funds held accounts and group wide offsets. As part of its reinsurance recoverable review, the Company analyzes recent developments in commutation activity between reinsurers and cedants, recent trends in arbitration and litigation outcomes in disputes between cedants and reinsurers and the overall credit quality of the Company’s reinsurers. As indicated in the above table, 81.8% of the gross reinsurance recoverables due from reinsurers rated by A.M. Best were rated A- (excellent) or better as of December 31, 2018. 

Annually, the Company completes evaluations of the reinsurance recoverable asset associated with older, long-term casualty liabilities reported in the Property & Casualty Other Operations reporting segment, and the allowance for uncollectible reinsurance reported in the Commercial Lines reporting segment. For a discussion regarding the results of these evaluations, see MD&A - Critical Accounting Estimates, Property and Casualty Insurance Product Reserves, Net of Reinsurance. 

Group Benefits reinsurance recoverables represent reserve for future policy benefits and unpaid loss and loss adjustment expenses and other policyholder funds and benefits payable that are recoverable from a number of reinsurers. 

Group Benefits Reinsurance Recoverables

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Guaranty Funds and Other Insurance-related Assessments

As part of its risk management strategy, the Company regularly monitors the financial strength of other insurers and, in particular, activity by insurance regulators and various state guaranty associations relating to troubled insurers. In all states, insurers licensed to transact certain classes of insurance are required to become members of a guaranty fund.

Operational Risk

Operational risk is the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes and systems, human error, or from external events.

Sources of Operational Risk Operational risk is inherent in the Company's business and functional areas. Operational risks include: compliance with laws and regulation, cybersecurity, business disruption, technology failure, inadequate execution or process management, reliance on model and data analytics, internal fraud, external fraud, third party dependency and attraction and retention of talent.

85

Part II - Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Impact Operational risk can result in financial loss, disruption of our business, regulatory actions or damage to our reputation.

Management Responsibility for day-to-day management of operational risk lies within each business unit and functional area. ERM provides an enterprise-wide view of the Company's operational risk on an aggregate basis. ERM is responsible for establishing, maintaining and communicating the framework, principles and guidelines of the Company's operational risk management program. Operational risk mitigation strategies include the following:

•Establishing policies and monitoring risk tolerances and exceptions;

•Conducting business risk assessments and implementing action plans where necessary;

•Validating existing crisis management protocols;

•Identifying and monitoring emerging risks; and

•Purchasing insurance coverage.

Cybersecurity Risk

The Hartford has implemented an information protection program with established governance routines that promote an adaptive approach for assessing and managing risks. The Hartford has invested to build a ‘defense-in-depth’ strategy that uses multiple security measures to protect the integrity of the Company's information assets. This ‘defense-in-depth’ strategy aligns to the National Institute of Standards and Technology ("NIST") Cyber Security Framework and provides preventative, detective and responsive measures that collectively protects the Company. Various cyber assurance methods, including security metrics, third party security assessments, external penetration testing, red team exercises, and cyber war game exercises are used to test the effectiveness of the overall cybersecurity control environment.

The Hartford, like many other large financial services companies, blocks attempted cyber intrusions on a daily basis. In the event of a cyber intrusion, the Company invokes its Cyber Incident Response Program (the "Program") commensurate with the nature of the intrusion. While the actual methods employed differ based on the event, our approach employs internal teams and outside advisors with specialized skills to support the response and recovery efforts and requires elevation of issues, as necessary, to senior management. In addition, we have procedures to ensure timely notification of critical cybersecurity incidents pursuant to the Program to help identify employees who may have material non-public information and to implement blackout restrictions on trading the Company's securities during the investigation and assessment of such cybersecurity incidents.

From a governance perspective, senior members of our Enterprise Risk Management, Information Protection and Internal Audit functions provide detailed, regular reports on cybersecurity matters to the Board, including the Finance, Investment, and Risk Management Committee (FIRMCo), a committee comprised of all directors, which has principal responsibility for oversight of cybersecurity risk, and/or the Audit Committee, which oversees controls for the Company's major risk exposures. The topics covered by these updates include the Company's activities, policies and procedures to prevent, detect and respond to cybersecurity incidents, as well as lessons learned 

from cybersecurity incidents and internal and external testing of our cyber defenses.

Financial Risk

Financial risks include direct and indirect risks to the Company's financial objectives coming from events that impact market conditions or prices. Some events may cause correlated movement in multiple risk factors. The primary sources of financial risks are the Company's invested assets. Consistent with its risk appetite, the Company establishes financial risk limits to control potential loss on a U.S. GAAP, statutory, and economic basis. Exposures are actively monitored and mitigated where appropriate. The Company uses various risk management strategies, including reinsurance and over-the-counter ("OTC") and exchange traded derivatives with counterparties meeting the appropriate regulatory and due diligence requirements. Derivatives are utilized to achieve one of four Company-approved objectives: hedging risk arising from interest rate, equity market, commodity market, credit spread and issuer default, price or currency exchange rate risk or volatility; managing liquidity; controlling transaction costs; or entering into synthetic replication transactions. Derivative activities are monitored and evaluated by the Company’s compliance and risk management teams and reviewed by senior management. 

The Company identifies different categories of financial risk, including liquidity, credit, interest rate, equity and foreign currency exchange, as described below.

Liquidity Risk

Liquidity risk is the risk to current or prospective earnings or capital arising from the Company's inability or perceived inability to meet its contractual funding obligations as they come due.

Sources of Liquidity Risk Sources of liquidity risk include funding risk, company-specific liquidity risk and market liquidity risk resulting from differences in the amount and timing of sources and uses of cash as well as company-specific and general market conditions. Stressed market conditions may impact the ability to sell assets or otherwise transact business and may result in a significant loss in value.

Impact Inadequate capital resources and liquidity could negatively affect the Company’s overall financial strength and its ability to generate cash flows from its businesses, borrow funds at competitive rates, and raise new capital to meet operating and growth needs.

Management The Company has defined ongoing monitoring and reporting requirements to assess liquidity across the enterprise under both current and stressed market conditions. The Company measures and manages liquidity risk exposures and funding needs within prescribed limits across legal entities, taking into account legal, regulatory and operational limitations to the transferability of liquid assets. The Company also monitors internal and external conditions, and identifies material risk changes and emerging risks that may impact operating cash flows or liquid assets. The liquidity requirements of the Holding Company have been and will continue to be met by the Holding Company's fixed maturities, short-term investments and cash, and dividends from its subsidiaries, principally its insurance operations, as well as the issuance of common stock, debt or other capital securities and borrowings from its credit 

86

Part II - Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

facilities as needed. The Company maintains multiple sources of contingent liquidity including a revolving credit facility, a commercial paper program, an intercompany liquidity agreement that allows for short-term advances of funds among the HFSG Holding Company and certain affiliates, and access to collateralized advances from the Federal Home Loan Bank of Boston ("FHLBB") for certain affiliates. The Company's CFO has primary responsibility for liquidity risk.

For further discussion on liquidity see the section on Capital Resources and Liquidity.

Credit Risk and Counterparty Risk

Credit risk is the risk to earnings or capital due to uncertainty of an obligor’s or counterparty’s ability or willingness to meet its obligations in accordance with contractually agreed upon terms. Credit risk is comprised of three major factors: the risk of change in credit quality, or credit migration risk; the risk of default; and the risk of a change in value due to changes in credit spreads.

Sources of Credit Risk The majority of the Company’s credit risk is concentrated in its investment holdings, but it is also present in the Company’s reinsurance and insurance portfolios.

Impact A decline in creditworthiness is typically associated with an increase in an investment’s credit spread, potentially resulting in an increase in other-than-temporary impairment, and an increased probability of a realized loss upon sale. Premiums receivable and reinsurance recoverables are also subject to credit risk based on the counterparty’s unwillingness or inability to pay.

Management The objective of the Company’s enterprise credit risk management strategy is to identify, quantify, and manage credit risk on an aggregate portfolio basis and to limit potential losses in accordance with an established credit risk management policy. The Company primarily manages its credit risk by holding a diversified mix of investment grade issuers and counterparties across its investment, reinsurance, and insurance portfolios. Potential losses are also limited within portfolios by diversifying across geographic regions, asset types, and sectors.

The Company manages credit risk on an on-going basis through the use of various processes and analyses. Both the investment and reinsurance areas have formulated procedures for counterparty approvals and authorizations, which establish minimum levels of creditworthiness and financial stability. Credits considered for investment are subjected to underwriting reviews. Within the investment portfolio, private securities are subject to management approval. Mitigation strategies vary across the three sources of credit risk, but may include:

•Investing in a portfolio of high-quality and diverse securities; 

•Selling investments subject to credit risk;

•Hedging through use of credit default swaps;

•Clearing transactions through central clearing houses that require daily variation margin;

•Entering into contracts only with strong creditworthy institutions

•Requiring collateral; and

•Non-renewing policies/contracts or reinsurance treaties.

The Company has developed credit exposure thresholds which are based upon counterparty ratings. Aggregate counterparty credit quality and exposure are monitored on a daily basis utilizing an enterprise-wide credit exposure information system that contains data on issuers, ratings, exposures, and credit limits. Exposures are tracked on a current and potential basis and aggregated by ultimate parent of the counterparty across investments, reinsurance receivables, insurance products with credit risk, and derivatives. 

As of December 31, 2018, the Company had no investment exposure to any credit concentration risk of a single issuer or counterparty greater than 10% of the Company's stockholders' equity, other than the U.S. government and certain U.S. government agencies. For further discussion of concentration of credit risk in the investment portfolio, see the Concentration of Credit Risk section in Note 6 - Investments of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

Assets and Liabilities Subject to Credit Risk

Investments Essentially all of the Company's invested assets are subject to credit risk. Credit related impairments on investments were $1 and $2, in 2018 and 2017, respectively. (See the Enterprise Risk Management section of the MD&A under “Other-Than-Temporary Impairments.”)

Reinsurance recoverables Reinsurance recoverables, net of an allowance for uncollectible reinsurance, were $4,357 and $4,061, as of December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. (See the Enterprise Risk Management section of the MD&A under “Reinsurance as a Risk Management Strategy.”)

Premiums receivable and agents' balances Premiums receivable and agents’ balances, net of an allowance for doubtful accounts, were $3,995 and $3,910, as of December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. (For a discussion regarding collectibility of these balances, see Note 1, Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements under the section labeled “Revenue Recognition.”)

Credit Risk of Derivatives

The Company uses various derivative counterparties in executing its derivative transactions. The use of counterparties creates credit risk that the counterparty may not perform in accordance with the terms of the derivative transaction.

Downgrades to the credit ratings of the Company’s insurance operating companies may have adverse implications for its use of derivatives. In some cases, downgrades may give derivative counterparties for OTC derivatives and clearing brokers for OTC-cleared derivatives the right to cancel and settle outstanding derivative trades or require additional collateral to be posted. In addition, downgrades may result in counterparties and clearing brokers becoming unwilling to engage in or clear additional derivatives or may require collateralization before entering into any new trades.

87

Managing the Credit Risk of Counterparties to Derivative Instruments

The Company also has derivative counterparty exposure policies which limit the Company’s exposure to credit risk. The Company monitors counterparty exposure on a monthly basis to ensure compliance with Company policies and statutory limitations. The Company’s policies with respect to derivative counterparty exposure establishes market-based credit limits, favors long-term financial stability and creditworthiness of the counterparty and typically requires credit enhancement/credit risk reducing agreements, which are monitored and evaluated by the Company’s risk management team and reviewed by senior management.

The Company minimizes the credit risk of derivative instruments by entering into transactions with high quality counterparties primarily rated A or better. The Company also generally requires that OTC derivative contracts be governed by an International Swaps and Derivatives Association ("ISDA") Master Agreement, which is structured by legal entity and by counterparty and permits right of offset. The Company enters into credit support annexes in conjunction with the ISDA agreements, which require daily collateral settlement based upon agreed upon thresholds. 

The Company has developed credit exposure thresholds which are based upon counterparty ratings. Credit exposures are generally quantified based on the prior business day's net fair value, including income accruals, resulting in amounts owed to the Company by its counterparties or potential payment obligations from the Company to its counterparties. The notional amounts of derivative contracts represent the basis upon which pay or receive amounts are calculated and are not reflective of credit risk. For purposes of daily derivative collateral maintenance, credit exposures are generally quantified based on the prior business day’s market value and collateral is pledged to and held by, or on behalf of, the Company to the extent the current value of the derivatives is greater than zero, subject to minimum transfer thresholds. In accordance with industry standards and the contractual agreements, collateral is typically settled on the same business day. 

For the year ended December 31, 2018, the Company incurred no losses on derivative instruments due to counterparty default.

Use of Credit Derivatives

The Company may also use credit default swaps to manage credit exposure or to assume credit risk to enhance yield.

Credit Risk Reduced Through Credit Derivatives

The Company uses credit derivatives to purchase credit protection with respect to a single entity or referenced index. The Company purchases credit protection through credit default swaps to economically hedge and manage credit risk of certain fixed maturity investments across multiple sectors of the investment portfolio. As of December 31, 2018 and 2017, the notional amount related to credit derivatives that purchase credit protection was $6 and $61, respectively, while the fair value was $0 and $1, respectively. These amounts do not include positions that are in offsetting relationships.

Credit Risk Assumed Through Credit Derivatives

The Company also enters into credit default swaps that assume credit risk as part of replication transactions. Replication transactions are used as an economical means to synthetically replicate the characteristics and performance of assets that are 

permissible investments under the Company’s investment policies. These swaps reference investment grade single corporate issuers and indexes. As of December 31, 2018 and 2017, the notional amount related to credit derivatives that assume credit risk was $1.1 billion and $823, respectively, while the fair value was $3 for both periods. These amounts do not include positions that are in offsetting relationships.

For further information on credit derivatives, see Note 7 Derivatives of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

Credit Risk of Business Operations

A portion of the company's commercial business is written with large deductible policies or retrospectively-rated plans. Under some commercial insurance contracts with deductible features, the Company is obligated to pay the claimant the full amount of the claim. The Company is subsequently reimbursed by the contract holder for the deductible amount, and is subject to credit risk until such reimbursement is made. Additionally, retrospectively rated policies are utilized primarily for workers compensation coverage, whereby the ultimate premium is determined based on actual loss activity. Although the retrospectively rated feature of the policy substantially reduces insurance risk for the Company, it does introduce credit risk to the Company. The Company’s results of operations could be adversely affected if a significant portion of such contract holders failed to reimburse the Company for the deductible amount or the retrospectively rated policyholders failed to pay additional premiums owed. While the Company attempts to manage the risks discussed above through underwriting, credit analysis, collateral requirements, provision for bad debt, and other oversight mechanisms, the Company’s efforts may not be successful. 

Interest Rate Risk

Interest rate risk is the risk of financial loss due to adverse changes in the value of assets and liabilities arising from movements in interest rates. Interest rate risk encompasses exposures with respect to changes in the level of interest rates, the shape of the term structure of rates and the volatility of interest rates. Interest rate risk does not include exposure to changes in credit spreads. 

Sources of Interest Rate Risk The Company has exposure to interest rates arising from its fixed maturity securities, long-term debt obligations, short and long-term disability claim reserves, and discount rate assumptions associated with the Company’s pension and other post retirement benefit obligations. 

Impact Changes in interest rates from current levels can have both favorable and unfavorable effects for the Company.

88

Part II - Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Change in Interest RatesFavorable EffectsUnfavorable Effects

ñAdditional net investment income due to reinvesting at higher yieldsDecrease in the fair value of the fixed income investment portfolio

 Higher interest expense on variable rate debt obligations

òIncrease in the fair value of the fixed income investment portfolioLower net investment income due to reinvesting at lower investment yields

 Acceleration in paydowns and prepayments or calls of certain mortgage-backed and municipal securities

Management The Company primarily manages its exposure to interest rate risk by constructing investment portfolios that seek to protect the firm from the economic impact associated with changes in interest rates by setting portfolio duration targets that are aligned with the duration of the liabilities that they support. The Company analyzes interest rate risk using various models including parametric models and cash flow simulation under various market scenarios of the liabilities and their supporting investment portfolios. Key metrics that the Company uses to quantify its exposure to interest rate risk inherent in its invested assets and the associated liabilities include duration, convexity and key rate duration. 

The Company may also utilize a variety of derivative instruments to mitigate interest rate risk associated with its investment portfolio or to hedge liabilities. Interest rate caps, floors, swaps, swaptions, and futures may be used to manage portfolio duration. Interest rate swaps are primarily used to convert interest receipts or payments to a fixed or variable rate. The use of such swaps enables the Company to customize contract terms and conditions to desired objectives and manage the duration profile within established tolerances. Interest rate swaps are also used to hedge the variability in the cash flows of a forecasted purchase or sale of fixed rate securities due to changes in interest rates. As of December 31, 2018 and 2017, notional amounts pertaining to derivatives utilized to manage interest rate risk, including offsetting positions, totaled $10.5 billion and $10.2 billion, respectively primarily related to investments. The fair value of these derivatives was $(61) and $(83) as of December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.

Assets and Liabilities Subject to Interest Rate Risk

Fixed income investments The fair value of fixed income investments, which include fixed maturities, commercial mortgage loans, and short-term investments, was $43.7 billion and $42.5 billion at December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. The weighted average duration of the portfolio, including derivative instruments, was approximately 4.7 years and 5.2 years as of December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. Changes in the fair value of fixed maturities due to changes in interest rates are reflected as a component of AOCI.

Long-term debt obligations The Company's variable rate debt obligations will generally result in increased interest expense as a result of higher interest rates; the inverse is true during a declining interest rate environment. Changes in the value of long-term debt as a result of changes in interest rates will impact the fair value of these instruments but not the carrying value in the Company's Consolidated Balance Sheets.

Group life and disability product liabilities The cash outflows associated with contracts issued by the Company's Group Benefits segment, primarily group life and short and long-term disability policy liabilities, are not interest rate sensitive but vary based on timing. Though the aggregate cash flow payment streams are relatively predictable, these products may rely upon actuarial pricing assumptions (including mortality and morbidity) and have an element of cash flow uncertainty. As of December 31, 2018 and 2017, the Company had $8,445 and $8,512, respectively of reserves for group life and disability contracts. Changes in the value of the liabilities as a result of changes in interest rates will impact the fair value of these instruments but not the carrying value in the Company's Consolidated Balance Sheets.

89

Part II - Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Pension and other post-retirement benefit obligations The Company’s pension and other post-retirement benefit obligations are exposed to interest rate risk based upon the sensitivity of present value obligations to changes in liability discount rates as well as the sensitivity of the fair value of investments in the plan portfolios to changes in interest rates. The discount rate assumption is based upon an interest rate yield curve that reflects high-quality fixed income investments consistent with the maturity profile of the expected liability cash flows. The Company is exposed to the risk of having to make additional plan contributions if the plans’ investment returns, including from investments in fixed maturities, are lower than expected. (For further discussion of discounting pension and other postretirement benefit obligations, refer to Note 18 - Employee Benefit Plans of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.) As of December 31, 2018 and 2017, the Company had $791 and $926, respectively, of unfunded liabilities for pension and post-retirement benefit obligations recorded within Other Liabilities in the accompanying Balance Sheets.

Interest Rate Sensitivity

Group Life and Disability Reserves and Invested Assets Supporting Them

Included in the following table is the before tax change in the net economic value of contracts issued by the Company’s Group Benefits segment, primarily group life and disability, for which fixed valuation discount rate assumptions are established based upon investment returns assumed in pricing, along with the corresponding invested assets. Also included in this analysis are the interest rate sensitive derivatives used by the Company to hedge its exposure to interest rate risk in the investment portfolios supporting these contracts. This analysis does not include the assets and corresponding liabilities of other insurance products such as automobile, property, workers' compensation and general liability insurance. Certain financial instruments, such as limited partnerships and other alternative investments, have been omitted from the analysis as the interest rate sensitivity of these investments is generally lower and less predictable than fixed income investments. The calculation of the estimated hypothetical change in net economic value below assumes a 100 basis point upward and downward parallel shift in the yield curve.

The selection of the 100 basis point parallel shift in the yield curve was made only as an illustration of the potential hypothetical impact of such an event and should not be construed as a prediction of future market events. Actual results could differ materially from those illustrated below due to the nature of the estimates and assumptions used in the above analysis. The Company’s sensitivity analysis calculation assumes that the composition of invested assets and liabilities remain materially consistent throughout the year and that the current relationship between short-term and long-term interest rates will remain constant over time. As a result, these calculations may not fully capture the impact of portfolio re-allocations, significant product sales or non-parallel changes in interest rates.

Interest Rate Sensitivity of Group Benefits Short and Long-term Disability Reserves and Invested Assets Supporting Them

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The carrying value of assets supporting the liabilities related to the businesses included in the table above was $10.0 billion and $10.1 billion, as of December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively, and included fixed maturities, commercial mortgage loans and short-term investments. The assets supporting the liabilities are monitored and managed within set duration guidelines and are evaluated on a daily basis, as well as annually, using scenario simulation techniques in compliance with regulatory requirements.

Invested Assets not Supporting Group Life and Disability Reserves 

The following table provides an analysis showing the estimated before tax change in the fair value of the Company’s investments and related derivatives, excluding assets supporting group life and disability reserves which are included in the table above, assuming 100 basis point upward and downward parallel shifts in the yield curve as of December 31, 2018 and 2017. Certain financial instruments, such as limited partnerships and other alternative investments, have been omitted from the analysis as the interest rate sensitivity of these investments is generally lower and less predictable than fixed income investments.

Interest Rate Sensitivity of Invested Assets Not Supporting Group Benefits Short and Long-term Disability Reserves

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The carrying value of fixed maturities, commercial mortgage loans and short-term investments related to the businesses included in the table above was $33.7 billion and $32.4 billion, as of December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. 

Long-term Debt

A 100 basis point parallel decrease in the yield curve would result in an increase in the fair value of the liability of $331 and $340 as of December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. A 100 basis point parallel increase in the yield curve would result in a decrease in the fair value of the liability of $(279) and $(287) as of December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. Changes in the value of long-term debt as a result of changes in interest rates will not impact the carrying value in the Company's Consolidated Balance Sheets. 

90

Part II - Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Pension and Other Post-Retirement Plan Obligations

A 100 basis point parallel decrease in the yield curve would impact both the value of the underlying pension assets and the value of the liability, resulting in an increase in the net pension and other post-retirement plan obligations liability of $178 and $226 as of December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. A 100 basis point parallel increase in the yield curve would have the inverse effect and result in a decrease in the net pension and other post-retirement plan obligations liability of $(134) and $(170) as of December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. Gains or losses due to changes in interest rates on the pension and post-retirement plan obligations are recorded within AOCI and are amortized into the actuarial loss component of net periodic benefit cost when they exceed a threshold.

Equity Risk

Equity risk is the risk of financial loss due to changes in the value of global equities or equity indices. 

Sources of Equity Risk The Company has exposure to equity risk from invested assets, assets that support the Company’s pension and other post-retirement benefit plans, and fee income derived from Hartford Funds assets under management. 

Impact The investment portfolio is exposed to losses from market declines affecting equity securities, alternative assets and limited partnerships which could negatively impact the Company's reported earnings. For assets supporting pension and other post-retirement benefit plans, the Company may be required to make additional plan contributions if equity investments in the plan portfolios decline in value. Hartford Funds earnings are also significantly influenced by the U.S. and other equity markets. Generally, declines in equity markets will reduce the value of assets under management and the amount of fee income generated from those assets. Increases in equity markets will generally have the inverse impact.

Management The Company uses various approaches in managing its equity exposure, including limits on the proportion of assets invested in equities, diversification of the equity portfolio, and hedging of changes in equity indices. 

Assets and Liabilities Subject to Equity Risk 

Investment portfolio is exposed to losses from market declines affecting equity securities and certain alternative assets and limited partnerships. Generally, declines in equity markets will reduce the value of these types of investments and could negatively impact the Company’s earnings while increases in equity will have the inverse impact. For equity securities, the changes in fair value are reported in net realized capital gains and losses. For alternative assets and limited partnerships, the Company's share of earnings for the period is recorded in net investment income, though typically on a delay based on the availability of the underlying financial statements. For a discussion of equity sensitivity, see below.

Assets supporting pension and other post-retirement benefit plans The Company may be required to make additional plan contributions if equity investments in the plan portfolios decline in value. For a discussion of equity sensitivity, see below. 

The asset allocation mix is reviewed on a periodic basis. In order to minimize the risk, the pension plans maintain a listing of permissible and prohibited investments and impose concentration limits and investment quality requirements on permissible investment options. Declines in value are recognized as unrealized losses in AOCI. Increases in equity markets are recognized as unrealized gains in AOCI. Unrealized gains and losses in AOCI are amortized into the actuarial loss component of net periodic benefit cost when they exceed a threshold. For further discussion of equity risk associated with the pension plans, see Note 18 Employee Benefit Plans of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

 Assets under management in Hartford Funds may decrease in value during equity market declines, which would result in lower earnings because fee income is earned based upon the value of assets under management. 

Equity Sensitivity

Investment portfolio and the assets supporting pension and other post-retirement benefit plans

Included in the following tables are the estimated before tax change in the economic value of the Company’s invested assets and assets supporting pension and other post-retirement benefit plans with sensitivity to equity risk. The calculation of the hypothetical change in economic value below assumes a 20% upward and downward shock to the Standard & Poor's 500 Composite Price Index ("S&P 500"). For limited partnerships and other alternative investments, the movement in economic value is calculated using a beta analysis largely derived from historical experience relative to the S&P 500.

The selection of the 20% shock to the S&P 500 was made only as an illustration to the potential hypothetical impact of such an event and should not be construed as a prediction of future market events. Actual results could differ materially from those illustrated below due to the nature of the estimates and assumptions used in the analysis. These calculations may not fully capture the impact of portfolio re-allocations or significant product sales. 

91

Part II - Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Equity Sensitivity [1]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[1]Table excludes the Company's investment in Hopmeadow Holdings LP which is reported in other assets on the Company's Consolidated Balance Sheets.

Hartford Funds assets under management

Hartford Funds earnings are significantly influenced by the U.S. and other equity markets. If equity markets were to hypothetically decline 20% and remain depressed for one year, the estimated before tax impact on reported earnings for that one year period is $(37) as of December 31, 2018. The selection of the 20% shock to the S&P 500 was made only as an illustration to the potential hypothetical impact of such an event and should not be construed as a prediction of future market events. Actual results could differ materially due to the nature of the estimates and assumptions used in the analysis. 

Foreign Currency Exchange Risk

Foreign currency exchange risk is the risk of financial loss due to changes in the relative value between currencies.

Sources of Currency Risk The Company has foreign currency exchange risk in non-U.S. dollar denominated investments, which primarily consist of fixed maturity and equity investments and foreign denominated cash.

Impact Changes in relative values between currencies can create variability in cash flows and realized or unrealized gains and losses on changes in the fair value of assets and liabilities.

Based on the fair values of the Company’s non-U.S. dollar denominated securities and derivative instruments as of December 31, 2018 and 2017, management estimates that a hypothetical 10% unfavorable change in exchange rates would decrease the fair values by a before tax total of $9 and $10, respectively. Actual results could differ materially due to the nature of the estimates and assumptions used in the analysis.

Management The open foreign currency exposure of non-U.S. dollar denominated investments will most commonly be reduced through the sale of the assets or through hedges using currency futures/forwards/swaps. In order to manage the currency risk related to any non-U.S. dollar denominated liability contracts, the Company holds non-U.S. dollar denominated investments which match the underlying currency exposure of the liabilities.

Assets and Liabilities Subject to Foreign Currency Exchange Risk

Non-U.S. dollar denominated fixed maturities, equities, and cash The fair values of the non-U.S. dollar denominated fixed maturities, equities and cash, excluding assets held for sale, at December 31, 2018 

and 2017 were approximately $178 and $298, respectively. Included in these amounts are $119 and $128 at December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively, related to non-U.S. dollar denominated fixed maturities, equities and cash that directly support liabilities denominated in the same currencies. The currency risk of the remaining non-U.S. dollar denominated fixed maturities and equities are hedged with foreign currency swaps.

Investment in a P&C run-off entity in the United Kingdom During 2015, the Company entered into certain foreign currency forwards to hedge the currency impacts on changes in equity of a P&C run-off entity in the United Kingdom that was sold during 2017. At December 31, 2016, the derivatives used to hedge the currency impacts had a total notional amount of $200, and a total fair value of $(2), respectively. The Company terminated these hedges in 2017.

Financial Risk on Statutory Capital

Statutory surplus amounts and risk-based capital (“RBC”) ratios may increase or decrease in any period depending upon a variety of factors and may be compounded in extreme scenarios or if multiple factors occur at the same time. In general, as equity market levels and interest rates decline, the amount and volatility of either our actual or potential obligation, as well as the related statutory surplus and capital margin can be materially negatively affected, sometimes at a greater than linear rate. At times the impact of changes in certain market factors or a combination of multiple factors on RBC ratios can be counterintuitive. Factors include:

•A decrease in the value of certain fixed-income and equity securities in our investment portfolio, due in part to credit spreads widening, may result in a decrease in statutory surplus and RBC ratios.

•Decreases in the value of certain derivative instruments that do not get hedge accounting, may reduce statutory surplus and RBC ratios.

•Non-market factors can also impact the amount and volatility of either our actual or potential obligation, as well as the related statutory surplus and capital margin.

Most of these factors are outside of the Company’s control. The Company’s financial strength and credit ratings are significantly influenced by the statutory surplus amounts and RBC ratios of 

92

Part II - Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

our insurance company subsidiaries. In addition, rating agencies may implement changes to their internal models that have the effect of increasing or decreasing the amount of statutory capital we must hold in order to maintain our current ratings.

Investment Portfolio Risk

The following table presents the Company’s fixed maturities, AFS, by credit quality. The credit ratings referenced throughout this 

section are based on availability and are generally the midpoint of the available ratings among Moody’s, S&P, and Fitch. If no rating is available from a rating agency, then an internally developed rating is used.

Fixed Maturities by Credit Quality

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The fair value of fixed maturities, AFS decreased as compared to December 31, 2017, primarily due to a decrease in valuations due to widening of credit spreads and higher interest rates. Fixed 

Maturities, FVO, are not included in the preceding table. For further discussion on FVO securities, see Note 5 - Fair Value Measurements of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

93

Part II - Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Securities by Type

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[1]Includes securities with pools of loans issued by the Small Business Administration which are backed by the full faith and credit of the U.S. government.

[2]Effective January 1, 2018, with the adoption of new accounting standards for financial instruments, equity securities, AFS were reclassified to equity securities, at fair value.

The fair value of AFS securities decreased as compared with December 31, 2017, primarily due to a decrease in valuations due to widening of credit spreads and higher interest rates. Also, 

tax-exempt municipal bonds were reallocated into corporate bonds and structured securities during the period.

94

Part II - Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

European Exposure

While the European economy is still growing, the International Monetary Fund cut its 2019 growth forecasts for the region, citing the prospect for a more turbulent external environment, including escalating trade tensions and slowing global demand. Political risk will likely remain elevated in Europe during 2019 due to uncertainty surrounding Great Britain's pending departure from the European Union ("Brexit"), increasing pressure on centrist governments in France and Germany and ongoing concern over Italian fiscal policy. The Company manages the credit risk associated with its European securities within the investment portfolio on an on-going basis using several processes which are supported by macroeconomic analysis and issuer credit analysis. For additional details regarding the Company’s management of credit risk, see the Credit Risk section of this MD&A.

As of December 31, 2018, the Company’s European investment exposure had both an amortized cost and fair value of $2.5 billion, or 5% of total invested assets; as of December 31, 2017, amortized cost and fair value totaled $1.9 billion and $2 billion, 

respectively. The investment exposure largely relates to corporate entities which are domiciled in or generate a significant portion of their revenue within the United Kingdom, Germany, Sweden, Switzerland, and the Netherlands. As of both December 31, 2018 and 2017, the weighted average credit quality of European investments was A-. Entities domiciled in the United Kingdom comprise the Company's largest European exposure; as of December 31, 2018 and 2017, the U.K. exposure totals less than 2% of total invested assets and largely relates to the industrial and financial services sector and has an average credit rating of BBB+. The majority of the European investments are U.S. dollar-denominated, and those securities that are British pound or euro-denominated are hedged to U.S. dollars. For a discussion of foreign currency risks, see the Foreign Currency Exchange Risk section of this MD&A.

Commercial & Residential Real Estate

The following table presents the Company’s exposure to CMBS and RMBS by current credit quality included in the preceding Securities by Type table. 

Exposure to CMBS and RMBS as of December 31, 2018

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

95

Part II - Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Exposure to CMBS and RMBS as of December 31, 2017

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[1]Includes securities with pools of loans issued by the Small Business Administration which are backed by the full faith and credit of the U.S. government.

The Company also has exposure to commercial mortgage loans. These loans are collateralized by real estate properties that are diversified both geographically throughout the United States and by property type. These loans are originated by the Company as high quality whole loans and are participated out to third parties. Loan participations are loans where the Company has purchased or retained a portion of an outstanding loan or package of loans and participates on a pro-rata basis in collecting interest and principal pursuant to the terms of the participation agreement.

As of December 31, 2018, commercial mortgage loans had an amortized cost and carrying value of $3.7 billion, with a valuation allowance of $1. As of December 31, 2017, commercial mortgage loans had an amortized cost and carrying value of $3.2 billion with a valuation allowance of $1.

The Company funded $664 of commercial whole loans with a weighted average loan-to-value (“LTV”) ratio of 59% and a weighted average yield of 4.4% during the twelve months ended December 31, 2018. The Company continues to originate commercial loans within primary markets, such as office, industrial and multi-family, focusing on loans with strong LTV ratios and high quality property collateral. There were no mortgage loans held for sale as of December 31, 2018 or December 31, 2017.

Municipal Bonds

The following table presents the Company’s exposure to municipal bonds by type and weighted average credit quality included in the preceding Securities by Type table.

96

Part II - Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Available For Sale Investments in Municipal Bonds

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[1]Pre-Refunded bonds are bonds for which an irrevocable trust containing sufficient U.S. treasury, agency, or other securities has been established to fund the remaining payments of principal and interest.

[2]Leasing revenue bonds are generally the obligations of a financing authority established by the municipality that leases facilities back to a municipality. The notes are typically secured by lease payments made by the municipality that is leasing the facilities financed by the issue. Lease payments may be subject to annual appropriation by the municipality or the municipality may be obligated to appropriate general tax revenues to make lease payments.

As of both December 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, the largest issuer concentrations were the New York City Transitional Finance Authority, the New York Dormitory Authority, and the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, which each comprised less than 3% of the municipal bond portfolio and were primarily comprised of general obligation and revenue bonds. In total, municipal bonds make up 22% of the fair value of the Company's investment portfolio. The Company has evaluated its portfolio allocation to municipal bonds with respect to the changes in corporate income tax rates that began in 2018 and has reduced exposure through both asset sales and principal repayments. The Company will continue to actively assess the sector’s relative value over time.

Limited Partnerships and Other Alternative Investments

The following table presents the Company’s investments in limited partnerships and other alternative investments which include hedge funds, real estate funds and private equity funds. Real estate funds consist of investments primarily in real estate joint ventures and, to a lesser extent, equity funds. Private equity funds primarily consist of investments in funds whose assets typically consist of a diversified pool of investments in small to mid-sized non-public businesses with high growth potential as well as limited exposure to public markets.

Limited Partnerships and Other Alternative Investments - Net Investment Income

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

97

Part II - Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Investments in Limited Partnerships and Other Alternative Investments

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[1]Consists of an insurer-owned life insurance policy which is invested in hedge funds and other investments. 

Available-for-sale Securities — Unrealized Loss Aging 

The total gross unrealized losses were $654 as of December 31, 2018, and have increased $524 from December 31, 2017, due to widening of credit spreads and higher interest rates. As of December 31, 2018, $631 of the gross unrealized losses were associated with securities depressed less than 20% of cost or amortized cost. The remaining $23 of gross unrealized losses were associated with securities depressed greater than 20%. The securities depressed more than 20% are primarily related to one corporate issuer with declining credit fundamentals and commercial real estate securities that were purchased at tighter credit spreads.

As part of the Company’s ongoing security monitoring process, the Company has reviewed its AFS securities in an unrealized loss position and concluded that these securities are temporarily depressed and are expected to recover in value as the securities approach maturity or as market spreads tighten. For these securities in an unrealized loss position where a credit impairment has not been recorded, the Company’s best estimate of expected future cash flows are sufficient to recover the amortized cost basis of the security. Furthermore, the Company neither has an intention to sell nor does it expect to be required to sell these securities. For further information regarding the Company’s impairment analysis, see Other-Than-Temporary Impairments in the Investment Portfolio Risks and Risk Management section of this MD&A.

Unrealized Loss Aging for AFS Securities

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Unrealized Loss Aging for AFS Securities Continuously Depressed Over 20%

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

98

Part II - Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Other-than-temporary Impairments Recognized in Earnings by Security Type

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Year ended December 31, 2018

For the year ended December 31, 2018, impairments recognized in earnings were comprised of credit impairments of $1 related to CMBS interest-only securities and were identified through security specific review of the expected future cash flows.

The Company incorporates its best estimate of future performance using internal assumptions and judgments that are informed by economic and industry specific trends, as well as our expectations with respect to security specific developments.

Non-credit impairments recognized in other comprehensive income were $6 for the year ended December 31, 2018. 

Future impairments may develop as the result of changes in intent to sell specific securities that are in an unrealized loss position or if modeling assumptions, such as macroeconomic factors or security specific developments, change unfavorably from our current modeling assumptions resulting in lower cash flow expectations. 

Year ended December 31, 2017

For the year ended December 31, 2017, impairments recognized in earnings were comprised of credit impairments of $2 related to CMBS interest-only securities that were not expected to generate enough cash flow for the Company to recover the investment. Impairments of equity securities of $6 were comprised of securities in an unrealized loss position that the Company did not expect to recover.

Year ended December 31, 2016 

For the year ended December 31, 2016, impairments recognized in earnings were comprised of credit impairments of $21 primarily related to corporate securities due to changes in the financial condition of the issuer, impairments on equity securities of $4, and intent-to-sell impairments of $2.

CAPITAL RESOURCES AND LIQUIDITY

The following section discusses the overall financial strength of The Hartford and its insurance operations including their ability to generate cash flows from each of their business segments, borrow funds at competitive rates and raise new capital to meet 

operating and growth needs over the next twelve months.

SUMMARY OF CAPITAL RESOURCES AND LIQUIDITY

Capital available at the holding company as of December 31, 2018:

•$3.4 billion in fixed maturities, short-term investments, and cash at HFSG Holding Company.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•The Hartford has an intercompany liquidity agreement that allows for short-term advances of funds among the HFSG Holding Company and certain affiliates of up to $2 billion for liquidity and other general corporate purposes.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

2019 expected dividends and other sources of capital:

•P&C - The Company does not anticipate receiving net dividends from its property and casualty insurance subsidiaries in 2019.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•Hartford Funds - Anticipates paying $100 to $125 of dividends in 2019.

In addition, The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc, ("HFSG Holding Company") anticipates cash tax receipts of approximately $600 to $700, including realization of net operating losses and AMT credits.

99

Part II - Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Expected liquidity requirements for the next twelve months as of December 31, 2018:

•$413 maturing debt payment made in January of 2019.

•$265 interest on debt.

•$21 dividends on preferred stock, subject to the discretion of the Board of Directors.

•$440 common stockholders' dividends, subject to the discretion of the Board of Directors and before share repurchases and any change in common stockholder dividend rate.

•$2.2 billion of cash consideration including transaction expenses to acquire all outstanding common shares of Navigators Group, a global specialty underwriter.

Liquidity Requirements and Sources of Capital

The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc. (Holding Company)

The liquidity requirements of the holding company of The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc. have been and will continue to be met by HFSG Holding Company’s fixed maturities, short-term investments and cash, dividends from its subsidiaries, principally its insurance operations, and tax receipts, including realization of HFSG Holding Company net operating losses and refunds of prior period AMT credits. In addition HFSG Holding Company can meet its liquidity requirements through the issuance of common stock, debt or other capital securities and borrowings from its credit facilities, as needed. 

As of December 31, 2018, HFSG Holding Company held fixed maturities, short-term investments, and cash of $3.4 billion. Expected liquidity requirements of the HFSG Holding Company for the next twelve months include payment of the 6.0% senior note of $413 at maturity in January 2019, interest payments on debt of approximately $265, preferred stock dividends of approximately $21 and common stockholder dividends of approximately $440, subject to the discretion of the Board of Directors, as well as $2.2 billion of cash consideration including transaction expenses to acquire all outstanding common shares of Navigators Group. 

Expected sources of capital of the HFSG Holding Company for the next twelve months include dividends from Group Benefits (HLA) of $250 to $300 , dividends from Hartford Funds of $100 to $125 and cash tax receipts of approximately $600 to $700, including realization of net operating losses and AMT credits.

Debt

On March 15, 2018, The Hartford issued $500 of 4.4% senior notes ("4.4% Notes") due March 15, 2048 for net proceeds of approximately $490, after deducting underwriting discounts and expenses from the offering. The Hartford used a portion of the net proceeds from this issuance to repay $320 principal amount 

of its 6.3% senior notes due March 15, 2018, and the balance of the proceeds will be used for general corporate purposes.

On June 15, 2018, The Hartford redeemed $500 aggregate principal amount of its 8.125% Fixed-to-Floating Rate Junior Subordinated Debentures due 2068.

On January 15, 2019, The Hartford repaid its $413, 6.0% senior notes at maturity .

For further information regarding debt, see Note 13 - Debt of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

Equity

During the year ended December 31, 2018, the Company did not repurchase any common shares. In February, 2019, the Company announced a $1.0 billion share repurchase authorization by the Board of Directors which is effective through December 31, 2020. Based on projected holding company resources, the Company expects to use a portion of the authorization in 2019 but anticipates using the majority of the program in 2020. Any repurchase of shares under the equity repurchase program is dependent on market conditions and other factors.

For further information about equity repurchases, see Part II - Item 5. Market for the Hartford's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities.

On November 6, 2018, the Company issued 13.8 million depositary shares of the Company’s 6.0% Series G non-cumulative perpetual preferred stock (the “Preferred Stock”) with a liquidation preference of $25,000 per share (equivalent to $25.00 per depositary share), for net proceeds of $334. The Preferred Stock is perpetual and has no maturity date but is redeemable at the Company's option in whole or in part, on or after November 15, 2023 at a redemption price of $25,000 per share, plus unpaid dividends attributable to the current dividend period.

The Hartford used the net proceeds from this offering to help fund repayment of the Company's 6.000% Senior Notes due January 15, 2019.

For further information regarding Preferred Stock, see Note 15 - Equity of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

Dividends

On February 21, 2019, The Hartford’s Board of Directors declared a quarterly dividend of $0.30 per common share payable on April 1, 2019 to common stockholders of record as of March 4, 2019. 

On February 21, 2019, The Hartford's Board of Directors declared a dividend of $375.00 on each share of the Series G preferred stock (equivalent to $0.3750 per depository share) payable on May 15, 2019 to stockholders of record at the close of business on May 1, 2019.

On December 13, 2018, The Hartford’s board of directors declared a dividend of $412.50 on each share of the Series G preferred stock (equivalent to $0.4125 per depository share) which was paid on February 15, 2019, to stockholders of record at the close of business on February 1, 2019.

There are no current restrictions on the HFSG Holding Company's ability to pay dividends to its stockholders. For a discussion of restrictions on dividends to the HFSG Holding 

100

Part II - Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Company from its insurance subsidiaries, see "Dividends from Insurance Subsidiaries" below. For a discussion of potential limitations on the HFSG Holding Company's ability to pay dividends, see Part I, Item 1A, — Risk Factors for the risk factor "Our ability to declare and pay dividends is subject to limitations".

Pension Plans and Other Postretirement Benefits

While the Company has significant discretion in making voluntary contributions to the U. S. qualified defined benefit pension plan, minimum contributions are mandated in certain circumstances pursuant to the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended by the Pension Protection Act of 2006, the Worker, Retiree, and Employer Recovery Act of 2008, the Preservation of Access to Care for Medicare Beneficiaries and Pension Relief Act of 2010, the Moving Ahead for Progress in the 21st Century Act of 2012 (MAP-21) and Internal Revenue Code regulations. The Company made contributions to the U. S. qualified defined benefit pension plan of approximately $101, $280 and $300 in 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively. No contributions were made to the other postretirement plans in 2018, 2017 and 2016. The Company’s 2018, 2017 and 2016 required minimum funding contributions were immaterial. The Company does not have a 2019 required minimum funding contribution for the U.S. qualified defined benefit pension plan and the funding requirements for all pension plans are expected to be immaterial. The Company has not determined whether, and to what extent, contributions may be made to the U. S. qualified defined benefit pension plan in 2019. The Company will monitor the funded status of the U.S. qualified defined benefit pension plan during 2019 to make this determination.

Beginning in 2017, the Company began to use a full yield-curve approach in the estimation of the interest cost component of net periodic benefit costs for its qualified and non-qualified pension plans and the postretirement benefit plan. The full yield curve approach applies the specific spot rates along the yield curve that are used in its determination of the projected benefit obligation at the beginning of the year. The change was made to provide a better estimate of the interest cost component of net periodic benefit cost by better aligning projected benefit cash flows with corresponding spot rates on the yield curve rather than using a single weighted average discount rate derived from the yield curve as had been done historically.

This change did not affect the measurement of the Company's total benefit obligations as the change in the interest cost in net income is completely offset in the actuarial (gain) loss reported for the period in other comprehensive income. The change resulted in a reduction of the interest cost component of net periodic benefit cost for 2017 of $32 before tax. The discount rate used to measure interest cost during 2017 was 3.58% for the period from January 1, 2017 to June 30, 2017 and 3.37% for the period from July 1, 2017 to December 31, 2017 for the qualified pension plan, 3.55% for the non-qualified pension plan, and 3.13% for the postretirement benefit plan. Under the Company's historical estimation approach, the weighted average discount rate for the interest cost component would have been 4.22% for the period from January 1, 2017 to June 30, 2017 and 3.92% for the period from July 1, 2017 to December 31, 2017 for the qualified pension plan, 4.19% for the non-qualified pension plan and 3.97% for the postretirement benefit plan. The Company accounted for this change as a change in estimate, and 

accordingly, recognized the effect prospectively beginning in 2017.

On June 30, 2017, the Company purchased a group annuity contract to transfer approximately $1.6 billion of the Company’s outstanding pension benefit obligations related to certain U.S. retirees, terminated vested participants, and beneficiaries. As a result of this transaction, in the second quarter of 2017, the Company recognized a pre-tax settlement charge of $750 ($488 after tax) and a reduction to stockholders' equity of $144. 

In connection with this transaction, the Company made a contribution of $280 in September 2017 to the U.S. qualified pension plan in order to maintain the plan’s pre-transaction funded status.

Dividends from Insurance Subsidiaries

Dividends to the HFSG Holding Company from its insurance subsidiaries are restricted by insurance regulation. The payment of dividends by Connecticut-domiciled insurers is limited under the insurance holding company laws of Connecticut. These laws require notice to and approval by the state insurance commissioner for the declaration or payment of any dividend, which, together with other dividends or distributions made within the preceding twelve months, exceeds the greater of (i) 10% of the insurer’s policyholder surplus as of December 31 of the preceding year or (ii) net income (or net gain from operations, if such company is a life insurance company) for the twelve-month period ending on the thirty-first day of December last preceding, in each case determined under statutory insurance accounting principles. In addition, if any dividend of a Connecticut-domiciled insurer exceeds the insurer’s earned surplus, it requires the prior approval of the Connecticut Insurance Commissioner. The insurance holding company laws of the other jurisdictions in which The Hartford’s insurance subsidiaries are incorporated (or deemed commercially domiciled) generally contain similar (although in certain instances more restrictive) limitations on the payment of dividends. In addition to statutory limitations on paying dividends, the Company also takes other items into consideration when determining dividends from subsidiaries. These considerations include, but are not limited to, expected earnings and capitalization of the subsidiaries, regulatory capital requirements and liquidity requirements of the individual operating company.

Total dividends paid by P&C subsidiaries to HFSG holding company in 2018 were $3.1 billion. This includes extraordinary dividends of $3.0 billion comprised of a $1.9 billion principal paydown on the intercompany note owed by Hartford Holdings, Inc. ("HHI") to Hartford Fire Insurance Company related to the life and annuity business sold in May 2018, $226 related to interest payments on the note and $900 to fund near-term obligations of the HFSG holding company. In addition, there was $50 of ordinary P&C dividends that were paid to HFSG holding company, and $110 of capital contributed by the HFSG holding company to a run-off P&C subsidiary. Excluding the interest payments on the intercompany note and dividends that were subsequently contributed to a P&C subsidiary, net dividends paid by P&C subsidiaries to HFSG holding company were $2.8 billion during 2018.

Total net dividends received by HFSG holding company in 2018 were $2.9 billion, including the $2.8 billion from P&C subsidiaries and $119 from Hartford Funds during the year. There were no dividends received from Hartford Life and Accident in 2018.

101

Part II - Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

2019 Dividend Capacity

•P&C - Under the formula described above, the Company’s property and casualty insurance subsidiaries are permitted to pay up to a maximum of approximately $1.2 billion in dividends to HFSG Holding Company for 2019 without prior approval from the applicable insurance commissioner, though only $200 of this dividend capacity could be paid before the fourth quarter of 2019. In 2019, HFSG Holding Company does not anticipate receiving net dividends from its property and casualty insurance subsidiaries, as planned 2019 dividends were received in the fourth quarter 2018. The HFSG Holding Company generally expects to receive net dividends of $850 to $900 a year from its property and casualty insurance subsidiaries subject to the profitability of those subsidiaries and their capital needs.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Other Sources of Capital for the HFSG Holding Company

The Hartford endeavors to maintain a capital structure that provides financial and operational flexibility to its insurance subsidiaries, ratings that support its competitive position in the financial services marketplace (see the "Ratings" section below for further discussion), and stockholder returns. As a result, the Company may from time to time raise capital from the issuance of debt, common equity, preferred stock, equity-related debt or other capital securities and is continuously evaluating strategic opportunities. The issuance of debt, common equity, equity-related debt or other capital securities could result in the dilution of stockholder interests or reduced net income due to additional interest expense.

Shelf Registrations

The Hartford filed an automatic shelf registration statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("the SEC") on July 29, 2016 that permits it to offer and sell debt and equity securities during the three-year life of the registration statement.

Revolving Credit Facility and Commercial Paper

Revolving Credit Facilities

On March 29, 2018, the Company entered into an amendment to its Five-Year Credit Agreement dated October 31, 2014. The Amendment reset the level of the Company's minimum consolidated net worth financial covenant to $9 billion, excluding AOCI, from its former $13.5 billion (where net worth was defined as stockholders' equity excluding AOCI and including junior subordinated debt), among other updates. Among other changes, under an amended and restated credit agreement that became effective in June 2018, after the closing of the sale of the Company's life and annuity business, the aggregate amount of principal of the credit facility decreased from $1 billion to $750, including a reduction to the amount available for letters of credit from $250 to $100, the maturity date was extended to March 29, 2023, and the liens covenant and certain other covenants were modified.

As of December 31, 2018, no borrowings were outstanding and $3 in letters of credit were issued under the Credit Facility and 

the Company was in compliance with all financial covenants.

For further information regarding revolving credit facilities, see Note 13 - Debt of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

Commercial Paper

The Hartford’s maximum borrowings available under its commercial paper program are $750. As of December 31, 2018 there was no commercial paper outstanding. 

For further information regarding commercial paper, see Note 13 - Debt of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

Intercompany Liquidity Agreements

The Company has $2.0 billion available under an intercompany liquidity agreement that allows for short-term advances of funds among the HFSG Holding Company and certain affiliates of up to $2 billion for liquidity and other general corporate purposes. The Connecticut Department of Insurance ("CTDOI") granted approval for certain affiliated insurance companies that are parties to the agreement to treat receivables from a parent, including the HFSG Holding Company, as admitted assets for statutory accounting purposes.

As of December 31, 2018, there were no amounts outstanding at the HFSG Holding Company.

Collateralized Advances with Federal Home Loan Bank of Boston

In August 2018, the Company’s subsidiaries, Hartford Fire Insurance Company (“Hartford Fire”) and Hartford Life and Accident Insurance Company (“HLA”), became members of the Federal Home Loan Bank of Boston (“FHLBB”). Membership allows these subsidiaries access to collateralized advances, which may be short or long-term with fixed or variable rates.

As of December 31, 2018, there were no advances outstanding under either FHLBB facility.

For further information regarding collateralized advances with Federal Home Loan Bank of Boston, see Note 13 - Debt of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

Derivative Commitments

Certain of the Company’s derivative agreements contain provisions that are tied to the financial strength ratings, as set by nationally recognized statistical agencies, of the individual legal entity that entered into the derivative agreement. If the legal entity’s financial strength were to fall below certain ratings, the counterparties to the derivative agreements could demand immediate and ongoing full collateralization and in certain instances enable the counterparties to terminate the agreements and demand immediate settlement of all outstanding derivative positions traded under each impacted bilateral agreement. The settlement amount is determined by netting the derivative positions transacted under each agreement. If the termination rights were to be exercised by the counterparties, it could impact the legal entity’s ability to conduct hedging activities by increasing the associated costs and decreasing the willingness of counterparties to transact with the legal entity. The aggregate fair value of all derivative instruments with credit-risk-related contingent features that are in a net liability position as of December 31, 2018 was $76. For this $76, the legal entities have posted collateral of $71, in the normal course of business. Based on derivative market values as of December 31, 2018, a downgrade of one level below the current financial strength rates 

102

Part II - Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

by either Moody’s or S&P would not require additional assets to be posted as collateral. Based on derivative market values as of December 31, 2018, a downgrade of two levels below the current financial strength ratings by either Moody’s or S&P would require an additional $7 of assets to be posted as collateral. These collateral amounts could change as derivative market values change, as a result of changes in our hedging activities or to the extent changes in contractual terms are negotiated. The nature of the collateral that we would post, if required, would be primarily in the form of U.S. Treasury bills, U.S. Treasury notes and government agency securities.

As of December 31, 2018, no derivative positions would be subject to immediate termination in the event of a downgrade of one level below the current financial strength ratings. This could change as a result of changes in our hedging activities or to the extent changes in contractual terms are negotiated.

Insurance Operations

While subject to variability period to period, underwriting and investment cash flows continue to be within historical norms and, therefore, the Company’s insurance operations’ current liquidity position is considered to be sufficient to meet anticipated demands over the next twelve months. For a discussion and tabular presentation of the Company’s current contractual obligations by period, refer to Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Aggregate Contractual Obligations within the Capital Resources and Liquidity section of the MD&A.

The principal sources of operating funds are premiums, fees earned from assets under management and investment income, while investing cash flows originate from maturities and sales of invested assets. The primary uses of funds are to pay claims, claim adjustment expenses, commissions and other underwriting and insurance operating costs, to pay taxes, to purchase new investments and to make dividend payments to the HFSG Holding Company.

The Company’s insurance operations consist of property and casualty insurance products (collectively referred to as “Property & Casualty Operations”) and Group Benefits.

The Company's insurance operations hold fixed maturity securities including a significant short-term investment position (securities with maturities of one year or less at the time of purchase) to meet liquidity needs. Liquidity requirements that are unable to be funded by the Company's insurance operations' short-term investments would be satisfied with current operating 

funds, including premiums or investing cash flows, which includes proceeds received through the sale of invested assets. A sale of invested assets could result in significant realized capital losses.

The following tables represent the fixed maturity holdings, including the aforementioned cash and short-term investments necessary to meet liquidity needs, for each of the Company’s insurance operations.

Property & Casualty

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Group Benefits Operations

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Off-balance Sheet Arrangements and Aggregate Contractual Obligations

The Company does not have any off-balance sheet arrangements that are reasonably likely to have a material effect on the financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, or capital resources of the Company, except for unfunded commitments to purchase investments in limited partnerships and other alternative investments, private placements, and mortgage loans as disclosed in Note 14 - Commitments and Contingencies of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

103

Part II - Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Aggregate Contractual Obligations as of December 31, 2018

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[1]The following points are significant to understanding the cash flows estimated for obligations (gross of reinsurance) under property and casualty contracts:

•Reserves for Property & Casualty unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses include IBNR and case reserves. While payments due on claim reserves are considered contractual obligations because they relate to insurance policies issued by the Company, the ultimate amount to be paid to settle both case reserves and IBNR is an estimate, subject to significant uncertainty. The actual amount to be paid is not finally determined until the Company reaches a settlement with the claimant. Final claim settlements may vary significantly from the present estimates, particularly since many claims will not be settled until well into the future.

•In estimating the timing of future payments by year, the Company has assumed that its historical payment patterns will continue. However, the actual timing of future payments could vary materially from these estimates due to, among other things, changes in claim reporting and payment patterns and large unanticipated settlements. In particular, there is significant uncertainty over the claim payment patterns of asbestos and environmental claims. In addition, the table does not include future cash flows related to the receipt of premiums that may be used, in part, to fund loss payments.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•Amounts shown do not consider $4.2 billion of reinsurance and other recoverables the Company expects to collect related to property and casualty obligations.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[3]Includes future minimum lease payments on operating lease agreements. See Note 14 - Commitments and Contingencies of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion on lease commitments.

[4]Includes contractual principal and interest payments. See Note 13 - Debt of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion of long-term debt obligations.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Capitalization

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Total stockholders' equity decreased in 2018 primarily due to a decrease in AOCI, partially offset by net income in excess of stockholder dividends and the issuance of preferred stock in 2018. AOCI decreased mainly due to the removal of AOCI 

related to the life and annuity business sold in May 2018, as well as due to lower net unrealized capital gains on fixed maturities. Total capitalization decreased $713, or 4%, as of December 31, 

104

Part II - Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

2018 compared with December 31, 2017 primarily due to the decrease in stockholders' equity and decrease in total debt.

For additional information regarding AOCI, net of tax, see Note 

17 - Changes in and Reclassifications From Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

Cash Flow [1]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[1] Cash activities include cash flows from Discontinued Operations; see Note 20 - Business Dispositions and Discontinued Operations of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information on cash flows from Discontinued Operations.

Year ended December 31, 2018 compared to the year ended December 31, 2017

Cash provided by operating activities increased in 2018 as compared to the prior year period primarily due to the effect of a $650 payment in 2017 for the ADC reinsurance agreement with NICO and the effect of an increase in premium and fee income received, partially offset by an increase in payments for benefits, losses, and loss adjustment expenses as well as operating expenses that were mostly driven by the acquisition of the Aetna U.S. group life and disability business.

Cash used for investing activities increased in 2018 compared to the prior year period primarily due to payments for short term investments and an increase in net payments for equity securities and mortgage loans, partially offset by proceeds from the life and annuity business sold in May 2018 and an increase in net proceeds from available for sale securities.

Cash used for financing activities increased from the 2017 period primarily due to a change to a decrease in securities loaned or sold under agreements to repurchase, as well as an increase in debt repayments in 2018, partially offset by a reduction in treasury stock acquired, proceeds raised from preferred stock issued net of issuance costs and a decline in separate account activity.

Year ended December 31, 2017 compared to the year ended December 31, 2016 

Cash provided by operating activities increased in 2017 as compared to the prior year due, in part, to an increase in fee income received, a decrease in taxes paid and a decrease in Property & Casualty claim payments, largely offset by the $650 ceded premium paid to NICO for the asbestos and environmental adverse development cover entered into in 2016.

Cash used for investing activities in 2017 primarily relates to the acquisition of Aetna's U.S. group life and disability business for $1.4 billion (net of cash acquired), net of $222 of net proceeds from the sale of the Company's P&C U.K. run-off business. Cash provided by investing activities in 2016 primarily related to net proceeds from available-for-sale securities of $2.7 billion, partially offset by net payments for short-term investments of $1.4 billion.

Cash used for financing activities in 2017 consists primarily of net payments for deposits, transfers and withdrawals for investments and universal life products of $991, the 

repurchase of common shares outstanding and the payment of common stock dividends, offset by an increase in cash from securities loaned or sold under agreements to repurchase securities and issuance of debt. Cash used for financing activities in 2016 consisted primarily of repurchases of common shares outstanding of $1.3 billion, net payments for deposits, transfers and withdrawals for investments and universal life products of $782 and repayment of debt of $275.

Equity Markets

For a discussion of the potential impact of the equity markets on capital and liquidity, see the Financial Risk on Statutory Capital and Liquidity Risk section in this MD&A.

Ratings

Ratings are an important factor in establishing a competitive position in the insurance marketplace and impact the Company's ability to access financing and its cost of borrowing. There can be no assurance that the Company’s ratings will continue for any given period of time, or that they will not be changed. In the event the Company’s ratings are downgraded, the Company’s competitive position, ability to access financing, and its cost of borrowing, may be adversely impacted.

Insurance Financial Strength Ratings as of February 20, 2019

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

These ratings are not a recommendation to buy or hold any of The Hartford’s securities and they may be revised or revoked at any time at the sole discretion of the rating organization.

The agencies consider many factors in determining the final rating of an insurance company. One consideration is the relative 

105

Part II - Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

level of statutory capital and surplus (referred to collectively as "statutory capital") necessary to support the business written and is reported in accordance with accounting practices prescribed by the applicable state insurance department. See Part I, Item 1A. 

Risk Factors — “Downgrades in our financial strength or credit ratings may make our products less attractive, increase our cost of capital and inhibit our ability to refinance our debt.”

Statutory Capital

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Stat to GAAP Differences

Significant differences between U.S. GAAP stockholders’ equity and aggregate statutory capital prepared in accordance with U.S. STAT include the following:

•U.S. STAT excludes equity of non-insurance and foreign insurance subsidiaries not held by U.S. insurance subsidiaries.

•Costs incurred by the Company to acquire insurance policies are deferred under U.S. GAAP while those costs are expensed immediately under U.S. STAT.

•Temporary differences between the book and tax basis of an asset or liability which are recorded as deferred tax assets are evaluated for recoverability under U.S. GAAP while those amounts deferred are subject to limitations under U.S. STAT.

•The assumptions used in the determination of Group Benefits reserves (i.e. for Group Benefits contracts) are prescribed under U.S. STAT, while the assumptions used under U.S. GAAP are generally the Company’s best estimates. 

•The difference between the amortized cost and fair value of fixed maturity and other investments, net of tax, is recorded as an increase or decrease to the carrying value of the related asset and to equity under U.S. GAAP, while U.S. STAT only records certain securities at fair value, such as equity securities and certain lower rated bonds required by the NAIC to be recorded at the lower of amortized cost or fair value.

•U.S. STAT for life insurance companies like HLA establishes a formula reserve for realized and unrealized losses due to default and equity risks associated with certain invested assets (the Asset Valuation Reserve), while U.S. GAAP does not. Also, for those realized gains and losses caused by changes in interest rates, U.S. STAT for life insurance companies defers and amortizes the gains and losses, caused by changes in interest rates, into income over the original life to maturity of the asset sold (the Interest Maintenance Reserve) while U.S. GAAP does not.

•Goodwill arising from the acquisition of a business is tested for recoverability on an annual basis (or more frequently, as necessary) for U.S. GAAP, while under U.S. STAT goodwill is amortized over a period not to exceed 10 years and the amount of goodwill admitted as an asset is limited.

In addition, certain assets, including a portion of premiums receivable and fixed assets, are non-admitted (recorded at zero value and charged against surplus) under U.S. STAT. U.S. GAAP generally evaluates assets based on their recoverability.

Risk-Based Capital

The Company's U.S. insurance companies' states of domicile impose RBC requirements. The requirements provide a means of measuring the minimum amount of statutory capital appropriate for an insurance company to support its overall business operations based on its size and risk profile. Companies below specific trigger points or ratios are classified within certain levels, each of which requires specified corrective action. All of the Company's operating insurance subsidiaries had RBC ratios in excess of the minimum levels required by the applicable insurance regulations. 

Similar to the RBC ratios that are employed by U.S. insurance regulators, regulatory authorities in the international jurisdictions in which the Company operates generally establish minimum solvency requirements for insurance companies. All of the Company's international insurance subsidiaries have capital levels in excess of the minimum levels required by the applicable regulatory authorities.

Sensitivity

In any particular year, statutory capital amounts and RBC ratios may increase or decrease depending upon a variety of factors. The amount of change in the statutory capital or RBC ratios can vary based on individual factors and may be compounded in extreme scenarios or if multiple factors occur at the same time. At times the impact of changes in certain market factors or a combination of multiple factors on RBC ratios can be counterintuitive. For further discussion on these factors and the potential impacts to the life insurance subsidiaries, see MD&A - Enterprise Risk Management, Financial Risk on Statutory Capital.

106

Part II - Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Statutory capital at the property and casualty subsidiaries has historically been maintained at or above the capital level required to meet “AA level” ratings from rating agencies. Statutory capital generated by the property and casualty subsidiaries in excess of the capital level required to meet “AA level” ratings is available for use by the enterprise or for corporate purposes. The amount of statutory capital can increase or decrease depending on a number of factors affecting property and casualty results including, among other factors, the level of catastrophe claims incurred, the amount of reserve development, the effect of changes in interest rates on investment income and the discounting of loss reserves, and the effect of realized gains and losses on investments.

Contingencies

Legal Proceedings 

For a discussion regarding contingencies related to The Hartford’s legal proceedings, please see the information contained under “Litigation” and “Asbestos and Environmental Claims,” in Note 14 - Commitments and Contingencies of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and Part I, Item 3 Legal Proceedings, which are incorporated herein by reference.

Legislative and Regulatory Developments

Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010 (the "Affordable Care Act") It is unclear whether the Administration, Congress or the courts will seek to reverse, amend or alter the ongoing operation of the Affordable Care Act ("ACA"). If such actions were to occur, they may have an impact on various aspects of our business, including our insurance businesses. It is unclear what an amended ACA would entail, and to what extent there may be a transition period for the phase out of the ACA. The impact to The Hartford as an employer would be consistent with other large employers. The Hartford’s core business does not involve the issuance of health insurance, and we have not observed any material impacts on the Company’s workers’ compensation business or group benefits business from the enactment of the ACA. We will continue to monitor the impact of the ACA and any reforms on consumer, broker and medical provider behavior for leading indicators of changes in medical costs or loss payments primarily on the Company's workers' compensation and disability liabilities.

Tax Reform At the end of 2017, Congress passed and the president signed, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 ("Tax Reform"), which enacted significant reforms to the U.S. tax code. The major areas of interest to the company include the reduction of the corporate tax rate from 35% to 21% and the repeal of the corporate alternative minimum tax (AMT) and the refunding of AMT credits. We continue to analyze Tax Reform for other potential impacts. The U.S. Treasury and IRS are developing guidance implementing Tax Reform, and Congress may consider additional technical corrections to the legislation. Tax proposals and regulatory initiatives which have been or are being considered by Congress and/or the U.S. Treasury Department could have a material effect on the company and its insurance businesses. The nature and timing of any Congressional or regulatory action with respect to any such efforts is unclear. For additional information on risks to the Company related to Tax Reform, please see the risk factor entitled "Changes in federal or state tax laws could adversely affect our business, financial 

condition, results of operations and liquidity" under "Risk Factors" in Part I.

Guaranty Fund and Other Insurance-related Assessments 

For a discussion regarding Guaranty Fund and Other Insurance-related Assessments, see Note 14 Commitments and Contingencies of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

IMPACT OF NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS

For a discussion of accounting standards, see Note 1 - Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

107

Part II - Item 9A. Controls and Procedures

Item 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES

Evaluation of disclosure controls and procedures

The Company's principal executive officer and its principal financial officer, based on their evaluation of the Company's disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(e)) have concluded that the Company's disclosure controls and procedures are effective for the purposes set forth in the definition thereof in Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(e) as of December 31, 2018.

Management’s annual report on internal control over financial reporting

The management of The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries (“The Hartford”) is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting for The Hartford as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.

A company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. A company's internal control over financial reporting includes policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that in reasonable detail accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of the company's assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

The Hartford's management assessed its internal controls over financial reporting as of December 31, 2018 in relation to criteria for effective internal control over financial reporting described in “Internal Control-Integrated Framework (2013)” issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Based on this assessment under those criteria, The Hartford's management concluded that its internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2018.

Changes in internal control over financial reporting

There were no changes in the Company's internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the Company's fourth fiscal quarter of 2018 that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company's internal control over financial reporting.

Attestation report of the Company’s registered public accounting firm

The Hartford's independent registered public accounting firm, Deloitte & Touche LLP, has issued their attestation report on the Company's internal control over financial reporting which is set forth below.

108

Part II - Item 9A. Controls and Procedures

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of

The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc.

Hartford, Connecticut

Opinion on Internal Control over Financial Reporting

We have audited the internal control over financial reporting of The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries (collectively, the "Company") as of December 31, 2018, based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). In our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2018, based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013) issued by COSO. 

We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB), the consolidated financial statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2018, of the Company and our report dated February 22, 2019, expressed an unqualified opinion on those financial statements. 

Basis for Opinion

The Company’s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying Management’s Annual Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. We are a public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.

We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.

Definition and Limitations of Internal Control over Financial Reporting

A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. 

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

/s/ DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP

Hartford, Connecticut

February 22, 2019

109

Part III - Item 10. Directors, and Executive Officers and Corporate Governance of the Hartford

Item 10. DIRECTORS, AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OF THE HARTFORD

Certain of the information called for by Item 10 will be set forth in the definitive proxy statement for the 2019 annual meeting of stockholders (the “Proxy Statement”) to be filed by The Hartford with the Securities and Exchange Commission within 120 days after the end of the fiscal year covered by this Form 10-K under the captions and subcaptions “Board and Governance Matters”, “Director Nominees" and "Section (16)(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance" and is incorporated herein by reference.

The Company has adopted a Code of Ethics and Business Conduct, which is applicable to all employees of the Company, including the principal executive officer, the principal financial officer and the principal accounting officer. The Code of Ethics and Business Conduct is available on the investor relations section of the Company’s website at: http://ir.thehartford.com. 

Any waiver of, or material amendment to, the Code of Ethics and Business Conduct will be posted promptly to our web site in accordance with applicable NYSE and SEC rules.

Executive Officers of The Hartford

Information about the executive officers of The Hartford who are also nominees for election as directors will be set forth in The Hartford’s Proxy Statement. Set forth below is information about the other executive officers of the Company as of February 15, 2019:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

110

Part III - Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters

Item 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

Certain of the information called for by Item 12 will be set forth in the Proxy Statement under the caption “Information on Stock Ownership” and is incorporated herein by reference.

Equity Compensation Plan Information 

The following table provides information as of December 31, 2018 about the securities authorized for issuance under the Company’s equity compensation plans. The Company maintains The Hartford 2005 Incentive Stock Plan (the “2005 Stock Plan”), The Hartford 2010 Incentive Stock Plan (the “2010 Stock Plan”), The Hartford 2014 Incentive Stock Plan (the "2014 Stock Plan") (collectively the "Stock Plans") and The Hartford Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the “ESPP”). On May 21, 2014, the stockholders of 

the Company approved the 2014 Stock Plan, which superseded the earlier plans. Pursuant to the provisions of the 2014 Stock Plan, no additional shares may be issued from the 2010 Stock Plan. To the extent that any awards under the 2005 Stock Plan and the 2010 Stock Plan are forfeited, terminated, surrendered, exchanged, expire unexercised or are settled in cash in lieu of stock (including to effect tax withholding) or for the issuance of a lesser number of shares than the number of shares subject to the award, the shares subject to such awards (or the relevant portion thereof) shall be available for award under the 2014 Stock Plan and such shares shall be added to the total number of shares available under the 2014 Stock Plan. For a description of the 2014 Stock Plan and the ESPP, see Note 19 - Stock Compensation Plans of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[2]The weighted-average exercise price reflects outstanding options and does not reflect outstanding restricted stock units or performance shares because they do not have exercise prices.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

111
Part IV. Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules

Item 15. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES

(a) Documents filed as a part of this report:

(1)Consolidated Financial Statements. See Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules elsewhere herein.

(2)Consolidated Financial Statement Schedules. See Index to Consolidated Financial Statement and Schedules elsewhere herein.

(3)Exhibits. See Exhibit Index elsewhere herein.

THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC. 

INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SCHEDULES