Item 7A.QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK 

We use certain derivative instruments to manage our interest rate, foreign currency exchange rate and commodity price risks. We monitor and manage these exposures as part of our overall risk management program. 

We enter into interest rate swap agreements and foreign currency forward exchange contracts for periods consistent with related underlying exposures. We enter into commodities futures and options contracts and other derivative instruments for varying periods. These commodity derivative instruments are intended to be, and are effective as, economic hedges of market price risks associated with anticipated raw material purchases, energy requirements and transportation costs. We do not hold or issue derivative instruments for trading purposes and are not a party to any instruments with leverage or prepayment features. 

In entering into these contracts, we have assumed the risk that might arise from the possible inability of counterparties to meet the terms of their contracts. We mitigate this risk by entering into exchange-traded contracts with collateral posting requirements and/or by performing financial assessments prior to contract execution, conducting periodic evaluations of counterparty performance and maintaining a diverse portfolio of qualified counterparties. We do not expect any significant losses from counterparty defaults. 

Refer to Note 1 and Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of these derivative instruments and our hedging policies.

Interest Rate Risk

The total notional amount of interest rate swaps outstanding at December 31, 2018 and 2017 was $350 million. The notional amount relates to fixed-to-floating interest rate swaps which convert a comparable amount of fixed-rate debt to variable rate debt at December 31, 2018 and 2017. A hypothetical 100 basis point increase in interest rates applied to this now variable-rate debt as of December 31, 2018 would have increased interest expense by approximately $3.5 million for the full year 2018 and 2017, respectively.

We consider our current risk related to market fluctuations in interest rates on our remaining debt portfolio, excluding fixed-rate debt converted to variable rates with fixed-to-floating instruments, to be minimal since this debt is largely long-term and fixed-rate in nature. Generally, the fair market value of fixed-rate debt will increase as interest rates fall 

43

and decrease as interest rates rise. A 100 basis point increase in market interest rates would decrease the fair value of our fixed-rate long-term debt at December 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017 by approximately $121 million and $134 million, respectively. However, since we currently have no plans to repurchase our outstanding fixed-rate instruments before their maturities, the impact of market interest rate fluctuations on our long-term debt does not affect our results of operations or financial position.

In order to manage interest rate exposure, in previous years we utilized interest rate swap agreements to protect against unfavorable interest rate changes relating to forecasted debt transactions. These swaps, which were settled upon issuance of the related debt, were designated as cash flow hedges and the gains and losses that were deferred in other comprehensive income are being recognized as an adjustment to interest expense over the same period that the hedged interest payments affect earnings. During 2016, we had one interest rate swap agreement in a cash flow hedging relationship with a notional amount of $500 million, which was settled in connection with the issuance of debt in August 2016, resulting in a payment of approximately $87 million which is reflected as an operating cash flow within the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows.

Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk

We are exposed to currency fluctuations related to manufacturing or selling products in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. We may enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts to reduce fluctuations in our long or short currency positions relating primarily to purchase commitments or forecasted purchases for equipment, raw materials and finished goods denominated in foreign currencies. We also may hedge payment of forecasted intercompany transactions with our subsidiaries outside of the United States. We generally hedge foreign currency price risks for periods from 3 to 12 months. 

A summary of foreign currency forward exchange contracts and the corresponding amounts at contracted forward rates is as follows: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The fair value of foreign currency forward exchange contracts represents the difference between the contracted and current market foreign currency exchange rates at the end of the period. We estimate the fair value of foreign currency forward exchange contracts on a quarterly basis by obtaining market quotes of spot and forward rates for contracts with similar terms, adjusted where necessary for maturity differences. At December 31, 2018 and 2017, the net fair value of these instruments was an asset of $2.5 million and a liability of $1.0 million, respectively. Assuming an unfavorable 10% change in year-end foreign currency exchange rates, the fair value of these instruments would have declined by $4.5 million and $19.7 million, respectively. 

44

Commodities—Price Risk Management and Futures Contracts 

Our most significant raw material requirements include cocoa products, sugar, dairy products, peanuts and almonds. The cost of cocoa products and prices for related futures contracts and costs for certain other raw materials historically have been subject to wide fluctuations attributable to a variety of factors. These factors include: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

We use futures and options contracts and other commodity derivative instruments in combination with forward purchasing of cocoa products, sugar, corn sweeteners, natural gas and certain dairy products primarily to reduce the risk of future price increases and provide visibility to future costs. Currently, active futures contracts are not available for use in pricing our other major raw material requirements, primarily peanuts and almonds. We attempt to minimize the effect of future price fluctuations related to the purchase of raw materials by using forward purchasing to cover future manufacturing requirements generally for 3 to 24 months. However, dairy futures liquidity is not as developed as many of the other commodities futures markets and, therefore, it can be difficult to hedge our costs for dairy products by entering into futures contracts or other derivative instruments to extend coverage for long periods of time. We use diesel swap futures contracts to minimize price fluctuations associated with our transportation costs. Our commodity procurement practices are intended to reduce the risk of future price increases and provide visibility to future costs, but also may potentially limit our ability to benefit from possible price decreases. Our costs for major raw materials will not necessarily reflect market price fluctuations primarily because of our forward purchasing and hedging practices.

During 2018, average cocoa futures contract prices increased compared with 2017 and traded in a range between $0.88 and $1.23 per pound, based on the Intercontinental Exchange futures contract. Cocoa production was higher during the 2017 to 2018 crop year and slightly outpaced the increase in global demand, which led to a small rebuild in global cocoa stocks over the past year. At the beginning of the year, cocoa prices rallied sharply before declining in the second half due to increased supply relative to demand. The table below shows annual average cocoa futures prices and the highest and lowest monthly averages for each of the calendar years indicated. The prices reflect the monthly averages of the quotations at noon of the three active futures trading contracts closest to maturity on the Intercontinental Exchange.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Source: International Cocoa Organization Quarterly Bulletin of Cocoa Statistics

Our costs for cocoa products will not necessarily reflect market price fluctuations because of our forward purchasing and hedging practices, premiums and discounts reflective of varying delivery times, and supply and demand for our specific varieties and grades of cocoa liquor, cocoa butter and cocoa powder. As a result, the average futures contract prices are not necessarily indicative of our average costs. 

During 2018, prices for fluid dairy milk ranged from a low of $0.13 per pound to a high of $0.15 per pound, on a Class IV milk basis. Fluid dairy milk prices were lower than 2017, driven by higher U.S. inventories.

45

The price of sugar is subject to price supports under U.S. farm legislation. Such legislation establishes import quotas and duties to support the price of sugar. As a result, sugar prices paid by users in the United States are currently higher than prices on the world sugar market. United States delivered east coast refined sugar prices traded in a range from $0.38 to $0.40 per pound during 2018. 

Peanut prices in the United States ranged from a from a low of $0.45 per pound to a high of $0.50 per pound. Lower planted acreage and unfavorable weather conditions during harvest in the key U.S. peanut growing regions resulted in an estimated 26% smaller crop versus the 2017 crop. Almond prices began the year at $2.89 per pound and closed the year at $2.98 per pound, driven by record shipments and lower than expected yields for the 2018 crop.

We make or receive cash transfers to or from commodity futures brokers on a daily basis reflecting changes in the value of futures contracts on the Intercontinental Exchange or various other exchanges. These changes in value represent unrealized gains and losses. The cash transfers offset higher or lower cash requirements for the payment of future invoice prices of raw materials, energy requirements and transportation costs. 

Commodity Sensitivity Analysis 

Our open commodity derivative contracts had a notional value of $693.5 million as of December 31, 2018 and $405.3 million as of December 31, 2017. At the end of 2018, the potential change in fair value of commodity derivative instruments, assuming a 10% decrease in the underlying commodity price, would have increased our net unrealized losses in 2018 by $71.6 million, generally offset by a reduction in the cost of the underlying commodity purchases.

46

Item 8.FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA