ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

Our company is exposed to certain market risks, which exist as a part of our ongoing business operations. We use derivative financial and commodity instruments, where appropriate, to manage these risks. As a matter of policy, we do not engage in trading or speculative transactions. Refer to Note 14 within Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on our derivative financial and commodity instruments.

Foreign exchange risk

Our company is exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency cash flows related primarily to third-party purchases, intercompany transactions, and when applicable, nonfunctional currency denominated third-party debt. Our company is also exposed to fluctuations in the value of foreign currency investments in subsidiaries and cash flows related to repatriation of these investments. Additionally, our company is exposed to volatility in the translation of foreign currency denominated earnings to U.S. dollars. Primary exposures include the U.S. dollar versus the euro, British pound, Australian dollar, Canadian dollar, Mexican peso, Brazilian real, Nigerian naira, Russian ruble and Egyptian pound, and in the case of inter-subsidiary transactions, the British pound versus the euro. 

The impact of possible currency devaluations in countries experiencing high inflation rates or significant exchange fluctuations, including Argentina, can impact our results and financial guidance. Effective July 1, 2018, we have accounted for Argentina as a highly inflationary economy, as the projected three-year cumulative inflation rate exceeds 100%. Accordingly, our Argentina subsidiary will use the U.S. dollar as its functional currency. Accordingly, changes in the value of the Argentine Peso versus the U.S. dollar applied to our peso-denominated net monetary asset position is recorded in income at the time of the change. Net monetary assets denominated in Argentine Pesos are not material as of December 29, 2018.

There have also been periods of increased market volatility and currency exchange rate fluctuations specifically within the United Kingdom and Europe, as a result of the UK referendum held on June 23, 2016, in which voters approved an exit from the European Union, commonly referred to as Brexit. As a result of the referendum, the British government formally initiated the process for withdrawal in March 2017. In January 2019, the draft of the withdrawal agreement, that was previously published in November 2018, was rejected by the UK parliament. The terms of withdrawal have not been established. If no agreement is concluded by March 29, 2019, the United Kingdom will leave the European Union at such time. Accordingly, the referendum has created significant uncertainty about the future relationship between the United Kingdom and the European Union, including with respect to the laws and regulations that will apply as the United Kingdom determines which European Union laws to replace or replicate in the event of a withdrawal. We recognize that there are still significant uncertainties surrounding the ultimate resolution of Brexit negotiations, and we will continue to monitor any changes that may arise and assess their potential impact on our business.

We assess foreign currency risk based on transactional cash flows and translational volatility and may enter into forward contracts, options, and currency swaps to reduce fluctuations in long or short currency positions. Forward contracts and options are generally less than 18 months duration. Currency swap agreements may be established in conjunction with the term of underlying debt issuances.

The total notional amount of foreign currency derivative instruments, including cross currency swaps, at year-end 2018 was $3.1 billion, representing a settlement receivable of $78 million. The total notional amount of foreign currency derivative instruments at year-end 2017 was $2.2 billion, representing a settlement obligation of $4 million. All of these derivatives were hedges of anticipated transactions, translational exposure, or existing assets or liabilities. Foreign currency contracts generally mature within 18 months and cross currency contracts mature with the related debt. Assuming an unfavorable 10% change in year-end exchange rates, the settlement receivable would have decreased by $199 million, resulting in a net settlement obligation of $121 million at year-end 2018 and the settlement obligation would have increased by $71 million at year-end 2017. These unfavorable changes would generally have been offset by favorable changes in the values of the underlying exposures.

Interest rate risk

Our company is exposed to interest rate volatility with regard to future issuances of fixed rate debt and existing and future issuances of variable rate debt. Primary exposures include movements in U.S. Treasury rates, London Interbank Offered Rates (LIBOR), and commercial paper rates. We periodically use interest rate swaps and forward interest rate contracts to reduce interest rate volatility and funding costs associated with certain debt issues, and to achieve a desired proportion of variable versus fixed rate debt, based on current and projected market conditions.

55

During 2018 and 2017, we entered into interest rate swaps, and in some instances terminated interest rate swaps, in connection with certain U.S. Dollar and Euro Notes. Refer to Note 8 within Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The total notional amount of interest rate swaps at year-end 2018 was $1.6 billion, representing a settlement obligation of $5 million. The total notional amount of interest rate swaps at year-end 2017 was $2.3 billion, representing a settlement obligation of $54 million. Assuming average variable rate debt levels during the year, a one percentage point increase in interest rates would have increased interest expense by approximately $22 million and $27 million at year-end 2018 and 2017, respectively. 

Price risk

Our company is exposed to price fluctuations primarily as a result of anticipated purchases of raw and packaging materials, fuel, and energy. Primary exposures include corn, wheat, potato flakes, soybean oil, sugar, cocoa, cartonboard, natural gas, and diesel fuel. We have historically used the combination of long-term contracts with suppliers, and exchange-traded futures and option contracts to reduce price fluctuations in a desired percentage of forecasted raw material purchases over a duration of generally less than 18 months. 

The total notional amount of commodity derivative instruments at year-end 2018 was $417 million, representing a settlement obligation of approximately $6 million. The total notional amount of commodity derivative instruments at year-end 2017 was $544 million, representing a settlement obligation of approximately $1 million. Assuming a 10% decrease in year-end commodity prices, the settlement obligation would have increased by $34 million at year-end 2018, and the settlement obligation would have increased by approximately $41 million at year-end 2017, generally offset by a reduction in the cost of the underlying commodity purchases.

In addition to the commodity derivative instruments discussed above, we use long-term contracts with suppliers to manage a portion of the price exposure associated with future purchases of certain raw materials, including rice, sugar, cartonboard, and corrugated boxes. It should be noted the exclusion of these contracts from the analysis above could be a limitation in assessing the net market risk of our company.

Reciprocal collateralization agreements

In some instances we have reciprocal collateralization agreements with counterparties regarding fair value positions in excess of certain thresholds. These agreements call for the posting of collateral in the form of cash, treasury securities or letters of credit if a net liability position to us or our counterparties exceeds a certain amount. We were not required to post collateral as of December 29, 2018 and collected approximately $20 million of collateral at December 29, 2018 in the form of cash, which was reflected as an increase in other liabilities, net on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. As of December 30, 2017, we had posted collateral of $20 million,

in the form of cash, which was reflected as an increase in accounts receivable, net on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. As of December 29, 2018 and December 30, 2017, we posted $18 million and $17 million, respectively, in margin deposits for exchange-traded commodity derivative instruments, which was reflected as an increase in accounts receivable, net on the Consolidated Balance Sheet.

56

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA