Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.

We are exposed to market risks from adverse changes in commodity prices, foreign exchange rates, and interest rates. We monitor and manage these exposures as part of our overall risk management program. Our risk management program focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to reduce the potentially adverse effects that volatility in these markets may have on our operating results. We maintain risk management policies that principally use derivative financial instruments to reduce significant, unanticipated fluctuations in earnings and cash flows that may arise from variations in commodity prices, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates. We manage market risk by incorporating parameters within our risk management strategy that limit the types of derivative instruments, the derivative strategies we use, and the degree of market risk that we hedge with derivative instruments. See Note 3, Significant Accounting Policies, and Note 14, Financial Instruments, in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, for details of our market risk management policies and the financial instruments used to hedge those exposures.

When we use financial instruments, we are exposed to credit risk that a counterparty might fail to fulfill its performance obligations under the terms of our agreement. We minimize our credit risk by entering into transactions with counterparties with investment grade credit ratings, limiting the amount of exposure we have with each counterparty, and monitoring the financial condition of our counterparties. All of our non-exchange traded derivative contracts are governed by an International Swaps and Derivatives Association master agreement. By policy, we do not engage in speculative or leveraged transactions, nor do we hold or issue financial instruments for trading purposes. 

56

Effect of Hypothetical 10% Fluctuation in Market Prices: 

The potential gain or loss on the fair value of our outstanding commodity contracts, foreign exchange contracts, and cross-currency swap contracts, assuming a hypothetical 10% fluctuation in commodity prices and foreign currency exchange rates, would have been (in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

It should be noted that any change in the fair value of our derivative contracts, real or hypothetical, would be significantly offset by an inverse change in the value of the underlying hedged items. In relation to foreign currency contracts, this hypothetical calculation assumes that each exchange rate would change in the same direction relative to the U.S. dollar. Our utilization of financial instruments in managing market risk exposures described above is consistent with the prior year. Changes in our portfolio of financial instruments are a function of our results of operations, debt repayments and debt issuances, market effects on debt and foreign currency, and our acquisition and divestiture activities.

Effect of Hypothetical 1% Fluctuation in LIBOR and CDOR: 

Based on our current variable rate debt balance as of December 29, 2018, a hypothetical 1% increase in LIBOR and CDOR would increase our annual interest expense by approximately $19 million.

57

Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.