Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.

Overview

The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the other sections of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the consolidated financial statements and related notes contained in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.

Restatement of Previously Issued Consolidated Financial Statements:

We have restated our previously issued consolidated financial statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Refer to the “Explanatory Note” preceding Item 1, Business, for background on the restatement, the fiscal periods impacted, control considerations, and other information.

In addition, we have restated certain previously reported financial information at December 30, 2017 and for the fiscal years ended December 30, 2017 and December 31, 2016 in this Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, including but not limited to information within the Consolidated Results of Operations, Results of Operations by Segment, and Non-GAAP Financial Measures sections. We have also included certain restated quarterly information in the Supplemental Quarterly Financial Information section at the end of this item.

See Note 2, Restatement of Previously Issued Consolidated Financial Statements, in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, for additional information related to the restatement, including descriptions of the misstatements and the impacts on our consolidated financial statements.

Description of the Company: 

We manufacture and market food and beverage products, including condiments and sauces, cheese and dairy, meals, meats, refreshment beverages, coffee, and other grocery products throughout the world.

We manage and report our operating results through four segments. We have three reportable segments defined by geographic region: United States, Canada, and EMEA. Our remaining businesses are combined and disclosed as “Rest of World.” Rest of World comprises two operating segments: Latin America and APAC. 

Our segments reflect a change, effective in the first quarter of our fiscal year 2018, to reorganize our international businesses to better align our global geographies. We moved our Middle East and Africa businesses from the historical AMEA operating segment into the historical Europe reportable segment, forming the new EMEA reportable segment. The remaining businesses from the AMEA operating segment became the APAC operating segment. We have reflected this change in all historical periods presented.

See Note 22, Segment Reporting, in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, to the consolidated financial statements for our financial information by segment.

28

Items Affecting Comparability of Financial Results

Impairment Losses:

Our 2018 results reflect goodwill and intangible asset impairment losses of $15.9 billion compared to $49 million in 2017. The increase was primarily driven by impairment losses of $15.5 billion recognized in the fourth quarter of 2018.

For the fourth quarter of 2018, in connection with the preparation of our year-end financial statements, we assessed the changes in circumstances that occurred during the quarter to determine if it was more likely than not that the fair values of any reporting units or brands were below their carrying amounts. Although our annual impairment test is performed during the second quarter, we perform this qualitative assessment each interim reporting period.

While there was no single determinative event or factor, the consideration in totality of several factors that developed during the fourth quarter of 2018 led us to conclude that it was more likely than not that the fair values of certain reporting units and brands were below their carrying amounts. These factors included: (i) a sustained decrease in our share price in November and December of 2018, which reduced our market capitalization below the book value of net assets; (ii) the completion of our fourth quarter results, which were below management’s expectations due to several factors such as higher than expected supply chain costs and increased competition; (iii) the development and approval of our 2019 annual operating plan in December 2018, which provided additional insights into expectations and priorities for the coming years, such as lower growth and margin expectations; (iv) the announcement in November 2018 to sell certain assets in our natural cheese portfolio in Canada, which changed the composition and use of the remaining assets and brands in the associated reporting unit; (v) fluctuations in foreign exchange rates in certain countries; (vi) increased interest rates in certain locations, including an increase in the United States in December 2018; and (vii) increased and prolonged economic and regulatory uncertainty in the United States and global economies as of the end of December 2018.

As we determined that it was more likely than not that the fair values of certain reporting units or brands were below their carrying amounts, we performed an interim impairment test as of December 29, 2018. As a result of our interim impairment test, we recognized goodwill impairment losses of $6.9 billion and indefinite-lived intangible asset impairment losses of $8.6 billion in the fourth quarter of 2018.

See Critical Accounting Estimates within this item and Note 10, Goodwill and Intangible Assets, in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, to the consolidated financial statements for additional information.

U.S. Tax Reform:

U.S. Tax Reform legislation enacted by the federal government on December 22, 2017 significantly changed U.S. tax laws by, among other things, lowering the federal corporate tax rate from 35.0% to 21.0%, effective January 1, 2018 and imposing a one-time toll charge on deemed repatriated earnings of foreign subsidiaries as of December 30, 2017. In addition, there were many new provisions, including changes to bonus depreciation, revised deductions for executive compensation and interest expense, a tax on global intangible low-taxed income (“GILTI”), the base erosion anti-abuse tax (“BEAT”), and a deduction for foreign-derived intangible income (“FDII”). While the corporate tax rate reduction was effective January 1, 2018, we accounted for this anticipated rate change in 2017, the period of enactment. As a result of U.S. Tax Reform, we recorded a net tax benefit of approximately $7.0 billion in 2017. As a result, U.S. Tax Reform significantly impacted our provision for/(benefit from) income taxes and our effective tax rate, primarily in 2017, resulting in a lack of comparability year over year.

See Note 11, Income Taxes, in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, for additional information.

Integration and Restructuring Expenses:

At the end of 2017, we had substantially completed our multi-year program announced following the 2015 Merger (the “Integration Program”), which was designed to reduce costs and integrate and optimize our combined organization. As of December 29, 2018, we had incurred cumulative pre-tax costs of $2,146 million related to the Integration Program. These costs primarily included severance and employee benefit costs (including cash and non-cash severance), costs to exit facilities (including non-cash costs such as accelerated depreciation), and other costs incurred as a direct result of integration activities. Approximately 60% of total Integration Program costs were cash expenditures. As of December 29, 2018, we had incurred approximately $1.4 billion in capital expenditures related to the Integration Program since its inception in 2015.

Related to our restructuring activities, including the Integration Program, we recognized expenses of $460 million in 2018, $434 million in 2017, and $1.0 billion in 2016. Integration Program expenses included in these totals were $92 million in 2018, $316 million, in 2017, and $887 million in 2016.

See Note 6, Integration and Restructuring Expenses, in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, for additional information.

29

Results of Operations

We disclose in this report certain non-GAAP financial measures. These non-GAAP financial measures assist management in comparing our performance on a consistent basis for purposes of business decision-making by removing the impact of certain items that management believes do not directly reflect our underlying operations. For additional information and reconciliations from our consolidated financial statements see Non-GAAP Financial Measures.

The restatement described in the Overview section within this item did not significantly impact the drivers of our consolidated results of operations or our results of operations by segment. See Note 2, Restatement of Previously Issued Consolidated Financial Statements, in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, for additional information.

In addition, during the period between December 29, 2018 and the filing of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, certain industry trends impacting our results of operations as described herein, including increased costs in procurement and logistics, pricing pressure as a result of increased private label competition, and consumer trends focused on health and wellness, have continued.

Consolidated Results of Operations

Summary of Results:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Net Sales:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a) Organic Net Sales is a non-GAAP financial measure. See the Non-GAAP Financial Measures section within this item. 

Fiscal Year 2018 Compared to Fiscal Year 2017:

Net sales increased 0.7% to $26.3 billion in 2018 compared to $26.1 billion in 2017, despite the unfavorable impact of foreign currency (0.6 pp) and the net favorable impact of acquisitions and divestitures (0.4 pp). Organic Net Sales increased 0.9% to $26.1 billion in 2018 compared to $25.9 billion in 2017 driven by favorable volume/mix (0.9 pp). Volume/mix was favorable in all segments. Pricing was flat, with lower pricing in the United States and Canada offset by higher pricing in Rest of World (primarily driven by highly inflationary environments in certain markets within Latin America) and EMEA.

Fiscal Year 2017 Compared to Fiscal Year 2016:

Net sales decreased 0.9% to $26.1 billion in 2017 compared to $26.3 billion in 2016. The impacts of foreign currency and acquisitions and divestitures were flat. Organic Net Sales decreased 0.9% to $26.0 billion in 2017 compared to $26.2 billion in 2016 due to unfavorable volume/mix (1.5 pp), partially offset by higher pricing (0.6 pp). Volume/mix was unfavorable in the United States and Canada, partially offset by growth in Rest of World and EMEA. Higher pricing in Rest of World and the United States was partially offset by lower pricing in Canada and EMEA.

30

Net Income:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a)Adjusted EBITDA is a non-GAAP financial measure. See the Non-GAAP Financial Measures section within this item. 

Fiscal Year 2018 Compared to Fiscal Year 2017:

Operating income/(loss) decreased 268.7% to a loss of $10.2 billion in 2018 compared to income of $6.1 billion in 2017. This decrease was primarily due to higher impairment losses in 2018. Impairment losses were $15.9 billion in 2018 compared to $49 million in 2017. The remaining $390 million decrease in operating income/(loss) was due to higher input costs and strategic investments. These decreases to operating income/(loss) were partially offset by lower Integration Program and other restructuring expenses, the favorable impact of foreign currency (4.2 pp), the benefit from the postemployment benefits accounting change adopted in the first quarter of 2018, savings from Integration Program and other restructuring activities, and productivity savings. See Note 10, Goodwill and Intangible Assets, in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, for additional information on our impairment losses.

Net income/(loss) attributable to common shareholders decreased 193.2% to a loss of $10.2 billion in 2018 compared to income of $10.9 billion in 2017. The decrease was primarily due to the operating income/(loss) factors described above (primarily higher impairment losses in 2018), as well as a lower tax benefit, unfavorable changes in other expense/(income), net, and higher interest expense, which are detailed as follows:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Adjusted EBITDA decreased 8.3% to $7.0 billion in 2018 compared to $7.7 billion in 2017, primarily due to higher input costs, strategic investments, higher overhead costs, and the unfavorable impact of foreign currency (0.5 pp), partially offset by savings from Integration Program and other restructuring activities, and productivity savings.

Fiscal Year 2017 Compared to Fiscal Year 2016:

Operating income/(loss) increased 8.1% to $6.1 billion in 2017 compared to $5.6 billion in 2016. This increase was primarily driven by savings from the Integration Program and other restructuring activities, lower Integration Program and other restructuring expenses in 2017, and lower overhead costs, partially offset by higher input costs in local currency, lower Organic Net Sales, lower unrealized gains on commodity hedges in 2017, and the unfavorable impact of foreign currency (0.4 pp).

31

Net income/(loss) attributable to common shareholders increased 220.3% to $10.9 billion in 2017 compared to $3.4 billion in 2016. The increase was primarily driven by U.S. Tax Reform, the operating income/(loss) factors discussed above, the absence of the Series A Preferred Stock dividend in 2017, and favorable changes in other expense/(income), net, partially offset by higher interest expense, detailed as follows:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•The Series A Preferred Stock was fully redeemed on June 7, 2016. Accordingly, there were no dividends for 2017, compared to $180 million in 2016. See Equity and Dividends within this item for additional information.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Adjusted EBITDA increased 1.2% to $7.7 billion in 2017 compared to $7.6 billion in 2016, primarily driven by savings from the Integration Program and other restructuring activities and lower overhead costs, partially offset by higher input costs in local currency, the unfavorable impact of foreign currency (0.2 pp), and a decline in Organic Net Sales.

Diluted EPS:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a)Adjusted EPS is a non-GAAP financial measure. See the Non-GAAP Financial Measures section within this item. 

32

Fiscal Year 2018 Compared to Fiscal Year 2017:

Diluted EPS decreased 193.8% to a loss of $8.36 in 2018 compared to earnings of $8.91 in 2017, primarily due to the net income/(loss) attributable to common shareholders factors discussed above.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a) Adjusted EPS is a non-GAAP financial measure. See the Non-GAAP Financial Measures section at the end of this item. 

Adjusted EPS increased 0.3% to $3.51 in 2018 compared to $3.50 in 2017, driven by lower taxes on adjusted earnings in the current period, the benefit from the postemployment benefits accounting change adopted in the first quarter of 2018, and the effect of dilutive equity awards, partially offset by lower Adjusted EBITDA, higher interest expense, and higher depreciation and amortization in the current period. We have excluded the effect of dilutive equity awards in 2018 as their inclusion would have had an anti-dilutive effect on EPS because of the net loss attributable to common shareholders. In 2017, the effect of dilutive equity awards was included.

33

Fiscal Year 2017 Compared to Fiscal Year 2016:

Diluted EPS increased 220.5% to $8.91 in 2017 compared to $2.78 in 2016, primarily driven by the net income/(loss) attributable to common shareholders factors discussed above.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a) Adjusted EPS is a non-GAAP financial measure. See the Non-GAAP Financial Measures section at the end of this item. 

Adjusted EPS increased 5.7% to $3.50 in 2017 compared to $3.31 in 2016, primarily driven by the absence of Series A Preferred Stock dividends in 2017 and Adjusted EBITDA growth despite the unfavorable impact of foreign currency, partially offset by higher interest expense.

Results of Operations by Segment

Management evaluates segment performance based on several factors, including net sales, Organic Net Sales, and segment adjusted earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, and amortization (“Segment Adjusted EBITDA”). Segment Adjusted EBITDA is defined as net income/(loss) from continuing operations before interest expense, other expense/(income), net, provision for/(benefit from) income taxes, and depreciation and amortization (excluding integration and restructuring expenses); in addition to these adjustments, we exclude, when they occur, the impacts of integration and restructuring expenses, deal costs, unrealized gains/(losses) on commodity hedges (the unrealized gains and losses are recorded in general corporate expenses until realized; once realized, the gains and losses are recorded in the applicable segment’s operating results), impairment losses, gains/(losses) on the sale of a business, other gains/(losses) related to acquisitions and divestitures (e.g., tax and hedging impacts), nonmonetary currency devaluation (e.g., remeasurement gains and losses), and equity award compensation expense (excluding integration and restructuring expenses). Segment Adjusted EBITDA is a tool that can assist management and investors in comparing our performance on a consistent basis by removing the impact of certain items that management believes do not directly reflect our underlying operations. 

Under highly inflationary accounting, the functional currency of our Venezuelan subsidiary is the U.S. dollar. As a result, we must revalue the results of our Venezuelan subsidiary to U.S. dollars. We revalue the income statement using daily weighted average Sistema de Divisa Complementaria (“DICOM”) rates, and we revalue the bolivar denominated monetary assets and liabilities at the period-end DICOM spot rate. The resulting revaluation gains and losses are recorded in current net income and are classified within other expense/(income), net as nonmonetary currency devaluation. See Note 16, Venezuela - Foreign Currency and Inflation, in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, for additional information.

34

Net Sales:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Organic Net Sales:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a) Organic Net Sales is a non-GAAP financial measure. See the Non-GAAP Financial Measures section within this item. 

Drivers of the changes in net sales and Organic Net Sales were:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

35

Adjusted EBITDA:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

United States:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a) Organic Net Sales is a non-GAAP financial measure. See the Non-GAAP Financial Measures section within this item. 

Fiscal Year 2018 Compared to Fiscal Year 2017:

Net sales and Organic Net Sales decreased 0.6% to $18.1 billion in 2018 compared to $18.2 billion in 2017 primarily due to lower pricing (0.9 pp), partially offset by favorable volume/mix (0.3 pp). Pricing was lower across most categories, particularly in ready-to-drink beverages, cheese, and meat, partially offset by increases in boxed dinners and condiments and sauces. Favorable volume/mix across several categories, particularly in ready-to-drink beverages, was partially offset by lower shipments in cheese.

Segment Adjusted EBITDA decreased 11.2% to $5.2 billion in 2018 compared to $5.9 billion in 2017 primarily due to non-key commodity cost inflation, lower Organic Net Sales, strategic investments, and higher overhead costs, partially offset by favorable key commodity costs, and Integration Program savings. 

Fiscal Year 2017 Compared to Fiscal Year 2016:

Net sales and Organic Net Sales decreased 1.3% to $18.2 billion in 2018 compared to $18.5 billion in 2017 due to unfavorable volume/mix (1.8 pp), partially offset by higher pricing (0.5 pp). Unfavorable volume/mix was primarily driven by distribution losses in nuts, cheese, and meat, and lower shipments in foodservice. The decline was partially offset by gains in refrigerated meal combinations, boxed dinners, and frozen meals. Pricing was higher driven primarily by price increases in cheese.

36

Segment Adjusted EBITDA increased 2.2% to $5.9 billion in 2017 compared to $5.7 billion in 2016 primarily driven by Integration Program savings and lower overhead costs, partially offset by unfavorable key commodity costs, primarily in dairy, meat, and coffee, as well as unfavorable volume/mix.

Canada:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a)Organic Net Sales is a non-GAAP financial measure. See the Non-GAAP Financial Measures section within this item. 

Fiscal Year 2018 Compared to Fiscal Year 2017:

Net sales decreased 0.2% to $2.2 billion in 2018 compared to $2.2 billion in 2017 due to the unfavorable impact of foreign currency (0.3 pp). Organic Net Sales increased 0.1% to $2.2 billion in 2018 compared to $2.2 billion in 2017 driven by favorable volume/mix (0.7 pp), partially offset by lower pricing (0.6 pp). Favorable volume/mix was primarily driven by higher shipments in cheese and coffee, primarily due to earlier execution of go-to-market agreements with key retailers, partially offset by lower shipments in condiments and sauces. Lower pricing in cheese was partially offset by increases across a number of categories, particularly in foodservice.

Segment Adjusted EBITDA decreased 4.4% to $608 million in 2018 compared to $636 million in 2017, partially due to the unfavorable impact of foreign currency (0.3 pp). Excluding the currency impact, Segment Adjusted EBITDA decreased primarily due to lower pricing, higher overhead costs, and higher input costs in local currency.

Fiscal Year 2017 Compared to Fiscal Year 2016:

Net sales decreased 5.4% to $2.2 billion in 2017 compared to $2.3 billion in 2016, despite the favorable impact of foreign currency (1.9 pp). Organic Net Sales decreased 7.3% to $2.1 billion in 2017 compared to $2.3 billion in 2016 due to unfavorable volume/mix (5.5 pp) and lower pricing (1.8 pp). Volume/mix was unfavorable across several categories and was most pronounced in cheese, coffee, and boxed dinners, primarily due to delayed execution of go-to-market agreements with key retailers, retail distribution losses (primarily in cheese), and lower inventory levels at retail versus the prior year. Lower pricing was due to higher promotional activity, primarily in cheese.

Segment Adjusted EBITDA increased 0.7% to $636 million in 2017 compared to $632 million in 2016, despite the favorable impact of foreign currency (1.7 pp). Excluding the currency impact, Segment Adjusted EBITDA decreased primarily due to lower Organic Net Sales partially offset by Integration Program savings and lower overhead costs in 2017.

EMEA:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a)Organic Net Sales is a non-GAAP financial measure. See the Non-GAAP Financial Measures section within this item. 

37

Fiscal Year 2018 Compared to Fiscal Year 2017:

Net sales increased 5.1% to $2.7 billion in 2018 compared to $2.6 billion in 2017 driven by the favorable impact of foreign currency (2.5 pp), partially offset by the unfavorable impact of acquisitions and divestitures (1.5 pp). Organic Net Sales increased 4.1% to $2.6 billion in 2018 compared to $2.5 billion in 2017 driven by favorable volume/mix (3.2 pp) and higher pricing (0.9 pp). Favorable volume/mix was primarily driven by growth in condiments and sauces, including the addition of Kraft products in certain regions, and gains in foodservice. Pricing was higher, primarily driven by higher pricing in Middle East and Africa, and favorable timing of promotional activity versus the prior year in the UK, partially offset by lower pricing in eastern Europe.

Segment Adjusted EBITDA increased 7.6% to $724 million in 2018 compared to $673 million in 2017, including the favorable impact of foreign currency (3.2 pp). Excluding the currency impact, the increase was primarily driven by Organic Net Sales growth, productivity savings, and the benefit from the postemployment benefits accounting change adopted in the first quarter of 2018, partially offset by higher supply chain costs in the Middle East and Africa.

Fiscal Year 2017 Compared to Fiscal Year 2016:

Net sales were flat at $2.6 billion in 2017 and in 2016, despite the unfavorable impacts of foreign currency (0.5 pp) and acquisitions and divestitures (0.3 pp). Organic Net Sales increased 0.8% to $2.5 billion in 2017 compared to $2.5 billion in 2016 driven by favorable volume/mix (1.3 pp), partially offset by lower pricing (0.5 pp). Favorable volume/mix was primarily driven by higher shipments in foodservice and growth in condiments and sauces, partially offset by ongoing declines in infant nutrition in Italy. Pricing was lower, primarily driven by higher promotional activity in the UK and Italy versus the prior period, partially offset by higher pricing in the Middle East and Africa.

Segment Adjusted EBITDA decreased 9.3% to $673 million in 2017 compared to $741 million in 2016, including the unfavorable impact of foreign currency (1.4 pp). Excluding the currency impact, the decrease was due to higher input costs in local currency, partially offset by productivity savings. 

Rest of World:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a)Organic Net Sales is a non-GAAP financial measure. See the Non-GAAP Financial Measures section within this item. 

Fiscal Year 2018 Compared to Fiscal Year 2017:

Net sales increased 5.6% to $3.3 billion in 2018 compared to $3.1 billion in 2017, despite the unfavorable impact of foreign currency (7.6 pp, including 5.1 pp from the devaluation of the Venezuelan bolivar), which more than offset the favorable impact of acquisitions and divestitures (5.3 pp). Organic Net Sales increased 7.9% to $3.2 billion in 2018 compared to $2.9 billion in 2017 driven by higher pricing (5.4 pp) and favorable volume/mix (2.5 pp). Pricing was higher primarily driven by highly inflationary environments in certain markets within Latin America. Favorable volume/mix was driven by growth across several categories, which was most pronounced in condiments and sauces, partially offset by lower shipments in Southeast Asia.

Segment Adjusted EBITDA increased 7.5% to $635 million in 2018 compared to $590 million in 2017, despite the unfavorable impact of foreign currency (12.7 pp, including 11.4 pp from the devaluation of the Venezuelan bolivar). Excluding the currency impact, the increase in Segment Adjusted EBITDA was primarily driven by Organic Net Sales growth, partially offset by higher input costs in local currency.

38

Fiscal Year 2017 Compared to Fiscal Year 2016:

Net sales increased 4.8% to $3.1 billion in 2017 compared to $2.9 billion in 2016, despite the unfavorable impact of foreign currency (0.8 pp, including 2.0 pp from the devaluation of the Venezuelan bolivar). Organic Net Sales increased 5.6% to $3.0 billion in 2017 compared to $2.9 billion in 2016 driven by higher pricing (4.2 pp) and favorable volume/mix (1.4 pp). Higher pricing was primarily driven by pricing actions taken to offset higher input costs in local currency, primarily in Latin America. Favorable volume/mix was primarily driven by growth in condiments and sauces across all regions partially offset by volume/mix declines in several markets associated with distributor network re-alignment.

Segment Adjusted EBITDA decreased 5.0% to $590 million in 2017 compared to $621 million in 2016, including the unfavorable impact of foreign currency (2.9 pp, including 3.5 pp from the devaluation of the Venezuelan bolivar). Excluding the currency impact, Segment Adjusted EBITDA decreased primarily due to higher input costs in local currency and higher commercial investments, partially offset by Organic Net Sales growth.

Critical Accounting Estimates

Note 3, Significant Accounting Policies, in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, includes a summary of the significant accounting policies we used to prepare our consolidated financial statements. The following is a review of the more significant assumptions and estimates as well as accounting policies we used to prepare our consolidated financial statements.

Revenue Recognition:

Our revenues are primarily derived from customer orders for the purchase of our products. We recognize revenues as performance obligations are fulfilled when control passes to our customers. We record revenues net of variable consideration, including consumer incentives and performance obligations related to trade promotions, excluding taxes, and including all shipping and handling charges billed to customers (accounting for shipping and handling charges that occur after the transfer of control as fulfillment costs). We also record a refund liability for estimated product returns and customer allowances as reductions to revenues within the same period that the revenue is recognized. We base these estimates principally on historical and current period experience factors. We recognize costs paid to third party brokers to obtain contracts as expenses as our contracts are generally less than one year.

Advertising, Consumer Incentives, and Trade Promotions:

We promote our products with advertising, consumer incentives, and performance obligations related to trade promotions. Consumer incentives and trade promotions include, but are not limited to, discounts, coupons, rebates, performance-based in-store display activities, and volume-based incentives. Variable consideration related to consumer incentive and trade promotion activities is recorded as a reduction to revenues based on amounts estimated as being due to customers and consumers at the end of a period. We base these estimates principally on historical utilization, redemption rates, and/or current period experience factors. We review and adjust these estimates at least quarterly based on actual experience and other information.

Advertising expenses are recorded in selling, general and administrative expenses (“SG&A”). For interim reporting purposes, we charge advertising to operations as a percentage of estimated full year sales activity and marketing costs. We review and adjust these estimates each quarter based on actual experience and other information. We recorded advertising expenses of $584 million in 2018, $629 million in 2017, and $708 million in 2016, which represented costs to obtain physical advertisement spots in television, radio, print, digital, and social channels. The decrease in advertising expenses in 2018 compared to 2017 was driven by a shift from traditional ad spaces to non-traditional ad spaces. We also incur other advertising and marketing costs such as shopper marketing, sponsorships, and agency advertisement conception, design, and public relations fees. Total advertising and marketing costs were $1,140 million in 2018, $1,115 million in 2017, and $1,221 million in 2016.

Goodwill and Intangible Assets:

Our goodwill balance consists of 20 reporting units and had an aggregate carrying amount of $36.5 billion as of December 29, 2018. Our indefinite-lived intangible asset balance primarily consists of a number of individual brands, which had an aggregate carrying amount of $44.0 billion as of December 29, 2018.

39

We test our reporting units and brands for impairment annually as of the first day of our second quarter, or more frequently if events or circumstances indicate it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit or brand is less than its carrying amount. Such events and circumstances could include a sustained decrease in our market capitalization, increased competition or unexpected loss of market share, increased input costs beyond projections (for example due to regulatory or industry changes), disposals of significant brands or components of our business, unexpected business disruptions (for example due to a natural disaster or loss of a customer, supplier, or other significant business relationship), unexpected significant declines in operating results, or significant adverse changes in the markets in which we operate. We test reporting units for impairment by comparing the estimated fair value of each reporting unit with its carrying amount. We test brands for impairment by comparing the estimated fair value of each brand with its carrying amount. If the carrying amount of a reporting unit or brand exceeds its estimated fair value, we record an impairment loss based on the difference between fair value and carrying amount, in the case of reporting units, not to exceed to the associated carrying amount of goodwill.

Fair value determinations require considerable judgment and are sensitive to changes in underlying assumptions, estimates, and market factors. Estimating the fair value of individual reporting units and brands requires us to make assumptions and estimates regarding our future plans, as well as industry, economic, and regulatory conditions. These assumptions and estimates include estimated future annual net cash flows, income tax considerations, discount rates, growth rates, royalty rates, contributory asset charges, and other market factors. If current expectations of future growth rates and margins are not met, if market factors outside of our control, such as discount rates, change, or if management’s expectations or plans otherwise change, including as a result of the development of our global five-year operating plan, then one or more of our reporting units or brands might become impaired in the future. As detailed in Note 10, Goodwill and Intangible Assets, in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, we recorded impairment losses totaling $15.9 billion for the year ended December 29, 2018. Our reporting units and brands that were impaired in 2018 were written down to their respective fair values resulting in zero excess fair value over carrying amount as of their latest 2018 impairment testing dates. Accordingly, these and other individual reporting units and brands that have 20% or less excess fair value over carrying amount as of their latest testing date have a heightened risk of future impairments if any assumptions, estimates, or market factors change in the future. Reporting units with a heightened risk of future impairments had an aggregate goodwill carrying amount of $29.0 billion at December 29, 2018 and included: U.S. Grocery, U.S. Refrigerated, Canada Retail, Latin America Exports, Southeast Europe, Australia and New Zealand, and Northeast Asia. Of the $29.0 billion with a heightened risk of future impairments, $9.3 billion is attributable to reporting units with 0% excess fair value over carrying amount. Brands with a heightened risk of future impairments had an aggregate carrying amount of $29.3 billion at December 29, 2018 and included: Kraft, Philadelphia, Oscar Mayer, Velveeta, Miracle Whip, Planters, A1, Cool Whip, Stove Top, ABC, and Quero. Of the $29.3 billion with a heightened risk of future impairments, $24.0 billion is attributable to brands with 0% excess fair value over carrying amount. Although the remaining reporting units and brands have more than 20% excess fair value over carrying amount as of their latest 2018 impairment testing date, these amounts are also associated with the 2013 Heinz acquisition and the 2015 Merger and are recorded on the balance sheet at their estimated acquisition date fair values. Therefore, if any assumptions, estimates, or market factors change in the future, these amounts are also susceptible to impairments.

We generally utilize the discounted cash flow method under the income approach to estimate the fair value of our reporting units. Some of the more significant assumptions inherent in estimating the fair values include the estimated future annual net cash flows for each reporting unit (including net sales, cost of products sold, SG&A, depreciation and amortization, working capital, and capital expenditures), income tax rates, long-term growth rates, and a discount rate that appropriately reflects the risks inherent in each future cash flow stream. We selected the assumptions used in the financial forecasts using historical data, supplemented by current and anticipated market conditions, estimated product category growth rates, management’s plans, and guideline companies.

We generally utilize the excess earnings method under the income approach to estimate the fair value of certain of our largest brands. Some of the more significant assumptions inherent in estimating the fair values include the estimated future annual net cash flows for each brand (including net sales, cost of products sold, and SG&A), contributory asset charges, income tax considerations, long-term growth rates, a discount rate that reflects the level of risk associated with the future earnings attributable to the brand, and management’s intent to invest in the brand indefinitely. We selected the assumptions used in the financial forecasts using historical data, supplemented by current and anticipated market conditions, estimated product category growth rates, management’s plans, and guideline companies.

We generally utilize the relief from royalty method under the income approach to estimate the fair value of our remaining brands. Some of the more significant assumptions inherent in estimating the fair values include the estimated future annual net sales for each brand, royalty rates (as a percentage of net sales that would hypothetically be charged by a licensor of the brand to an unrelated licensee), income tax considerations, long-term growth rates, a discount rate that reflects the level of risk associated with the future cost savings attributable to the brand, and management’s intent to invest in the brand indefinitely. We selected the assumptions used in the financial forecasts using historical data, supplemented by current and anticipated market conditions, estimated product category growth rates, management’s plans, and guideline companies.

40

The discount rates, long-term growth rates, and royalty rates we used to estimate the fair values of our reporting units and brands with 20% or less excess fair value over carrying amount, as of the latest 2018 impairment testing date for each reporting unit or brand, were as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Assumptions used in impairment testing are made at a point in time and require significant judgment; therefore, they are subject to change based on the facts and circumstances present at each annual and interim impairment test date. Additionally, these assumptions are generally interdependent and do not change in isolation. However, as it is reasonably possible that changes in assumptions could occur, as a sensitivity measure, we have presented the estimated effects of isolated changes in discount rates, long-term growth rates, and royalty rates for our reporting units and brands with 20% or less excess fair value over carrying amount. If we had changed the assumptions used to estimate the fair value of our reporting units and brands with 20% or less excess fair value over carrying amount, as of the latest testing date for each of these reporting units and brands, these isolated changes, which are reasonably possible to occur, would have led to the following increase/(decrease) in the aggregate fair value of these reporting units and brands (in billions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a) A reduction in fair value would not necessarily cause an impairment in all cases, but due to the low or zero excess fair value over carrying amount for these reporting units and brands, it is reasonably possible that a reduction in fair value would lead to an impairment.

Definite-lived intangible assets are amortized on a straight-line basis over the estimated periods benefited. We review definite-lived intangible assets for impairment when conditions exist that indicate the carrying amount of the assets may not be recoverable. Such conditions could include significant adverse changes in the business climate, current-period operating or cash flow losses, significant declines in forecasted operations, or a current expectation that an asset group will be disposed of before the end of its useful life. We perform undiscounted operating cash flow analyses to determine if an impairment exists. When testing for impairment of definite-lived intangible assets held for use, we group assets at the lowest level for which cash flows are separately identifiable. If an impairment is determined to exist, the loss is calculated based on estimated fair value. Impairment losses on definite-lived intangible assets to be disposed of, if any, are based on the estimated proceeds to be received, less costs of disposal. 

See Note 10, Goodwill and Intangible Assets, in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, for details related to our 2018 impairment testing.

Although our annual impairment test is performed during the second quarter, we perform a qualitative assessment each interim reporting period to determine if it is more likely than not that the fair value of any reporting unit is below its carrying amount. While we have not completed such impairment assessment for the first fiscal quarter of 2019, nor have we completed our 2019 annual impairment testing as of the first day of our second fiscal quarter, it is reasonably possible that an impairment of certain reporting units or brands could occur based on continued industry trends impacting our results of operations.

Postemployment Benefit Plans:

We maintain various retirement plans for the majority of our employees. These include pension benefits, postretirement health care benefits, and defined contribution benefits. The cost of these plans is charged to expense over an appropriate term based on, among other things, the cost component and whether the plan is active or inactive. Changes in the fair value of our plan assets result in net actuarial gains or losses. These net actuarial gains and losses are deferred into accumulated other comprehensive income/(losses) and amortized within other expense/(income), net in future periods using the corridor approach. The corridor is 10% of the greater of the market-related value of the plan’s asset or projected benefit obligation. Any actuarial gains and losses in excess of the corridor are then amortized over an appropriate term based on whether the plan is active or inactive.

41

For our postretirement benefit plans, our 2019 health care cost trend rate assumption will be 6.7%. We established this rate based upon our most recent experience as well as our expectation for health care trend rates going forward. We anticipate the weighted average assumed ultimate trend rate will be 4.9%. The year in which the ultimate trend rate is reached varies by plan, ranging between the years 2019 and 2030. Assumed health care cost trend rates have a significant effect on the amounts reported for the health care plans. A one-percentage-point change in assumed health care cost trend rates would have had the following effects, increase/(decrease) in cost and obligation, as of December 29, 2018 (in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Our 2019 discount rate assumption will be 4.3% for service cost and 4.1% for interest cost for our postretirement plans. Our 2019 discount rate assumption will be 4.6% for service cost and 4.4% for interest cost for our U.S. pension plans and 3.4% for service cost and 3.3% for interest cost for our non-U.S. pension plans. We model these discount rates using a portfolio of high quality, fixed-income debt instruments with durations that match the expected future cash flows of the plans. Changes in our discount rates were primarily the result of changes in bond yields year-over-year.

In 2016, we changed the method we use to estimate the service cost and interest cost components of net pension cost/(benefit) and net postretirement benefit plan costs resulting in a decrease to these cost components. We now use a full yield curve approach to estimate service cost and interest cost by applying the specific spot rates along the yield curve used to determine the benefit obligation to the relevant projected cash flows. Previously, we estimated service cost and interest cost using a single weighted-average discount rate derived from the yield curve used to measure the benefit obligation at the beginning of the period. We made this change to provide a more precise measurement of service cost and interest cost by improving the correlation between projected benefit cash flows and the corresponding spot yield curve rates. This change will not affect the measurement of our total benefit obligations. We accounted for this change prospectively as a change in accounting estimate.

Our 2019 expected return on plan assets will be 5.4% (net of applicable taxes) for our postretirement plans. Our 2019 expected rate of return on plan assets will be 5.7% for our U.S. pension plans and 5.4% for our non-U.S. pension plans. We determine our expected rate of return on plan assets from the plan assets’ historical long-term investment performance, current and future asset allocation, and estimates of future long-term returns by asset class. We attempt to maintain our target asset allocation by re-balancing between asset classes as we make contributions and monthly benefit payments.

While we do not anticipate further changes in the 2019 assumptions for our U.S. and non-U.S. pension and postretirement benefit plans, as a sensitivity measure, a 100-basis-point change in our discount rate or a 100-basis-point change in the expected rate of return on plan assets would have the following effects, increase/(decrease) in cost (in millions): 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

42

Income Taxes:

We compute our annual tax rate based on the statutory tax rates and tax planning opportunities available to us in the various jurisdictions in which we earn income. Significant judgment is required in determining our annual tax rate and in evaluating the uncertainty of our tax positions. We recognize a benefit for tax positions that we believe will more likely than not be sustained upon examination. The amount of benefit recognized is the largest amount of benefit that we believe has more than a 50% probability of being realized upon settlement. We regularly monitor our tax positions and adjust the amount of recognized tax benefit based on our evaluation of information that has become available since the end of our last financial reporting period. The annual tax rate includes the impact of these changes in recognized tax benefits. When adjusting the amount of recognized tax benefits, we do not consider information that has become available after the balance sheet date, however we do disclose the effects of new information whenever those effects would be material to our financial statements. Unrecognized tax benefits represent the difference between the amount of benefit taken or expected to be taken in a tax return and the amount of benefit recognized for financial reporting. These unrecognized tax benefits are recorded primarily within other non-current liabilities on the consolidated balance sheets.

We record valuation allowances to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount that is more likely than not to be realized. When assessing the need for valuation allowances, we consider future taxable income and ongoing prudent and feasible tax planning strategies. Should a change in circumstances lead to a change in judgment about the realizability of deferred tax assets in future years, we would adjust related valuation allowances in the period that the change in circumstances occurs, along with a corresponding increase or decrease to income. The resolution of tax reserves and changes in valuation allowances could be material to our results of operations for any period but is not expected to be material to our financial position.

New Accounting Pronouncements

See Note 4, New Accounting Standards, in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, for a discussion of new accounting pronouncements.

Contingencies

See Note 18, Commitments and Contingencies, in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, for a discussion of our contingencies.

Commodity Trends

We purchase and use large quantities of commodities, including dairy products, meat products, coffee beans, nuts, tomatoes, potatoes, soybean and vegetable oils, sugar and other sweeteners, corn products, and wheat products to manufacture our products. In addition, we purchase and use significant quantities of resins, metals, and cardboard to package our products and natural gas to operate our facilities. We continuously monitor worldwide supply and cost trends of these commodities.

We define our key commodities in the United States and Canada as dairy, meat, coffee, and nuts. In 2018, we experienced cost decreases for dairy, coffee, and meat, while costs for nuts increased. We manage commodity cost volatility primarily through pricing and risk management strategies. As a result of these risk management strategies, our commodity costs may not immediately correlate with market price trends.

Dairy commodities, primarily milk and cheese, are the most significant cost components of our cheese products. We purchase our dairy raw material requirements from independent third parties, such as agricultural cooperatives and independent processors. Market supply and demand, as well as government programs, significantly influence the prices for milk and other dairy products. Significant cost components of our meat products include pork, beef, and poultry, which we primarily purchase from applicable local markets. Livestock feed costs and the global supply and demand for U.S. meats influence the prices of these meat products. The most significant cost component of our coffee products is coffee beans, which we purchase on global markets. Quality and availability of supply, currency fluctuations, and consumer demand for coffee products impact coffee bean prices. The most significant cost components in our nut products include peanuts, cashews, and almonds, which we purchase on both domestic and global markets, where global market supply and demand is the primary driver of prices.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

We believe that cash generated from our operating activities, commercial paper programs, and Senior Credit Facility will provide sufficient liquidity to meet our working capital needs, future contractual obligations (including repayments of long-term debt), payment of our anticipated quarterly dividends, planned capital expenditures, restructuring expenditures, and contributions to our postemployment benefit plans. An additional potential source of liquidity is access to capital markets. We intend to use our cash on hand and our commercial paper programs for daily funding requirements. Overall, while, as noted above, we are not currently eligible to use a registration statement on Form S-3, we do not expect any negative effects on our funding sources that would have a material effect on our short-term or long-term liquidity.

43

During the period from December 29, 2018 to the filing date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, due to the delays in the preparation of our financial statements for the fiscal year ended December 29, 2018 and the fiscal quarter ended March 30, 2019, we were not in compliance with certain reporting covenants under the Senior Credit Facility and certain indentures. As a result, we obtained temporary waivers from certain creditors under our indebtedness instruments. The filing of this Annual Report on Form 10-K will constitute compliance with the requirement to furnish the lenders a copy of the consolidated financial statements for our fiscal year ended December 29, 2018 no later than June 28, 2019. We also currently expect to file our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 30, 2019 on or before July 31, 2019 in compliance with the requirement to furnish the lenders a copy of the consolidated financial statements for such quarter no later than July 31, 2019. See the “Total Debt” section below for additional information.

Cash Flow Activity for 2018 Compared to 2017:

Net Cash Provided by/Used for Operating Activities:

Net cash provided by operating activities was $2.6 billion for the year ended December 29, 2018 compared to $501 million for the year ended December 30, 2017. This increase was primarily driven by decreased postemployment benefit contributions in 2018, the timing of income tax payments, higher collections on trade receivables as fewer were non-cash exchanged for sold receivables in connection with the unwind of all of our accounts receivable securitization and factoring programs (the “Programs”) in 2018, and decreased cash payments for employee bonuses in 2018. These increases in cash provided by operating activities were partially offset by unfavorable changes in accounts payable, primarily due to the timing of payments.

Net Cash Provided by/Used for Investing Activities:

Net cash provided by investing activities was $288 million for the year ended December 29, 2018 compared to $1.2 billion for the year ended December 30, 2017. This decrease was primarily due to lower cash collections on previously sold receivables of $990 million, as we unwound all of our Programs in 2018, and cash payments to acquire businesses in 2018, primarily Cerebos Pacific Limited. These decreases in cash provided by investing activities were partially offset by decreased capital expenditures, which was driven by the wind-up of Integration Program footprint costs in the prior year. We expect 2019 capital expenditures to be approximately $800 million. Refer to Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, including Note 17, Financing Arrangements, for additional information on our Programs, Note 5, Acquisitions and Divestitures, for additional information on our 2018 acquisitions, and Note 6, Integration and Restructuring Expenses, for additional information on the Integration Program.

Net Cash Provided by/Used for Financing Activities:

Net cash used for financing activities was $3.4 billion for the year ended December 29, 2018 compared to $4.2 billion for the year ended December 30, 2017. This decrease was primarily driven by increased proceeds from long-term debt issuances, which more than offset increased cash distributions related to our dividends, higher net repayments of commercial paper, and higher repayments of long-term debt. See Note 19, Debt, in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, for additional information on our long-term debt issuances and repayments. See Equity and Dividends in this item for additional information on our dividends.

Cash Flow Activity for 2017 Compared to 2016:

Net Cash Provided by/Used for Operating Activities:

Net cash provided by operating activities was $501 million for the year ended December 30, 2017 compared to $2.6 billion for the year ended December 31, 2016. The decrease in cash provided by operating activities was primarily driven by the $1.2 billion pre-funding of our postretirement benefit plans in 2017, lower collections on receivables as more were non-cash exchanged for sold receivables, favorable changes in accounts payable from vendor payment term renegotiations that were less pronounced than the prior year, and increased cash payments of employee bonuses in 2017. The decrease in cash provided by operating activities was partially offset by lower cash payments for income taxes in 2017 driven by our pre-funding of postretirement plan benefits following U.S. Tax Reform enactment on December 22, 2017.

Net Cash Provided by/Used for Investing Activities:

Net cash provided by investing activities was $1.2 billion for the year ended December 30, 2017 compared to $1.5 billion for the year ended December 31, 2016. The decrease in cash provided by investing activities was primarily due to lower cash inflows from our Programs, as well as lower proceeds from cash settlements on net investment hedges. Capital expenditures were flat in 2017 compared to 2016.

Net Cash Provided by/Used for Financing Activities:

Net cash used for financing activities was $4.2 billion for the year ended December 30, 2017 compared to $4.6 billion for the year ended December 31, 2016. The decrease was driven by the benefit of fewer dividend payments in 2017 compared to 2016, which more than offset higher net repayments of long-term debt and commercial paper in 2017 compared to 2016, including cash outflows associated with the redemption of our Series A Preferred Stock in 2016. Dividend payments were lower in 2017 compared to 2016 due to the absence of the Series A Preferred Stock dividend and the impact of four common stock cash distributions in 2017 compared to five such distributions in 2016. See Equity and Dividends for additional information on cash distributions related to common stock and Series A Preferred Stock.

44

Cash Held by International Subsidiaries:

Of the $1.1 billion cash and cash equivalents on our consolidated balance sheet at December 29, 2018, $923 million was held by international subsidiaries.

We consider the unremitted current year earnings of certain international subsidiaries that impose local country taxes on dividends to be indefinitely reinvested. For those undistributed earnings considered to be indefinitely reinvested, our intent is to reinvest these funds in our international operations, and our current plans do not demonstrate a need to repatriate the accumulated earnings to fund our U.S. cash requirements. The amount of unrecognized deferred tax liabilities for local country withholding taxes that would be owed related to our current year earnings of certain international subsidiaries is approximately $20 million.

Our historic earnings in foreign subsidiaries through December 30, 2017 are undistributed and currently not considered to be indefinitely reinvested. As of December 29, 2018, we have recorded a deferred tax liability of $78 million on $1.2 billion of historic earnings related to local withholding taxes that will be owed when this cash is distributed.

Total Debt:

We obtain funding through our U.S. and European commercial paper programs. At December 29, 2018, we had no commercial paper outstanding. At December 30, 2017, we had commercial paper outstanding of $448 million with a weighted average interest rate of 1.541%. The maximum amount of commercial paper outstanding during the year ended December 29, 2018 was $1.1 billion.

We maintain our $4.0 billion Senior Credit Facility, and subject to certain conditions, we may increase the amount of revolving commitments and/or add additional tranches of term loans in a combined aggregate amount of up to $1.0 billion. No amounts were drawn on our Senior Credit Facility at December 29, 2018, at December 30, 2017, or during the years ended December 29, 2018, December 30, 2017, and December 31, 2016. In June 2018, we entered into an agreement that became effective on July 6, 2018 to extend the maturity date of our Senior Credit Facility from July 6, 2021 to July 6, 2023 and to establish a $400 million euro equivalent swing line facility, which is available under the $4.0 billion revolving credit facility limit for short-term loans denominated in euros on a same-day basis. The Senior Credit Facility contains representations, warranties, and covenants that are typical for these types of facilities and could upon the occurrence of certain events of default restrict our ability to access our Senior Credit Facility. We were in compliance with all financial covenants during the year ended December 29, 2018. 

During the period from December 29, 2018 to the filing date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, due to the delays in the preparation of our financial statements for the fiscal year ended December 29, 2018 and the fiscal quarter ended March 30, 2019, we were not in compliance with certain reporting covenants under the Senior Credit Facility. 

However, as previously disclosed, on March 22, 2019, we entered into a Waiver and Consent No. 1 (the “Original Waiver”) with respect to the Senior Credit Facility, pursuant to which the lenders party thereto and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as administrative agent, granted a temporary waiver of compliance by us with respect to the requirement to furnish the lenders a copy of the consolidated financial statements for our fiscal year ended December 29, 2018. Pursuant to the Original Waiver, we were required to provide consolidated financial statements no later than May 14, 2019. Due to additional delays in our financial reporting, on May 10, 2019, we entered into a Waiver and Consent No. 2 (the “Second Waiver”) with respect to the Senior Credit Facility, pursuant to which the lenders, as party to the Senior Credit Facility, and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as administrative agent, granted a temporary waiver of compliance by us with respect to the requirements to furnish the lenders copies of the consolidated financial statements for our fiscal year ended December 29, 2018 and for the fiscal quarter ended March 30, 2019. Pursuant to the Second Waiver and in order to remedy our noncompliance, we are required to provide consolidated financial statements for our fiscal year ended December 29, 2018 no later than June 28, 2019 and for our fiscal quarter ended March 30, 2019 no later than July 31, 2019. If we had not obtained these waivers, we would not have been able to access our Senior Credit Facility.

Our long-term debt, including the current portion, was $31.1 billion at December 29, 2018 and $31.0 billion at December 30, 2017. Our long-term debt contains customary representations, covenants, and events of default. We were in compliance with all financial covenants during the year ended December 29, 2018. 

During the period from December 29, 2018 to the filing date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, due to the delays in the preparation of our financial statements for the fiscal year ended December 29, 2018 and the fiscal quarter ended March 30, 2019, we were not in compliance with certain reporting covenants under certain indentures. The filing of this Annual Report on Form 10-K will constitute compliance with the requirement to furnish the lenders a copy of the consolidated financial statements for our fiscal year ended December 29, 2018 no later than June 28, 2019. We also currently expect to file our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 30, 2019 on or before July 31, 2019 in compliance with the requirement to furnish the lenders a copy of the consolidated financial statements for such quarter no later than July 31, 2019.

45

Under our existing indentures, if we do not file required reports within specified time periods, the trustee or holders of at least 30% in the case of our Second Lien Senior Secured Notes due 2025 and 25% in the case of any other series of notes may deliver a notice of default for such series of notes which would commence the applicable cure period under such indenture. As of June 5, 2019, none of the cure periods under our existing indentures have been triggered in connection with our failure to comply with the respective reporting covenants set forth in such indentures. However, if a cure period is triggered under such indentures and we fail to file our annual and interim financial statements within such cure period, any outstanding notes issued thereunder would become callable.

Our senior notes maturing in 2019 and 2020 include aggregate principal amounts of approximately $350 million in August 2019, approximately $900 million in February 2020, and approximately 800 million Canadian dollars and $1.5 billion in July 2020. We expect to fund these long-term debt repayments primarily with cash on hand, cash generated from our operating activities, proceeds from our divestiture in Canada, and potential new issuances of short-term or long-term debt.

See Note 19, Debt, in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, for additional information related to our long-term debt.

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Aggregate Contractual Obligations

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements:

We do not have guarantees or other off-balance sheet financing arrangements that we believe are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenue or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures, or capital resources.

We have utilized accounts receivable securitization and factoring programs globally for our working capital needs and to provide efficient liquidity. During 2018, we had Programs in place in various countries across the globe. In the second quarter of 2018, we unwound our U.S. securitization program, which represented the majority of our Programs, using proceeds from the issuance of long-term debt in June 2018. As of December 29, 2018, we have unwound all of our Programs. 

See Note 17, Financing Arrangements, in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, for a discussion of our Programs and other financing arrangements.

Aggregate Contractual Obligations:

The following table summarizes our contractual obligations at December 29, 2018 (in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a)  Amounts represent the expected cash payments of our long-term debt, including interest on variable and fixed rate long-term debt. Interest on variable rate long-term debt is calculated based on interest rates at December 29, 2018.

(b) Amounts represent the expected cash payments of our capital leases, including expected cash payments of interest expense.

(c) Operating leases represent the minimum rental commitments under non-cancelable operating leases.

(d) We have purchase obligations for materials, supplies, property, plant and equipment, and co-packing, storage, and distribution services based on projected needs to be utilized in the normal course of business. Other purchase obligations include commitments for marketing, advertising, capital expenditures, information technology, and professional services. Arrangements are considered purchase obligations if a contract specifies all significant terms, including fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased, a pricing structure, and approximate timing of the transaction. Several of these obligations are long-term and are based on minimum purchase requirements. Certain purchase obligations contain variable pricing components, and, as a result, actual cash payments are expected to fluctuate based on changes in these variable components. Due to the proprietary nature of some of our materials and processes, certain supply contracts contain penalty provisions for early terminations. We do not believe that a material amount of penalties is reasonably likely to be incurred under these contracts based upon historical experience and current expectations. We exclude amounts reflected on the consolidated balance sheet as accounts payable and accrued liabilities from the table above.

(e)Other long-term liabilities primarily consist of estimated payments for the one-time toll charge related to U.S. Tax Reform, as well as postretirement benefit commitments. Certain other long-term liabilities related to income taxes, insurance accruals, and other accruals included on the consolidated balance sheet are excluded from the above table as we are unable to estimate the timing of payments for these items.

(f)As part of the restatement described in Note 2, Restatement of Previously Issued Consolidated Financial Statements, in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, certain amounts in prior years, if presented, would have been recategorized between capital leases, operating leases, and purchase 

46

obligations as well as across future periods. There would have been no impact on the total future contractual obligations as of December 30, 2017 or December 31, 2016.

Pension plan contributions were $57 million in 2018. We estimate that 2019 pension plan contributions will be approximately $15 million. Beyond 2019, we are unable to reliably estimate the timing of contributions to our pension plans. Our actual contributions and plans may change due to many factors, including changes in tax, employee benefit, or other laws and regulations, tax deductibility, significant differences between expected and actual pension asset performance or interest rates, or other factors. As such, estimated pension plan contributions for 2019 have been excluded from the above table.

Postretirement benefit plan contributions were $19 million in 2018. We estimate that 2019 postretirement benefit plan contributions will be approximately $15 million. Beyond 2019, we are unable to reliably estimate the timing of contributions to our postretirement benefit plans. Our actual contributions and plans may change due to many factors, including changes in tax, employee benefit, or other laws and regulations, tax deductibility, significant differences between expected and actual postretirement plan asset performance or interest rates, or other factors. As such, estimated postretirement benefit plan contributions for 2019 have been excluded from the above table.

At December 29, 2018, the amount of net unrecognized tax benefits for uncertain tax positions, including an accrual of related interest and penalties along with positions only impacting the timing of tax benefits, was approximately $445 million. The timing of payments will depend on the progress of examinations with tax authorities. We do not expect a significant tax payment related to these obligations within the next year. We are unable to make a reasonably reliable estimate as to if or when any significant cash settlements with taxing authorities may occur; therefore, we have excluded the amount of net unrecognized tax benefits from the above table.

Equity and Dividends

Common Stock Dividends:

We paid common stock dividends of $3.2 billion in 2018, $2.9 billion in 2017, and $3.6 billion in 2016. Additionally, on February 21, 2019, our Board of Directors declared a cash dividend of $0.40 per share of common stock, which was payable on March 22, 2019 to shareholders of record on March 8, 2019. Additionally, on May 21, 2019, our Board of Directors declared a cash dividend of $0.40 per share of common stock, which is payable on June 14, 2019 to holders of record as of May 31, 2019.

The declaration of dividends is subject to the discretion of our Board of Directors and depends on various factors, including our net income, financial condition, cash requirements, future prospects, and other factors that our Board of Directors deems relevant to its analysis and decision making.

Series A Preferred Stock Dividends:

On June 7, 2016, we redeemed all outstanding shares of our Series A Preferred Stock. Accordingly, we no longer pay any associated dividends, and there were no such dividend payments in 2018 or 2017. Prior to the redemption, we made cash distributions of $180 million in 2016.

See Note 19, Debt, and Note 20, Capital Stock, in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, for additional information.

Non-GAAP Financial Measures

The non-GAAP financial measures we provide in this report should be viewed in addition to, and not as an alternative for, results prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP.

To supplement the consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP, we have presented Organic Net Sales, Adjusted EBITDA, and Adjusted EPS, which are considered non-GAAP financial measures. The non-GAAP financial measures presented may differ from similarly titled non-GAAP financial measures presented by other companies, and other companies may not define these non-GAAP financial measures in the same way. These measures are not substitutes for their comparable U.S. GAAP financial measures, such as net sales, net income/(loss), diluted earnings per common share (“EPS”), or other measures prescribed by U.S. GAAP, and there are limitations to using non-GAAP financial measures. 

Management uses these non-GAAP financial measures to assist in comparing our performance on a consistent basis for purposes of business decision making by removing the impact of certain items that management believes do not directly reflect our underlying operations. Management believes that presenting our non-GAAP financial measures (i.e., Organic Net Sales, Adjusted EBITDA, and Adjusted EPS) is useful to investors because it (i) provides investors with meaningful supplemental information regarding financial performance by excluding certain items, (ii) permits investors to view performance using the same tools that management uses to budget, make operating and strategic decisions, and evaluate historical performance, and (iii) otherwise provides supplemental information that may be useful to investors in evaluating our results. We believe that the presentation of these non-GAAP financial measures, when considered together with the corresponding U.S. GAAP financial measures and the reconciliations 

47

to those measures, provides investors with additional understanding of the factors and trends affecting our business than could be obtained absent these disclosures.

Organic Net Sales is defined as net sales excluding, when they occur, the impact of currency, acquisitions and divestitures, and a 53rd week of shipments. We calculate the impact of currency on net sales by holding exchange rates constant at the previous year’s exchange rate, with the exception of Venezuela, for which we calculate the previous year’s results using the current year’s exchange rate. Organic Net Sales is a tool that can assist management and investors in comparing our performance on a consistent basis by removing the impact of certain items that management believes do not directly reflect our underlying operations.

Adjusted EBITDA is defined as net income/(loss) from continuing operations before interest expense, other expense/(income), net, provision for/(benefit from) income taxes, and depreciation and amortization (excluding integration and restructuring expenses); in addition to these adjustments, we exclude, when they occur, the impacts of integration and restructuring expenses, deal costs, unrealized losses/(gains) on commodity hedges, impairment losses, losses/(gains) on the sale of a business, other losses/(gains) related to acquisitions and divestitures (e.g., tax and hedging impacts), nonmonetary currency devaluation (e.g., remeasurement gains and losses), and equity award compensation expense (excluding integration and restructuring expenses). Adjusted EBITDA is a tool that can assist management and investors in comparing our performance on a consistent basis by removing the impact of certain items that management believes do not directly reflect our underlying operations.

Adjusted EPS is defined as diluted earnings per share excluding, when they occur, the impacts of integration and restructuring expenses, deal costs, unrealized losses/(gains) on commodity hedges, impairment losses, losses/(gains) on the sale of a business, other losses/(gains) related to acquisitions and divestitures (e.g., tax and hedging impacts), nonmonetary currency devaluation (e.g., remeasurement gains and losses), and U.S. Tax Reform discrete income tax expense/(benefit), and including, when they occur, adjustments to reflect preferred stock dividend payments on an accrual basis. We believe Adjusted EPS provides important comparability of underlying operating results, allowing investors and management to assess operating performance on a consistent basis.

48

The Kraft Heinz Company

Reconciliation of Net Sales to Organic Net Sales

(dollars in millions)

(Unaudited)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

49

The Kraft Heinz Company

Reconciliation of Net Sales to Organic Net Sales

(dollars in millions)

(Unaudited)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

50

The Kraft Heinz Company

Reconciliation of Net Income/(Loss) to Adjusted EBITDA

(in millions)

(Unaudited)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

51

The Kraft Heinz Company

Reconciliation of Diluted EPS to Adjusted EPS

(Unaudited)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•Cost of products sold included $53 million in 2016; and[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•Interest expense included $3 million in 2018; 

•Other expense/(income), net, included $17 million in 2018; and

•Provision for/(benefit from) income taxes included $7 million in 2018. [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•Cost of products sold included $4 million in 2016; and[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(h)For Adjusted EPS, we present the impact of the Series A Preferred Stock dividend payments on an accrual basis. Accordingly, we included adjustments to EPS to include $180 million Series A Preferred Stock dividends in the first quarter of 2016 (to reflect the March 7, 2016 Series A Preferred Stock dividend that was paid in December 2015) and to exclude $51 million of Series A Preferred Stock dividends from the second quarter of 2016 (to reflect that it was redeemed on June 7, 2016).[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

52

Supplemental Unaudited Quarterly Financial Information

The following unaudited quarterly financial information is presented to illustrate the effects of the corrections of misstatements to previously reported quarterly financial information as a result of the restatement. Such corrections of misstatements are described in more detail in Note 2, Restatement of Previously Issued Consolidated Financial Statements, in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.

The following unaudited quarterly financial information for the fiscal quarters ended December 29, 2018 September 29, 2018, June 30, 2018, March 31, 2018, December 30, 2017, September 30, 2017, July 1, 2017, and April 1, 2017 is derived from our audited consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 29, 2018 and our restated audited consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 30, 2017. This unaudited quarterly financial information should be read in conjunction with the other sections of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the consolidated financial statements and related notes contained in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.

The following tables represent the unaudited reconciliation of net sales to Organic Net Sales. Organic Net Sales is a non-GAAP financial measure. See the Non-GAAP Financial Measures section within this item for the related definition.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

53

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The following tables represent the unaudited reconciliation of net income/(loss) to Adjusted EBITDA. Adjusted EBITDA is a non-GAAP financial measure. See the Non-GAAP Financial Measures section within this item for the related definition.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

54

The following tables represent the unaudited reconciliation of diluted EPS to Adjusted EPS. Adjusted EPS is a non-GAAP financial measure. See the Non-GAAP Financial Measures section within this item for the related definition.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•Cost of products sold included $4 million for the three months ended June 30, 2018; and[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•Interest expense included $3 million for the three months ended December, 29 2018;

•Other expense/(income), net, included $17 million for the three months ended December, 29 2018; and

•Provision for/(benefit from) income taxes included $7 million for the three months ended December, 29 2018.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

55

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(e)U.S. Tax Reform discrete income tax expense/(benefit) included a benefit of $7.0 billion for the three months ended December 30, 2017.

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.