Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.

The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto. We prepared our consolidated financial statements in accordance with GAAP. Additional sections in this report which should be helpful to the reading of our discussion and analysis include the following: (i) a description of our business strategy found in Items 1 and 2 “Business and Properties—(c) Narrative Description of Business—Business Strategy;” (ii) a description of developments during 2018, found in Items 1 and 2 “Business and Properties—(a) General Development of Business—Recent Developments;” and (iii) a description of risk factors affecting us and our business, found in Item 1A “Risk Factors.”

Inasmuch as the discussion below and the other sections to which we have referred you pertain to management’s comments on financial resources, capital spending, our business strategy and the outlook for our business, such discussions contain forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements reflect the expectations, beliefs, plans and objectives of management about future financial performance and assumptions underlying management’s judgment concerning the matters discussed, and accordingly, involve estimates, assumptions, judgments and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those discussed in the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to any differences 

35

include, but are not limited to, those discussed below and elsewhere in this report, particularly in Item 1A “Risk Factors” and at the beginning of this report in “Information Regarding Forward-Looking Statements.” 

General

Our reportable business segments are:

•Natural Gas Pipelines—the ownership and operation of (i) major interstate and intrastate natural gas pipeline and storage systems; (ii) natural gas and crude oil gathering systems and natural gas processing and treating facilities; (iii) NGL fractionation facilities and transportation systems; and (iv) LNG facilities;

•Products Pipelines—the ownership and operation of refined petroleum products, NGL and crude oil and condensate pipelines that primarily deliver, among other products, gasoline, diesel and jet fuel, propane, ethane, crude oil and condensate to various markets, plus the ownership and/or operation of associated product terminals and petroleum pipeline transmix facilities; 

•Terminals—the ownership and/or operation of (i) liquids and bulk terminal facilities located throughout the U.S. and portions of Canada that transload and store refined petroleum products, crude oil, ethanol and chemicals, and bulk products, including petroleum coke, metals and ores; and (ii) Jones Act tankers;

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•Kinder Morgan Canada (prior to August 31, 2018)—the ownership and operation of the Trans Mountain pipeline system that transports crude oil and refined petroleum products from Edmonton, Alberta, Canada to marketing terminals and refineries in British Columbia, Canada and the state of Washington. As a result of the TMPL Sale, this segment does not have results of operations on a prospective basis.

As an energy infrastructure owner and operator in multiple facets of the various U.S. and Canadian energy industries and markets, we examine a number of variables and factors on a routine basis to evaluate our current performance and our prospects for the future. 

With respect to our interstate natural gas pipelines, related storage facilities and LNG terminals, the revenues from these assets are primarily received under contracts with terms that are fixed for various and extended periods of time. To the extent practicable and economically feasible in light of our strategic plans and other factors, we generally attempt to mitigate risk of reduced volumes and prices by negotiating contracts with longer terms, with higher per-unit pricing and for a greater percentage of our available capacity. These long-term contracts are typically structured with a fixed fee reserving the right to transport or store natural gas and specify that we receive the majority of our fee for making the capacity available, whether or not the customer actually chooses to utilize the capacity. Similarly, the Texas Intrastate Natural Gas Pipeline operations, currently derives approximately 76% of its sales and transport margins from long-term transport and sales contracts. As contracts expire, we have additional exposure to the longer term trends in supply and demand for natural gas. As of December 31, 2018, the remaining weighted average contract life of our natural gas transportation contracts (including intrastate pipelines’ sales portfolio) was approximately six years.

Our midstream assets provide gathering and processing services for natural gas and gathering services for crude oil. These assets are mostly fee-based and the revenues and earnings we realize from gathering natural gas, processing natural gas in order to remove NGL from the natural gas stream, and fractionating NGL into their base components, are affected by the volumes of natural gas made available to our systems. Such volumes are impacted by producer rig count and drilling activity. In addition to fee based arrangements, some of which may include minimum volume commitments, we also provide some services based on percent-of-proceeds, percent-of-index and keep-whole contracts. Our service contracts may rely solely on a single type of arrangement, but more often they combine elements of two or more of the above, which helps us and our counterparties manage the extent to which each shares in the potential risks and benefits of changing commodity prices. 

The profitability of our refined petroleum products pipeline transportation and storage business generally is driven by the volume of refined petroleum products that we transport and the prices we receive for our services. We also have approximately 55 liquids terminals in this business segment that store fuels and offer blending services for ethanol and biofuels. The transportation and storage volume levels are primarily driven by the demand for the refined petroleum products being 

36

shipped or stored. Demand for refined petroleum products tends to track in large measure demographic and economic growth, and, with the exception of periods of time with very high product prices or recessionary conditions, demand tends to be relatively stable. Because of that, we seek to own refined petroleum products pipelines located in, or that transport to, stable or growing markets and population centers. The prices for shipping are generally based on regulated tariffs that are adjusted annually based on changes in the U.S. Producer Price Index. 

Our crude and condensate transportation services are primarily provided either pursuant to (i) long-term contracts that normally contain minimum volume commitments or (ii) through terms prescribed by the toll settlements with shippers and approved by regulatory authorities. As a result of these contracts, our settlement volumes are generally not sensitive to changing market conditions in the shorter term; however, in the longer term the revenues and earnings we realize from our crude oil and condensate pipelines are affected by the volumes of crude oil and condensate available to our pipeline systems, which are impacted by the level of oil and gas drilling activity in the respective producing regions that we serve. Our petroleum condensate processing facility splits condensate into its various components, such as light and heavy naphtha, under a long-term fee-based agreement with a major integrated oil company.

The factors impacting our Terminals business segment generally differ between liquid and bulk terminals, and in the case of a bulk terminal, the type of product being handled or stored. Our liquids terminals business generally has long-term contracts that require the customer to pay regardless of whether they use the capacity. Thus, similar to our natural gas pipelines business, our liquids terminals business is less sensitive to short-term changes in supply and demand. Therefore, the extent to which changes in these variables affect our terminals business in the near term is a function of the length of the underlying service contracts (which on average is approximately four years), the extent to which revenues under the contracts are a function of the amount of product stored or transported, and the extent to which such contracts expire during any given period of time. As with our refined petroleum products pipelines transportation business, the revenues from our bulk terminals business are generally driven by the volumes we handle and/or store, as well as the prices we receive for our services, which in turn are driven by the demand for the products being shipped or stored. While we handle and store a large variety of products in our bulk terminals, the primary products are petroleum coke, metals and ores. For the most part, we have contracts for this business that contain minimum volume guarantees and/or service exclusivity arrangements under which customers are required to utilize our terminals for all or a specified percentage of their handling and storage needs. The profitability of our minimum volume contracts is generally unaffected by short-term variation in economic conditions; however, to the extent we expect volumes above the minimum and/or have contracts which are volume-based, we can be sensitive to changing market conditions. To the extent practicable and economically feasible in light of our strategic plans and other factors, we generally attempt to mitigate the risk of reduced volumes and pricing by negotiating contracts with longer terms, with higher per-unit pricing and for a greater percentage of our available capacity. In addition, weather-related factors such as hurricanes and other weather related events may impact our facilities and access to them and, thus, the profitability of certain terminals for limited periods of time or, in relatively rare cases of severe damage to facilities, for longer periods. In addition to liquid and bulk terminals, we also own Jones Act tankers in our Terminals business segment. As of December 31, 2018, we have sixteen Jones Act qualified tankers that operate in the marine transportation of crude oil, condensate and refined products in the U.S. and are currently operating pursuant to multi-year fixed price charters with major integrated oil companies, major refiners and the U.S. Military Sealift Command.

The CO2 source and transportation business primarily has third-party contracts with minimum volume requirements, which as of December 31, 2018, had a remaining average contract life of approximately nine years. CO2 sales contracts vary from customer to customer and have evolved over time as supply and demand conditions have changed. Our recent contracts have generally provided for a delivered price tied to the price of crude oil, but with a floor price. On a volume-weighted basis, for third-party contracts making deliveries in 2019, and utilizing the average oil price per barrel contained in our 2019 budget, approximately 97% of our revenue is based on a fixed fee or floor price, and 3% fluctuates with the price of oil. In the long-term, our success in this portion of the CO2 business segment is driven by the demand for CO2. However, short-term changes in the demand for CO2 typically do not have a significant impact on us due to the required minimum sales volumes under many of our contracts. In the CO2 business segment’s oil and gas producing activities, we monitor the amount of capital we expend in relation to the amount of production that we expect to add. In that regard, our production during any period is an important measure. In addition, the revenues we receive from our crude oil and NGL sales are affected by the prices we realize from the sale of these products. Over the long-term, we will tend to receive prices that are dictated by the demand and overall market price for these products. In the shorter term, however, market prices are likely not indicative of the revenues we will receive due to our risk management, or hedging, program, in which the prices to be realized for certain of our future sales quantities are fixed, capped or bracketed through the use of financial derivative contracts, particularly for crude oil. The realized weighted average crude oil price per barrel, with the hedges allocated to oil, was $57.83 per barrel in 2018, $58.40 per barrel in 2017 and $61.52 per barrel in 2016. Had we not used energy derivative contracts to transfer commodity price risk, our crude oil sales prices would have averaged $58.63 per barrel in 2018, $49.61 per barrel in 2017 and $41.36 per barrel in 2016.

37

Also, see Note 16 “Revenue Recognition” to our consolidated financial statements for more information about the types of contracts and revenues recognized for each of our segments.

Investment in Ruby

In January 2019, Pacific Gas and Electric (PG&E) filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection. Our exposure to PG&E is limited to our $750 million equity investment in Ruby and an approximate $55 million note receivable from Ruby, where PG&E is Ruby’s largest customer. PG&E represents approximately $93 million of annual revenues on Ruby, and our partner’s preferred equity interest in Ruby is senior to our interest. Despite the bankruptcy filing, Ruby continues to perform under its existing service contracts with PG&E, and PG&E has provided credit support on its trade payables to Ruby through a prepayment arrangement. While the ultimate outcome of the bankruptcy proceedings remains uncertain, there is the potential for Ruby’s existing contracts with PG&E to be canceled in the bankruptcy process. Any cancellation of these contracts could negatively impact Ruby’s future revenues and require us to evaluate our investment in Ruby for an other than temporary impairment. This could result in a material impairment of our investment in Ruby at the time such events become known.

KML 

Sale of Trans Mountain Pipeline System and Its Expansion Project

On August 31, 2018, KML completed the sale of the TMPL, the TMEP, the Puget Sound pipeline system and Kinder Morgan Canada Inc., the Canadian employer of our staff that operate the business, which were indirectly acquired by the Government of Canada through Trans Mountain Corporation (a subsidiary of the Canada Development Investment Corporation) for cash consideration of C$4.43 billion (U.S.$3.4 billion), which is the contractual purchase price of C$4.5 billion net of a preliminary working capital adjustment (the “TMPL Sale”). These assets comprised our Kinder Morgan Canada business segment. We recognized a pre-tax gain from the TMPL Sale of $596 million within “Loss on impairments and divestitures, net” in our accompanying consolidated statement of income during the year ended December 31, 2018, including an incremental working capital adjustment of $26 million accrued as of December 31, 2018.

On January 3, 2019, pursuant to KML’s shareholders’ approval on November 29, 2018, KML distributed to its shareholders as a return of capital, the net proceeds from the TMPL Sale, after capital gains taxes, customary purchase price adjustments and the repayment of debt outstanding under a temporary KML credit facility (see Note 9 “Debt—Credit Facilities and Restrictive Covenants—KML”). KML’s public owners of its restricted voting shares, reflected as noncontrolling interests by us, received approximately $0.9 billion (C$1.2 billion), and part of our approximate 70% portion of the net proceeds of $1.9 billion (C$2.5 billion) (after Canadian tax) were used to immediately repay our outstanding commercial paper borrowings of $0.4 billion, and in February 2019, to pay down approximately $1.3 billion of maturing long-term debt. To facilitate the return of capital and provide flexibility for KML’s dividends going forward, KML’s shareholders also approved a reduction in the stated capital of its restricted voting shares by C$1.45 billion, which was recorded in the fourth quarter of 2018, along with a “reverse stock split” of KML’s restricted voting shares, and KML’s special voting shares that we own, on a one-for-three basis (three shares consolidating to one share) which occurred on January 4, 2019.

KML continues to manage a portfolio of strategic infrastructure assets across Western Canada, including (i) the crude terminal facilities, which constitute the largest merchant terminal storage position in the Edmonton market and the largest origination crude by rail loading facility in North America; (ii) the Vancouver Wharves Terminal, the largest mineral concentrate export/import facility on the west coast of North America; (iii) the Jet Fuel pipeline system; and (iv) the Canadian portion of the U.S. and Canadian Cochin pipeline system. These KML assets are part of our Products Pipelines and Terminals business segments.

KML IPO

The interest in the Canadian business operations that we sold to the public on May 30, 2017 in KML’s IPO represented an interest in all our operating assets in our Kinder Morgan Canada business segment and our operating Canadian assets in our Terminals and Products Pipelines business segments. These Canadian assets included the TMPL, TMEP and the Puget Sound pipeline system, all of which have been sold in the TMPL Sale, the Jet Fuel pipeline system, the Canadian portion of the Cochin pipeline system, the Vancouver Wharves Terminal and the North 40 Terminal; as well as three jointly controlled investments: the Edmonton Rail Terminal, the Alberta Crude Terminal and the Base Line Terminal.

Subsequent to the IPO, we retained control of KML, and as a result, it remains consolidated in our consolidated financial statements. The public ownership of the KML restricted voting shares is reflected within “Noncontrolling interests” in our 

38

consolidated statements of stockholders’ equity and consolidated balance sheets. Earnings attributable to the public ownership of KML are presented in “Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests” in our consolidated statements of income for the periods presented after May 30, 2017. KML transacts in and/or uses the Canadian dollar as the functional currency, which affects our segment results due to the variability in U.S. - Canadian dollar exchange rates. 

 Subsequent to its IPO, KML has obtained a credit facility and completed two preferred share offerings. KML continues to be a self-funding entity and we do not anticipate making contributions to fund its growth or operations. 

2017 Tax Reform

While the 2017 Tax Reform will ultimately be moderately positive for us, the reduced corporate income tax rate caused certain of our deferred-tax assets to be revalued at 21% versus 35% at the end of 2017. Although there is no impact to the underlying related deductions, which can continue to be used to offset future taxable income, we took an estimated approximately $1.4 billion non-cash accounting charge in 2017. The positive impacts of the law include the reduced corporate income tax rate and the fact that several of our U.S. business units (essentially all but our interstate natural gas pipelines) will be able to deduct 100% of their capital expenditures through 2022. See Note 5 “Income Taxes” to our consolidated financial statements.

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates

Accounting standards require information in financial statements about the risks and uncertainties inherent in significant estimates, and the application of GAAP involves the exercise of varying degrees of judgment. Certain amounts included in or affecting our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures must be estimated, requiring us to make certain assumptions with respect to values or conditions that cannot be known with certainty at the time our financial statements are prepared. These estimates and assumptions affect the amounts we report for our assets and liabilities, our revenues and expenses during the reporting period, and our disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of our financial statements. We routinely evaluate these estimates, utilizing historical experience, consultation with experts and other methods we consider reasonable in the particular circumstances. Nevertheless, actual results may differ significantly from our estimates, and any effects on our business, financial position or results of operations resulting from revisions to these estimates are recorded in the period in which the facts that give rise to the revision become known.

In preparing our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures, examples of certain areas that require more judgment relative to others include our use of estimates in determining: (i) revenue recognition; (ii) income taxes; (iii) the economic useful lives of our assets and related depletion rates; (iv) the fair values used to (a) assign purchase price from business combinations, (b) determine possible asset and equity investment impairment charges, and (c) calculate the annual goodwill impairment test; (v) reserves for environmental claims, legal fees, transportation rate cases and other litigation liabilities; (vi) provisions for uncollectible accounts receivables; (vii) computing the gain or loss, if any, on assets sold in whole or in part; and (viii) exposures under contractual indemnifications.

For a summary of our significant accounting policies, see Note 2 “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” to our consolidated financial statements. We believe that certain accounting policies are of more significance in our consolidated financial statement preparation process than others, which policies are discussed as follows.

Environmental Matters

With respect to our environmental exposure, we utilize both internal staff and external experts to assist us in identifying environmental issues and in estimating the costs and timing of remediation efforts. We expense or capitalize, as appropriate, environmental expenditures that relate to current operations, and we record environmental liabilities when environmental assessments and/or remedial efforts are probable and we can reasonably estimate the costs. Generally, we do not discount environmental liabilities to a net present value, and we recognize receivables for anticipated associated insurance recoveries when such recoveries are deemed to be probable. We record at fair value, where appropriate, environmental liabilities assumed in a business combination.

Our recording of our environmental accruals often coincides with our completion of a feasibility study or our commitment to a formal plan of action, but generally, we recognize and/or adjust our environmental liabilities following routine reviews of potential environmental issues and claims that could impact our assets or operations. These adjustments may result in increases in environmental expenses and are primarily related to quarterly reviews of potential environmental issues and resulting environmental liability estimates. In making these liability estimations, we consider the effect of environmental compliance, pending legal actions against us, and potential third party liability claims. For more information on environmental matters, see 

39

Part I, Items 1 and 2 “Business and Properties—(c) Narrative Description of Business—Environmental Matters.” For more information on our environmental disclosures, see Note 18 “Litigation, Environmental and Other Contingencies” to our consolidated financial statements.

Legal and Regulatory Matters

Many of our operations are regulated by various U.S. and Canadian regulatory bodies and we are subject to legal and regulatory matters as a result of our business operations and transactions. We utilize both internal and external counsel in evaluating our potential exposure to adverse outcomes from orders, judgments or settlements. In general, we expense legal costs as incurred. When we identify contingent liabilities, we identify a range of possible costs expected to be required to resolve the matter. Generally, if no amount within this range is a better estimate than any other amount, we record a liability equal to the low end of the range. Any such liability recorded is revised as better information becomes available. Accordingly, to the extent that actual outcomes differ from our estimates, or additional facts and circumstances cause us to revise our estimates, our earnings will be affected. For more information on legal proceedings, see Note 18 “Litigation, Environmental and Other Contingencies” to our consolidated financial statements. 

Intangible Assets

Intangible assets are those assets which provide future economic benefit but have no physical substance. Identifiable intangible assets having indefinite useful economic lives, including goodwill, are not subject to regular periodic amortization, and such assets are not to be amortized until their lives are determined to be finite. Instead, the carrying amount of a recognized intangible asset with an indefinite useful life must be tested for impairment annually or on an interim basis if events or circumstances indicate that the fair value of the asset has decreased below its carrying value. We evaluate goodwill for impairment on May 31 of each year. At year end and during other interim periods we evaluate our reporting units for events and changes that could indicate that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit could be less than its carrying amount. 

Excluding goodwill, our other intangible assets include customer contracts, relationships and agreements, and technology-based assets. These intangible assets have definite lives, are being amortized in a systematic and rational manner over their estimated useful lives, and are reported separately as “Other intangibles, net” in our accompanying consolidated balance sheets. 

Hedging Activities

We engage in a hedging program that utilizes derivative contracts to mitigate (offset) our exposure to fluctuations in energy commodity prices, foreign currency exposure on Euro denominated debt and net investments in foreign operations, and to balance our exposure to fixed and variable interest rates, and we believe that these hedges are generally effective in realizing these objectives. According to the provisions of GAAP, to be considered effective, changes in the value of a derivative contract or its resulting cash flows must substantially offset changes in the value or cash flows of the item being hedged, and any ineffective portion of the hedge gain or loss and any component excluded from the computation of the effectiveness of the derivative contract must be reported in earnings immediately. 

All of our derivative contracts are recorded at estimated fair value. We utilize published prices, broker quotes, and estimates of market prices to estimate the fair value of these contracts; however, actual amounts could vary materially from estimated fair values as a result of changes in market prices. In addition, changes in the methods used to determine the fair value of these contracts could have a material effect on our results of operations. We do not anticipate future changes in the methods used to determine the fair value of these derivative contracts. For more information on our hedging activities, see Note 14 “Risk Management” to our consolidated financial statements.

Employee Benefit Plans

We reflect an asset or liability for our pension and other postretirement benefit plans based on their overfunded or underfunded status. As of December 31, 2018, our pension plans were underfunded by $702 million, and our other postretirement benefits plans were underfunded by $33 million. Our pension and other postretirement benefit obligations and net benefit costs are primarily based on actuarial calculations. We use various assumptions in performing these calculations, including those related to the return that we expect to earn on our plan assets, the rate at which we expect the compensation of our employees to increase over the plan term, the estimated cost of health care when benefits are provided under our plan and other factors. A significant assumption we utilize is the discount rate used in calculating our benefit obligations. We utilize a full yield curve approach in the estimation of the service and interest cost components of net periodic benefit cost (credit) for our pension and other postretirement benefit plans which applies the specific spot rates along the yield curve used in the 

40

determination of the benefit obligation to their underlying projected cash flows. The selection of these assumptions is further discussed in Note 10 “Share-based Compensation and Employee Benefits” to our consolidated financial statements.

Actual results may differ from the assumptions included in these calculations, and as a result, our estimates associated with our pension and other postretirement benefits can be, and often are, revised in the future. The income statement impact of the changes in the assumptions on our related benefit obligations are deferred and amortized into income over either the period of expected future service of active participants, or over the expected future lives of inactive plan participants. As of December 31, 2018, we had deferred net losses of approximately $536 million in pre-tax accumulated other comprehensive loss related to our pension and other postretirement benefits. 

The following table shows the impact of a 1% change in the primary assumptions used in our actuarial calculations associated with our pension and other postretirement benefits for the year ended December 31, 2018: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

_______

(a)Includes amounts deferred as either accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) or as a regulatory asset or liability for certain of our regulated operations. 

Income Taxes

Income tax expense is recorded based on an estimate of the effective tax rate in effect or to be in effect during the relevant periods. Changes in tax legislation are included in the relevant computations in the period in which such changes are enacted. We do business in a number of states with differing laws concerning how income subject to each state’s tax structure is measured and at what effective rate such income is taxed. Therefore, we must make estimates of how our income will be apportioned among the various states in order to arrive at an overall effective tax rate. Changes in our effective rate, including any effect on previously recorded deferred taxes, are recorded in the period in which the need for such change is identified.

Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are recognized for temporary differences between the basis of assets and liabilities for financial reporting and tax purposes. Deferred tax assets are reduced by a valuation allowance for the amount that is more likely than not to not be realized. While we have considered estimated future taxable income and prudent and feasible tax planning strategies in determining the amount of our valuation allowance, any change in the amount that we expect to ultimately realize will be included in income in the period in which such a determination is reached. 

In determining the deferred income tax asset and liability balances attributable to our investments, we apply an accounting policy that looks through our investments. The application of this policy resulted in no deferred income taxes being provided on the difference between the book and tax basis on the non-tax-deductible goodwill portion of our investments, including KMI’s investment in its wholly-owned subsidiary, KMP.

41

Results of Operations

Overview

Our management evaluates our performance primarily using the measures of Segment EBDA and, as discussed below under “—Non-GAAP Financial Measures,” DCF, and Segment EBDA before certain items. Segment EBDA is a useful measure of our operating performance because it measures the operating results of our segments before DD&A and certain expenses that are generally not controllable by our business segment operating managers, such as general and administrative expenses, interest expense, net, and income taxes. Our general and administrative expenses include such items as unallocated employee benefits, insurance, rentals, unallocated litigation and environmental expenses, and shared corporate services including accounting, information technology, human resources and legal services.

In our discussions of the operating results of individual businesses that follow, we generally identify the important fluctuations between periods that are attributable to dispositions and acquisitions separately from those that are attributable to businesses owned in both periods. 

Effective January 1, 2019, certain assets were transferred between Natural Gas Pipelines, Products Pipelines and Terminals business segments, which are not reflected in the following business segment Management Discussion and Analysis tables below. 

Consolidated Earnings Results

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

_______

(a)Includes revenues, earnings from equity investments, and other, net, less operating expenses, loss on impairments and divestitures, net, loss on impairments and divestitures of equity investments, net and other income, net. Operating expenses include costs of sales, operations and maintenance expenses, and taxes, other than income taxes. 

(b)As a result of the TMPL Sale on August 31, 2018, this segment does not have results of operations on a prospective basis.

Certain items affecting Total Segment EBDA (see “—Non-GAAP Measures” below)

(c)2018, 2017 and 2016 amounts include net decreases in earnings of $269 million, $384 million and $1,121 million, respectively, related to the combined net effect of the certain items impacting Total Segment EBDA. The extent to which these items affect each of our business segments is discussed below in the footnotes to the tables within “—Segment Earnings Results.” 

42

(d)2018, 2017 and 2016 amounts include net increases in expense of $24 million and $15 million and a net decrease in expense of $13 million, respectively, related to the combined net effect of the certain items related to general and administrative and corporate charges disclosed below in “—General and Administrative and Corporate Charges, Interest, net and Noncontrolling Interests.” 

(e)2018, 2017 and 2016 amounts include a net increase in expense of $26 million and net decreases in expense of $39 million and $193 million, respectively, related to the combined net effect of the certain items related to interest expense, net disclosed below in “—General and Administrative and Corporate Charges, Interest, net and Noncontrolling Interests.”

(f)2018, 2017 and 2016 amounts include a net decrease of $58 million and net increases in expense of $1,085 million and $18 million, respectively, related to the combined net effect of the certain items related to income tax expense representing the income tax provision on certain items plus discrete income tax items.

Year Ended December 31, 2018 vs. 2017

The certain item totals reflected in footnotes (c) through (e) to the table above accounted for $41 million of the increase in income before income taxes in 2018 as compared to 2017 (representing the difference between decreases of $319 million and $360 million from certain items in income before income taxes for 2018 and 2017, respectively). After giving effect to these certain items, which are discussed in more detail in the discussion that follows, the remaining increase of $304 million (12%) from the prior year in income before income taxes is primarily attributable to increased performance from our Natural Gas Pipelines, Products Pipelines, and CO2 business segments and decreased general and administrative expense partially offset by increased DD&A expense, interest expense, net and lower earnings from our Kinder Morgan Canada business segment as a result of the TMPL Sale and our Terminals business segment.

Year Ended December 31, 2017 vs. 2016

The certain item totals reflected in footnotes (c) through (e) to the table above accounted for $555 million of the increase in income before income taxes in 2017 as compared to 2016 (representing the difference between decreases of $360 million and $915 million from certain items in income before income taxes for 2017 and 2016, respectively). After giving effect to these certain items, which are discussed in more detail in the discussion that follows, the remaining decrease of $32 million (1%) from the prior year in income before income taxes is primarily attributable to decreased performance from our Natural Gas Pipelines business segment, largely associated with our sale of a 50% interest in SNG to The Southern Company (Southern Company) on September 1, 2016, and increased DD&A expense partially offset by decreased general and administrative expense and decreased interest expense.

Non-GAAP Financial Measures

Our non-GAAP performance measures are DCF, both in the aggregate and per share, and Segment EBDA before certain items. Certain items, as used to calculate our non-GAAP measures, are items that are required by GAAP to be reflected in net income, but typically either (i) do not have a cash impact (for example, asset impairments), or (ii) by their nature are separately identifiable from our normal business operations and in our view are likely to occur only sporadically (for example, certain legal settlements, enactment of new tax legislation and casualty losses).

Our non-GAAP performance measures described below should not be considered alternatives to GAAP net income or other GAAP measures and have important limitations as analytical tools. Our computations of DCF and Segment EBDA before certain items may differ from similarly titled measures used by others. You should not consider these non-GAAP performance measures in isolation or as substitutes for an analysis of our results as reported under GAAP. DCF should not be used as an alternative to net cash provided by operating activities computed under GAAP. Management compensates for the limitations of these non-GAAP performance measures by reviewing our comparable GAAP measures, understanding the differences between the measures and taking this information into account in its analysis and its decision making processes.

DCF

DCF is calculated by adjusting net income available to common stockholders before certain items for DD&A, total book and cash taxes, sustaining capital expenditures and other items. DCF is a significant performance measure useful to management and external users of our financial statements in evaluating our performance and in measuring and estimating the ability of our assets to generate cash earnings after servicing our debt and preferred stock dividends, paying cash taxes and expending sustaining capital that could be used for discretionary purposes such as common stock dividends, stock repurchases, retirement of debt, or expansion capital expenditures. We believe the GAAP measure most directly comparable to DCF is net income available to common stockholders. A reconciliation of DCF to net income available to common stockholders is provided in the table below. DCF per common share is DCF divided by average outstanding common shares, including restricted stock awards that participate in dividends.

43

Reconciliation of Net Income Available to Common Stockholders to DCF

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]_______[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(b)Represents noncontrolling interests share of certain items. 2018 includes KML shareholders’ approximately 30% share of the gain on the TMPL Sale.

(c)Represents income tax provision on certain items plus discrete income tax items. 

(d)2018 amount represents 2017 Tax Reform provisional adjustments including our share of certain equity investees’ 2017 Tax Reform provisional adjustments related to our FERC regulated business. 2017 amount includes book tax certain items and $219 million pre-tax certain items related to our FERC regulated business. See Note 5 “Income Taxes” to our consolidated financial statements. 

(e)Includes DD&A and amortization of excess cost of equity investments. Also includes our share of certain equity investee’s DD&A, net of the noncontrolling interests’ portion of KML DD&A and consolidating joint venture partners’ share of DD&A of $360 million, $362 million and $349 million in 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively.

(f)Excludes book tax certain items of $58 million, $(1,085) million and $(18) million for 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively. 2018, 2017 and 2016 amounts also include $65 million, $104 million and $94 million, respectively, of our share of taxable equity investees’ book taxes, net of the noncontrolling interests’ portion of KML book taxes.

(g)Includes our share of taxable equity investees’ cash taxes of $(68) million, $(69) million and $(76) million in 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively.

(h)Includes pension contributions and non-cash compensation associated with our restricted stock program.

(i)Includes our share of (i) certain equity investees’; (ii) KML’s; and (iii) certain consolidating joint venture subsidiaries’ sustaining capital expenditures of $(105) million, $(107) million and $(90) million in 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively.

(j)Includes restricted stock awards that participate in common share dividends.

Segment EBDA Before Certain Items

 Segment EBDA before certain items is used by management in its analysis of segment performance and management of our business. General and administrative expenses generally are not under the control of our segment operating managers, and therefore, are not included when we measure business segment operating performance. We believe Segment EBDA before certain items is a significant performance metric because it provides us and external users of our financial statements additional 

44

insight into the ability of our business segments to generate segment cash earnings on an ongoing basis. We believe it is useful to investors because it is a performance measure that management uses to allocate resources to our segments and assess each segment’s performance. We believe the GAAP measure most directly comparable to Segment EBDA before certain items is Segment EBDA. 

In the tables for each of our business segments under “— Segment Earnings Results” below, Segment EBDA before certain items and Revenues before certain items are calculated by adjusting the Segment EBDA and Revenues for the applicable certain item amounts, which are totaled in the tables and described in the footnotes to those tables. Revenues before certain items is provided to further enhance our analysis of Segment EBDA before certain items and is not a performance measure.

Segment Earnings Results

Natural Gas Pipelines 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

_______

Certain items affecting Segment EBDA

(a)2018 and 2017 amounts include an increases in revenues of $24 million and $8 million, respectively, and 2016 amount includes a decrease in revenues of $50 million, all related to non-cash mark-to-market derivative contracts used to hedge forecasted natural gas, NGL and crude oil sales. 2018 amount also includes increases in revenue of (i) $9 million related to a transportation contract refund; (ii) $5 million related to the early termination of a long-term natural gas transportation contract; and (iii) $4 million from other certain items. 2016 amount also includes an increase in revenue of $39 million associated with revenue collected on a customer’s early buyout of a long-term natural gas storage contract.

(b)2018 amount includes (i) an increase in earnings of $7 million as a result of a property tax refund; (ii) an increase in earnings of $6 million related to the release of certain sales and use tax reserves; and (iii) a decrease in earnings of $2 million related to other certain items. 2017 amount includes a decrease in earnings of (i) $166 million related to the impact of the 2017 Tax Reform; (ii) $3 million related to the non-cash impairment loss associated with the Colden storage field; and (iii) $3 million from other certain items. 2016 amount includes a decrease in earnings of $3 million from other certain items.

(c)2018 amount includes a decrease in earnings of $600 million related to a non-cash loss on impairment of certain gathering and processing assets in Oklahoma and an increase in earnings of $1 million related to other certain item. 2017 amount includes a decrease in earnings of $27 million related to the non-cash impairment loss associated with the Colden storage field. 2016 amount includes (i) a decrease in earnings of $106 million of project write-offs; (ii) an $84 million pre-tax loss on the sale of a 50% interest in our SNG natural gas pipeline system; and (iii) an $11 million decrease in earnings from other certain items.

(d)2018 amount includes (i) a net loss of $89 million in our equity investment in Gulf LNG Holdings Group, LLC (Gulf LNG), due to a ruling by an arbitration panel affecting a customer contract, which resulted in a non-cash impairment of our investment partially offset 

45

by our share of earnings recognized by Gulf LNG on the respective customer contract; (ii) an increase in earnings of $41 million for our share of certain equity investees’ 2017 Tax Reform provisional adjustments; and (iii) a decrease in earnings of $4 million related to other certain items. 2017 amount includes (i) a $150 million non-cash impairment loss related to our investment in FEP; (ii) a decrease in earnings of $58 million related to 2017 Tax Reform adjustments recorded by equity investees; (iii) an increase in earnings from an equity investment of $22 million on the sale of a claim related to the early termination of a long-term natural gas transportation contract; (iv) an increase in earnings from an equity investment of $12 million related to a customer contract settlement; (v) a decrease in earnings of $12 million related to early termination of debt at an equity investee; and (vi) a decrease in earnings of $10 million related to a non-cash impairment at an equity investee. 2016 amount includes (i) $606 million of non-cash impairment losses primarily related to our investments in MEP and Ruby; (ii) an increase in earnings of $18 million related to the early termination of a customer contract at an equity investee; and (iii) a decrease in earnings of $12 million related to other certain items at equity investees.

(e)2018, 2017 and 2016 amounts include decreases in earnings of $24 million, $5 million and $10 million, respectively, related to certain litigation matters.

Other

(f)Joint venture throughput is reported at our ownership share.

Below are the changes in both Segment EBDA before certain items and revenues before certain items in 2018 and 2017, when compared with the respective prior year:

Year Ended December 31, 2018 versus Year Ended December 31, 2017

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The changes in Segment EBDA for our Natural Gas Pipelines business segment are further explained by the following discussion of the significant factors driving Segment EBDA before certain items in the comparable years of 2018 and 2017:

•Midstream’s increase of $150 million (14%) was primarily due to increased earnings from Texas intrastate natural gas pipeline operations, KinderHawk, Hiland Midstream and South Texas Midstream. Texas intrastate natural gas pipeline operations were favorably impacted by higher volumes with new and existing customers serving the Mexico and Texas Gulf Coast industrial markets partially offset by lower park and loan revenues and storage margins. KinderHawk and South Texas Midstream benefited from increased drilling and production in the Haynesville and Eagle Ford basins, respectively. Hiland Midstream increased earnings were primarily due to higher gas and crude oil volumes and higher NGL sales prices. While these factors also drove an increase in revenue, these increases in revenues were partially offset by the effect of the January 1, 2018 adoption of Topic 606 which caused a corresponding decrease in cost of goods sold;

•West Region’s increase of $100 million (11%) was primarily due to higher earnings from EPNG, CIG and CPGPL. EPNG experienced higher volumes in 2018 from increased Permian basin-related activity and associated capacity sales. CIG and CPGPL earnings were higher due to continued growing production in the Denver Julesburg basin;

•North Region’s increase of $43 million (4%) was primarily due to an increase in equity earnings from NGPL, and higher earnings from TGP and KMLP. NGPL increase in earnings was due to increased Permian basin-related activity and lower interest expense resulting from a 2017 refinancing, partially offset by lower storage-related revenue. TGP and KMLP contributed increased earnings primarily from expansion projects recently placed in service; and

•South Region’s increase of $33 million (5%) was primarily due to increases in equity earnings from Citrus and SNG, and an increase in earnings from SLNG, partially offset by a decrease in earnings from Southern Gulf LNG due to a loss of revenues from an arbitration ruling calling for a contract termination. Citrus had lower income tax expense due to the 2017 Tax Reform, and SNG increased earnings were from higher transportation revenues from increased system usage and non-recurring 2017 operating expenses. SLNG earnings were driven by higher capitalized AFUDC equity associated with the Elba Liquefaction project.

46

Year Ended December 31, 2017 versus Year Ended December 31, 2016

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The changes in Segment EBDA for our Natural Gas Pipelines business segment are further explained by the following discussion of the significant factors driving Segment EBDA before certain items in the comparable years of 2017 and 2016:

•South Region’s decrease of $143 million (18%) was primarily due to the sale of a 50% interest in SNG to Southern Company on September 1, 2016, partially offset by an increase in earnings from Elba Express primarily due to an expansion project placed in service in December 2016;

•Midstream’s decrease of $66 million (6%) was primarily due to decreases in earnings from South Texas Midstream, KinderHawk and Oklahoma Midstream, partially offset by increased earnings from Texas intrastate natural gas pipeline operations and Altamont Midstream. South Texas Midstream lower earnings were primarily due to lower commodity based service revenues and residue gas sales as a result of lower volumes partially offset by higher NGL sales gross margin primarily due to rising NGL prices. KinderHawk experienced lower volumes, which lowered its earnings and Oklahoma Midstream’s lower earnings were primarily due to lower volumes and unfavorable producer mix. Texas intrastate natural gas pipeline operations increased earnings were primarily due to higher transportation margins as a result of higher volumes and higher park and loan revenues partially offset by lower storage and sales margins. Altamont Midstream primarily increased earnings were due to higher natural gas and liquids revenues due to higher commodity prices and volumes. Texas intrastate natural gas pipeline operations, Hiland Midstream and Oklahoma Midstream had increases in revenues due to higher commodity prices which was largely offset by a corresponding increases in costs of sales;

•West Region’s decrease of $38 million (4%) was primarily due to a decrease in earnings at CIG, partially offset by higher earnings at EPNG. CIG lower earnings were primarily due to a decrease in tariff rates effective January 1, 2017 as a result of a rate case settlement entered into in 2016. EPNG had higher earnings primarily due to higher transportation revenues driven by incremental Permian basin capacity sales and an increase in volumes due to the ramp up of existing customer volumes associated with an expansion project partially offset by increased operations and maintenance expense; and

•North Region’s increase of $84 million (7%) was primarily due to higher earnings from TGP and an increase in equity earnings from NGPL. TGP’s increase in earnings was primarily due to higher firm transportation revenues driven by incremental capacity sales and expansion projects recently placed in service. NGPL higher earnings were primarily due to lower interest expense due to a reduction in interest rates due to debt refinancing and the repayment of bank borrowings in 2017.

47

Products Pipelines

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

_______

Certain items affecting Segment EBDA

(a)2018 amount includes (i) an increase in expense of $31 million associated with a certain Pacific operations litigation matter; (ii) an increase in earnings of $5 million as a result of a property tax refund; and (iii) a decrease in expense of $1 million related to other certain items. 2017 amount includes a decrease in expense of $34 million related to a right-of-way settlement and an increase in expense of $1 million related to hurricane repairs. 2016 amount includes increases in expense of $31 million of rate case liability estimate adjustments associated with prior periods and $20 million related to a legal settlement. 

(b)2018 amount includes a decrease in earnings of $36 million associated with a project write-off on the Utica Marcellus Texas pipeline. 2016 amount includes increases in expense of $65 million related to the Palmetto project write-off and $9 million of non-cash impairment charges related to the sale of a Transmix facility.

(c)2017 amount includes an increase in equity earnings of $5 million related to the impact of the 2017 Tax Reform at an equity investee.2016 amount includes a $12 million gain related to the sale of an equity investment.

Other

(d)Volumes include ethanol pipeline volumes.

(e)Joint Venture throughput is reported at our ownership share.

(f)Represents total ethanol volumes, including ethanol pipeline volumes included in gasoline volumes above.

48

Below are the changes in both Segment EBDA before certain items and revenues before certain items in 2018 and 2017, when compared with the respective prior year:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The changes in Segment EBDA for our Products Pipelines business segment are further explained by the following discussion of the significant factors driving Segment EBDA before certain items in the comparable years of 2018 and 2017:

•NGLs’ increase of $33 million (27%) was primarily due to increases in earnings from Cochin pipeline and to a lesser extent an increase in earnings from equity earnings from Utopia, which went into service in 2018. Cochin’s earnings were higher primarily due to foreign exchange transaction losses in 2017 primarily related to an intercompany note receivable, integrity work during 2017 and an expansion project placed in service during 2018;

•Southeast Refined Products’ increase of $26 million (11%) was primarily due to increased equity earnings from Plantation pipeline and earnings from South East Terminals. Plantation pipeline earnings were higher primarily due to lower income tax expense due to the 2017 Tax Reform, lower operating expense attributable to a 2017 project write-off and product net gains as a result of higher product prices. South East Terminals earnings were favorably impacted primarily due to higher revenues as a result of expansion projects that were placed into service in the later part of 2017 and higher volumes with existing customers;

•Crude & Condensate’s decrease of $15 million (4%) was primarily due to a decrease of earnings from Kinder Morgan Crude & Condensate Pipeline partially offset by an increase of Double H Pipeline earnings. The Kinder Morgan Crude & Condensate Pipeline lower earnings were primarily due to lower services revenues as a result of unfavorable rates on contract renewals partially offset by recognition of deficiency revenue. Double H Pipeline increase in earnings was primarily due to an increase in volumes and the recognition of deficiency revenue; and 

•West Coast Refined Products’ decrease of $3 million (1%) was primarily due to lower earnings from Pacific operations partially offset by an increase in Calnev earnings. Pacific operations earnings were lower primarily due to higher operating expenses driven by an unfavorable change in product gain/loss, an increase in 2018 environmental reserves and higher fuel and power costs. Calnev earnings were higher due to an increase in services revenues driven by an increase in volumes, the result of an interruption of service by a provider for a competing pipeline that also serves the Las Vegas market.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

49

The changes in Segment EBDA for our Products Pipelines business segment are further explained by the following discussion of the significant factors driving Segment EBDA before certain items in the comparable years of 2017 and 2016:

•West Coast Refined Products’ increase of $7 million (1%) was primarily due to improved earnings at both Pacific operations and Calnev. Pacific operations increase in earnings was primarily due to higher service revenues driven by an increase in volumes partially offset by a volume driven increase in power costs and an increase in right-of-way expense. Calnev earnings were higher primarily due to higher service revenues driven by higher volumes and a decrease in expense related to the reduction of a rate reserve;

•NGLs’ increase of $4 million (3%) was primarily due to increased development fee revenues in 2017 for Utopia Pipeline ;

•Southeast Refined Products’ increase of $3 million (1%) was primarily due to increased earnings at South East Terminals and to a lesser extent at Transmix processing operations, partially offset by our sale of a 50% interest in Parkway Pipeline on July 1, 2016. South East Terminals increased earnings were primarily due to higher revenues driven by higher volumes as a result of capital expansion projects being placed in service during 2017. The decrease in revenues was driven by lower sales volumes primarily due to the sale of our Indianola plant in August 2016 and lower brokered sales at the Dorsey plant due to an expired contract in May 2017; and

•Crude & Condensate’s decrease of $1 million (—%) was primarily due a decrease in earnings on Kinder Morgan Crude & Condensate Pipeline resulting from higher cost of goods sold offset by an increase in earnings from Double Eagle primarily due to higher revenues driven by higher volumes and price.

Terminals

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

_______

Certain items affecting Segment EBDA

(a)2018, 2017 and 2016 amounts include increases in revenues of $2 million, $9 million and $28 million, respectively, from the amortization of a fair value adjustment (associated with the below market contracts assumed upon acquisition) from our Jones Act tankers. 2017 amount also includes a decrease in revenues of $5 million related to other certain items.

(b)2018 amount includes a decrease in expense of $18 million related to hurricane damage insurance recoveries, net of repair costs and an increase in expense of $1 million related to other certain item. 2017 amount includes (i) an increase in expense of $21 million related to hurricane repairs; (ii) a decrease in expense of $10 million related to accrued dredging costs; and (iii) a decrease in expense of $2 million related to other certain items. 2016 amount includes an increase in expense of $3 million related to other certain items. 

(c)2018 amount includes a net loss of $53 million on impairments and divestitures, net, primarily related to our Staten Island terminal. 2017 amount includes a gain of $23 million primarily related to the sale of a 40% membership interest in the Deeprock Development joint venture in July 2017 and losses of $8 million related to other divestitures and impairments, net. 2016 amount includes an expense of $109 million related to various losses on impairments and divestitures, net. 

(d)2016 amount includes an increase in earnings of $9 million related to our share of the settlement of a certain litigation matter at an equity investee and a decrease in earnings of $16 million related to various losses on impairments and divestitures of equity investments, net. 

50

Other

(e)The ratio of our tankage capacity in service to tankage capacity available for service.

Below are the changes in both Segment EBDA before certain items and revenues before certain items in 2018 and 2017, when compared with the respective prior year: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The changes in Segment EBDA for our Terminals business segment are further explained by the following discussion of the significant factors driving Segment EBDA before certain items in the comparable years of 2018 and 2017:

•decrease of $19 million (15%) from our Northeast terminals primarily due to low utilization at our Staten Island terminal;

•decrease of $19 million (22%) from our Gulf Central terminals primarily related to the sale of a 40% membership interest in the Deeprock Development joint venture in July 2017 and the expiration of a crude by rail terminaling contract in August 2018 at our Deer Park Rail Terminal;

•decrease of $8 million (13%) from our Southeast terminals primarily due to the sale of certain terminal assets in December 2017 and higher operating expenses at our steel handling operations;

•decrease of $1 million (1%) from our Alberta Canada terminals primarily due to an increase in operating expenses associated with tank lease fees at our Edmonton South Terminal following the TMPL Sale and the impact of the expiration of a third party crude-by-rail terminaling contract at our Edmonton Rail Terminal joint venture partially offset by an increase in earnings due to the commencement of operations at our Base Line Terminal joint venture;

•increase of $31 million (11%) from our Gulf Liquids terminals primarily driven by contributions from expansion projects at our Pasadena Terminal and the Kinder Morgan Export Terminal as well as organic volume growth at several of our Houston Ship Channel locations;

•increase of $6 million (8%) from our Midwest terminals primarily driven by increased ethanol storage revenues and new liquids customer contracts entered into in 2018; and[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

51

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The changes in Segment EBDA for our Terminals business segment are further explained by the following discussion of the significant factors driving Segment EBDA before certain items in the comparable years of 2017 and 2016:

•increase of $42 million (27%) from our Marine Operations related to the incremental earnings from the May 2016, July 2016, September 2016, December 2016, March 2017, June 2017, July 2017 and December 2017 deliveries of the Jones Act tankers, the Magnolia State, Garden State, Bay State, American Endurance, American Freedom, Palmetto State, American Liberty and American Pride, respectively, partially offset by decreased charter rates on the Golden State, Pelican State, Sunshine State, Empire State and Pennsylvania Jones Act tankers;

•increase of $20 million (8%) from our Gulf Liquids terminals primarily related to higher volumes as a result of various expansion projects, including the recently commissioned Kinder Morgan Export Terminal and North Docks terminal, partially offset by lost revenue associated with Hurricane Harvey-related operational disruptions; 

•increase of $8 million (6%) from our Alberta, Canada terminals primarily due to escalations in predominantly fixed, take-or-pay terminaling contracts and a true-up in terminal fees in connection with a favorable arbitration ruling;

•increase of $7 million (11%) from our Midwest terminals primarily driven by increased ethanol throughput revenues in 2017 and a new bulk storage and handling contract entered into fourth quarter 2016;

•decrease of $19 million (100%) from our sale of certain bulk terminal facilities to an affiliate of Watco Companies, LLC in December 2016 and early 2017; and

•decrease of $17 million (16%) from our Gulf Central terminals primarily related to the sale of a 40% membership interest in the Deeprock Development joint venture in July 2017 and the subsequent change in accounting treatment of our retained 11% membership interest as well as lost revenue associated with Hurricane Harvey-related operational disruptions.

52

CO2 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

_______

Certain items affecting Segment EBDA

(a)2018, 2017 and 2016 amounts include unrealized losses of $90 million and $54 million, and $63 million, respectively, related to derivative contracts used to hedge forecasted commodity sales. 2017 amount also includes an increase in revenues of $9 million related to the settlement of a CO2 customer sales contract.

(b)2018 amount includes an increase in earnings of $21 million as a result of a severance tax refund.

(c)2018 amount includes oil and gas property impairments of $79 million. 2017 and 2016 amounts include a decrease in expense of $1 million and an increase in expense of $20 million, respectively, related to source and transportation project write-offs. 

(d)2017 and 2016 amounts include an increase in equity earnings of $4 million and a decrease in equity earnings of $9 million, respectively, for our share of a project write-off recorded by an equity investee.

Other

(e)Includes McElmo Dome and Doe Canyon sales volumes.

(f)Represents 100% of the production from the field. We own an approximately 97% working interest in the SACROC unit, an approximately 50% working interest in the Yates unit, an approximately 99% working interest in the Katz unit and a 99% working interest in the Goldsmith Landreth unit and a 100% working interest in the Tall Cotton field. 

(g)Net after royalties and outside working interests. 

(h)Includes all crude oil production properties. 

(i)Includes all NGL sales.

53

Below are the changes in both Segment EBDA before certain items and revenues before certain items in 2018 and 2017, when compared with the respective prior year:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The changes in Segment EBDA for our CO2 business segment are further explained by the following discussion of the significant factors driving Segment EBDA before certain items in the comparable years of 2018 and 2017:

•increase of $27 million (5%) from our Oil and Gas Producing activities primarily due to increased revenues of $45 million primarily driven by higher NGL prices of $23 million and higher volumes of $22 million partially offset by an increase of $16 million in operating expenses and higher severance tax expense of $2 million; and

•decrease of $7 million (2%) from our Source and Transportation activities primarily due to lower other revenues of $5 million, higher ad valorem tax expense of $4 million and decreased earnings from an equity investee of $3 million partially offset by higher CO2 sales of $3 million driven by higher contract sales prices of $25 million offset by lower volumes of $22 million and lower operating expenses of $2 million. The increase in revenues of $52 million is primarily due to the effect of the January 1, 2018 adoption of Topic 606, which increased both revenues and operating expenses (costs of sales) by $54 million, as discussed in Note 16 “Revenue Recognition” to our consolidated financial statements.

Year Ended December 31, 2017 versus Year Ended December 31, 2016

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The changes in Segment EBDA for our CO2 business segment are further explained by the following discussion of the significant factors driving Segment EBDA before certain items in the comparable years of 2017 and 2016:

•increase of $2 million (1%) from our Source and Transportation activities primarily due to increased earnings from an equity investee of $6 million and lower operating expenses of $5 million partially offset by lower revenues of $9 million driven by lower contract sales prices of $7 million and decreased volumes of $2 million; and

•decrease of $34 million (6%) from our Oil and Gas Producing activities primarily due to decreased revenues of $33 million driven by lower volumes of $22 million and lower commodity prices of $11 million, and higher operating expenses of $1 million.

54

Kinder Morgan Canada

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

______

Certain items affecting Segment EBDA

(a)2018 amount includes a gain of $596 million on the TMPL Sale.

Other

(b)Represents TMPL average daily volumes reported until date of sale, August 31, 2018.

For the comparable years of 2018 and 2017, the Kinder Morgan Canada business segment had a decrease in Segment EBDA of $62 million (33%) primarily due to the TMPL Sale on August 31, 2018 sale. As a result of the TMPL Sale on August 31, 2018, this business segment does not have results of operations on a prospective basis.

For the comparable years of 2017 and 2016, the Kinder Morgan Canada business segment had an increase in Segment EBDA of $5 million (3%) and an increase in revenues of $3 million (1%) primarily due to (i) higher capitalized equity financing costs due to spending on the TMEP; (ii) currency translation gains due to the strengthening of the Canadian dollar; and (iii) higher incentive revenues partly offset by lower state of Washington volumes and operating expense timing changes.

General and Administrative and Corporate Charges, Interest, net and Noncontrolling Interests

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

_______

55

Certain items

(a)2018 amount includes: (i) an increase in expense of $10 million associated with an estimated environmental reserve adjustment; (ii) a decrease in expense of $12 million related to the release of certain sales and use tax reserves; (iii) an increase in expense of $10 million of asset sale related costs; (iv) an increase in expense of $9 million related to certain corporate litigation matters; and (v) an increase in expense of $7 million related to other certain items. 2017 amount includes: (i) an increase in expense of $10 million for acquisition and divestiture related costs; (ii) an increase in expense of $4 million related to certain corporate litigation matters; (iii) an increase in expense of $5 million related to a pension settlement; and (iv) a decrease in expense of $4 million related to other certain items. 2016 amount includes increases in expense of (i) $14 million related to severance costs; and (ii) $12 million related to acquisition and divestiture costs; offset by decreases in expense of (i) $34 million related to certain corporate litigation matters; and (ii) $5 million related to other certain items. 

(b)2018, 2017 and 2016 amounts include: (i) decreases in interest expense of $32 million, $44 million and $115 million, respectively, related to amortization of non-cash debt fair value adjustments associated with acquisitions and (ii) an increase of $9 million and decreases of $3 million and $44 million, respectively, in interest expense related to non-cash true-ups of our estimates of swap ineffectiveness. 2018 amount also includes increases in interest expense of $47 million related to the write-off of capitalized KML credit facility fees and $2 million related to other certain items. 2017 amount also includes an $8 million increase in interest expense related to other certain items. 2016 amount also includes a $34 million decrease in interest expense related to certain litigation matters. [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

General and administrative expenses and corporate charges before certain items decreased $81 million in 2018 and $20 million in 2017 when compared with the respective prior year. The decrease in 2018 as compared to 2017 was primarily due to higher capitalized costs of $54 million driven by the 2018 construction of Elba Liquefaction, Gulf Coast and Hiland facilities offset by lower spending on TGP, lower vacation and labor accruals of $18 million and $7 million from the sale of TMPL. The decrease in 2017 as compared to 2016 was primarily driven by the sale of a 50% interest in our SNG natural gas pipeline system (effective September 1, 2016), higher capitalized costs, lower state franchise taxes, legal and insurance costs, partially offset by higher labor accruals and pension costs. 

In the table above, we report our interest expense as “net,” meaning that we have subtracted interest income and capitalized interest from our total interest expense to arrive at one interest amount. Our consolidated interest expense net of interest income before certain items, increased $20 million in 2018 and decreased $128 million in 2017 when compared with the respective prior year. The increase in interest expense in 2018 as compared to 2017 was primarily due to higher short-term interest rates and higher short-term debt balance partially offset by lower average long-term debt balance. The decrease in interest expense in 2017 as compared to 2016 was primarily due to lower weighted average debt balances as proceeds from the May 2017 KML IPO and our September 2016 sale of a 50% interest in SNG were used to pay down debt, partially offset by a slightly higher overall weighted average interest rate on our outstanding debt. 

We use interest rate swap agreements to convert a portion of the underlying cash flows related to our long-term fixed rate debt securities (senior notes) into variable rate debt in order to achieve our desired mix of fixed and variable rate debt. As of December 31, 2018 and 2017, approximately 31% and 28%, respectively, of the principal amount of our debt balances were subject to variable interest rates—either as short-term or long-term variable rate debt obligations or as fixed-rate debt converted to variable rates through the use of interest rate swaps. For more information on our interest rate swaps, see Note 14 “Risk Management—Interest Rate Risk Management” to our consolidated financial statements.

Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests, represents the allocation of our consolidated net income attributable to all outstanding ownership interests in our consolidated subsidiaries that are not owned by us. Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests before certain items increased $30 million in 2018 and $19 million in 2017 when compared with the respective prior year. The increases were primarily due to the May 30, 2017 sale of approximately 30% of our Canadian business operations to the public in the KML IPO.

Income Taxes

Year Ended December 31, 2018 versus Year Ended December 31, 2017

Our tax expense for the year ended December 31, 2018 is approximately $587 million, as compared with 2017 tax expense of $1,938 million. The $1,351 million decrease in tax expense is primarily due to (i) the decrease in the federal income tax rate as a result of the 2017 Tax Reform; and (ii) the decrease in uncertain tax positions as a result of audit settlements; partially offset by (i) the tax impact on the TMPL Sale; and (ii) the decrease of enhanced oil recovery credits.

56

Year Ended December 31, 2017 versus Year Ended December 31, 2016

Our tax expense for the year ended December 31, 2017 is approximately $1,938 million, as compared with 2016 tax expense of $917 million. The $1,021 million increase in tax expense is primarily due to (i) an increase in year-over-year earnings as a result of fewer asset impairments and project write-offs in 2017; and (ii) higher tax expense as a result of the 2017 Tax Reform. These increases are partially offset by (i) the 2016 impact of our Regulated Natural Gas Pipelines business segment’s $817 million non-tax-deductible goodwill as a result of the sale of a 50% interest in SNG; and (ii) the recognition of enhanced oil recovery credits.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

General

As of December 31, 2018, we had $3,280 million of “Cash and cash equivalents,” an increase of $3,016 million (1,142%) from December 31, 2017. We believe our cash position, remaining borrowing capacity on our credit facility (discussed below in “—Short-term Liquidity”), and our cash flows from operating activities are adequate to allow us to manage our day-to-day cash requirements and anticipated obligations as discussed further below.

We have consistently generated substantial cash flow from operations, providing a source of funds of $5,043 million and $4,601 million in 2018 and 2017, respectively. The year-to-year increase is discussed below in “—Cash Flows—Operating Activities.” Generally, we primarily rely on cash provided from operations to fund our operations as well as our debt service, sustaining capital expenditures, dividend payments, and our growth capital expenditures. We also generally expect that our short-term liquidity needs will be met primarily through retained cash from operations, short-term borrowings or by issuing new long-term debt to refinance certain of our maturing long-term debt obligations. Moreover, as a result of our current common stock dividend policy and our continued focus on disciplined capital allocation, we do not expect the need to access the equity capital markets to fund our growth projects for the foreseeable future.

Additionally, during 2018 the TMPL Sale mentioned above in “—General—KML—Sale of Trans Mountain Pipeline System and Its Expansion Project” was a source of liquidity and the primary driver of cash on hand as of December 31, 2018. 

On January 3, 2019, pursuant to KML’s shareholders’ approval on November 29, 2018, KML distributed to its shareholders as a return of capital, the net proceeds from the TMPL Sale, after capital gains taxes, customary purchase price adjustments and the repayment of debt outstanding under a temporary KML credit facility (see “—KML 2018 Credit Facility” following). KML’s public owners of its restricted voting shares, reflected as noncontrolling interests by us, received approximately $0.9 billion (C$1.2 billion), and part of our approximately 70% portion of the net proceeds of $1.9 billion (C$2.5 billion) (after Canadian tax) were used to immediately repay our outstanding commercial paper borrowings of $0.4 million and in February 2019 to pay down approximately $1.3 billion of maturing long-term debt. To facilitate the return of capital and provide flexibility for KML’s dividends going forward, KML’s shareholders also approved a reduction in the stated capital of its restricted voting shares by C$1.45 billion, along with a “reverse stock split” of KML’s restricted voting shares, and KML’s special voting shares that we own, on a one-for-three basis (three shares consolidating to one share) which occurred on January 4, 2019. 

KML 2018 Credit Facility

Upon the closing of the TMPL Sale on August 31, 2018, KML established a 4-year, C$500 million unsecured revolving credit facility (the “KML 2018 Credit Facility”) for working capital purposes, replacing a temporary credit facility that was put in place following the announcement of the TMPL Sale on May 30, 2018 (the “KML Temporary Credit Facility”). The C$133 million (U.S.$102 million) of outstanding borrowings under the KML Temporary Credit Facility were paid off prior to its termination with a portion of the proceeds from the TMPL Sale. As of December 31, 2018, there were no outstanding borrowings under the KML 2018 Credit Facility.

Credit Ratings and Capital Market Liquidity

We believe that our capital structure will continue to allow us to achieve our business objectives. We expect that our short-term liquidity needs will be met primarily through retained cash from operations or short-term borrowings. Generally, we anticipate re-financing maturing long term debt obligations in the debt capital markets and are therefore subject to certain market conditions which could result in higher costs or negatively affect our and/or our subsidiaries’ credit ratings.

57

As of December 31, 2018, our short-term corporate debt ratings were A-3 (upgraded to A-2 on January 7, 2019), Prime-2 and F3 at Standard and Poor’s, Moody’s Investor Services and Fitch Ratings, Inc., respectively. We are on a positive outlook for an upgrade by Fitch Ratings, Inc. 

 The following table represents KMI’s and KMP’s senior unsecured debt ratings as of December 31, 2018.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

______

(a)Subsequently was upgraded to BBB on January 7, 2019 with a Stable outlook.

Short-term Liquidity

As of December 31, 2018, our principal sources of short-term liquidity are (i) our $4.5 billion revolving credit facilities and associated $4.0 billion commercial paper program; (ii) the KML 2018 Credit Facility (for the purposes described above); and (iii) cash from operations. The loan commitments under our revolving credit facility can be used for working capital and other general corporate purposes and as a backup to our commercial paper program. Borrowings under our commercial paper program and letters of credit reduce borrowings allowed under ours and KML’s respective credit facilities. We provide for liquidity by maintaining a sizable amount of excess borrowing capacity under our credit facility (see Note 9 “Debt—Credit Facilities and Restrictive Covenants—KMI” to our consolidated financial statements) and, as previously discussed, we have consistently generated strong cash flows from operations. 

As of December 31, 2018, our $3,388 million of short-term debt consisted primarily of (i) $433 million outstanding under our $4.0 billion commercial paper program; and (ii) $2,800 million of senior notes that mature in the next year. As previously discussed, we repaid $1.7 billion of this short-term debt in 2019 from a portion of the TMPL Sale proceeds. We intend to refinance our remaining short-term debt through credit facility borrowings, commercial paper borrowings, or by issuing new long-term debt or paying down short-term debt using cash retained from operations. Our short-term debt balance as of December 31, 2017 was $2,828 million.

We had working capital (defined as current assets less current liabilities) deficits of $1,835 million and $3,466 million as of December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. Our current liabilities may include short-term borrowings used to finance our expansion capital expenditures, which we may periodically replace with long-term financing and/or pay down using retained cash from operations. The overall $1,631 million (47%) favorable change from year-end 2017 was primarily due to: (i) the $2,998 million of proceeds from the TMPL Sale, net of cash disposed, partially offset by (i) the $890 million (C$1,195 million) distribution paid to our noncontrolling interests associated with KML on January 3, 2019 ($876 million was the accrued U.S.$ value as of December 31, 2018) and a $516 million increase in current maturities of our senior notes. Generally, our working capital balance varies due to factors such as the timing of scheduled debt payments, timing differences in the collection and payment of receivables and payables, the change in fair value of our derivative contracts, and changes in our cash and cash equivalent balances as a result of excess cash from operations after payments for investing and financing activities (discussed below in “—Long-term Financing” and “—Capital Expenditures”).

We employ a centralized cash management program for our U.S.-based bank accounts that concentrates the cash assets of our wholly owned subsidiaries in joint accounts for the purpose of providing financial flexibility and lowering the cost of borrowing. These programs provide that funds in excess of the daily needs of our wholly owned subsidiaries are concentrated, consolidated or otherwise made available for use by other entities within the consolidated group. We place no material restrictions on the ability to move cash between entities, payment of intercompany balances or the ability to upstream dividends to KMI other than restrictions that may be contained in agreements governing the indebtedness of those entities. 

Certain of our wholly owned subsidiaries are subject to FERC-enacted reporting requirements for oil and natural gas pipeline companies that participate in cash management programs. FERC-regulated entities subject to these rules must, among other things, place their cash management agreements in writing, maintain current copies of the documents authorizing and supporting their cash management agreements, and file documentation establishing the cash management program with the FERC.

58

Long-term Financing

Our equity consists of Class P common stock with a par value of $0.01 per share. We do not expect to need to access the equity capital markets to fund our growth projects for the foreseeable future. Furthermore, through January 2019, we have repurchased approximately 29 million shares of our Class P common stock under a $2 billion share buy-back program authorized by our board of directors in December 2017 that we funded through retained cash. For more information on our equity buy-back program and our equity distribution agreement, see Note 11 “Stockholders’ Equity” to our consolidated financial statements.

From time to time, we issue long-term debt securities, often referred to as senior notes. All of our senior notes issued to date, other than those issued by certain of our subsidiaries, generally have very similar terms, except for interest rates, maturity dates and prepayment premiums. All of our fixed rate senior notes provide that the notes may be redeemed at any time at a price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the notes plus accrued interest to the redemption date, and, in most cases, plus a make-whole premium. In addition, from time to time our subsidiaries, have issued long-term debt securities. Furthermore, we and almost all of our direct and indirect wholly owned domestic subsidiaries are parties to a cross guaranty wherein we each guarantee the debt of each other. See Note 20 “Guarantee of Securities of Subsidiaries” to our consolidated financial statements. As of December 31, 2018 and 2017, the aggregate principal amount outstanding of our various long-term debt obligations (excluding current maturities) was $33,205 million and $34,088 million, respectively. For more information regarding our debt-related transactions in 2018, see Note 9 “Debt” to our consolidated financial statements.

We achieve our variable rate exposure primarily by issuing long-term fixed rate debt and then swapping the fixed rate interest payments for variable rate interest payments and through the issuance of commercial paper or credit facility borrowings.

For additional information about our outstanding senior notes and debt-related transactions in 2018 and early 2019, see Note 9 “Debt” to our consolidated financial statements. For information about our interest rate risk, see Item 7A “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk—Interest Rate Risk.”

Capital Expenditures

We account for our capital expenditures in accordance with GAAP. We also distinguish between capital expenditures that are maintenance/sustaining capital expenditures and those that are expansion capital expenditures (which we also refer to as discretionary capital expenditures). Expansion capital expenditures are those expenditures which increase throughput or capacity from that which existed immediately prior to the addition or improvement, and are not deducted in calculating DCF (see “—Results of Operations—DCF”). With respect to our oil and gas producing activities, we classify a capital expenditure as an expansion capital expenditure if it is expected to increase capacity or throughput (i.e., production capacity) from the capacity or throughput immediately prior to the making or acquisition of such additions or improvements. Maintenance capital expenditures are those which maintain throughput or capacity. The distinction between maintenance and expansion capital expenditures is a physical determination rather than an economic one, irrespective of the amount by which the throughput or capacity is increased.

Budgeting of maintenance capital expenditures is done annually on a bottom-up basis. For each of our assets, we budget for and make those maintenance capital expenditures that are necessary to maintain safe and efficient operations, meet customer needs and comply with our operating policies and applicable law. We may budget for and make additional maintenance capital expenditures that we expect to produce economic benefits such as increasing efficiency and/or lowering future expenses. Budgeting and approval of expansion capital expenditures are generally made periodically throughout the year on a project-by-project basis in response to specific investment opportunities identified by our business segments from which we generally expect to receive sufficient returns to justify the expenditures. Generally, the determination of whether a capital expenditure is classified as maintenance/sustaining or as expansion capital expenditures is made on a project level. The classification of our capital expenditures as expansion capital expenditures or as maintenance capital expenditures is made consistent with our accounting policies and is generally a straightforward process, but in certain circumstances can be a matter of management judgment and discretion. The classification has an impact on DCF because capital expenditures that are classified as expansion capital expenditures are not deducted from DCF, while those classified as maintenance capital expenditures are. See “—Common Dividends” and “—Preferred Dividends.”

59

Our capital expenditures for the year ended December 31, 2018, and the amount we expect to spend for 2019 to sustain and grow our business are as follows (in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

_______

(a)2018 and Expected 2019 amounts include $105 million and $127 million, respectively, for our proportionate share of (i) certain equity investee’s; (ii) KML’s; and (iii) certain consolidating joint venture subsidiaries’ sustaining capital expenditures. 

(b)2018 includes $128 million of net changes from accrued capital expenditures, contractor retainage, and other.

(c)2018 amount includes $279 million of our contributions to certain unconsolidated joint ventures for capital investments and small acquisitions.

(d)Amounts include our actual or estimated contributions to certain unconsolidated joint ventures, net of actual or estimated contributions from certain partners in non-wholly owned consolidated subsidiaries for capital investments.

(e)2018 amount includes TMEP capital investments for the period ending on August 31, 2018, the closing of the TMPL Sale.

Off Balance Sheet Arrangements

We have invested in entities that are not consolidated in our financial statements. For information on our obligations with respect to these investments, as well as our obligations with respect to related letters of credit, see Note 13 “Commitments and Contingent Liabilities” to our consolidated financial statements. Additional information regarding the nature and business purpose of our investments is included in Note 7 “Investments” to our consolidated financial statements.

Contractual Obligations and Commercial Commitments 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

_______

(a)Less than 1 year amount primarily includes $3,277 million of current maturities on senior notes and $111 million associated with our Trust I Preferred Securities that are classified as current obligations because these securities have rights to convert into cash and/or KMI common stock. See Note 9 “Debt” to our consolidated financial statements.

(b)Interest payment obligations exclude adjustments for interest rate swap agreements and assume no change in variable interest rates from those in effect at December 31, 2018. 

(c)Represents commitments pursuant to the terms of operating lease agreements and liabilities for rights-of-way.

(d)Represents the amount by which the benefit obligations exceeded the fair value of plan assets at year-end for pension and other postretirement benefit plans whose accumulated postretirement benefit obligations exceeded the fair value of plan assets. The payments by period include expected contributions to funded plans in 2019 and estimated benefit payments for unfunded plans in all years. 

(e)Primarily represents transportation agreements of $374 million, volume agreements of $338 million and storage agreements for capacity of $183 million.

60

(f)Primarily includes environmental liabilities related to sites that we own or have a contractual or legal obligation with a regulatory agency or property owner upon which we will perform remediation activities. These liabilities are included within “Accrued contingencies” and “Other long-term liabilities and deferred credits” in our consolidated balance sheets.

(g)The $156 million in letters of credit outstanding as of December 31, 2018 consisted of the following (i) letters of credit totaling $46 million supporting our International Marine Terminals Partnership Plaquemines, Louisiana Port, Harbor, and Terminal Revenue Bonds; (ii) $33 million under nine letters of credit for insurance purposes; (iii) a $24 million letter of credit supporting our Kinder Morgan Operating L.P. “B” tax-exempt bonds; (iv) thirteen letters of credit totaling $8 million supporting our pipeline and terminal operations in Canada; and (v) a combined $45 million in twenty-five letters of credit supporting environmental and other obligations of us and our subsidiaries.

(h)Represents commitments for the purchase of plant, property and equipment as of December 31, 2018.

Cash Flows

Operating Activities

The net increase of $442 million (10%) in cash provided by operating activities in 2018 compared to 2017 was primarily attributable to:

•a $346 million increase in cash associated with net changes in working capital items and other non-current assets and liabilities, primarily driven, among other things, by a $137 income tax refund received in the 2018 period, and an increase in current income tax liabilities associated with the tax gain on the TMPL Sale in the 2018 period. These increases were partially offset by higher payments for litigation matters in the 2018 period compared with the 2017 period; and

•a $96 million increase in operating cash flow resulting from the combined effects of adjusting the $1,696 million increase in net income for the period-to-period net changes in non-cash items including the following: (i) loss on impairments and divestitures, net (see discussion above in “—Results of Operations”); (ii) loss on impairments and divestitures of equity investments, net (see discussion above in “—Results of Operations”); (iii) the change in fair market value of derivative contracts; (iv) DD&A expenses (including amortization of excess cost of equity investments); (v) deferred income taxes; (vi) earnings from equity investments; and (vii) loss on early extinguishment of debt.

Investing Activities

The $3,335 million net decrease in cash used in investing activities in 2018 compared to 2017 was primarily attributable to:

•a $2,998 million increase in cash reflecting proceeds received from the TMPL Sale, net of cash disposed in the 2018 period. See Note 3 “Divestitures and Acquisition” for further information regarding this transaction;

•a $284 million decrease in capital expenditures in the 2018 period over the comparative 2017 period primarily due to lower expenditures in our Terminals business segment, partially offset by higher expenditures related to construction projects in our Natural Gas Pipelines business segment; 

•a $251 million decrease in cash used for contributions to equity investments primarily due to lower contributions we made to NGPL Holdings LLC, FEP and Utopia Holding LLC in the 2018 period compared to the 2017 period, partially offset by the contributions made to Gulf Coast Express Pipeline LLC in the 2018 period; and

•a $124 million increase in cash proceeds received from the sale of equity investments, primarily driven by a sale of our partial interest in Gulf Coast Express LLC in the 2018 period; partially offset by,

•a $138 million decrease in cash proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment and other net assets in the 2018 period compared to the 2017 period; and 

•a $137 million decrease in cash resulting from lower distributions received from equity investments in excess of cumulative earnings, primarily from MEP, SNG and Citrus Corporation in the 2018 period over the comparative 2017 period.

Financing Activities

The net increase of $143 million in cash used by financing activities in 2018 compared to 2017 was primarily attributable to:

•a combined $1,665 million decrease in cash reflecting $1,245 million net proceeds we received from the KML IPO in May 2017 and $420 million net proceeds received from the KML preferred share issuances in the 2017 period; 

•a $498 million increase in dividend payments to our common shareholders;

61

•a $304 million decrease in cash due to lower contributions received from EIG in the 2018 period compared to the 2017 period as the 2017 period included $386 million we received from EIG Global Energy Partners for our sale of a 49% partnership interest in ELC; 

•a $36 million increase in distributions to noncontrolling interests, primarily to KML restricted share holders and preferred shareholders; and

•a $23 million increase in cash used for common shares repurchased under our common share buy-back program in the 2018 period compared to the 2017 period; partially offset by,

•a $2,384 million net increase in cash related to debt activity as a result of $118 million of net debt issuances in the 2018 period compared to $2,266 million of net debt payments in the 2017 period. See Note 9 “Debt” for further information regarding our debt activity.

Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock

As of October 26, 2018, all of our issued and outstanding 1,600,000 shares of 9.750% Series A mandatory convertible preferred stock, with a liquidating preference of $1,000 per share were converted into common stock either at the option of the holders before or automatically on October 26, 2018. Based on the current market price of our common stock at the time of conversion, our Series A Preferred Shares converted into 58 million common shares.

Dividends and Stock Buy-back Program

KMI Preferred Stock Dividends

Dividends on our mandatory convertible preferred stock were payable on a cumulative basis when, as and if declared by our board of directors (or an authorized committee thereof) at an annual rate of 9.750% of the liquidation preference of $1,000 per share on January 26, April 26, July 26 and October 26 of each year, commencing on January 26, 2016 to, and including, October 26, 2018. Prior to the October 26, 2018 conversion of our Series A Preferred Shares into common shares, we paid all dividends on our mandatory convertible preferred stock in cash.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

KMI Common Stock Dividends

The table below reflects the declaration of common stock dividends of $0.80 per common share for 2018.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

We will continue to return additional value to our shareholders in 2019 through our previously announced dividend increase. We plan to increase our dividend to $1.00 per common share in 2019 and $1.25 per common share in 2020, a growth rate of 25% annually.

The actual amount of common stock dividends to be paid on our capital stock will depend on many factors, including our financial condition and results of operations, liquidity requirements, business prospects, capital requirements, legal, regulatory and contractual constraints, tax laws, Delaware laws and other factors. See Item 1A “Risk Factors—The guidance we provide for our anticipated dividends is based on estimates. Circumstances may arise that lead to conflicts between using funds to pay anticipated dividends or to invest in our business.” All of these matters will be taken into consideration by our board of directors in declaring dividends.

62

Our common stock dividends are not cumulative. Consequently, if dividends on our common stock are not paid at the intended levels, our common stockholders are not entitled to receive those payments in the future. Our common stock dividends generally will be paid on or about the 15th day of each February, May, August and November. 

Stock Buy-back Program

On July 19, 2017, our board of directors approved a $2 billion common share buy-back program that began in December 2017. During the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, we repurchased approximately 15 million and 14 million, respectively, of our Class P shares for approximately $273 million and $250 million, respectively. 2018 amounts exclude repurchases made in December 2018 of approximately 0.1 million of our Class P shares for approximately $2 million, which settled on January 2, 2019.

Noncontrolling Interests

The caption “Noncontrolling interests” in our accompanying consolidated balance sheets consists of interests that we do not own in the following subsidiaries (in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

_______

(a)The reduction in the noncontrolling interests associated with KML is primarily attributable to the accrual of the return of capital distribution for the net proceeds from the TMPL Sale paid to KML’s Restricted Voting Shareholders on January 3, 2019 of approximately $0.9 billion. For more information see “—General—KML—Sale of Trans Mountain Pipeline System and Its Expansion Project” above.

KML Distributions

KML has a dividend policy pursuant to which it may pay a quarterly dividend on its restricted voting shares in an amount based on a portion of its distributable cash flow. The payment of dividends is not guaranteed, and the amount and timing of any dividends payable will be at the discretion of KML’s board of directors. KML intends to pay quarterly dividends, if any, on or about the 45th day (or next business day) following the end of each calendar quarter to holders of its restricted voting shares of record as of the close of business on or about the last business day of the month following the end of each calendar quarter. KML also established a Dividend Reinvestment Plan (DRIP) that allows holders (excluding holders not resident in Canada) of restricted voting shares to elect to have any or all cash dividends payable to such shareholder automatically reinvested in additional restricted voting shares at a price per share calculated by reference to the volume-weighted average of the closing price of the restricted voting shares on the stock exchange on which the restricted voting shares are then listed for the five trading days immediately preceding the relevant dividend payment date, less a discount of between 0% and 5% (as determined from time to time by KML’s board of directors, in its sole discretion). 

 On January 16, 2019, KML’s board of directors announced that it would suspend KML’s DRIP, effective with the payment of the fourth quarter 2018 dividend on February 15, 2019, in light of KML’s reduced need for capital.

For 2019, KML announced that it expects to pay an annual dividend of C$0.65 per split-adjusted restricted voting share. 

KML also pays dividends on its 12,000,000 Series 1 Preferred Shares and 10,000,000 Series 3 Preferred Shares, which are fixed, cumulative, preferential, and payable quarterly in the annual amount of C$1.3125 per share and C$1.3000 per share, respectively, on the 15th day of February, May, August and November, as and when declared by KML’s board of directors, for the initial fixed rate period to but excluding November 15, 2022 and February 15, 2023, respectively.

During the year ended December 31, 2018, KML paid dividends on its Restricted Voting Shares to the public valued at $52 million, of which $38 million was paid in cash. The remaining value of $14 million for the year ended December 31, 2018 was paid in 1,092,791 KML Restricted Voting Shares. KML also paid dividends to the public on its Series 1 and Series 3 Preferred Shares of $21 million for the year ended December 31, 2018.

63

Recent Accounting Pronouncements

Please refer to Note 19 “Recent Accounting Pronouncements” to our consolidated financial statements for information concerning recent accounting pronouncements.

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.