Item 7.Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

(Tables present dollars in millions, except per-share data)

General

Management’s discussion and analysis of results of operations and financial condition is intended to assist the reader in understanding and assessing significant changes and trends related to the results of operations and financial position of our consolidated company. This discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and accompanying footnotes in Item 8 of Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Certain statements in this Item 7 of Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K constitute forward-looking statements. Various risks and uncertainties, including those discussed in "Forward-Looking Statements" and Item 1A, “Risk Factors,” may cause our actual results, financial position, and cash generated from operations to differ materially from these forward-looking statements.

Executive Overview

This section provides an overview of our financial results, recent product and late-stage pipeline developments, and other matters affecting our company and the pharmaceutical industry. Earnings per share (EPS) data are presented on a diluted basis.

Financial Results

The following table summarizes our key operating results:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

NM - not meaningful

Revenue and gross margin increased in 2018. The decrease in operating expense in 2018 was due to decreases in marketing, selling, and administrative expense and research and development expense. Income before income taxes increased in 2018 as a higher gross margin, lower asset impairment, restructuring, and other special charges and, to a lesser extent, lower operating expense were partially offset by higher acquired in-process research and development (IPR&D) charges. Income taxes decreased in 2018 as we recognized an income tax benefit primarily related to measurement period adjustments to the one-time repatriation transition tax (also known as the ‘Toll Tax’) and the global intangible low-taxed income (GILTI) provision due to the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (2017 Tax Act). 

30

The following highlighted items affect comparisons of our 2018 and 2017 financial results:

2018

Acquired IPR&D (Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements)

•We recognized acquired IPR&D charges of $1.98 billion (pretax), or $1.83 per share, primarily related to the acquisition of ARMO Biosciences Inc. (ARMO) and the collaboration with Dicerna Pharmaceuticals (Dicerna).

Asset Impairment, Restructuring, and Other Special Charges (Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements)[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Income Tax Expense (Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements)

•We recognized $313.3 million of income tax benefit, or $0.30 per share, primarily due to measurement period adjustments to the Toll Tax and GILTI.

 2017 

Acquired IPR&D (Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements)

•We recognized acquired IPR&D charges of $1.11 billion (pretax), or $0.97 per share, primarily related to the acquisition of CoLucid Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (CoLucid).

Asset Impairment, Restructuring, and Other Special Charges (Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements).

•We recognized charges of $1.67 billion (pretax), or $1.23 per share, primarily associated with efforts to reduce our cost structure, including the United States (U.S.) voluntary early retirement program. 

Income Tax Expense (Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements)

•We recognized a provisional tax expense of $1.91 billion, or $1.81 per share, due to the 2017 Tax Act. 

Late-Stage Pipeline

Our long-term success depends to a great extent on our ability to continue to discover and develop innovative pharmaceutical products and acquire or collaborate on molecules currently in development by other biotechnology or pharmaceutical companies. We currently have approximately 45 potential new drugs in human testing or under regulatory review and a larger number of projects in preclinical research.

The following new molecular entities (NMEs) have been approved by regulatory authorities in at least one of the major geographies for use in the diseases described. The first quarter in which each NME initially was approved in any major geography for any indication is shown in parentheses:

Abemaciclib (Verzenio®) (Q3 2017)—a small molecule cell-cycle inhibitor, selective for cyclin-dependent kinases 4 and 6 for the treatment of metastatic breast cancer.

Baricitinib (Olumiant®) (Q1 2017)—a Janus tyrosine kinase (JAK) inhibitor for the treatment of moderate-to-severe active rheumatoid arthritis (in collaboration with Incyte Corporation).

Galcanezumab* (Emgality®) (Q3 2018)—a once-monthly subcutaneously injected calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) antibody for the treatment of migraine prevention. Refer to Item 3, "Legal Proceedings - Other Patent Litigation" for discussion of the lawsuit filed by Teva Pharmaceuticals International GMBH.

31

The following NME had received advanced approval by regulatory authorities in at least one of the major geographies for use in the diseases described, however in January 2019 we announced the phase III trial did not meet the primary endpoint of overall survival. As the trial did not confirm clinical benefit, we are suspending promotion and are working with global regulators to determine the appropriate next steps:

Olaratumab* (Lartruvo®) (Q4 2016)—a lgG1 monoclonal antibody for the treatment of advanced soft tissue sarcoma. See the "Results of Operations - Executive Overview - Other Matters" for more information.

The following NMEs have been submitted for regulatory review in at least one of the major geographies for potential use in the disease described. The first quarter in which each NME initially was submitted in any major geography for any indication is shown in parentheses:

Lasmiditan (Q4 2018)—an oral 5-HT1F agonist for the acute treatment of migraine. In the U.S., Lasmiditan is protected by a compound patent (2025).

Nasal glucagon* (Q2 2018)—a glucagon nasal powder formulation for the treatment of severe hypoglycemia in patients with diabetes treated with insulin. In the U.S., nasal glucagon is protected by a delivery device patent (2034), with data protection (3.5 years) expected upon approval. In Europe, nasal glucagon is protected by a delivery device patent (2034), with data protection (6 years) expected upon approval.

The following NMEs and diagnostic agent are currently in Phase III clinical trial testing for potential use in the diseases described but have not yet been submitted for approval for any indication. The first quarter in which each NME and the diagnostic agent initially entered Phase III for any indication is shown in parentheses:

Flortaucipir** (Q3 2015)—a positron emission tomography (PET) tracer intended to image tau (or neurofibrillary) tangles in the brain, which are an indicator of Alzheimer's disease.

Mirikizumab* (Q2 2018)—a monoclonal antibody designed for the treatment of autoimmune diseases.

Pegilodecakin* (Q1 2017)—a PEGylated IL-10, which has demonstrated clinical benefit as a single agent, and in combination with both chemotherapy and checkpoint inhibitor therapy, across several tumor types.

Solanezumab* (Q2 2009)—an anti-amyloid beta monoclonal antibody for the treatment of preclinical Alzheimer’s disease. 

Tanezumab* (Q3 2008)—an anti-nerve growth factor monoclonal antibody for the treatment of osteoarthritis pain, chronic low back pain, and cancer pain (in collaboration with Pfizer Inc.).

Tirzepatide* (Q4 2018)—a long-acting, combination therapy of glucose-dependent insulinotropic polypeptide (GIP) and glucagon-like peptide 1 for the treatment of type 2 diabetes.

Ultra-rapid Lispro* (Q3 2017)—an ultra-rapid insulin for the treatment of type 1 and type 2 diabetes.

*Biologic molecule subject to the U.S. Biologics Price Competition and Innovation Act

**Diagnostic agent

The following table reflects the status of the recently approved products, NMEs, and diagnostic agent set forth above, as well as certain other developments to our late-stage pipeline since January 1, 2018:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

32

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

33

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) The FDA's fast track designation is designed to expedite the development and review of new therapies to treat serious conditions and address unmet medical needs.

(2) The Breakthrough Therapy Designation is designed to expedite the development and review of potential medicines that are intended to treat a serious condition where preliminary clinical evidence indicates that the treatment may demonstrate substantial improvement over available therapy on a clinically significant endpoint.

(3) Priority Review is designed to expedite the review of potential medicines that, if approved, would be significant improvements in the safety or effectiveness of the treatment, diagnosis, or prevention of serious conditions when compared to standard applications.

There are many difficulties and uncertainties inherent in human pharmaceutical research and development and the introduction of new products. There is a high rate of failure inherent in new drug discovery and development. To bring a drug from the discovery phase to market can take over a decade and often costs in excess of $2 billion. Failure can occur at any point in the process, including in later stages after substantial investment. As a result, most funds invested in research programs will not generate financial returns. New product candidates that appear promising in development may fail to reach the market or may have only limited commercial success because of efficacy or safety concerns, inability to obtain or maintain necessary regulatory approvals or payer reimbursement or coverage, limited scope of approved uses, changes in the relevant treatment standards or the availability of new or better competitive products, difficulty or excessive costs to manufacture, or infringement of the patents or intellectual property rights of others. Regulatory agencies continue to establish increasingly high hurdles for the efficacy and safety of new products. Delays and uncertainties in drug approval processes can result in delays in product launches and lost market opportunity. In addition, it can be very difficult to predict revenue growth rates of new products.

We manage research and development spending across our portfolio of molecules, and a delay in, or termination of, any one project will not necessarily cause a significant change in our total research and development spending. Due to the risks and uncertainties involved in the research and development process, we cannot reliably estimate the nature, timing, and costs of the efforts necessary to complete the development of our research and development projects, nor can we reliably estimate the future potential revenue that will be generated from a successful research and development project. Each project represents only a portion of the overall pipeline, and none is individually material to our consolidated research and development expense. While we do accumulate certain research and development costs on a project level for internal reporting purposes, we must make significant cost estimations and allocations, some of which rely on data that are neither reproducible nor validated through accepted control mechanisms. Therefore, we do not have sufficiently reliable data to report on total research and development costs by project, by preclinical versus clinical spend, or by therapeutic category.

34

Other Matters

Elanco Animal Health

On September 24, 2018, Elanco Animal Health Incorporated (Elanco), a subsidiary, completed its IPO of 72.3 million shares of its common stock, which represents 19.8 percent of Elanco's outstanding shares, at $24 per share. In addition, Elanco completed a debt offering and entered into a term loan facility during the third quarter of 2018. See Notes 3 and 10 to the consolidated financial statements for additional details.

We have announced our intent to divest our remaining 293,290,000 shares of Elanco common stock through an exchange offer and on February 8, 2019, Elanco filed a registration statement on Form S-4 with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). In the exchange offer, our shareholders can exchange all, some, or none of their shares of our common stock for shares of Elanco common stock owned by us, subject to the specific terms and conditions of the offer described in Elanco's registration statement. The completion of the exchange offer is subject to certain conditions, including at least 146,645,000 shares of Elanco common stock being distributed in exchange for shares of our common stock validly tendered in the exchange offer, and the receipt of an opinion of counsel that the exchange offer will qualify for tax-free treatment to us and our participating shareholders. However, the conditions of the exchange offer may not be satisfied; we may exchange less than our entire interest in Elanco; or we may decide to waive one or more of these conditions, to the extent legally permissible, and consummate the exchange offer even if all of the conditions are not satisfied. If the exchange offer is not fully subscribed, we intend, from time to time, to complete subsequent exchange offers and/or pro rata spin-off of our remaining interest in Elanco.

Lartruvo

In January 2019, we announced that we are suspending promotion of Lartruvo because the ANNOUNCE study did not meet the primary endpoint of overall survival. We are working with global regulators to determine the appropriate next steps. We expect to incur a charge in the first quarter of 2019 related to the suspension of promotion for Lartruvo. The exact amount of the charge has not yet been determined, but is estimated to be approximately $80 million (pre-tax), or approximately $0.13 per share (after tax). Revenue related to Lartruvo was $304.7 million in 2018.

Patent Matters

We depend on patents or other forms of intellectual-property protection for most of our revenue, cash flows, and earnings. 

We lost patent exclusivity for the bipolar mania indication for Zyprexa® in Japan in April 2016. Generic versions of Zyprexa launched in Japan in June 2016. The loss of exclusivity for Zyprexa in Japan has caused a rapid and severe decline in revenue for the product.

We lost our patent exclusivity for Strattera® in the U.S. in May 2017, and generic versions of Strattera were approved in the same month. Following a settlement related to the compound patent challenge for Effient®, generic products launched in the U.S. in the third quarter of 2017. The entry of generic competition for these products has caused a rapid and severe decline in revenue, which, in the aggregate, has had a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations and cash flows.

Our compound patent protection for Cialis® (tadalafil) and Adcirca® (tadalafil) expired in major European markets and the U.S. in November 2017; however, in the U.S., we were granted pediatric exclusivity through May 2018. Pursuant to a settlement agreement related to our unit dose patent in the U.S., generic tadalafil entered the U.S. market in September 2018. We expect that the entry of additional generic competition into these markets following the loss of exclusivity will continue to cause a rapid and severe decline in revenue, which will, in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations and cash flows.

Our formulation patents for Forteo® expired in December 2018 and use patents will expire in August 2019 in major European markets and the U.S. Both the formulation patent and the use patent expire in 2019 in Japan. While it is difficult to estimate the severity of the impact of generic and/or biosimilar competition in these markets, we expect a rapid and severe decline in revenue in the U.S. as a result of generic competition when the U.S. patents expire. Outside the U.S., we expect a decline in revenue following patent expirations; however the decline may not be rapid and severe. In the aggregate, we expect that the decline in revenue will have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations and cash flows.

35

The Alimta® vitamin regimen patents, which provide us with patent protection for Alimta through June 2021 in Japan and major European countries, and through May 2022 in the U.S., have been challenged in each of these jurisdictions. Our vitamin regimen patents have also been challenged in other smaller European jurisdictions. Our compound patent for Alimta expired in the U.S. in January 2017, and expired in major European countries and Japan in December 2015. We expect that the entry of generic competition for Alimta following the loss of effective patent protection will cause a rapid and severe decline in revenue for the product, which will, in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations and cash flows. See Note 15 to the consolidated financial statements for a more detailed account of the legal proceedings currently pending in the U.S., Europe, and Japan regarding our Alimta patents.

The compound patent for Humalog® (insulin lispro) has expired in major markets. Global regulators have different legal pathways to approve similar versions of insulin lispro. A similar version of insulin lispro launched in the U.S. in the second quarter of 2018 and in certain European markets in 2017. While it is difficult to estimate the severity of the impact of similar insulin lispro products entering the market, we do not expect and have not experienced a rapid and severe decline in revenue; however, we expect additional pricing pressure and some loss of market share that would continue over time.

Foreign Currency Exchange Rates

As a global company with substantial operations outside the U.S., we face foreign currency risk exposure from fluctuating currency exchange rates, primarily the U.S. dollar against the euro and Japanese yen. While we manage a portion of these exposures through hedging and other risk management techniques, significant fluctuations in currency rates can have a substantial impact, either positive or negative, on our revenue, cost of sales, and operating expenses. While there is uncertainty in the future movements in foreign exchange rates, fluctuations in these rates could negatively impact our future consolidated results of operations and cash flows. 

The impact of the Venezuelan financial crisis, including the significant deterioration of the bolívar, resulted in a charge of $203.9 million in 2016. See Note 17 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information related to the charge. As of December 31, 2018, our Venezuelan subsidiaries represented a de minimis portion of our consolidated assets and liabilities. We continue to monitor other deteriorating economies and it is possible that additional charges may be recorded in the future. Any additional charges are not expected to have a material adverse effect on our future consolidated results of operations.

36

Trends Affecting Pharmaceutical Pricing, Reimbursement, and Access

United States

In the U.S., public concern over access to and affordability of pharmaceuticals continues to drive the regulatory and legislative debate. These policy and political issues increase the risk that taxes, fees, rebates, or other cost control measures may be enacted to manage federal and state budgets. Key health policy proposals affecting biopharmaceuticals include a reduction in biologic data exclusivity, modifications to Medicare Parts B and D, language that would allow the Department of Health and Human Services to negotiate prices for biologics and drugs in Medicare, proposals that would require biopharmaceutical manufacturers to disclose proprietary drug pricing information, and state-level proposals related to prescription drug prices and reducing the cost of pharmaceuticals purchased by government health care programs. California and several other states have enacted legislation related to prescription drug pricing transparency and it is unclear the effect this legislation will have on our business. The Bipartisan Budget Act, enacted in February 2018, requires manufacturers of brand-name drugs, biologics, and biosimilars to pay a 70 percent discount in the Medicare Part D Coverage Gap, up from the previous 50 percent discount. This increase in Coverage Gap discounts became effective at the beginning of 2019. We expect this increase in the Coverage Gap discounts to negatively impact our results of operations by approximately $200 million in 2019. In May 2018, the White House released "American Patients First: The Trump Administration Blueprint to Lower Drug Prices and Reduce Out-of-Pocket Costs" (Blueprint). The Administration’s corresponding request for information included more than 30 proposed policy changes. We believe the effect of certain of these proposals would be positive for our business while others would have negative consequences to our business. The effect of these proposals, and those that extend beyond the Blueprint, will depend on the details and timing of the final legislation, regulation, or guidance and could lead to a wide range of outcomes. Some of these outcomes could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations and cash flows. In January 2019, the Department of Health and Human Services released a proposed rule to reform the system of rebates paid to Medicare Part D plans, Medicaid Managed Care organizations, and pharmacy benefit managers. We are currently reviewing the proposed rule, the impact of which is uncertain at this time.

In the private sector, consolidation and integration among healthcare providers is also a major factor in the competitive marketplace for human pharmaceuticals. Health plans, pharmacy benefit managers, wholesalers, and other supply chain stakeholders have been consolidating into fewer, larger entities, increasingly through vertical integration, thus enhancing their purchasing strength and importance. Payers typically maintain formularies which specify coverage (the conditions under which drugs are included on a plan's formulary) and reimbursement (the associated out-of-pocket cost to the consumer). Formulary placement can lead to reduced usage of a drug for the relevant patient population due to coverage restrictions, such as prior authorizations and formulary exclusions, or due to reimbursement limitations that result in higher consumer out-of-pocket cost, such as non-preferred co-pay tiers, increased co-insurance levels and higher deductibles. Consequently, pharmaceutical companies compete for formulary placement not only on the basis of product attributes such as greater efficacy, fewer side effects, or greater patient ease of use, but also by providing rebates. Value-based agreements are another tool which may be utilized between payers and pharmaceutical companies as formulary placement and pricing are negotiated. Price is an increasingly important factor in formulary decisions, particularly in treatment areas in which the payer has taken the position that multiple branded products are therapeutically comparable. These downward pricing pressures could continue to negatively affect future consolidated results of operations and cash flows.

The main coverage expansion provisions of the Affordable Care Act (ACA) are currently in effect through both state-based exchanges and the expansion of Medicaid. A trend has been the prevalence of benefit designs containing high out-of-pocket costs for patients, particularly for pharmaceuticals. In addition to the coverage expansions, many employers in the commercial market, driven in part by ACA changes such as the 2022 implementation of the excise tax on employer-sponsored health care coverage for which there is an excess benefit (the so-called "Cadillac tax"), continue to evaluate strategies such as private exchanges and wider use of consumer-driven health plans to reduce their healthcare liabilities over time. Federal legislation, litigation, or administrative actions to repeal or modify some or all of the provisions of the ACA could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations and cash flows. At the same time, the broader paradigm shift towards performance-based reimbursement and the launch of several value-based purchasing initiatives have placed demands on the pharmaceutical industry to offer products with proven real-world outcomes data and a favorable economic profile.

37

International

International operations also are generally subject to extensive price and market regulations. Cost-containment measures exist in a number of countries, including additional price controls and mechanisms to limit reimbursement for our products. Such policies are expected to increase in impact and reach, given the pressures on national and regional health care budgets that come from a growing aging population and ongoing economic challenges. As additional reforms are finalized, we will assess their impact on future revenues. In addition, governments in many emerging markets are becoming increasingly active in expanding health care system offerings. Given the budget challenges of increasing health care coverage for citizens, policies may be proposed that promote generics and biosimilars only and reduce current and future access to branded human pharmaceutical products.

Tax Matters

We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Changes in the relevant tax laws, regulations, administrative practices, and interpretations could adversely affect our future effective tax rates. The U.S. recently enacted tax reform legislation, including the 2017 Tax Act, significantly revising U.S. tax law, and other countries are actively considering or enacting tax law changes. Further, organizations such as the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development and the European Commission are active regarding tax-related matters, which could influence international tax policy in countries in which we operate. While outcomes of these initiatives continue to develop and remain uncertain, modifications to key elements of the U.S. or international tax framework could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations and cash flows.

Our accounting for the effects of the 2017 Tax Act, signed into law in December 2017, is complete (see Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements for further information related to the 2017 Tax Act); however, we expect that additional guidance will be issued in 2019 which may materially affect our assumptions and estimates used to record our U.S. federal and state income tax expense resulting from the 2017 Tax Act. Refer to “Results of Operations - Financial Condition” for discussion of the impact of the 2017 Tax Act on our liquidity. 

Acquisitions

We strategically invest in external research and technologies that we believe to complement and strengthen our own efforts. These investments can take many forms, including licensing arrangements, collaborations, and acquisitions. We view our business development activity as an important way to achieve our strategies, as we seek to bolster our pipeline and enhance shareholder value. We continue to evaluate business development transactions that have the potential to strengthen our business. Since January 1, 2019, we have acquired Loxo Oncology, Inc. (Loxo). for a purchase price of $235 per share, or approximately $8 billion. We also entered into a license and collaboration agreement with AC Immune SA for an upfront fee of CHF80.0 million and $50.0 million in exchange for a note, convertible to equity at a premium. See Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion regarding our recent acquisitions of businesses and assets.

38

Operating Results—2018 

Revenue

The following table summarizes our revenue activity by region:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Numbers may not add due to rounding.

(1) U.S. revenue includes revenue in Puerto Rico.

The following are components of the change in revenue compared with the prior year:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Numbers may not add due to rounding.

In the U.S., the revenue increase in 2018 was driven by increased volume for newer pharmaceutical products, including Trulicity®, Basaglar®, Taltz®, Verzenio, and Jardiance®. The increase in revenue was partially offset by decreased volume for products that have lost exclusivity, including Cialis, Effient, and Strattera, as well as lower realized prices for several pharmaceutical products, including Trulicity, Basaglar, Forteo, and Taltz.

Outside the U.S., the revenue increase in 2018 was due to increased volume for several newer pharmaceutical products, primarily driven by Trulicity, Olumiant, and Taltz and, to a lesser extent, the favorable impact of foreign exchange rates. The increase in revenue was partially offset by lower realized prices for several pharmaceutical products.

39

The following table summarizes our revenue activity in 2018 compared with 2017:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Numbers may not add due to rounding.

(1) U.S. revenue includes revenue in Puerto Rico.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(3) Trajenta revenue includes Jentadueto®. 

Revenue of Trulicity, a treatment for type 2 diabetes, increased 56 percent in the U.S., driven by higher demand. Revenue outside the U.S. increased 63 percent primarily driven by increased volume and, to a lesser extent, the favorable impact of foreign exchange rates, partially offset by lower realized prices.

Revenue of Humalog, our injectable human insulin analog for the treatment of diabetes, increased 4 percent in the U.S., primarily driven by increased demand and, to a lesser extent, higher realized prices due to changes in estimates to rebates and discounts. Revenue outside the U.S. increased 5 percent, driven by increased volume and, to a lesser extent, the favorable impact of foreign exchange rates, partially offset by lower realized prices. A similar version of insulin lispro launched in the U.S. in the second quarter of 2018 and in certain European markets in 2017. While it is difficult to estimate the severity of the impact of similar insulin lispro products entering the market, we do not expect and have not experienced a rapid severe decline in revenue; however, we expect additional pricing pressure and some loss of market share that would continue over time.

Revenue of Alimta, a treatment for various cancers, increased 9 percent in the U.S., driven by increased demand and higher realized prices. Revenue outside the U.S. decreased 3 percent, driven by lower volume due to competitive pressure and the loss of exclusivity in certain European countries, including Germany, and lower realized prices, partially offset by the favorable impact of foreign exchange rates. We have faced and remain exposed to generic entry in multiple countries, which has eroded revenue and is likely to continue to erode revenue in those countries from current levels.

40

Revenue of Cialis, a treatment for erectile dysfunction and benign prostatic hyperplasia, decreased 17 percent in the U.S., driven by decreased demand primarily due to the entry of generic tadalafil, partially offset by higher realized prices. Revenue outside the U.S. decreased 25 percent, driven by the loss of exclusivity in Europe. We lost our compound patent protection for Cialis in major European markets in November 2017 and U.S. exclusivity ended in late September 2018. See "Results of Operations - Executive Overview - Other Matters - Patent Matters" for more information. In addition to competition from generic tadalafil, we also currently face competition from generic sildenafil, which accelerated during 2018. We expect that the entry of generic competition due to the loss of exclusivity will continue to cause a rapid and severe decline in revenue. 

Revenue of Forteo, an injectable treatment for osteoporosis in postmenopausal women and men at high risk for fracture and for glucocorticoid-induced osteoporosis in men and postmenopausal women, decreased 21 percent in the U.S., driven by decreased demand, and, to a lesser extent, lower realized prices. Revenue outside the U.S. increased 4 percent, driven by increased volume and the favorable impact of foreign exchange rates, partially offset by lower realized prices. Our formulation patent for Forteo expired in December 2018 in major European markets and the U.S. Our use patent for Forteo expires in August 2019 in major European markets and the U.S. Both the formulation patent and the use patent expire in 2019 in Japan. While it is difficult to estimate the severity of the impact of generic and/or biosimilar competition in these markets, we expect a rapid and severe decline in revenue in the U.S. as a result of generic competition when the U.S. patents expire. Outside the U.S., we expect a decline in revenue following patent expirations, however the decline may not be rapid and severe. See "Executive Overview - Other Matters - Patent Matters" for more information.

Revenue of Humulin, an injectable human insulin for the treatment of diabetes, increased 3 percent in the U.S., driven by increased volume, partially offset by lower realized prices primarily due to changes in segment mix and, to a lesser extent, the impact of patient affordability programs. Revenue outside the U.S. decreased 7 percent, primarily driven by decreased volume and, to a lesser extent, lower realized prices.

Revenue of Taltz, a treatment for moderate-to-severe plaque psoriasis and active psoriatic arthritis, increased 52 percent in the U.S., primarily driven by increased demand, partially offset by lower realized prices. Revenue outside the U.S. increased $125.6 million, driven by increased volume from recent launches, partially offset by lower realized prices.

Revenue of Cyramza, a treatment for various cancers, increased 5 percent in the U.S., driven by increased demand and, to a lesser extent, higher realized prices. Revenue outside the U.S. increased 10 percent, primarily due to increased volume and, to a lesser extent, the favorable impact of foreign exchange rates, partially offset by lower realized prices.

Revenue of Basaglar, a long-acting human insulin analog for the treatment of diabetes, increased $311.7 million in the U.S., driven by increased demand, partially offset by lower realized prices due to increased volume in Medicare Part D. Revenue outside the U.S. increased $57.5 million primarily driven by increased volume.

Revenue of Cymbalta, a product for the treatment of major depressive disorder, diabetic peripheral neuropathic pain, generalized anxiety disorder, chronic musculoskeletal pain, and the management of fibromyalgia, decreased 53 percent in the U.S. driven by decreased volume, partially offset by higher realized prices. Revenue outside the U.S. increased 2 percent, driven by increased volume in Japan.

Worldwide animal health revenue increased 2 percent, driven by higher prices, partially offset by lower volume. The overall increase in revenue included increased revenue in the companion animal disease prevention, future protein and health, and companion animal therapeutics product categories, partially offset by decreased revenue of products that are being exited.

Gross Margin, Costs, and Expenses

Gross margin as a percent of total revenue was 73.8 percent in 2018, an increase of 0.7 percentage points compared with 2017, primarily due to manufacturing efficiencies and lower amortization expenses, offset by the impact of foreign exchange rates on international inventories sold, the timing of manufacturing production, and the negative impact of price on revenue.

Research and development expenses decreased 1 percent to $5.31 billion in 2018 driven by lower development expenses for lanabecestat, partially offset by higher expenses for other late-stage assets.

41

Marketing, selling, and administrative expenses decreased 1 percent to $6.63 billion in 2018 due to lower expenses related to late life-cycle products, partially offset by increased marketing expenses for newer products.

Both research and development expenses and marketing, selling, and administrative expenses benefited during 2018 from actions taken to reduce our cost structure.

We recognized acquired IPR&D charges of $1.98 billion in 2018 primarily related to the acquisition of ARMO and the collaboration with Dicerna. In 2017, we recognized acquired IPR&D charges of $1.11 billion primarily related to the acquisition of CoLucid. 

We recognized asset impairment, restructuring, and other special charges of $482.0 million in 2018. The charges are primarily associated with asset impairments related to the sale of the Posilac (rbST) brand and the related sale of the Augusta, Georgia manufacturing site, as well as the suspension of commercial activities for Imrestor. The charges also include expenses associated with the initial public offering and separation of the Elanco animal health business, as well as efforts to reduce our cost structure. In 2017, we recognized $1.67 billion of asset impairment, restructuring, and other special charges primarily associated with efforts to reduce our cost structure, including the U.S. voluntary early retirement program, asset impairments related to lower projected revenue for Posilac (rbST), and asset impairments and other special charges related to product rationalizations and site closures resulting from our acquisition and integration of Novartis Animal Health (Novartis AH). 

Other—net, (income) expense was income of $74.8 million in 2018 compared to income of $300.5 million in 2017 driven by lower net gains on sales of investments.

During 2018, we recorded income tax expense of $563.7 million while earning $3.80 billion of income before income taxes. We recognized $313.3 million of income tax benefit primarily due to measurement period adjustments to the Toll Tax and GILTI. During 2017, we recorded income tax expense of $2.40 billion, which included a provisional tax charge of $1.91 billion, despite earning $2.20 billion of income before income taxes. The provisional tax charge was a result of the 2017 Tax Act, including the Toll Tax.

Operating Results—2017

Financial Results

The following table summarizes our key operating results:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

NM - not meaningful

Revenue and gross margin increased in 2017. The increase in operating expense in 2017 was primarily due to an increase in marketing, selling, and administrative expense. Income before income taxes decreased in 2017 as higher asset impairment, restructuring, and other special charges, acquired IPR&D charges and, to a lesser extent, higher operating expense were partially offset by a higher gross margin. Tax expense exceeded income before income taxes in 2017 as a result of the 2017 Tax Act, resulting in a net loss for the year. 

42

Certain items affect the comparisons of our 2017 and 2016 results. The 2017 highlighted items are summarized in the "Results of Operations - Executive Overview" section. The 2016 highlighted items are summarized as follows:

Acquired IPR&D (Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements)

•We recognized acquired IPR&D charges of $30.0 million (pretax), or $0.02 per share, related to upfront fees paid in connection with a collaboration agreement with AstraZeneca to co-develop MEDI1814, a potential disease-modifying treatment for Alzheimer's disease. 

Asset Impairment, Restructuring, and Other Special Charges (Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements)

•We recognized charges of $382.5 million (pretax), or $0.29 per share, related to integration and severance costs related to the acquisition of Novartis AH, other global severance costs, and asset impairments primarily related to the closure of an animal health manufacturing facility in Ireland.

Other-Net, (Income) Expense (Note 17 to the consolidated financial statements)

•We recognized charges of $203.9 million (pretax), or $0.19 per share, related to the impact of the Venezuelan financial crisis, including the significant deterioration of the bolívar.

Revenue

The following table summarizes our revenue activity by region:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Numbers may not add due to rounding.

(1) U.S. revenue includes revenue in Puerto Rico.

The following are components of the change in revenue compared to the prior year:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Numbers may not add due to rounding.

In the U.S., the revenue increase in 2017 was driven by increased volume for newer pharmaceutical products, including Trulicity, Taltz, Basaglar, Lartruvo, and Jardiance, and higher realized prices for several pharmaceutical products, primarily Forteo and Cialis, as well as increased volume for companion animal products from the acquisition of Boehringer Ingelheim Vetmedica, Inc.'s U.S. feline, canine, and rabies vaccine portfolio and other related assets (BIVIVP). The increase in revenue was partially offset by decreased volume due to loss of exclusivity for Strattera and Effient, as well as decreased demand for Cialis and food animal products. Cymbalta revenue declined, as 2016 revenue benefited from reductions to the reserve for expected product returns of approximately $175 million.

Outside the U.S., the revenue increase in 2017 was due to increased volume for several new pharmaceutical products, primarily driven by Trulicity and Cyramza. The increase in revenue was partially offset by competitive pressure and the loss of exclusivity for Alimta in several countries and lower volume from the loss of exclusivity for Zyprexa in Japan.

43

The following table summarizes our revenue activity in 2017 compared with 2016:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Numbers may not add due to rounding.

(1) U.S. revenue includes revenue in Puerto Rico.

(2) Trajenta revenue includes Jentadueto.

(3) Jardiance revenue includes Glyxambi and Synjardy.

NM - not meaningful

Revenue of Humalog increased 2 percent in the U.S., primarily driven by higher realized prices due to changes in estimates for rebates and discounts, which decreased revenue in 2016 and increased revenue in 2017. Revenue outside the U.S. increased 6 percent, driven by increased volume and, to a lesser extent, higher realized prices, partially offset by the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange rates. 

Revenue of Cialis decreased 8 percent in the U.S., driven by decreased demand partially offset by higher realized prices. Revenue outside the U.S. decreased 4 percent, driven by decreased volume, partially offset by higher realized prices. 

Revenue of Alimta decreased 6 percent in the U.S., driven by decreased demand due to competitive pressure. Revenue outside the U.S. decreased 13 percent, driven by competitive pressure and the loss of exclusivity in several countries. 

Revenue of Trulicity increased 118 percent in the U.S., driven by increased share of market for Trulicity and growth in the GLP-1 class. Revenue outside the U.S. increased 123 percent.

Revenue of Forteo increased 25 percent in the U.S., driven by higher realized prices and increased volume, primarily due to wholesaler buying patterns. Revenue outside the U.S. increased 7 percent, driven by increased volume, partially offset by the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange rates and lower realized prices.

Revenue of Humulin increased 3 percent in the U.S., driven by higher realized prices. Revenue outside the U.S. decreased 11 percent, driven primarily by decreased volume and lower realized prices.

44

Revenue of Cyramza increased 3 percent in the U.S., driven by increased volume. Revenue outside the U.S. increased 39 percent, primarily due to strong volume growth in Japan, partially offset by lower realized prices and, to a lesser extent, the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange rates.

Revenue of Cymbalta decreased 57 percent in the U.S., driven by reductions to the reserve for expected product returns, which increased revenue by approximately $175 million in 2016. Revenue outside the U.S. decreased 3 percent driven by the loss of exclusivity in Canada and Europe, partially offset by increased volume in Japan.

Revenue of Erbitux, a treatment for various cancers, decreased 7 percent in the U.S. in 2017. The decrease was due to increased competition from immuno-oncology products.

Revenue of Strattera, a treatment for attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder, decreased 47 percent in the U.S., driven by the loss of exclusivity in the second quarter of 2017, partially offset by higher realized prices. The entry of generic competition following the loss of effective patent protection has caused a rapid and severe decline in revenue. Revenue outside the U.S. increased 4 percent, driven by increased volume in Japan, partially offset by lower realized prices and the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange rates, primarily the Japanese yen.

Worldwide food animal revenue decreased 8 percent, primarily driven by market access and competitive pressure in the U.S. for Posilac (rbST) and Optaflexx®, respectively. Worldwide companion animal revenue increased 10 percent, driven by the inclusion of $216.7 million in revenue from the acquisition of BIVIVP, partially offset by competitive pressure. 

Gross Margin, Costs, and Expenses

Gross margin as a percent of total revenue was 73.1 percent in 2017, which remained flat compared with 2016.

Research and development expenses increased 1 percent to $5.36 billion in 2017.

Marketing, selling, and administrative expenses increased 2 percent to $6.68 billion in 2017, driven by increased marketing expenses for new products that were partially offset by decreased expenses related to late life-cycle products.

We recognized acquired IPR&D charges of $1.11 billion in 2017 resulting from business development activity, primarily related to the acquisition of CoLucid. In 2016, we recognized acquired IPR&D charges of $30.0 million associated with the agreement with AstraZeneca to co-develop MEDI1814. See Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information.

We recognized asset impairment, restructuring, and other special charges of $1.67 billion in 2017. The charges are primarily associated with efforts to reduce our cost structure, including the U.S. voluntary early retirement program, asset impairments related to lower projected revenue for Posilac (rbST), and asset impairments and other special charges related to product rationalizations and site closures resulting from our acquisition and integration of Novartis AH. In 2016, we recognized $382.5 million of asset impairment, restructuring, and other special charges primarily associated with integration and severance costs related to the acquisition of Novartis AH, other global severance costs associated with actions taken to reduce cost structure, and asset impairments primarily related to the closure of an animal health manufacturing facility in Ireland. See Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information.

Other-net, (income) expense was income of $300.5 million in 2017, compared with income of $112.8 million in 2016. Other-net, (income) expense in 2016 included a $203.9 million charge related to the impact of the Venezuelan financial crisis, including the significant deterioration of the bolívar. See Note 17 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information.

During 2017, we recorded income tax expense of $2.40 billion, which included a provisional tax charge of $1.91 billion, despite earning $2.20 billion of income before income taxes. The provisional tax charge was a result of the 2017 Tax Act. The effective tax rate in 2016 was 18.9 percent.

45

FINANCIAL CONDITION

As of December 31, 2018, cash and cash equivalents were $8.00 billion, an increase of $1.46 billion, compared with $6.54 billion at December 31, 2017. Refer to the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for additional details on the significant sources and uses of cash for the years ended December 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017. 

In addition to our cash and cash equivalents, we held total investments of $2.11 billion and $7.18 billion as of December 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively. See Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements for additional details.

As of December 31, 2018, total debt was $12.77 billion, a decrease of $876.2 million compared with $13.65 billion at December 31, 2017. The decrease was primarily due to the net decrease in the balance of commercial paper outstanding of $2.20 billion and the repayment of $1.01 billion of long term debt, partially offset by the debt incurred by Elanco as a result of a notes offering and entry into credit facilities totaling $2.48 billion. See Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements for additional details.

Excluding Elanco, at December 31, 2018, we had a total of $5.42 billion of unused committed bank credit facilities, $5.00 billion of which is available to support our commercial paper program. See Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements for additional details. In January 2019, we entered into a $4.00 billion credit facility to support our commercial paper program. We believe that amounts accessible through existing commercial paper markets should be adequate to fund short-term borrowing needs.

In September 2018, Elanco entered into a revolving credit agreement providing for a five-year $750.0 million senior unsecured revolving credit facility, which expires in September 2023. See Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements for additional details.

For the 133rd consecutive year, we distributed dividends to our shareholders. Dividends of $2.25 per share and $2.08 per share were paid in 2018 and 2017, respectively. In the fourth quarter of 2018, effective for the dividend to be paid in the first quarter of 2019, the quarterly dividend was increased to $0.645 per share, resulting in an indicated annual rate for 2019 of $2.58 per share.

Capital expenditures of $1.21 billion during 2018 were $133.8 million more than in 2017.

In 2018, we repurchased $4.15 billion of shares. We completed the $5.00 billion share repurchase program announced in October 2013, and the board authorized a new $8.00 billion share repurchase program. There were $2.10 billion of shares repurchased under the $8.00 billion program during 2018. See Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements for additional details. In January 2019, we initiated $3.50 billion of share repurchases that will conclude in the first half of 2019. These purchases are part of the $8.00 billion program previously authorized by the Board.

We have separately announced our intent to divest our remaining interest in Elanco through an exchange offer. In the exchange offer, our shareholders can exchange all, some, or none of their shares of our common stock at a discount for shares of Elanco common stock owned by us, subject to the terms and conditions of the offer described in Elanco's registration statement, filed with the SEC on February 8, 2019.

In February 2019, we completed our acquisition of Loxo for $235 per share or approximately $8 billion, which will be funded through a mixture of cash and debt. See Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information.

See "Results of Operations - Executive Overview - Other Matters - Patent Matters" for information regarding recent and upcoming losses of patent protection.

Pursuant to the 2017 Tax Act, the U.S. transitioned to a territorial tax system effective January 1, 2018; therefore, repatriations of cash from our foreign subsidiaries to the U.S. provides us with additional liquidity in the U.S. without the requirement to pay U.S. taxes as existed prior to the enactment of the new tax law. We believe cash provided by operating activities, along with available cash and cash equivalents, should be sufficient to fund our normal operating needs, including installment payments of the Toll Tax, dividends paid to shareholders, share repurchases, and capital expenditures.

Both domestically and abroad, we continue to monitor the potential impacts of the economic environment; the creditworthiness of our wholesalers and other customers, including foreign government-backed agencies and suppliers; the uncertain impact of health care legislation; and various international government funding levels. 

In the normal course of business, our operations are exposed to fluctuations in interest rates and currency values. These fluctuations can vary the costs of financing, investing, and operating. We seek to address a 

46

portion of these risks through a controlled program of risk management that includes the use of derivative financial instruments. The objective of controlling these risks is to limit the impact on earnings of fluctuations in interest and currency exchange rates. All derivative activities are for purposes other than trading.

Our primary interest rate risk exposure results from changes in short-term U.S. dollar interest rates. In an effort to manage interest rate exposures, we strive to achieve an acceptable balance between fixed and floating rate debt positions and may enter into interest rate derivatives to help maintain that balance. Based on our overall interest rate exposure at December 31, 2018 and 2017, including derivatives and other interest rate risk-sensitive instruments, a hypothetical 10 percent change in interest rates applied to the fair value of the instruments as of December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively, would not have a material impact on earnings, cash flows, or fair values of interest rate risk-sensitive instruments over a one-year period.

Our foreign currency risk exposure results from fluctuating currency exchange rates, primarily the U.S. dollar against the euro and Japanese yen. We face foreign currency exchange exposures when we enter into transactions arising from subsidiary trade and loan payables and receivables denominated in foreign currencies. We also face currency exposure that arises from translating the results of our global operations to the U.S. dollar at exchange rates that have fluctuated from the beginning of the period. We may enter into foreign currency forward or option derivative contracts to reduce the effect of fluctuating currency exchange rates (principally the euro and the Japanese yen). Our corporate risk-management policy outlines the minimum and maximum hedge coverage of such exposures. Gains and losses on these derivative contracts offset, in part, the impact of currency fluctuations on the existing assets and liabilities. We periodically analyze the fair values of the outstanding foreign currency derivative contracts to determine their sensitivity to changes in foreign exchange rates. A hypothetical 10 percent change in exchange rates (primarily against the U.S. dollar) applied to the fair values of our outstanding foreign currency derivative contracts as of December 31, 2018 and 2017, would not have a material impact on earnings, cash flows, or financial position over a one-year period. This sensitivity analysis does not consider the impact that hypothetical changes in exchange rates would have on the underlying foreign currency denominated transactions.

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Contractual Obligations

We have no off-balance sheet arrangements that have a material current effect or that are reasonably likely to have a material future effect on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures, or capital resources. We acquire and collaborate on potential products still in development and enter into research and development arrangements with third parties that often require milestone and royalty payments to the third party contingent upon the occurrence of certain future events linked to the success of the asset in development. Milestone payments may be required contingent upon the successful achievement of an important point in the development life cycle of the pharmaceutical product (e.g., approval for marketing by the appropriate regulatory agency or upon the achievement of certain sales levels). If required by the arrangement, we may make royalty payments based upon a percentage of the sales of the pharmaceutical product in the event that regulatory approval for marketing is obtained. Because of the contingent nature of these payments, they are not included in the table of contractual obligations below.

Individually, these arrangements are generally not material in any one annual reporting period. However, if milestones for multiple products covered by these arrangements were reached in the same reporting period, the aggregate charge to expense or aggregate milestone payments made could be material to the results of operations or cash flows, respectively, in that period. See Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements for additional details. These arrangements often give us the discretion to unilaterally terminate development of the product, which would allow us to avoid making the contingent payments; however, we are unlikely to cease development if the compound successfully achieves milestone objectives. We also note that, from a business perspective, we view these payments as positive because they signify that the product is successfully moving through development and is now generating or is more likely to generate cash flows from sales of products.

47

Our current noncancelable contractual obligations that will require future cash payments are as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Our long-term debt obligations include both our expected principal and interest obligations and our interest rate swaps. We used the interest rate forward curve at December 31, 2018, to compute the amount of the contractual obligation for interest on the variable rate debt instruments and swaps.

(2) We have included the following:

•Purchase obligations consisting primarily of all open purchase orders as of December 31, 2018. Some of these purchase orders may be cancelable; however, for purposes of this disclosure, we have not distinguished between cancelable and noncancelable purchase obligations.

•Contractual payment obligations with each of our significant vendors, which are noncancelable and are not contingent.

(3) The 2017 Tax Act provided an election to taxpayers subject to the Toll Tax to make payments over an eight-year period. We made this election; therefore, we have included future Toll Tax payments accordingly.

(4) We have included long-term liabilities consisting primarily of our nonqualified supplemental pension funding requirements and other post-employment benefit liabilities. We excluded long-term income taxes payable of $1.05 billion, because we cannot reasonably estimate the timing of future cash outflows associated with those liabilities.

The contractual obligations table is current as of December 31, 2018. We expect the amount of these obligations to change materially over time as new contracts are initiated and existing contracts are completed, terminated, or modified.

APPLICATION OF CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES

In preparing our financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. (GAAP), we must often make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses, and related disclosures. Some of those judgments can be subjective and complex, and consequently actual results could differ from those estimates. For any given individual estimate or assumption we make, it is possible that other people applying reasonable judgment to the same facts and circumstances could develop different estimates. We believe that, given current facts and circumstances, it is unlikely that applying any such other reasonable judgment would cause a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial position, or liquidity for the periods presented in this report. Our most critical accounting estimates have been discussed with our audit committee and are described below.

Revenue Recognition and Sales Return, Rebate, and Discount Accruals

We recognize revenue primarily from two different types of contracts, product sales to customers (net product revenue) and collaborations and other arrangements. Revenue recognized from collaborations and other arrangements will include our share of profits from the collaboration, as well as royalties, upfront and milestone payments we receive under these types of contracts. Refer to Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements for further information on revenue recognition and sales return, rebate, and discount accruals.

Financial Statement Impact

We believe that our accruals for sales returns, rebates, and discounts are reasonable and appropriate based on current facts and circumstances. Our global rebate and discount liabilities are included in sales rebates and discounts on our consolidated balance sheet. Our global sales return liability is included in other current liabilities and other noncurrent liabilities on our consolidated balance sheet. As of December 31, 2018, a 5 percent change in our global sales return, rebate, and discount liability would have led to an approximate $275 million effect on our income before income taxes. 

48

The portion of our global sales return, rebate, and discount liability resulting from sales of our products in the U.S. was approximately 90 percent as of December 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017.

The following represents a roll-forward of our most significant U.S. pharmaceutical sales return, rebate, and discount liability balances, including managed care, Medicare, and Medicaid:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Adjustments of the estimates for these returns, rebates, and discounts to actual results were approximately 1 percent of consolidated net sales for each of the years presented.

Product Litigation Liabilities and Other Contingencies

Background and Uncertainties

Product litigation liabilities and other contingencies are, by their nature, uncertain and based upon complex judgments and probabilities. The factors we consider in developing our product litigation liability reserves and other contingent liability amounts include the merits and jurisdiction of the litigation, the nature and the number of other similar current and past matters, the nature of the product and the current assessment of the science subject to the litigation, and the likelihood of settlement and current state of settlement discussions, if any. In addition, we accrue for certain product liability claims incurred, but not filed, to the extent we can formulate a reasonable estimate of their costs based primarily on historical claims experience and data regarding product usage. We accrue legal defense costs expected to be incurred in connection with significant product liability contingencies when both probable and reasonably estimable.

We also consider the insurance coverage we have to diminish the exposure for periods covered by insurance. In assessing our insurance coverage, we consider the policy coverage limits and exclusions, the potential for denial of coverage by the insurance company, the financial condition of the insurers, and the possibility of and length of time for collection. Due to a very restrictive market for product liability insurance, we are self-insured for product liability losses for all our currently marketed products. In addition to insurance coverage, we also consider any third-party indemnification to which we are entitled or under which we are obligated. With respect to our third-party indemnification rights, these considerations include the nature of the indemnification, the financial condition of the indemnifying party, and the possibility of and length of time for collection.

The litigation accruals and environmental liabilities and the related estimated insurance recoverables have been reflected on a gross basis as liabilities and assets, respectively, on our consolidated balance sheets.

Impairment of Indefinite-Lived and Long-Lived Assets

Background and Uncertainties

We review the carrying value of long-lived assets (both intangible and tangible) for potential impairment on a periodic basis and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value of an asset (or asset group) may not be recoverable. We identify impairment by comparing the projected undiscounted cash flows to be generated by the asset (or asset group) to its carrying value. If an impairment is identified, a loss is recorded equal to the excess of the asset’s net book value over its fair value, and the cost basis is adjusted.

Goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are reviewed for impairment at least annually and when certain impairment indicators are present. When required, a comparison of fair value to the carrying amount of assets is performed to determine the amount of any impairment.

Several methods may be used to determine the estimated fair value of acquired IPR&D, all of which require multiple assumptions. We utilize the “income method,” as described in Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements.

For acquired IPR&D assets, the risk of failure has been factored into the fair value measure and there can be no certainty that these assets ultimately will yield a successful product, as discussed previously in “Results of Operations - Executive Overview - Late-Stage Pipeline." The nature of the pharmaceutical business is high-risk and requires that we invest in a large number of projects to maintain a successful portfolio of approved products. As such, it is likely that some acquired IPR&D assets will become impaired in the future.

49

Estimates of future cash flows, based on what we believe to be reasonable and supportable assumptions and projections, require management’s judgment. Actual results could vary materially from these estimates.

Retirement Benefits Assumptions

Background and Uncertainties

Defined benefit pension plan and retiree health benefit plan costs include assumptions for the discount rate, expected return on plan assets, and retirement age. These assumptions have a significant effect on the amounts reported. In addition to the analysis below, see Note 14 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding our retirement benefits.

Annually, we evaluate the discount rate and the expected return on plan assets in our defined benefit pension and retiree health benefit plans. We use an actuarially determined, plan-specific yield curve of high quality, fixed income debt instruments to determine the discount rates. In evaluating the expected return on plan assets, we consider many factors, with a primary analysis of current and projected market conditions, asset returns and asset allocations (approximately 70 percent of which are growth investments); and the views of leading financial advisers and economists. We may also review our historical assumptions compared with actual results, as well as the discount rates and expected return on plan assets of other companies, where applicable. In evaluating our expected retirement age assumption, we consider the retirement ages of our past employees eligible for pension and medical benefits together with our expectations of future retirement ages.

Financial Statement Impact

If the 2018 discount rate for the U.S. defined benefit pension and retiree health benefit plans (U.S. plans) were to change by a quarter percentage point, income before income taxes would change by $33.7 million. If the 2018 expected return on plan assets for U.S. plans were to change by a quarter percentage point, income before income taxes would change by $25.6 million. If our assumption regarding the 2018 expected age of future retirees for U.S. plans were adjusted by one year, our income before income taxes would be affected by $49.1 million. The U.S. plans, including Puerto Rico, represent approximately 75 percent and 80 percent of the total projected benefit obligation and total plan assets, respectively, at December 31, 2018.

Income Taxes

Background and Uncertainties

We prepare and file tax returns based upon our interpretation of tax laws and regulations and record estimates based on these judgments and interpretations. In the normal course of business, our tax returns are subject to examination by various taxing authorities, which may result in future tax, interest, and penalty assessments by these authorities. Inherent uncertainties exist in estimates of many tax positions due to changes in tax law resulting from legislation and regulation as concluded through the various jurisdictions’ tax court systems. We recognize the tax benefit from an uncertain tax position only if it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained on examination by the taxing authorities, based on the technical merits of the position. The tax benefits recognized in the financial statements from such a position are measured based on the largest benefit that has a greater than 50 percent likelihood of being realized upon ultimate resolution. The amount of unrecognized tax benefits is adjusted for changes in facts and circumstances. For example, adjustments could result from significant amendments to existing tax law, the issuance of regulations or interpretations by the taxing authorities, new information obtained during a tax examination, or resolution of a tax examination. We believe our estimates for uncertain tax positions are appropriate and sufficient to pay assessments that may result from examinations of our tax returns. We recognize both accrued interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits in income tax expense.

We have recorded valuation allowances against certain of our deferred tax assets, primarily those that have been generated from net operating losses and tax credit carryforwards in certain taxing jurisdictions. In evaluating whether we would more likely than not recover these deferred tax assets, we have not assumed any future taxable income or tax planning strategies in the jurisdictions associated with these carryforwards where history does not support such an assumption. Implementation of tax planning strategies to recover these deferred tax assets or future income generation in these jurisdictions could lead to the reversal of these valuation allowances and a reduction of income tax expense.

The 2017 Tax Act was enacted in December 2017 and introduced significant changes to the U.S. corporate income tax system. In accordance with GAAP, our accounting for the effects of the 2017 Tax Act is complete 

50

(refer to "Results of Operations - Executive Overview - Other Matters - Tax Matters" and Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion on the 2017 Tax Act). Subsequent to the enactment of the 2017 Tax Act, numerous items of additional guidance were issued, including Notices, Proposed Regulations, and Final Regulations. We expect that further guidance will be issued in 2019 which may change our interpretations of the new tax laws and could materially affect the estimates used to record U.S. federal and state income tax expense.

Financial Statement Impact

As of December 31, 2018, a 5 percent change in the amount of uncertain tax positions and the valuation allowance would result in a change in net income of $74.5 million and $29.8 million, respectively.

Acquisitions

Background and Uncertainties

To determine whether acquisitions or licensing transactions should be accounted for as a business combination or as an asset acquisition, we make certain judgments, which include assessing whether the acquired set of activities and assets would meet the definition of a business under the relevant accounting rules. 

If the acquired set of activities and assets meets the definition of a business, assets acquired and liabilities assumed are required to be recorded at their respective fair values as of the acquisition date. The excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the acquired net assets, where applicable, is recorded as goodwill. If the acquired set of activities and assets does not meet the definition of a business, the transaction is recorded as an acquisition of assets and, therefore, any acquired IPR&D that does not have an alternative future use is charged to expense at the acquisition date, and goodwill is not recorded. Refer to Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information. 

The judgments made in determining estimated fair values assigned to assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a business combination, as well as estimated asset lives, can materially affect our consolidated results of operations. The fair values of intangible assets, including acquired IPR&D, are determined using information available near the acquisition date based on expectations and assumptions that are deemed reasonable by management. Depending on the facts and circumstances, we may deem it necessary to engage an independent valuation expert to assist in valuing significant assets and liabilities. 

The fair values of identifiable intangible assets are primarily determined using an "income method," as described in Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements.

The fair value of any contingent consideration liability that results from a business combination is determined using a market approach based on quoted market values, significant other observable inputs for identical or comparable assets or liabilities, or a discounted cash flow analysis. Estimating the fair value of contingent consideration requires the use of significant estimates and judgments, including, but not limited to, revenue and the discount rate.

Financial Statement Impact

As of December 31, 2018, a 5 percent change in the contingent consideration liability would result in a change in income before income taxes of $3.71 million. 

LEGAL AND REGULATORY MATTERS 

Information relating to certain legal proceedings can be found in Note 15 to the consolidated financial statements and is incorporated here by reference.

51

FINANCIAL EXPECTATIONS FOR 2019 

For the full year of 2019, we expect EPS to be in the range of $4.57 to $4.67, reflecting the anticipated impacts of the Loxo acquisition and the suspension of promotion of Lartruvo. We anticipate that total revenue will be between $25.1 billion and $25.6 billion. Revenue growth is expected to be driven by volume from newer products including Trulicity, Taltz, Basaglar, Jardiance, Verzenio, Cyramza, and Olumiant.

We anticipate that gross margin as a percent of revenue will be approximately 75 percent in 2019. Research and development expenses are expected to be in the range of $5.8 billion to $6.0 billion, reflecting additional expenses associated with the acquisition of Loxo. Marketing, selling, and administrative expenses are expected to be in the range of $6.4 billion to $6.7 billion. Other—net, (income) expense is expected to be expense in the range of $175 million to $325 million, reflecting additional interest expense associated with the acquisition of Loxo.

The 2019 tax rate is expected to be approximately 16.5 percent.

The individual elements of the 2019 financial guidance outlined above include consolidated financial expectations for both our human pharmaceutical business and Elanco.

Item 7A.Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk