ITEM 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Overview

DESCRIPTION OF THE BUSINESS

The Company operates and franchises McDonald’s restaurants. Of the 37,855 restaurants in 120 countries at year-end 2018, 35,085 were franchised. 

Under McDonald’s conventional franchise arrangement, the Company generally owns the land and building or secures a long-term lease for the restaurant location and the franchisee pays for equipment, signs, seating and décor. The Company believes that ownership of real estate, combined with the co-investment by franchisees, enables us to achieve restaurant performance levels that are among the highest in the industry.

Franchisees are also responsible for reinvesting capital in their businesses over time. In addition, to accelerate implementation of certain initiatives, the Company frequently co-invests with franchisees to fund improvements to their restaurants or their operating systems. These investments, developed in collaboration with franchisees are designed to cater to consumer preferences, improve local business performance, and increase the value of our brand through the development of modernized, more attractive and higher revenue generating restaurants.

Under McDonald's developmental license or affiliate arrangement, licensees provide capital for the entire business, including the real estate interest, and the Company generally has no capital invested. The Company also has an equity investment in a limited number of foreign affiliates (primarily in China and Japan).

McDonald's is primarily a franchisor and believes franchising is paramount to delivering great-tasting food, locally-relevant customer experiences and driving profitability. Franchising enables an individual to be his or her own employer and maintain control over all employment-related matters, marketing and pricing decisions, while also benefiting from the strength of McDonald's global brand, operating system and financial resources. 

Directly operating McDonald’s restaurants contributes significantly to our ability to act as a credible franchisor. One of the strengths of the franchising model is that the expertise from operating Company-owned restaurants allows McDonald’s to improve the operations and success of all restaurants while innovations from franchisees can be tested and, when viable, efficiently implemented across relevant restaurants. Having Company-owned and operated restaurants provides Company personnel with a venue for restaurant operations training experience. In addition, in our Company-owned and operated restaurants, and in collaboration with franchisees, we are able to further develop and refine operating standards, marketing concepts and product and pricing strategies that will ultimately benefit McDonald’s restaurants. McDonald's continually reviews its mix of Company-operated and franchised restaurants to help optimize overall performance, with a goal to be approximately 95% franchised over the long term.

The Company’s revenues consist of sales by Company-operated restaurants and fees from restaurants operated by franchisees. Revenues from conventional franchised restaurants include rent and royalties based on a percent of sales along with minimum rent payments, and initial fees. Revenues from developmental licensees and affiliate restaurants include a royalty based on a percent of sales, and generally include initial fees upon the opening of a new restaurant or grant of a new license. Fees vary by type of site, amount of Company investment, if any, and local business conditions. These fees, along with occupancy and operating rights, are stipulated in franchise/license agreements that generally have 20-year terms.

Through the end of 2018, the business was structured into the following segments that combined markets with similar characteristics and ownership structure, and reflected how management reviewed and evaluated operating performance:

•U.S. - the Company's largest segment.

•International Lead Markets - established markets including Australia, Canada, France, Germany, the U.K. and related markets.

•High Growth Markets - markets that the Company believes have relatively higher restaurant expansion and franchising potential including China, Italy, Korea, the Netherlands, Poland, Russia, Spain, Switzerland and related markets.

•Foundational Markets & Corporate - the remaining markets in the McDonald's system, most of which operate under a largely franchised model. Corporate activities are also reported within this segment.

Beginning in 2019, the Company changed its global operating structure as detailed in the Company's Form 8-K filed with the SEC on September 24, 2018. Refer to the Strategic Direction and Financial Performance section on the next page for additional information as well as the Segment and Geographic Information section included in Part II, Item 8, page 49 of this Form 10-K.

MANAGEMENT'S VIEW OF THE BUSINESS

In analyzing business trends, management reviews results on a constant currency basis and considers a variety of performance and financial measures which are considered to be non-GAAP, including comparable sales and comparable guest count growth, Systemwide sales growth, return on incremental invested capital ("ROIIC"), free cash flow and free cash flow conversion rate, as described below.

•Constant currency results exclude the effects of foreign currency translation and are calculated by translating current year results at prior year average exchange rates. Management reviews and analyzes business results in constant currencies and bases most incentive compensation plans on these results because the Company believes this better represents its underlying business trends.

•Comparable sales and comparable guest counts are key performance indicators used within the retail industry and are indicative of the impact of the Company’s initiatives as well as local economic and consumer trends. Increases or decreases in comparable sales and comparable guest counts represent the percent change in sales and transactions, respectively, from the same period in the prior year for all restaurants, whether operated by the Company or franchisees, in operation at least thirteen months, including those temporarily closed. Some of the reasons restaurants may be temporarily closed include reimaging or remodeling, rebuilding, road construction and natural disasters. Comparable sales exclude the impact of currency translation, and, beginning in 2017, also exclude sales from Venezuela due to its hyper-inflation. Management generally identifies hyper-inflationary markets as those markets whose cumulative 

McDonald's Corporation 2018 Annual Report 15

inflation rate over a three-year period exceeds 100%. Comparable sales are driven by changes in guest counts and average check, which is affected by changes in pricing and product mix. Typically, pricing has a greater impact on average check than product mix. The goal is to achieve a relatively balanced contribution from both guest counts and average check. 

•Systemwide sales include sales at all restaurants. While franchised sales are not recorded as revenues by the Company, management believes the information is important in understanding the Company’s financial performance because these sales are the basis on which the Company calculates and records franchised revenues and are indicative of the financial health of the franchisee base.

•ROIIC is a measure reviewed by management over one-year and three-year time periods to evaluate the overall profitability of the markets, the effectiveness of capital deployed and the future allocation of capital. The return is calculated by dividing the change in operating income plus depreciation and amortization (numerator) by the cash used for investing activities (denominator), primarily capital expenditures. The calculation uses a constant average foreign exchange rate over the periods included in the calculation.

•Free cash flow, defined as cash provided by operations less capital expenditures, and free cash flow conversion rate, defined as free cash flow divided by net income, are measures reviewed by management in order to evaluate the Company’s ability to convert net profits into cash resources, after reinvesting in the core business, that can be used to pursue opportunities to enhance shareholder value. 

STRATEGIC DIRECTION AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 

The strength of the alignment among the Company, its franchisees and suppliers (collectively referred to as the "System") is key to McDonald's long-term success. By leveraging the System, McDonald’s is able to identify, implement and scale ideas that meet customers' changing needs and preferences. McDonald's continually builds on its competitive advantages of System alignment and geographic diversification to deliver consistent, yet locally-relevant restaurant experiences to customers as an integral part of their communities.

In 2018, the Company continued to evolve to a more heavily franchised business model, and is currently about 93% franchised, with a long-term goal of approximately 95%. The Company will continue to make progress toward this long-term goal in 2019 primarily by refranchising restaurants to conventional licensees. As a result of the continued evolution of the Company’s business model, in September 2018, the Company announced several organizational changes to its global business structure. These changes are designed to continue the Company's efforts toward efficiently driving growth as a better McDonald’s through the Velocity Growth Plan. Effective January 1, 2019, McDonald’s is operating with the following global business segments: 

•U.S., the Company's largest market.

•International Operated Markets (IOM), comprised of wholly-owned markets, or countries in which the Company operates restaurants, including Australia, Canada, France, Germany, Italy, the Netherlands, Russia, Spain and the U.K.

•International Developmental Licensed Markets (IDL), comprised primarily of developmental licensee and affiliate markets in the McDonald’s system. Corporate activities will also be reported within this segment.

Australia, Canada, France, Germany, and the U.K. may be collectively referred to as “the Big Five international markets” in the Company’s disclosures.

CUSTOMER-CENTRIC GROWTH STRATEGY

The Velocity Growth Plan (the "Plan"), the Company’s customer-centric strategy, is rooted in extensive customer research and insights, along with a deep understanding of the key drivers of the business. The Plan is designed to drive sustainable guest count growth, which is a reliable long-term measure of the Company's strength and is vital to growing sales and shareholder value. 2018 was a year of broad-based strength around the world along with significant execution against the Plan in the U.S. While the Company made meaningful progress, our focus in 2019 will be to optimize execution of the Plan to unlock further potential and drive long-term sustainable growth.

The Company continues to target the opportunity at the core of its business - its food, value and customer experience. The strategy is built on the following three pillars, all focusing on building a better McDonald’s:

•Retaining existing customers - focusing on areas where it already has a strong foothold in the IEO category, including family occasions and food-led breakfast.

•Regaining customers who visit less often - recommitting to areas of historic strength, namely food taste and quality, convenience and value.

•Converting casual to committed customers - building stronger relationships with customers so they visit more often, by elevating and leveraging the McCafé coffee brand and enhancing snack and treat offerings.

In each pillar, McDonald’s has established sustainable platforms that enable execution of the Plan with greater speed, efficiency and impact while remaining relentlessly focused on the fundamentals of running great restaurants. Additionally, through three identified growth accelerators - Experience of the Future (“EOTF”), digital and delivery - McDonald’s is enhancing the overall customer experience with hospitable, friendly service and ever-improving convenience for customers on their terms. The Company worked to aggressively deploy each of these accelerators in 2018 and will continue further implementation in 2019 and beyond.

 McDonald's Corporation 2018 Annual Report 16

•Experience of the Future. The Company continues to build upon its investments in EOTF, focusing on restaurant modernization and technology in order to transform the restaurant service experience and enhance the brand in the eyes of our customers. EOTF introduces a new hospitality experience via the restaurant Guest Experience Leaders and table service, both of which have proven to be critical drivers of customer satisfaction. The modernization efforts are designed to provide a better customer experience, leading to increased frequency of customer visits along with higher average check. As of the end of 2018, EOTF is now deployed in about half of the restaurants in our global system, and in 2019, the Company will continue to deploy EOTF in many markets. In 2018, the U.S. converted about 4,500 restaurants to EOTF, exceeding its ambitious target of 4,000 restaurants, resulting in over half of the U.S. restaurants now having EOTF. We expect to convert substantially all of the restaurants in the U.S. to EOTF by the end of 2020.

•Digital. As the Company continues its ambitious pace of converting restaurants to EOTF, it is placing renewed emphasis on improving its existing service model (i.e., eat in, take out, or drive-thru) and strengthening its relationships with customers through technology. By evolving the technology platform, the Company is redefining how we provide convenience to customers by expanding choices for how customers order, pay and are served through additional functionality on its global mobile app, self-order kiosks, and technologies that enable conveniences such as table service and curb-side pick-up. In 2018, the Company made further progress in rolling out digital platforms to improve convenience for our customers and provide a simpler and more personalized experience. This included having kiosks deployed in nearly 17,000 restaurants, digital menu boards in more than 21,000 restaurants, and availability of Mobile Order & Pay in over 22,000 restaurants. The popularity and utilization of self-order kiosks continues to grow over time, and in France, Italy and Spain, well over half of all in-restaurant visits orders are placed through the kiosk. Germany made a strong push to grow digital engagement in 2018 through digital calendar promotions, and saw success, driving sales and guest count growth, as well as increased app downloads. In 2019, the Company will continue to utilize digital initiatives to engage customers, grow awareness and adoption of digital offerings, and support our menu offerings.

•Delivery. The Company continues to build momentum with its delivery platform as a way of expanding the convenience for its customers. In 2018, McDonald’s expanded the number of restaurants offering delivery and it is now available in over half of the global system. Customers are responding positively, as demonstrated by high satisfaction ratings, high reorder rates, and average checks that are 1.5-2 times higher than average non-delivery transactions. In addition, many of our larger markets, such as the U.S., France and the U.K., have achieved delivery sales growth in the high double digits in restaurants offering the service for more than 12 months. Further, in several of our top markets, delivery now represents as much as 10% of sales in those restaurants offering delivery. While growing customer awareness remains a priority and focus in 2019, we have been effective in markets like Australia, where awareness has more than doubled through a major campaign that promoted delivery with in-restaurant signs, engaging social media outreach, public relations activity and advertising.

The Velocity Growth Plan is a global strategy that is tailored at a market level to allow for the best customer experience and most convenience for our valued customers. While the Plan provides a consistent framework on how to retain, regain, and convert customers, the execution varies across the globe. Markets continue to make progress on the three pillars of the Plan and its growth accelerators. The U.S., for example, remains diligently focused on driving guest count growth in 2019 through actions that collectively transform the customer experience. In addition to continuing its aggressive execution of the growth accelerators of EOTF, digital and delivery, the U.S. will also enhance the customer experience through strong restaurant execution, with a focus on the drive thru experience, and reducing complexity in the restaurants. In 2018, several markets, including key markets outside of the U.S., experienced strong business results, driven by the Velocity Growth Plan, and the markets will continue to hone their execution of the Plan in 2019, focusing on value, quality and convenience.

Our Plan also includes the Company further embedding actions in response to certain social and environmental issues into the core of our business, which we refer to as using our Scale for Good. As one of the world’s largest restaurant companies, our Scale for Good highlights our commitment to global priorities that are consistent with our strategic priorities and provides an opportunity to collaborate with our franchisees and suppliers to drive meaningful progress. We recognize that our success in advancing each of the pillars within our strategy will be demonstrated as customers continue to feel good about visiting McDonald’s restaurants and eating our food.

While we're committed to working to address many challenges facing society today, we are elevating a few global priorities where we believe we can make the greatest difference in driving industry-wide change. Our four global priorities reflect the social and environmental impacts of our food and our business and are: beef sustainability, packaging and recycling, commitment to families and our investment in people. In 2018, the Company demonstrated its dedication to these priorities, pledging commitments related to reducing greenhouse gas emissions and the use of antibiotics, sourcing sustainable packaging, and making a difference for families through our food offerings, reading programs and Ronald McDonald House Charities.

The Company is confident that, with the Velocity Growth Plan in place, the System will work together in 2019 to focus on improving the taste of our delicious food, enhancing convenience, offering compelling value and upholding the trust consumers place in our brand, which we believe will enhance our ability to deliver long-term sustainable growth.

McDonald's Corporation 2018 Annual Report 17

2018 FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE

The Company's 2018 financial performance continued to demonstrate that the Velocity Growth Plan is working. By focusing on the aforementioned three pillars, and the identified growth accelerators, the Company has achieved 14 consecutive quarters of positive global comparable sales. In 2018, global comparable sales increased 4.5% and global comparable guest counts increased 0.2%.

•Comparable sales in the U.S. increased 2.5% and comparable guest counts decreased 2.2%. The increase in comparable sales was driven by growth in average check resulting from both product mix shifts and menu price increases.

•Comparable sales in the International Lead segment increased 5.8% and comparable guest counts increased 2.4%, reflecting positive results across all markets.

•Comparable sales in the High Growth segment increased 4.1% and comparable guest counts increased 1.8%. This performance reflects positive results across most of the segment, led by strong performance in Italy and the Netherlands.

•Comparable sales in the Foundational Markets increased 7.1% and comparable guest counts increased 1.5%, reflecting positive sales performance in Japan and across all geographic regions.

In addition to improved comparable sales and consolidated guest count performance, the Company achieved the following financial results in 2018:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•Systemwide sales increased 6% (6% in constant currencies).[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•Cash provided by operations was $6.97 billion.

•Capital expenditures of $2.74 billion were allocated mainly to reinvestment in existing restaurants and, to a lesser extent, to new restaurant openings.

•Free cash flow was $4.23 billion.

•Across the System, about 1,100 restaurants (including those in our developmental licensee and affiliated markets) were opened. [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•The Company increased its quarterly cash dividend per share by 15% to $1.16 for the fourth quarter, equivalent to an annual dividend of $4.64 per share. 

•The Company returned $8.5 billion to shareholders through share repurchases and dividends for the year and increased the cash return to shareholder target for the 3-year period ending 2019 to about $25 billion.

OUTLOOK 

2019 Outlook

The following information is provided to assist in forecasting the Company’s future results.

•Changes in Systemwide sales are driven by comparable sales, net restaurant unit expansion and the potential impacts of hyper-inflation. The Company expects net restaurant additions to add approximately 1 percentage point to 2019 Systemwide sales growth (in constant currencies). 

•The Company does not generally provide specific guidance on changes in comparable sales. However, as a perspective, assuming no change in cost structure, a 1 percentage point change in comparable sales for either the U.S. or the new International Operated Markets segment would change annual diluted earnings per share by about 6 to 7 cents.  

•With about 75% of McDonald's grocery bill comprised of 10 different commodities, a basket of goods approach is the most comprehensive way to look at the Company's commodity costs. For the full year 2019, costs for the total basket of goods are expected to increase about 1% to 2% in the U.S. and about 2% in the Big Five international markets. 

•The Company expects full year 2019 selling, general and administrative expenses to decrease about 4% in constant currencies.

 McDonald's Corporation 2018 Annual Report 18

•Based on current interest and foreign currency exchange rates, the Company expects interest expense for the full year 2019 to increase about 10% to 12% due primarily to higher average debt balances. 

•A significant part of the Company's operating income is generated outside the U.S., and about 40% of its total debt is denominated in foreign currencies. Accordingly, earnings are affected by changes in foreign currency exchange rates, particularly the Euro, British Pound, Australian Dollar and Canadian Dollar. Collectively, these currencies represent approximately 80% of the Company's operating income outside the U.S. If all four of these currencies moved by 10% in the same direction, the Company's annual diluted earnings per share would change by about 35 cents. 

•The Company expects the effective income tax rate for the full year 2019 to be in the 24% to 26% range. Some volatility may result in a quarterly tax rate outside of the annual range. Primarily due to tax costs associated with new regulations issued in January 2019, the effective income tax rate for the first quarter of 2019 is expected to be in the 28% to 29% range.

•The Company expects capital expenditures for 2019 to be approximately $2.3 billion. About $1.5 billion will be dedicated to our U.S. business, nearly two-thirds of which is allocated to approximately 2,000 EOTF projects. Globally, we expect to open roughly 1,200 restaurants. We will spend approximately $600 million in our wholly owned markets to open 300 restaurants and our developmental licensee and affiliated markets will contribute capital toward the remaining 900 restaurant openings in their respective markets. The Company expects about 750 net restaurant additions in 2019.

•During 2019, the Company expects to return about $9 billion to shareholders, which will complete its cash return to shareholder target of about $25 billion for the 3-year period ending 2019.

Long-Term Outlook

•Over the long-term, the Company expects to achieve the following average annual (constant currency) financial targets:

◦Systemwide sales growth of 3% to 5%;

◦Operating margin in the mid-40% range;

◦Earnings per share growth in the high-single digits; and

◦Return on incremental invested capital in the mid-20% range.

McDonald's Corporation 2018 Annual Report 19

Consolidated Operating Results

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

n/m Not meaningful

IMPACT OF FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSLATION ON REPORTED RESULTS

While changes in foreign currency exchange rates affect reported results, McDonald’s mitigates exposures, where practical, by purchasing goods and services in local currencies, financing in local currencies and hedging certain foreign-denominated cash flows.

In 2018, results reflected a positive foreign currency impact of $0.04, primarily due to the stronger Euro and British Pound. In 2017, results reflected the stronger Euro, offset by the weaker British Pound. In 2016, results were negatively impacted by the weaker British Pound as well as many other currencies.

Impact of foreign currency translation on reported results

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

 McDonald's Corporation 2018 Annual Report 20

NET INCOME AND DILUTED EARNINGS PER COMMON SHARE

In 2018, net income increased 14% (13% in constant currencies) to $5.9 billion and diluted earnings per common share increased 18% (18% in constant currencies) to $7.54. Foreign currency translation had a positive impact of $0.04 on diluted earnings per share. 

In 2017, net income increased 11% (11% in constant currencies) to $5.2 billion and diluted earnings per common share increased 17% (17% in constant currencies) to $6.37. Foreign currency translation had no impact on diluted earnings per share.

Results in 2018 reflected a lower effective tax rate, and stronger operating performance due to an increase in sales-driven franchised margin dollars, partly offset by lower Company-operated margin dollars due to the impact of refranchising. Results in 2017 reflected stronger operating performance, G&A savings, improved performance in Japan, and the benefit of a reversal of a valuation allowance on a deferred tax asset in Japan.

Included in the full year 2018 results were:

◦approximately $140 million, or $0.17 per share, of non-cash impairment charges;

◦pre-tax strategic restructuring charges of $94 million, or $0.09 per share (of which $85 million relates to the restructuring of the U.S. business); and

◦approximately $75 million, or $0.10 per share, of net tax cost associated with 2018 adjustments to the provisional amounts recorded in the prior year under the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act ("Tax Act").

Included in the full year 2017 results were:

◦approximately $700 million, or $0.82 per share, of net tax cost associated with the Tax Act; and

◦a pre-tax gain of approximately $850 million on the sale of the Company’s businesses in China and Hong Kong, offset in part by $150 million of restructuring and impairment charges in connection with the Company’s global G&A and refranchising initiatives, for a net benefit of $0.53 per share.

Excluding these 2018 and 2017 items, 2018 net income was $6.2 billion, an increase of 14% (14% in constant currencies), and diluted earnings per share was $7.90, an increase of 19% (18% in constant currencies). Excluding items impacting 2017 and the 2016 strategic charges of $342 million, 2017 net income was $5.4 billion, an increase of 10% (10% in constant currencies), and diluted earnings per share was $6.66, an increase of 16% (16% in constant currencies).

The Company repurchased 32.2 million shares of its stock for $5.2 billion in 2018 and 31.4 million shares of its stock for $4.6 billion in 2017, driving reductions in weighted-average shares outstanding on a diluted basis in both periods, which positively benefited earnings per share.

REVENUES

The Company’s revenues consist of sales by Company-operated restaurants and fees from restaurants operated by franchisees. Revenues from conventional franchised restaurants include rent and royalties based on a percent of sales, minimum rent payments and initial fees. Revenues from franchised restaurants that are licensed to foreign affiliates and developmental licensees include a royalty based on a percent of sales, and generally include initial fees.

The Company has continually reviewed its mix of Company-owned and franchised restaurants to help optimize overall performance, with a goal to be approximately 95% franchised over the long term. Franchised restaurants represent approximately 93% of McDonald's restaurants worldwide at December 31, 2018. Although refranchising allows the Company to generate more stable and predictable revenue and cash flow streams while operating with a less resource-intensive structure, the shift to a greater percentage of franchised restaurants negatively impacts consolidated revenues as Company-operated sales are replaced by franchised revenues, where the Company receives rent and/or royalty revenue based on a percentage of sales.

Effective January 1, 2018, the Company adopted the guidance issued in Accounting Standards Codification 606, "Revenue Recognition - Revenue from Contracts with Customers." This standard changed the way initial fees from franchisees for new restaurant openings and new franchise terms are recognized. Under the new guidance, initial franchise fees are being recognized evenly over the franchise term rather than immediately upon receipt. Revenues for 2018 reflected a negative impact of approximately $42 million as a result of this new guidance.

In 2018, revenues decreased 8% (8% in constant currencies) and in 2017, revenues decreased 7% (8% in constant currencies). For both periods, the decreases in revenues were due to the Company's strategic refranchising initiatives, partly offset by positive comparable sales.

McDonald's Corporation 2018 Annual Report 21

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The following tables present comparable sales, comparable guest counts and Systemwide sales increases/(decreases):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

* In 2018 and 2017, the Company excluded sales from markets identified as hyper-inflationary (currently only Venezuela) from the comparable sales calculation as the Company believes this more accurately reflects the underlying business trends. There was no significant impact related to 2016.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

* Unlike comparable sales, the Company has not excluded hyper-inflationary market results from Systemwide sales as these sales are the basis on which the Company calculates and records revenues. The difference between comparable sales growth rates and Systemwide sales growth rates are due to both restaurant expansion and the hyper-inflationary impact.

 McDonald's Corporation 2018 Annual Report 22

Franchised sales are not recorded as revenues by the Company, but are the basis on which the Company calculates and records franchised revenues and are indicative of the financial health of the franchisee base. The following table presents franchised sales and the related increases/(decreases):

 Franchised sales

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

 * Reflects the impact of refranchising the Company's businesses in China and Hong Kong in the third quarter of 2017.

FRANCHISED MARGINS

Franchised margin dollars represent revenues from franchised restaurants less the Company’s costs associated with those restaurants, primarily occupancy costs (rent and depreciation). Franchised margin dollars represented about 85% of the combined restaurant margins in 2018, about 80% in 2017, and about 75% in 2016.

In 2018, franchised margin dollars increased $727 million or 9% (8% in constant currencies). In 2017, franchised margin dollars increased $703 million or 9% (9% in constant currencies). For both 2018 and 2017, the constant currency increases were due to positive comparable sales performance across all segments, refranchising and expansion.

Franchised margins

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•U.S.: In 2018 and 2017, the decreases in the franchised margin percents were primarily due to higher depreciation costs related to investments in EOTF, partly offset by positive comparable sales.

•International Lead Markets: In 2018 and 2017, the increases in the franchised margin percent primarily reflected the benefit from positive comparable sales performance, partly offset by the impact of refranchising and higher occupancy costs.

•High Growth Markets: In 2018 and 2017, the increases in the franchised margin percents were primarily due to the impact of refranchising, mainly related to the sale of the Company's businesses in China and Hong Kong in 2017, as well as strong comparable sales performance.

The franchised margin percent in Foundational Markets & Corporate is higher relative to the other segments due to a larger proportion of developmental licensed and affiliated restaurants where the Company receives royalty income with no corresponding occupancy costs. 

McDonald's Corporation 2018 Annual Report 23

COMPANY-OPERATED MARGINS

Company-operated margin dollars represent sales by Company-operated restaurants less the operating costs of these restaurants. In 2018, Company-operated margin dollars decreased $562 million or 24% (25% in constant currencies). In 2017, Company-operated margin dollars decreased $287 million or 11% (12% in constant currencies).

Company-operated margins

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

SELLING, GENERAL & ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES

Consolidated selling, general and administrative expenses decreased 1% (2% in constant currencies) in 2018 and decreased 6% (7% in constant currencies) in 2017. The decreases in 2018 and 2017 were primarily due to lower employee-related costs, partly offset by investment in restaurant technology. Expenses in 2018 also reflected costs related to the 2018 Worldwide Owner/Operator Convention and sponsorship of the 2018 Winter Olympics.

Selling, general & administrative expenses

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Included in Foundational Markets & Corporate are home office support costs in areas such as facilities, finance, human resources, information technology, legal, marketing, restaurant operations, supply chain and training.

(2)Includes all cash incentives and share-based compensation expense.

(3)Excludes $12.2 million of foreign currency cost.

(4)Excludes $9.4 million of foreign currency cost.

Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percent of Systemwide sales was 2.3% in 2018, 2.5% in 2017 and 2.8% in 2016. Management believes that analyzing selling, general and administrative expenses as a percent of Systemwide sales is meaningful because these costs are incurred to support the overall McDonald's business. 

 McDonald's Corporation 2018 Annual Report 24

OTHER OPERATING (INCOME) EXPENSE, NET

Other operating (income) expense, net

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•Gains on sales of restaurant businesses

In 2018 and 2017, gains on sales of restaurant businesses remained relatively flat with the prior year.

•Equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates

In 2018 and 2017, results benefited from improved performance in Japan. 2017 results also included the benefit of the reversal of a valuation allowance on a deferred tax asset in Japan in the fourth quarter 2017.

•Impairment and other charges (gains), net

In 2018, impairment and other charges (gains), net reflected approximately $140 million of impairment charges due to the Company’s assessment of the recoverability of long-lived assets as well as the strategic restructuring charge in the U.S. of $85 million. The results for 2017 reflected a gain on the Company's sale of its businesses in China and Hong Kong of approximately $850 million, partly offset by $150 million of restructuring and impairment charges. Restructuring and impairment charges for all three years related to the Company's global refranchising and G&A initiatives.

OPERATING INCOME

Operating income

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

n/m Not meaningful

•U.S.: 2018 and 2017 operating income reflected higher franchised margin dollars and lower G&A costs, partly offset by lower Company-operated margin dollars. 2018 results also reflected the $85 million strategic restructuring charge. Excluding this charge, operating income for 2018 increased 2%.

•International Lead Markets: In 2018 and 2017, the constant currency operating income increase was primarily due to sales-driven improvements in franchised margin dollars across all markets. 2018 results also reflected higher gains on sales of restaurant businesses in the U.K. and Australia, while 2017 benefited from a property disposition gain in Australia.

•High Growth Markets: Results for 2018 and 2017 reflected impairment charges while 2017 also reflected a gain on the sale of the Company's businesses in China and Hong Kong. Excluding these items, 2018 operating income decreased 10% (11% in constant currencies) due to the impact of refranchising in China and Hong Kong, and 2017 operating income increased 17% (15% in constant currencies) due to higher sales-driven franchised margin dollar performance, the impact of refranchising and G&A savings, as well as benefiting from lower depreciation expense in China and Hong Kong.

•Foundational Markets and Corporate: In 2018 and 2017, results reflected higher G&A costs in Corporate, mainly due to investments in restaurant technology. 2017 results also included the benefit of the reversal of a valuation allowance on a deferred tax asset in Japan.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

INTEREST EXPENSE

Interest expense increased 7% and 4% in 2018 and 2017, respectively, primarily reflecting higher average debt balances, partly offset by lower average interest rates.

McDonald's Corporation 2018 Annual Report 25

NONOPERATING (INCOME) EXPENSE, NET

Nonoperating (income) expense, net

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Foreign currency and hedging activity includes net gains or losses on certain hedges that reduce the exposure to variability on certain intercompany foreign currency cash flow streams. 

PROVISION FOR INCOME TAXES

In 2018, 2017 and 2016, the reported effective income tax rates were 24.2%, 39.4% and 31.7%, respectively.

The effective income tax rate for 2018 reflected approximately $75 million of net tax cost associated with the 2018 adjustments to the provisional amounts recorded in the prior year under the Tax Act. Excluding the impact of the Tax Act and the current year impairment charges, the effective income tax rate was 22.9% for 2018. Excluding the prior year provisional net tax cost of approximately $700 million under the Tax Act, the effective income tax rate was 31.6% for 2017.

Excluding the impact of the Tax Act and the current year impairment charges, the lower effective income tax rate for 2018 reflected the reduction in the U.S. corporate tax rate from 35% to 21% in 2018. In addition, both 2018 and 2017 reflected a benefit from a change in tax reserves as a result of global audit progression.

Consolidated net deferred tax liabilities included tax assets, net of valuation allowance, of $2.0 billion in 2018 and $1.5 billion in 2017. Substantially all of the net tax assets are expected to be realized in the U.S. and other profitable markets.

RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING STANDARDS

Recently issued accounting standards are included in Part II, Item 8, page 37 of this Form 10-K.

Cash Flows

The Company generates significant cash from its operations and has substantial credit availability and capacity to fund operating and discretionary spending such as capital expenditures, debt repayments, dividends and share repurchases. 

Cash provided by operations totaled $7.0 billion and free cash flow was $4.2 billion in 2018, an increase in free cash flow of $528 million or 14% compared with 2017. Cash provided by operations totaled $5.6 billion and free cash flow was $3.7 billion in 2017. The Company's free cash flow conversion rate was 71% in 2018 and 2017 (see reconciliation in Exhibit 12). In 2018, cash provided by operations increased by $1.4 billion or 25% compared with 2017, primarily due to lower tax payments. In 2017, cash provided by operations decreased by $508 million or 8% compared with 2016, as improved operating results were more than offset by higher income tax payments in the U.S. and other working capital changes.

Cash used for investing activities totaled $2.5 billion in 2018, an increase of $3 billion compared with 2017. The increase was primarily due to lower proceeds from the sale of restaurant businesses in 2018, as well as higher capital expenditures. Cash provided by investing activities totaled $562 million in 2017, an increase of $1.5 billion compared with 2016. The increase was primarily due to proceeds associated with the sale of the Company's businesses in China and Hong Kong.

Cash used for financing activities totaled $5.9 billion in 2018, an increase of $639 million compared with 2017, primarily due to higher treasury stock purchases. Cash used for financing activities totaled $5.3 billion in 2017, a decrease of $6 billion compared with 2016, primarily due to lower treasury stock purchases, partly offset by a decrease in net borrowings.

The Company’s cash and equivalents balance was $866 million and $2.5 billion at year end 2018 and 2017, respectively. In addition to cash and equivalents on hand and cash provided by operations, the Company can meet short-term funding needs through its continued access to commercial paper borrowings and line of credit agreements.

RESTAURANT DEVELOPMENT AND CAPITAL EXPENDITURES

In 2018, the Company opened 1,081 restaurants and closed 467 restaurants. In 2017, the Company opened 929 restaurants and closed 587 restaurants. The Company closes restaurants for a variety of reasons, such as existing sales and profit performance or loss of real estate tenure.

Systemwide restaurants at year end

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

 McDonald's Corporation 2018 Annual Report 26

Approximately 93% of the restaurants at year-end 2018 were franchised, including 95% in the U.S., 88% in International Lead Markets, 83% in High Growth Markets and 98% in Foundational Markets.

Capital expenditures increased $888 million or 48% in 2018, primarily due to reinvestment in existing restaurants (including investment in EOTF). Capital expenditures were relatively flat in 2017 as higher expenditures on restaurant reinvestment were offset by fewer restaurant openings that required the Company's capital. Under McDonald's developmental licensee and affiliate arrangements, licensees provide capital for the entire business and the Company generally has no capital invested.

Capital expenditures invested in the U.S., International Lead Markets and High Growth Markets represented over 90% of the total in 2018, 2017 and 2016. 

Capital expenditures 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Primarily corporate equipment and other office-related expenditures

New restaurant investments in all years were concentrated in markets with strong returns and/or opportunities for long-term growth. Average development costs vary widely by market depending on the types of restaurants built and the real estate and construction costs within each market. These costs, which include land, buildings and equipment, are managed through the use of optimally-sized restaurants, construction and design efficiencies, as well as leveraging the Company's global sourcing network and best practices. Although the Company is not responsible for all costs for every restaurant opened, total development costs for new traditional McDonald’s restaurants in the U.S. averaged approximately $3.8 million in 2018.

The Company owned approximately 50% of the land and approximately 80% of the buildings for restaurants in its consolidated markets at year-end 2018 and 2017.

SHARE REPURCHASES AND DIVIDENDS

In 2018, the Company returned approximately $8.5 billion to shareholders through a combination of shares repurchased and dividends paid. This brings the cumulative two-year return to shareholders to $16.2 billion toward our targeted return of about $25 billion for the three-year period ending 2019.

Shares repurchased and dividends 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

In July 2017, the Company's Board of Directors authorized the purchase of up to $15 billion of the Company's outstanding stock, with no specified expiration date. In 2018, approximately 32.2 million shares were repurchased for $5.2 billion, bringing total purchases under the program to approximately 49.5 million shares or $7.9 billion.

The Company has paid dividends on its common stock for 43 consecutive years and has increased the dividend amount every year. The 2018 full year dividend of $4.19 per share reflects the quarterly dividend paid for each of the first three quarters of $1.01 per share, with an increase to $1.16 per share paid in the fourth quarter. This 15% increase in the quarterly dividend equates to a $4.64 per share annual dividend and reflects the Company’s confidence in the ongoing strength and reliability of its cash flow. As in the past, future dividend amounts will be considered after reviewing profitability expectations and financing needs, and will be declared at the discretion of the Company’s Board of Directors.

Financial Position and Capital Resources

TOTAL ASSETS

Total assets decreased $1.0 billion or 3% in 2018 primarily due to a decrease in cash and equivalents and the impact of foreign exchange rates, partly offset by an increase in accounts and notes receivable due to the significant number of EOTF projects and corresponding billings to franchisees for their portion of the reinvestment. Net property and equipment increased $394.4 million in 2018, primarily due to capital expenditures, partly offset by depreciation and the impact of foreign exchange rates. Net property and equipment represented about 70% of total assets at year-end. Approximately 96% of total assets were in the U.S., International Lead Markets, and High Growth Markets at year-end 2018. 

McDonald's Corporation 2018 Annual Report 27

FINANCING AND MARKET RISK

The Company generally borrows on a long-term basis and is exposed to the impact of interest rate changes and foreign currency fluctuations. Debt obligations at December 31, 2018 totaled $31.1 billion, compared with $29.5 billion at December 31, 2017. The net increase in 2018 was primarily due to net long-term issuances of $2.0 billion.

Debt highlights(1) 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)All percentages are as of December 31, except for the weighted-average annual interest rate, which is for the year.

(2)Based on debt obligations before the effects of fair value hedging adjustments and deferred debt costs. These effects are excluded as they have no impact on the obligation at maturity. See Debt Financing note to the consolidated financial statements.

(3)Includes the effect of interest rate swaps used to hedge debt.

Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s currently rate, with a stable outlook, the Company’s commercial paper A-2 and P-2, respectively; and its long-term debt BBB+ and Baa1, respectively. To access the debt capital markets, the Company relies on credit-rating agencies to assign short-term and long-term credit ratings. 

Certain of the Company’s debt obligations contain cross-acceleration provisions and restrictions on Company and subsidiary mortgages and the long-term debt of certain subsidiaries. There are no provisions in the Company’s debt obligations that would accelerate repayment of debt as a result of a change in credit ratings or a material adverse change in the Company’s business. Under existing authorization from the Company’s Board of Directors, the Company has $15.0 billion of authority to borrow funds, of which $6.5 billion remains outstanding as of December 31, 2018. These borrowings may include (i) public or private offering of debt securities; (ii) direct borrowing from banks or other financial institutions; and (iii) other forms of indebtedness. In addition to debt securities available through a medium-term notes program registered with the SEC and a Global Medium-Term Notes program, the Company has $3.5 billion available under a committed line of credit agreement as well as authority to issue commercial paper in the U.S. and global markets (see Debt Financing note to the consolidated financial statements). In 2019, the Company plans to issue long-term debt to refinance $2.1 billion of maturing corporate debt. As of December 31, 2018, the Company's subsidiaries also had $254 million of borrowings outstanding, primarily under uncommitted foreign currency line of credit agreements.

The Company uses major capital markets, bank financings and derivatives to meet its financing requirements. The Company manages its debt portfolio in response to changes in interest rates and foreign currency rates by periodically retiring, redeeming and repurchasing debt, terminating swaps and using derivatives. The Company does not hold or issue derivatives for trading purposes. All swaps are over-the-counter instruments.

In managing the impact of interest rate changes and foreign currency fluctuations, the Company uses interest rate swaps and finances in the currencies in which assets are denominated. The Company uses foreign currency debt and derivatives to hedge the foreign currency risk associated with certain royalties, intercompany financings and long-term investments in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. This reduces the impact of fluctuating foreign currencies on cash flows and shareholders’ equity. Total foreign currency-denominated debt was $11.8 billion and $12.4 billion for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. In addition, where practical, the Company’s restaurants purchase goods and services in local currencies resulting in natural hedges. See the Summary of significant accounting policies note to the consolidated financial statements related to financial instruments and hedging activities for additional information regarding the accounting impact and use of derivatives.

The Company does not have significant exposure to any individual counterparty and has master agreements that contain netting arrangements. Certain of these agreements also require each party to post collateral if credit ratings fall below, or aggregate exposures exceed, certain contractual limits. At December 31, 2018, the Company was required to post an immaterial amount of collateral due to negative fair value of certain derivative positions. The Company's counterparties were not required to post collateral on any derivative position, other than on hedges of certain of the Company’s supplemental benefit plan liabilities where the counterparties were required to post collateral on their liability positions.

The Company’s net asset exposure is diversified among a broad basket of currencies. The Company’s largest net asset exposures (defined as foreign currency assets less foreign currency liabilities) at year end were as follows:

Foreign currency net asset exposures

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The Company prepared sensitivity analyses of its financial instruments to determine the impact of hypothetical changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates on the Company’s results of operations, cash flows and the fair value of its financial instruments. The interest rate analysis assumed a one percentage point adverse change in interest rates on all financial instruments, but did not consider the effects of the reduced level of economic activity that could exist in such an environment. The foreign currency rate analysis assumed that 

 McDonald's Corporation 2018 Annual Report 28

each foreign currency rate would change by 10% in the same direction relative to the U.S. Dollar on all financial instruments; however, the analysis did not include the potential impact on revenues, local currency prices or the effect of fluctuating currencies on the Company’s anticipated foreign currency royalties and other payments received from the markets. Based on the results of these analyses of the Company’s financial instruments, neither a one percentage point adverse change in interest rates from 2018 levels nor a 10% adverse change in foreign currency rates from 2018 levels would materially affect the Company’s results of operations, cash flows or the fair value of its financial instruments.

LIQUIDITY

The Company has significant operations outside the U.S. where we earn about 65% of our operating income. A significant portion of these historical earnings have been reinvested in foreign jurisdictions where the Company has made, and will continue to make, substantial investments to support the ongoing development and growth of our international operations.

The Company's cash and equivalents held by our foreign subsidiaries totaled approximately $708 million as of December 31, 2018. 

Consistent with prior years, we expect existing domestic cash and equivalents, domestic cash flows from operations, repatriation of a portion of foreign earnings, and the issuance of domestic debt to continue to be sufficient to fund our domestic operating, investing, and financing activities. We also continue to expect existing foreign cash and equivalents and foreign cash flows from operations to be sufficient to fund our foreign operating, investing and financing activities. 

In the future, should we require more capital to fund activities in the U.S. than is generated by our domestic operations and is available through the issuance of domestic debt, we could elect to repatriate a greater portion of future periods' earnings from foreign jurisdictions. 

CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS AND COMMITMENTS

The Company has long-term contractual obligations primarily in the form of lease obligations (related to both Company-operated and franchised restaurants) and debt obligations. In addition, the Company has long-term revenue and cash flow streams that relate to its franchise arrangements. Cash provided by operations (including cash provided by these franchise arrangements) along with the Company’s borrowing capacity and other sources of cash will be used to satisfy the obligations. The following table summarizes the Company’s contractual obligations and their aggregate maturities as well as future minimum rent payments due to the Company under existing franchise arrangements as of December 31, 2018. See discussions of cash flows, financial position and capital resources as well as the Notes to the consolidated financial statements for further details.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)For sites that have lease escalations tied to an index, future minimum payments reflect the current index adjustments through December 31, 2018. In addition, future minimum payments exclude option periods that have not yet been exercised.

(2)The maturities include reclassifications of short-term obligations to long-term obligations of $2.4 billion, as they are supported by a long-term line of credit agreement expiring in December 2023. Debt obligations do not include the impact of non-cash fair value hedging adjustments, deferred debt costs and accrued interest.

In the U.S., the Company maintains certain supplemental benefit plans that allow participants to (i) make tax-deferred contributions and (ii) receive Company-provided allocations that cannot be made under the qualified benefit plans because of Internal Revenue Service ("IRS") limitations. At December 31, 2018, total liabilities for the supplemental plans were $437 million. 

At December 31, 2018, total liabilities for gross unrecognized tax benefits were $1.3 billion. In addition, a liability of approximately $757 million remains resulting from the Tax Act, which imposed a deemed repatriation tax on the Company’s undistributed foreign earnings. This additional tax liability will be paid over the next eight years. Refer to the Income Taxes footnote on page 45 for additional information.

There are certain purchase commitments that are not recognized in the consolidated financial statements and are primarily related to construction, inventory, energy, marketing and other service related arrangements that occur in the normal course of business. Such commitments are generally shorter term in nature, will be funded from operating cash flows, and are not significant to the Company’s overall financial position.

Other Matters

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations is based upon the Company’s consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. The preparation of these financial statements requires the Company to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses as well as related disclosures. On an ongoing basis, the Company evaluates its estimates and judgments based on historical experience and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results may differ from these estimates.

McDonald's Corporation 2018 Annual Report 29

The Company reviews its financial reporting and disclosure practices and accounting policies quarterly to confirm that they provide accurate and transparent information relative to the current economic and business environment. The Company believes that of its significant accounting policies, the following involve a higher degree of judgment and/or complexity:

•Property and equipment

Property and equipment are depreciated or amortized on a straight-line basis over their useful lives based on management’s estimates of the period over which the assets will generate revenue (not to exceed lease term plus options for leased property). The useful lives are estimated based on historical experience with similar assets, taking into account anticipated technological or other changes. The Company periodically reviews these lives relative to physical factors, economic factors and industry trends. If there are changes in the planned use of property and equipment, or if technological changes occur more rapidly than anticipated, the useful lives assigned to these assets may need to be shortened, resulting in the accelerated recognition of depreciation and amortization expense or write-offs in future periods.

•Share-based compensation

The Company has a share-based compensation plan which authorizes the granting of various equity-based incentives including stock options and restricted stock units ("RSUs") to employees and nonemployee directors. The expense for these equity-based incentives is based on their fair value at date of grant and generally amortized over their vesting period. The Company estimates forfeitures when determining the amount of compensation costs to be recognized in each period.

The fair value of each stock option granted is estimated on the date of grant using a closed-form pricing model. The pricing model requires assumptions, which impact the assumed fair value, including the expected life of the stock option, the risk-free interest rate, expected volatility of the Company’s stock over the expected life and the expected dividend yield. The Company uses historical data to determine these assumptions and if these assumptions change significantly for future grants, share-based compensation expense will fluctuate in future years. The fair value of each RSU granted is equal to the market price of the Company’s stock at date of grant, and prior to 2018 included a reduction for the present value of expected dividends over the vesting period. For performance-based RSUs granted beginning in 2016, the Company includes a relative Total Shareholder Return ("TSR") modifier to determine the number of shares earned at the end of the performance period. The fair value of performance-based RSUs that include the TSR modifier is determined using a Monte Carlo valuation model.

•Long-lived assets impairment review

Long-lived assets (including goodwill) are reviewed for impairment annually in the fourth quarter and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. In assessing the recoverability of the Company’s long-lived assets, the Company considers changes in economic conditions and makes assumptions regarding estimated future cash flows and other factors. Estimates of future cash flows are highly subjective judgments based on the Company’s experience and knowledge of its operations. These estimates can be significantly impacted by many factors including changes in global and local business and economic conditions, operating costs, inflation, competition, and consumer and demographic trends. A key assumption impacting estimated future cash flows is the estimated change in comparable sales. If the Company’s estimates or underlying assumptions change in the future, the Company may be required to record impairment charges. Based on the annual goodwill impairment test, conducted in the fourth quarter, the Company does not have any reporting units (defined as each individual market) with risk of material goodwill impairment.

•Litigation accruals

In the ordinary course of business, the Company is subject to proceedings, lawsuits and other claims primarily related to competitors, customers, employees, franchisees, government agencies, intellectual property, shareholders and suppliers. The Company is required to assess the likelihood of any adverse judgments or outcomes to these matters as well as potential ranges of probable losses. A determination of the amount of accrual required, if any, for these contingencies is made after careful analysis of each matter. The required accrual may change in the future due to new developments in each matter or changes in approach such as a change in settlement strategy in dealing with these matters. The Company does not believe that any such matter currently being reviewed will have a material adverse effect on its financial condition or results of operations.

•Income taxes

The Company records a valuation allowance to reduce its deferred tax assets if it is considered more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred assets will not be realized. While the Company has considered future taxable income and ongoing prudent and feasible tax strategies, including the sale of appreciated assets, in assessing the need for the valuation allowance, if these estimates and assumptions change in the future, the Company may be required to adjust its valuation allowance. This could result in a charge to, or an increase in, income in the period such determination is made.

The Company operates within multiple taxing jurisdictions and is subject to audit in these jurisdictions. The Company records accruals for the estimated outcomes of these audits, and the accruals may change in the future due to new developments in each matter. The most significant new developments in 2018 and 2017 are described below.

In 2018 and 2017, the Company increased the balance of unrecognized tax benefits by $162 million and $256 million, respectively. In both 2018 and 2017, there was audit progression in the U.S. federal and state audits as well as multiple foreign tax jurisdictions. The Company has considered this new information in evaluating the unrecognized tax benefits and in certain situations, the Company changed its judgment on the measurement of the related unrecognized tax benefits. These changes have been reflected in the Unrecognized Tax Benefits table that is included in the Income Taxes footnote in the Consolidated Financial Statements.

In 2015, the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) issued a Revenue Agent Report (“RAR”) that included certain disagreed transfer pricing adjustments related to the Company’s U.S. Federal income tax returns for 2009 and 2010. Also in 2015, the Company filed a protest with the IRS related to these disagreed transfer pricing matters. During 2017, the Company received a response to its protest. In December 2018, the Company met with the IRS Appeals team and additional meetings are anticipated in 2019. The Company expects resolution on these issues in 2019 or 2020.

In 2017, the IRS completed its examination of the Company’s U.S. Federal income tax returns for 2011 and 2012. In 2018, the IRS issued a RAR for these years. As expected, the RAR included the same disagreed transfer pricing matters as the 2009 and 2010 RAR. Also in 2018, the Company filed a protest with the IRS related to these disagreed transfer pricing matters. The transfer pricing matters for 2011 

 McDonald's Corporation 2018 Annual Report 30

and 2012 are being addressed along with the 2009 and 2010 transfer pricing matters as part of the 2009-2010 appeals process, such that resolution is expected in either 2019 or 2020. 

While the Company cannot predict the ultimate resolution of the aforementioned tax matters, we believe that the liabilities recorded are appropriate and adequate as determined in accordance with Topic 740 - Income Taxes of the Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”).

In December 2015, the European Commission opened a formal investigation against the Luxembourg government to examine whether decisions by the tax authorities in Luxembourg with regard to the corporate income tax paid by certain of our subsidiaries complied with European Union rules on state aid. In September 2018, the European Commission concluded that Luxembourg’s tax treatment of these McDonald’s subsidiaries did not constitute state aid under the European Union rules. This decision resulted in no impact to the Company’s financial statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2018.

The Tax Act was enacted in the U.S. on December 22, 2017. The Tax Act reduced the U.S. federal corporate income tax rate to 21% from 35% and required companies to pay a one-time transition tax on earnings of certain foreign subsidiaries that were previously tax deferred. In 2017, the Company recorded provisional amounts for certain enactment-date effects of the Tax Act by applying the guidance in Staff Accounting Bulletin ("SAB") 118 because the Company had not yet completed its enactment-date accounting for these effects. In 2018, the Company recorded adjustments to the provisional amounts and completed its accounting for all of the enactment-date income tax effects of the Tax Act. 

SAB 118 measurement period 

At December 31, 2017, the Company had not completed its accounting for all of the enactment-date income tax effects of the Tax Act under ASC 740, Income Taxes, primarily for the following aspects: remeasurement of deferred tax assets and liabilities, one-time transition tax, and its accounting position related to indefinite reinvestment of unremitted foreign earnings. As further discussed below, during 2018, the Company recognized adjustments of approximately $75 million to the provisional amounts recorded at December 31, 2017, primarily related to the transition tax. These adjustments are included as a component of income tax expense from continuing operations. 

One-time transition tax: The one-time transition tax is based on the Company's total post-1986 earnings and profits ("E&P"), the tax on which it previously deferred from U.S. income taxes under U.S. law. The Company recorded a provisional amount for its one-time transition tax liability for each of its foreign subsidiaries, resulting in a transition tax liability of approximately $1.2 billion at December 31, 2017. 

Upon further analyses of the Tax Act and notices and regulations issued and proposed by the IRS and the U.S. Department of the Treasury, the Company finalized its calculations of the transition tax liability during 2018 and increased its December 31, 2017 provisional amount by approximately $75 million. The Company has elected to pay its transition tax over the eight-year period provided in the Tax Act. 

Deferred tax assets and liabilities: As of December 31, 2017, the Company remeasured certain deferred tax assets and liabilities based on the rates at which they were expected to reverse in the future (generally 21%), by recording a provisional amount of approximately $500 million. No adjustment to the provisional amount was made in 2018. 

EFFECTS OF CHANGING PRICES—INFLATION

The Company has demonstrated an ability to manage inflationary cost increases effectively. This ability is because of rapid inventory turnover, the ability to adjust menu prices, cost controls and substantial property holdings, many of which are at fixed costs and partly financed by debt made less expensive by inflation.

RISK FACTORS AND CAUTIONARY STATEMENT ABOUT FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION

This report includes forward-looking statements about our plans and future performance, including those under Outlook for 2019. Refer to the cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements in Part 1, Item 1A, page 3, of this Form 10-K.

ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk