Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Index to Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

66
Forward-Looking Statements and Other Financial Information

For purposes of this discussion, “MetLife,” the “Company,” “we,” “our” and “us” refer to MetLife, Inc., a Delaware corporation incorporated in 1999, its subsidiaries and affiliates. This discussion should be read in conjunction with “Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements,” “Risk Factors,” “Selected Financial Data,” “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” and the Company’s consolidated financial statements included elsewhere herein.

This Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations may contain or incorporate by reference information that includes or is based upon forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. See “Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements” for cautionary language regarding forward-looking statements.

This Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations includes references to our performance measures, adjusted earnings and adjusted earnings available to common shareholders, that are not based on GAAP. See “— Non-GAAP and Other Financial Disclosures” for definitions and a discussion of these measures, and “— Results of Operations” for reconciliations of historical non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures.

Executive Summary

Overview

MetLife is one of the world’s leading financial services companies, providing insurance, annuities, employee benefits and asset management. MetLife is organized into five segments: U.S.; Asia; Latin America; EMEA; and MetLife Holdings. In addition, the Company reports certain of its results of operations in Corporate & Other. See “Business — Segments and Corporate & Other” and Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on the Company’s segments and Corporate & Other. Management continues to evaluate the Company’s segment performance and allocated resources and may adjust related measurements in the future to better reflect segment profitability. 

U.S. Tax Reform

In December 2017, U.S. Tax Reform was signed into law. U.S. GAAP requires that the impact of tax legislation be recognized in the period in which the law was enacted. As a result, the Company recognized the tax effects of U.S. Tax Reform for the year ended December 31, 2017. While the Company recorded a reasonable estimate of the tax effects of U.S. Tax Reform in the period of enactment, its income tax accounting was not complete due to uncertainties that existed at the time. Accordingly, certain U.S. Tax Reform amounts were revised in the Company’s consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2018. In addition, given the complexities of U.S. Tax Reform, there still remain uncertainties surrounding aspects of the new law that may impact results in the future. See Note 18 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a further discussion of U.S. Tax Reform. 

Separation of Brighthouse

In August 2017, MetLife, Inc. completed the separation of Brighthouse Financial, Inc. and its subsidiaries (“Brighthouse”) through a distribution of 96,776,670 shares of Brighthouse Financial, Inc. common stock to the MetLife, Inc. common shareholders (the “Separation”). For information regarding the Separation, the Company’s 2018 sale of the fair value option (“FVO”) Brighthouse Financial, Inc. common stock (“FVO Brighthouse Common Stock”), and ongoing transactions between MetLife and Brighthouse, see Notes 3 and 12 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Current Year Highlights

During the year ended December 31, 2018, overall sales increased compared to the year ended December 31, 2017 primarily from improved sales in our RIS business and in Japan. Positive net flows drove an increase in our investment portfolio and investment yields improved, however, interest credited rates were higher. A favorable change in net derivative gains (losses) was primarily the result of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. While U.S. Tax Reform positively impacted net income in both 2018 and 2017, the impact in 2017 was significantly larger. In addition, our annual actuarial assumption review negatively impacted results when compared to 2017. Our results for 2017 included a loss from the operations of Brighthouse that is reflected in discontinued operations.

67
The following represents segment level results and percentage contributions to total segment level adjusted earnings available to common shareholders for the year ended December 31, 2018:

_______________

(1) Excludes Corporate & Other adjusted loss available to common shareholders of $704 million.

(2) Consistent with GAAP guidance for segment reporting, adjusted earnings is our GAAP measure of segment performance. For additional information, see Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

68
Year Ended December 31, 2018 Compared with the Year Ended December 31, 2017

Consolidated Results - Highlights

Net income (loss) available to MetLife, Inc.’s common shareholders up $1.1 billion:

•Favorable change in net derivative gains (losses) of $1.4 billion ($1.1 billion, net of income tax)

•

Favorable change in results from divested businesses of $936 million ($650 million, net of income tax) included in continuing operations

•

Favorable change in income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of income tax, of $986 million

•Net tax-related benefit in 2017 of $1.3 billion due to U.S. Tax Reform

•Net unfavorable change from our annual actuarial assumption reviews of $395 million ($297 million, net of income tax)

•Adjusted earnings available to common shareholders up $1.2 billion

(1) See “— Results of Operations — Consolidated Results” and “— Non-GAAP and Other Financial Disclosures” for reconciliations and definitions of non-GAAP financial measures.

Consolidated Results - Adjusted Earnings Highlights

Adjusted earnings available to common shareholders up $1.2 billion: 

•

The primary drivers of the increase in adjusted earnings were higher net investment income due to a larger asset base and higher investment yields, the favorable impact of U.S. Tax Reform, other favorable tax items, favorable refinements to DAC and certain insurance-related liabilities, lower expenses and favorable underwriting, partially offset by higher interest credited expenses and the net unfavorable change from our annual actuarial assumption review.

•

Our results for the year ended December 31, 2018 included the following:

 •a $349 million benefit from the IRS audit settlement related to the tax treatment of a wholly-owned U.K. investment subsidiary of MLIC, which was comprised of a $168 million tax benefit and a $181 million interest benefit

 •favorable impact from U.S. Tax Reform of $179 million, which includes a $78 million charge related to a revision in the estimate from the enactment of this reform 

 •favorable reserve adjustment of $62 million, net of income tax, relating to certain variable annuity guarantees assumed from a former joint venture in Japan

 •a $37 million, net of income tax, favorable net insurance adjustment resulting from reserve and DAC modeling improvements in our individual disability insurance business

 •expenses associated with our previously announced unit cost initiative of $284 million, net of income tax

 •

a $63 million, net of income tax, charge due to a current period increase in our incurred but not reported

(“IBNR”) life reserves, reflecting enhancements to our processes related to potential claims

 •a $60 million, net of income tax, increase in litigation reserves

 •unfavorable impact from our annual actuarial assumption review of $42 million, net of income tax

•

Our results for 2017 included the following:

 •a tax charge of $298 million related to U.S. Tax Reform

•

net tax-related charges of $139 million consisting of (i) a $180 million net tax charge related to the repatriation of approximately $3.0 billion of cash following the post-Separation review of our capital needs, partially offset by a tax benefit associated with dividends from our non-U.S. operations, and (ii) a $41 million net tax-related benefit from the finalization of certain tax audits

69
•

expenses associated with our previously announced unit cost initiative of $102 million, net of income tax

 •a $73 million, net of income tax, charge for expenses incurred related to a guaranty fund assessment for Penn Treaty Network America Insurance Company (“Penn Treaty”)

 •a $90 million, net of income tax, charge to increase certain RIS policy reserves

 •a favorable reserve adjustment of $55 million, net of income tax, resulting from modeling improvements in the reserving process for our life business

 •a charge of $36 million, net of income tax, for lease impairments

 •a benefit of $12 million, net of income tax, related to a refinement to prior period reinsurance receivables in Australia

For a more in-depth discussion of our consolidated results, see “— Results of Operations — Consolidated Results,” “— Results of Operations — Consolidated Results — Adjusted Earnings” and “— Results of Operations — Segment Results and Corporate & Other.”

70
Year Ended December 31, 2017 Compared with the Year Ended December 31, 2016 

Consolidated Results - Highlights

Net income (loss) available to MetLife, Inc.’s common shareholders up $3.2 billion:

•Lower losses from discontinued operations, net of income tax, of $1.7 billion

•Net tax-related benefit of $1.3 billion due to U.S. Tax Reform

•Unfavorable change in divested businesses of $861 million ($618 million, net of income tax)

•Unfavorable change in net investment gains (losses) of $625 million ($406 million, net of income tax)

•Adjusted earnings available to common shareholders up $202 million

(1) See “— Results of Operations — Consolidated Results” and “— Non-GAAP and Other Financial Disclosures” for reconciliations and definitions of non-GAAP financial measures.

Consolidated Results - Adjusted Earnings Highlights

Adjusted earnings available to common shareholders up $202 million:

•Results of operations positively impacted by annuities reinsurance activity with Brighthouse, the impact of 2017 and 2016 refinements made to DAC and certain insurance-related liabilities and the impact in both 2017 and 2016 of our annual actuarial assumption review, partially offset by the unfavorable impact of U.S. Tax Reform and other tax items

•Our results for 2017 included the following: 

 •a tax charge of $298 million related to U.S. Tax Reform

 •net tax charges of $139 million consisting of (i) a $180 million net tax charge related to the repatriation of approximately $3.0 billion of cash following the post-Separation review of our capital needs, partially offset by a tax benefit associated with dividends from our non-U.S. operations, and (ii) a $41 million tax benefit from the finalization of certain tax audits

 •expenses associated with our previously announced unit cost initiative of $102 million, net of income tax

 •a $73 million, net of income tax, charge for expenses incurred related to a guaranty fund assessment for Penn Treaty and increases in asbestos and litigation reserves

 •a $90 million, net of income tax, charge to increase certain RIS policy reserves

 •a favorable reserve adjustment of $55 million, net of income tax, resulting from modeling improvements in the reserving process for our life business

 •a charge of $36 million, net of income tax, for lease impairments

 •a benefit of $12 million, net of income tax, related to a refinement to prior period reinsurance receivables in Australia

•Our results for 2016 included the following:

 •unfavorable reserve adjustments of $65 million, net of income tax, resulting from modeling improvements in the reserving process

 •a $44 million, net of income tax, charge related to an adjustment to reinsurance receivables in Australia

 •tax benefit of $25 million related to a change in tax rate in Japan, which includes a benefit of $20 million that pertains to prior periods

 •a $23 million, net of income tax, charge for an increase in litigation reserves

 •tax charge in Chile of $12 million as a result of tax reform legislation, which includes a charge of $10 million that pertains to prior periods

71
For a more in-depth discussion of our consolidated results, see “— Results of Operations — Consolidated Results,” “— Results of Operations — Consolidated Results — Adjusted Earnings” and “— Results of Operations — Segment Results and Corporate & Other.”

Consolidated Company Outlook 

Our enterprise strategy is founded on the principle of One MetLife, where digital and simplified are the key enablers of our four strategic cornerstones: (i) optimizing value and risk by focusing on our businesses with higher internal rates of return, lower capital intensity, and maximum cash generation, (ii) driving operational excellence, by transforming into a high-performance operating company with a competitive cost structure, (iii) enabling our distribution channels to drive efficiency and productivity through digitalization and improved customer persistency, and (iv) undertaking a targeted approach to find the right solutions for the right customers through differentiated customer value propositions. This enterprise strategy has enhanced our ability to focus on the right markets, build clear differentiators, and continue to make the right investments to deliver shareholder value. 

Post-Separation, we are well-positioned in less volatile and fee-based businesses; as a result, we expect our results to be less sensitive to interest rates. Assuming interest rates follow the observable forward yield curves as of the year ended December 31, 2018, we expect the average ratio of free cash flow to adjusted earnings over the two-year period of 2019 and 2020 to be 65% to 75%, assuming a 10-year U.S. Treasury rate between 2.0% and 4.5%. We believe that free cash flow is a key determinant of common stock dividends and common stock repurchases.

In light of the move away from a sustained low interest rate environment, compounding business growth and our expense initiative, we are targeting an adjusted return on equity, excluding accumulated other comprehensive income (“AOCI”) other than foreign currency translation adjustments (“FCTA”), of 12% to 14% over the near-term. This target reflects our unit cost improvement program and the related initiative to invest $1.0 billion by 2020 to generate a pre-tax profit margin improvement of $800 million, which represents an approximate 200 basis point decline in our direct expense ratio, excluding total notable items related to direct expenses and pension risk transfers, by 2020 from our 2015 baseline year.

A key element of our enterprise strategy is to return excess capital to common shareholders through dividends and stock repurchases. In 2018, we returned $5.7 billion of capital to common shareholders through common stock dividends and common stock repurchases. Common stock repurchases are subject to the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend upon our capital position, liquidity, financial strength and credit ratings, general market conditions, the market price of MetLife, Inc.’s common stock compared to management’s assessment of the stock’s underlying value, applicable regulatory approvals, and other legal and accounting factors. Further, we plan to maintain a liquidity buffer of $3.0 to $4.0 billion of liquid assets at the holding companies.

When making these and other projections, we must rely on the accuracy of our assumptions about future economic and business conditions, which can be affected by known and unknown risks and other uncertainties. Additional guidance from the U.S. Treasury, SEC or the FASB may require us to revise these projections in future periods. 

72
Other Key Information 

Basis of Presentation

Consolidation

Effective January 1, 2016, the Company converted its Japan operations from a fiscal year cutoff of November 30th to calendar year-end reporting. The Company reported the cumulative effect of the change in accounting principle in net income for the year ended December 31, 2016. See Notes 1 and 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Discontinued Operations

The results of Brighthouse are reflected in the Company’s consolidated financial statements as discontinued operations and, therefore, are presented as income (loss) from discontinued operations on the consolidated statements of operations. The reporting of discontinued operations had no impact on total consolidated net income (loss) for any of the years presented. See Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information on discontinued operations and ongoing transactions with Brighthouse.

Hurricanes

In 2018, Hurricanes Michael and Florence made landfall in the Florida Panhandle and North and South Carolina, respectively, causing loss of life and extensive property damage. As of December 31, 2018, MetLife’s Property & Casualty business recognized losses from these hurricanes of $27 million ($21 million, net of income tax). Additional storm-related losses may be recorded in future periods as claims are received from insureds.

In 2017, Hurricanes Irma and Harvey made landfall in Florida and Texas, respectively, causing loss of life and extensive property damage. As of December 31, 2017, MetLife’s Property & Casualty business recognized losses from these hurricanes of $65 million ($42 million, net of income tax).

Argentina Highly Inflationary 

The inflation levels in Argentina have been elevated for several years. In the first half of 2018, Argentina’s reported inflation rates began to increase dramatically and the Argentine central bank significantly increased interest rates in an effort to combat inflation. Based on Argentina’s reported inflation rates and trends, as of July 1, 2018, we designated Argentina as a highly inflationary economy for accounting purposes. The change to highly inflationary accounting did not have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2018. 

Industry Trends

We continue to be impacted by the changing global financial and economic environment that has been affecting the industry.

Financial and Economic Environment

Our business and results of operations are materially affected by conditions in the global capital markets and the economy generally. Stressed conditions, volatility and disruptions in global capital markets, particular markets, or financial asset classes can have an adverse effect on us, in part because we have a large investment portfolio and our insurance liabilities and derivatives are sensitive to changing market factors. See “Risk Factors — Economic Environment and Capital Markets Risks — Difficult Economic Conditions May Adversely Affect Our Business, Results of Operations and Financial Condition.”

We have market presence in numerous countries and, therefore, our business operations are exposed to risks posed by local and regional economic conditions. For example, MetLife is the largest provider of benefits to Mexican federal government personnel and public officials, however, the new administration of President López Obrador of Mexico is implementing an austerity plan which, among other measures, has eliminated benefits such as major medical insurance and contributions to additional savings benefit insurance for such individuals. See “Business — Regulation — Fiscal Measures” and “Risk Factors — Economic Environment and Capital Markets Risks — Difficult Economic Conditions May Adversely Affect Our Business, Results of Operations and Financial Condition — Currency Exchange Rate Risk.” See “— Executive Summary — Other Key Information — Argentina Highly Inflationary” for further information regarding the impact of Argentina’s highly inflationary economy on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.

73
We are closely monitoring political and economic conditions that might contribute to global market volatility and impact our business operations, investment portfolio and derivatives. For example, events following the U.K.’s referendum on June 23, 2016 and the uncertainties, including foreign currency exchange risks, associated with its planned withdrawal from the EU, have contributed to global market volatility. These factors could contribute to weakening Gross Domestic Product growth, primarily in the U.K. and, to a lesser degree, in continental Europe. The magnitude and longevity of the potential negative economic impacts would depend on the detailed agreements reached by the U.K. and the EU as a result of the negotiations regarding future trade and other arrangements. See “— Investments — Current Environment — Selected Country and Sector Investments.” We are also monitoring the imposition of tariffs or other barriers to international trade, changes to international trade agreements, and their potential impacts on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, the possibility of additional government shutdowns or a failure to raise the debt ceiling, due to a policy impasse or otherwise, could adversely impact our business and liquidity. See “Business — Regulation — Cross-Border Trade” and “Business — Regulation — Fiscal Measures.” See also “Risk Factors — Economic Environment and Capital Markets Risks — Difficult Economic Conditions May Adversely Affect Our Business, Results of Operations and Financial Condition” and “Risk Factors — Business Risks — The Global Nature of Our Operations Exposes Us to a Variety of Political, Legal, Operational, Economic and Other Risks.” 

 Central banks around the world are using monetary policy to address regional economic conditions. For example, in the United States, citing a strengthening economy, the Federal Reserve Board has continued along its stated path of balance sheet tapering and the Federal Reserve Board’s Federal Open Market Committee has continued to increase the federal funds rate, most recently in December 2018. Similarly, recognizing the economic recovery, the European Central Bank ended quantitative easing in December 2018 and left interest rates unchanged. In Japan, however, the Japanese government and the Bank of Japan are maintaining stimulus measures in order to boost inflation expectations and achieve sustainable economic growth in Japan. Such measures include the imposition of a negative rate on commercial bank deposits, continued government bond purchases and tax reform, including the lowering of the Japanese corporate tax rate and the delay until October 2019 of an increase in the consumption tax to 10%. Going forward, Japan’s structural and demographic challenges may continue to limit its potential growth unless reforms that boost productivity are put into place. Japan’s high public sector debt levels are mitigated by low refinancing risks. Further actions by central banks in the future may affect interest rates and risk markets in the U.S., Europe, Japan and other developed and emerging economies, and may ultimately result in market volatility. We cannot predict with certainty the effect of these actions or the impact on our business operations, investment portfolio or derivatives. See “— Investments — Current Environment.”

Impact of a Sustained Low Interest Rate Environment 

During sustained periods of low interest rates, we may have to invest insurance cash flows and reinvest the cash flows we received as interest or return of principal on our investments in lower yielding instruments. Moreover, borrowers may prepay or redeem the fixed income securities, mortgage loans and mortgage-backed securities in our investment portfolio with greater frequency in order to borrow at lower market rates. Therefore, some of our products expose us to the risk that a reduction in interest rates will reduce the difference between the amounts that we are required to credit on contracts in our general account and the rate of return we are able to earn on investments intended to support obligations under these contracts. This difference between interest earned and interest credited, or margin, is a key metric for the management of, and reporting for, many of our businesses.

Our expectations regarding future margins are an important component impacting the amortization of certain intangible assets such as DAC and VOBA. Significantly lower margins may cause us to accelerate the amortization, thereby reducing net income in the affected reporting period. Additionally, lower margins may also impact the recoverability of intangible assets such as goodwill, require the establishment of additional liabilities or trigger loss recognition events on certain policyholder liabilities. We review this long-term margin assumption, along with other assumptions, as part of our annual actuarial assumption review. See “— Results of Operations — Consolidated Results — Year Ended December 31, 2018 Compared with the Year Ended December 31, 2017 — Actuarial Assumption Review and Certain Other Insurance Adjustments” for further information.

Some of our separate account products, including variable annuities, have certain minimum guarantee benefits. Declining interest rates increase the reserves we need to set up to protect the guarantee benefits, thereby reducing net income in the affected reporting period.

74
Mitigating Actions

The Company continues to be proactive in its investment and interest crediting rate strategies, as well as its product design and product mix. To mitigate the risk of unfavorable consequences from the low interest rate environment in the U.S., the Company applies disciplined asset/liability management (“ALM”) strategies, including the use of interest rate derivatives. In some cases, the Company has entered into offsetting positions as part of its overall ALM strategy and to reduce volatility in net income. Lowering interest crediting rates on some products, or adjusting the dividend scale on traditional products, can help offset decreases in investment margins on some products. Our ability to lower interest crediting rates could be limited by competition, requirements to obtain regulatory approval, or contractual guarantees of minimum rates and may not match the timing or magnitude of changes in asset yields. As a result, our margins could decrease or potentially become negative. We are able to limit or close certain products to new sales in order to manage exposures. Business actions, such as shifting the sales focus to less interest rate sensitive products, can also mitigate this risk. In addition, the Company is well diversified across product, distribution, and geography. Certain of our businesses reported within our Latin America, EMEA, and Asia (exclusive of our Japan business) segments are not significantly interest rate or market sensitive; in particular, they have limited sensitivity to U.S. interest rates. The Company’s primary exposure within these segments is insurance risk. We expect our non-U.S. businesses to grow faster than our U.S. businesses and, over time, to become a larger percentage of our total business. As a result of the foregoing, the Company expects to be able to substantially mitigate the negative impact of a sustained low interest rate environment in the U.S. on the Company’s profitability. Based on a near to intermediate term analysis of a sustained lower interest rate environment in the U.S., the Company anticipates adjusted earnings will continue to increase, although at a slower growth rate.

Low Interest Rate Scenario 

In formulating economic assumptions for its insurance contract assumptions, the Company uses projections that it makes regarding interest rates. Included in these assumptions is the projection that the 10-year Treasury rate will rise from 2.69% at December 31, 2018 to 4.25% in 8 years, by 2026 and remains level afterwards and that 10-year yields will reach 2.76%, 2.84% and 2.93% by December 31, 2019, 2020 and 2021, respectively. Also included is the projection that the three-month LIBOR rate will move from 2.81% at December 31, 2018 to 2.63%, 2.41% and 2.46% by December 31, 2019, 2020 and 2021, respectively. The low interest rate scenario reflects an assumed 100 basis point decline in all interest rate maturities compared to the base scenario from December 31, 2018 through December 31, 2021 (the “Low Interest Rate Scenario”).

The following summarizes the impact of the Low Interest Rate Scenario on our U.S. dollar and non-U.S. dollar denominated positions. In addition, we have included disclosure on the potential impact on 2019, 2020 and 2021 net income using the same Low Interest Rate Scenario on the mark-to-market of derivative positions that do not qualify as accounting hedges.

Below is a summary of the rates we used for the Low Interest Rate Scenario versus our base scenario through 2021. These rates represent the most relevant short-term and long-term rates for our base scenario which uses LIBOR as the benchmark rate. See “Risk Factors — Economic Environment and Capital Risks — Difficult Economic Conditions May Adversely Affect Our Business, Results of Operations and Financial Condition — Interest Rate Risk” for information regarding the potential change from LIBOR to SOFR.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The Low Interest Rate Scenario assumes the three-month LIBOR to be 1.81% and the 10-year U.S. Treasury rate to be 1.69% at December 31, 2018. We assume the low interest rate scenario to be 100 basis points lower than the base scenario until December 31, 2021 for all interest rate maturities. In addition, in the Low Interest Rate Scenario, we assume credit spreads to remain constant from December 31, 2018 through the end of 2021 as compared to our base scenario. Further, we also include the impact of low interest rates on our pension and postretirement plan expenses. We allocate this impact across our segments and it is included in the segment discussion below. The discount rate used to value these plans is tied to high quality corporate bond yields. Accordingly, an extended low interest rate environment will result in increased pension and other postretirement benefit liabilities. However, these liabilities are offset by corresponding returns on the fixed income portfolio of pension and other postretirement benefit plan assets resulting in an overall decrease in expense.

75
Hypothetical Impact to Adjusted Earnings

Based on the above assumptions, we estimate an unfavorable combined long-term and short-term interest rate impact on our consolidated adjusted earnings from the Low Interest Rate Scenario of approximately $15 million in 2019, $140 million in 2020 and $265 million in 2021. Under the Low Interest Rate Scenario, our long-term businesses are negatively impacted by the larger gap between new money yields and the yield on assets rolling off the portfolio. However, there are positive offsets under the Low Interest Rate Scenario as short-term rates are much lower than the base scenario rates and the yield curve steepens beyond 2018. For example, our securities lending business performs better than our base scenario because it is driven by the slope of the yield curve rather than by the level of interest rates. In addition, derivative income is higher primarily due to our receiver swaps where we receive a fixed rate and pay a floating rate. Further, the favorable derivative impact under the Low Interest Rate Scenario will decrease in 2020 and 2021 compared to 2019. This is driven by higher rates on forward derivative positions protection that begin in 2020.

Hypothetical Impact to Our Mark-to-Market Derivative Positions

In addition to its impact on adjusted earnings, we estimated the effect of the Low Interest Rate Scenario on the mark-to-market of our derivative positions that do not qualify as accounting hedges. We applied the Low Interest Rate Scenario to these derivatives and compared the impact to that from interest rates in our base scenario. We hold a significant position in long-duration receive-fixed interest rate swaps to hedge reinvestment risk. These swaps are most sensitive to the 30-year and 10-year swap rates and we recognize gains as rates drop and recognize losses as rates rise. This estimated impact on the derivative mark-to-market does not include that of our VA program derivatives as the impact of low interest rates in the freestanding derivatives would be largely offset by the mark-to-market in net derivative gains (losses) for the related embedded derivative.

Based on these additional assumptions, we estimate the combined long-term and short-term interest rate impact of the Low Interest Rate Scenario on the mark-to-market of our derivative positions that do not qualify as accounting hedges to be an increase in net income of $719 million in 2019, and a decline in net income of $35 million in 2020 and $69 million in 2021. See “— Results of Operations — Consolidated Results” for information regarding our actual gains and losses on the Company’s non-VA program derivatives due to interest rate changes which are included in net income.

Segments and Corporate & Other

The following discussion summarizes the impact of the above Low Interest Rate Scenario on the adjusted earnings of our segments, as well as Corporate & Other. See also “— Policyholder Liabilities — Policyholder Account Balances” for information regarding the account values subject to minimum guaranteed crediting rates.

U.S.

Group Benefits

In general, most of our group life insurance products in the U.S. segment are renewable term insurance and, therefore, have significant repricing flexibility. Interest rate risk arises mainly from minimum interest rate guarantees on retained asset accounts. These accounts have minimum interest crediting rate guarantees which range from 0.5% to 3.0%. Approximately half of these account balances are currently at their respective minimum interest crediting rates and we would expect to experience margin compression as we reinvest at lower interest rates. We have used interest rate derivatives to partially mitigate the risks of a sustained U.S. low interest rate environment. We also have exposure to interest rate risk in this business arising from our disability policy claim reserves. For these products, lower reinvestment rates cannot be offset by a reduction in liability crediting rates for established claim reserves. Group disability policies are generally renewable term policies. Rates may be adjusted on in-force policies at renewal based on the retrospective experience rating and current interest rate assumptions.

We estimate a favorable combined long-term and short-term interest rate impact on the adjusted earnings of our Group Benefits business from the Low Interest Rate Scenario of $35 million, $15 million and $5 million in 2019, 2020 and 2021, respectively.

76
Retirement and Income Solutions

RIS contains both short and long-duration products consisting of capital market products, pension risk transfers, structured settlements, and other benefit funding products. A significant portion of short-duration products are managed on a floating rate basis, which mitigates the impact of the low interest rate environment in the U.S. The sensitivities below do not include the impact of additional ALM actions that we may take in our capital markets business. The long-duration products have very predictable cash flows and our strategy is to match asset and liability durations consistent with our ALM policies. We also use interest rate swaps as part of our ALM strategy and to help protect income in this business. While we expect to experience margin compression as we reinvest at lower rates, the interest rate derivatives and the ALM strategy this portfolio follows should partially mitigate this risk. Also, based on cash flow estimates, only a small component of the invested asset base is subject to reinvestment risk. Reinvestment risk is defined for this purpose as the amount of reinvestment in 2019, 2020 and 2021 that would impact adjusted earnings due to reinvesting cash flows in the Low Interest Rate Scenario. 

We estimate an unfavorable combined long-term and short-term interest rate impact on adjusted earnings on our RIS business from the Low Interest Rate Scenario of $15 million, $20 million, and $20 million in 2019, 2020, and 2021, respectively.

Property & Casualty

The product portfolio within Property & Casualty is primarily made up of six-month and annual term renewable policies, which allow for significant re-pricing flexibility with no policyholder benefits tied to interest rates. As a result, the interest rate risk for the Property & Casualty business is minimal, tied only to our portfolio reinvestment rates and our ability to offset the change of those rates through re-pricing efforts.

We estimate an unfavorable combined long-term and short-term interest rate impact on adjusted earnings on our Property & Casualty business from the Low Interest Rate Scenario of $0 million, $5 million and $10 million in 2019, 2020 and 2021, respectively.

Asia

Our Japan business offers traditional life insurance and accident & health products, many of which are denominated in U.S. dollars. To the extent the Japan life insurance portfolio is U.S. interest rate and LIBOR sensitive and we are unable to lower crediting rates to the customer, adjusted earnings will decline. We manage interest rate risk on our life products through a combination of product design features and ALM strategies.

We sell annuities in Japan which are predominantly single premium products with crediting rates set at the time of issue. This allows us to tightly manage product ALM, cash flows and net spreads, thus maintaining profitability.

We estimate an unfavorable combined long-term and short-term interest rate impact on the adjusted earnings of our Asia segment from the Low Interest Rate Scenario of $20 million, $45 million and $85 million in 2019, 2020 and 2021, respectively.

MetLife Holdings

Our interest rate sensitive life products include traditional and universal life products. Because the majority of our traditional life insurance business is participating, we can largely offset lower investment returns on assets backing our traditional life products through adjustments to the applicable dividend scale. In our universal life products, we manage interest rate risk through a combination of product design features and ALM strategies, including the use of interest rate derivative hedges. While we have the ability to lower crediting rates on certain in-force universal life policies to mitigate margin compression, such actions would be partially offset by increases in our liabilities related to policies with secondary guarantees.

In annuities, the impact on adjusted earnings from margin compression is concentrated in our deferred annuities where there are minimum interest rate guarantees. Under the Low Interest Rate Scenario, we assume that a larger percentage of customers will maintain their funds with us to take advantage of the attractive minimum guaranteed crediting rates and we expect to experience margin compression as we reinvest cash flows at lower interest rates. Partially offsetting this margin compression, we assume we will lower crediting rates on contractual reset dates for the portion of business that is not currently at minimum crediting rates. Additionally, we have various interest rate derivative positions to partially mitigate this risk.

77
Long-term care and retained assets accounts are interest rate sensitive. Long-term care reserves have exposure to lower reinvestment rates that cannot be offset by a reduction in liability crediting rates for established claim reserves. Long-term care policies are guaranteed renewable, and rates may be adjusted on a class basis with regulatory approval to reflect emerging experience. Our long-term care block is closed to new business. We review the discount rate assumptions and other assumptions associated with our long-term disability claim reserves no less frequently than annually and, with respect to interest rates, we set the discount rate on these reserves based on the prevailing interest rate environment at the time. Our retained asset accounts have minimum interest crediting rate guarantees which range from 0.5% to 4.0%, all of which are currently at their respective minimum interest crediting rates. While we expect to experience margin compression as we reinvest at lower rates, the interest rate derivatives held in this portfolio should partially mitigate this risk.

Reinvestment risk is defined for this purpose as the amount of reinvestment in 2019, 2020 and 2021 that would impact adjusted earnings due to reinvesting cash flows in the Low Interest Rate Scenario. For the life business, $3.4 billion, $4.5 billion and $4.0 billion in 2019, 2020 and 2021, respectively, of the asset base will be subject to reinvestment risk on an average asset base of $59.9 billion, $59.9 billion and $59.6 billion in 2019, 2020 and 2021, respectively. For our deferred annuities business, $1.1 billion, $0.8 billion, and $1.2 billion in 2019, 2020, and 2021, respectively, of the asset base will be subject to reinvestment risk on an average asset base of $16.2 billion, $15.4 billion and $14.7 billion in 2019, 2020 and 2021, respectively. For our long-term care portfolio, $1.6 billion, $1.6 billion and $1.6 billion of the asset base in 2019, 2020 and 2021, respectively, will be subject to reinvestment risk on an average asset base of $12.8 billion, $13.5 billion and $14.2 billion in 2019, 2020 and 2021, respectively.

We estimate an unfavorable combined long-term and short-term interest rate impact on the adjusted earnings of our MetLife Holdings segment from the Low Interest Rate Scenario of $10 million, $55 million and $100 million in 2019, 2020 and 2021, respectively.

Corporate & Other

Corporate & Other contains the surplus portfolios for the enterprise, the portfolios used to fund the capital needs of the Company and various reinsurance agreements. The surplus portfolios are subject to reinvestment risk; however, lower net investment income is significantly offset by lower interest expense on both fixed and variable rate debt. Under a lower interest rate environment, fixed rate debt is assumed to be either paid off when it matures or refinanced at a lower interest rate resulting in lower overall interest expense. Variable rate debt is indexed to the three-month LIBOR, which results in lower interest expense incurred.

We estimate an unfavorable combined long-term and short-term interest rate impact on the adjusted earnings of Corporate & Other from the Low Interest Rate Scenario of $5 million, $30 million and $55 million in 2019, 2020 and 2021, respectively.

Competitive Pressures

The life insurance industry remains highly competitive. See “Business — Competition.” Product development is focused on differentiation leading to more intense competition with respect to product features and services. Several of the industry’s products can be quite homogeneous and subject to intense price competition. Cost reduction efforts are a priority for industry players, with benefits resulting in price adjustments to favor customers and reinvestment capacity. Larger companies have the ability to invest in brand equity, product development, technology optimization, risk management, and innovation, which are among the fundamentals for sustained profitable growth in the life insurance industry. Insurers are focused on their core businesses, specifically in markets where they can achieve scale. Insurers are increasingly seeking alternative sources of revenue; there is a focus on monetization of assets, fee-based services, and opportunities to offer comprehensive solutions, which include providing value-added services along with traditional products. Financial strength and flexibility and technology modernization are prerequisites for sustainable growth in the life insurance industry. Larger market participants tend to have the capacity to invest in analytics, distribution, and information technology and have the capability to engage with the new digital entrants. There is a shift in distribution from proprietary to third party models in mature markets, due to the lower cost structure. Evolving customer expectations are having a significant impact on the competitive environment as insurers strive to offer the superior customer service demanded by an increasingly sophisticated industry client base. We believe that the continued volatility of the financial markets and its impact on the capital position of many competitors will continue to strain the competitive environment. Legislative and other changes affecting the regulatory environment can also affect the competitive environment within the life insurance industry and within the broader financial services industry. See “Business — Regulation.” We believe that the aforementioned factors have highlighted financial strength, technology efficiency, and organizational agility as the most significant differentiators and, as a result, we believe the Company is well positioned to compete in this environment.

78
Regulatory Developments

In the United States, our life insurance companies are regulated primarily at the state level, with some products and services also subject to federal regulation. As life insurers introduce new and often more complex products, regulators refine capital requirements and introduce new reserving standards for the life insurance industry. Regulations recently adopted or currently under review can potentially impact the statutory reserve and capital requirements of the industry. See “Risk Factors — Regulatory and Legal Risks — Our Businesses Are Highly Regulated, and Changes in Laws, Regulation and in Supervisory and Enforcement Policies May Reduce Our Profitability, Limit Our Growth, or Otherwise Adversely Affect Our Business, Results of Operations and Financial Condition.” Regulators have also undertaken market and sales practices reviews of several markets or products, including equity-indexed annuities, variable annuities and group products and, in some states, instituted a moratorium on new reserve financing transactions. See “Business — Regulation,” “Risk Factors — Economic Environment and Capital Markets Risks — Our Statutory Life Insurance Reserve Financings May Be Subject to Cost Increases, and New Financings May Be Subject to Limited Market Capacity,” “Risk Factors — Regulatory and Legal Risks — Our Businesses Are Highly Regulated, and Changes in Laws, Regulation and in Supervisory and Enforcement Policies May Reduce Our Profitability, Limit Our Growth, or Otherwise Adversely Affect Our Business, Results of Operations and Financial Condition” and “— Liquidity and Capital Resources — The Company — Capital — Affiliated Captive Reinsurance Transactions.”

Summary of Critical Accounting Estimates 

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to adopt accounting policies and make estimates and assumptions that affect amounts reported on the Consolidated Financial Statements. For a discussion of our significant accounting policies, see Note 1 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The most critical estimates include those used in determining:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

In addition, the application of acquisition accounting requires the use of estimation techniques in determining the estimated fair values of assets acquired and liabilities assumed — the most significant of which relate to the aforementioned critical accounting estimates. In applying these policies and estimates, management makes subjective and complex judgments that frequently require assumptions about matters that are inherently uncertain. Many of these policies, estimates and related judgments are common in the insurance and financial services industries; others are specific to our business and operations. Actual results could differ from these estimates.

Liability for Future Policy Benefits

Generally, future policy benefits are payable over an extended period of time and related liabilities are calculated as the present value of future expected benefits to be paid, reduced by the present value of future expected premiums. Such liabilities are established based on methods and underlying assumptions in accordance with GAAP and applicable actuarial standards. Principal assumptions used in the establishment of liabilities for future policy benefits are mortality, morbidity, policy lapse, renewal, retirement, disability incidence, disability terminations, investment returns, inflation, expenses and other contingent events as appropriate to the respective product type and geographical area. These assumptions are established at the time the policy is issued and are intended to estimate the experience for the period the policy benefits are payable. Utilizing these assumptions, liabilities are established on a block of business basis. If experience is less favorable than assumed, additional liabilities may be established, resulting in a charge to policyholder benefits and claims.

Future policy benefit liabilities for disabled lives are estimated using the present value of benefits method and experience assumptions as to claim terminations, expenses and interest.

79
Liabilities for unpaid claims are estimated based upon our historical experience and other actuarial assumptions that consider the effects of current developments, anticipated trends and risk management programs, reduced for anticipated salvage and subrogation.

Future policy benefit liabilities for minimum death and income benefit guarantees relating to certain annuity contracts are based on estimates of the expected value of benefits in excess of the projected account balance, recognizing the excess ratably over the accumulation period based on total expected assessments. Liabilities for ULSG and paid-up guarantees are determined by estimating the expected value of death benefits payable when the account balance is projected to be zero and recognizing those benefits ratably over the accumulation period based on total expected assessments. The assumptions used in estimating the secondary and paid-up guarantee liabilities are consistent with those used for amortizing DAC, and are thus subject to the same variability and risk. The assumptions of investment performance and volatility for variable products are consistent with historical experience of the appropriate underlying equity index, such as the S&P 500 Index.

We regularly review our estimates of liabilities for future policy benefits and compare them with our actual experience. Differences between actual experience and the assumptions used in pricing these policies and guarantees, as well as in the establishment of the related liabilities, result in variances in profit and could result in losses.

See Note 4 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on our liability for future policy benefits.

Reinsurance

Accounting for reinsurance requires extensive use of assumptions and estimates, particularly related to the future performance of the underlying business and the potential impact of counterparty credit risks. We periodically review actual and anticipated experience compared to the aforementioned assumptions used to establish assets and liabilities relating to ceded and assumed reinsurance and evaluate the financial strength of counterparties to our reinsurance agreements using criteria similar to that evaluated in our security impairment process. See “— Investment Impairments.” Additionally, for each of our reinsurance agreements, we determine whether the agreement provides indemnification against loss or liability relating to insurance risk, in accordance with applicable accounting standards. We review all contractual features, including those that may limit the amount of insurance risk to which the reinsurer is subject or features that delay the timely reimbursement of claims. If we determine that a reinsurance agreement does not expose the reinsurer to a reasonable possibility of a significant loss from insurance risk, we record the agreement using the deposit method of accounting.

See Note 6 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on our reinsurance programs.

Deferred Policy Acquisition Costs and Value of Business Acquired 

We incur significant costs in connection with acquiring new and renewal insurance business. Costs that relate directly to the successful acquisition or renewal of insurance contracts are capitalized as DAC. In addition to commissions, certain direct-response advertising expenses and other direct costs, deferrable costs include the portion of an employee’s total compensation and benefits related to time spent selling, underwriting or processing the issuance of new and renewal insurance business only with respect to actual policies acquired or renewed. We utilize various techniques to estimate the portion of an employee’s time spent on qualifying acquisition activities that result in actual sales, including surveys, interviews, representative time studies and other methods. These estimates include assumptions that are reviewed and updated on a periodic basis to reflect significant changes in processes or distribution methods.

VOBA represents the excess of book value over the estimated fair value of acquired insurance, annuity, and investment-type contracts in force at the acquisition date. For certain acquired blocks of business, the estimated fair value of the in-force contract obligations exceeded the book value of assumed in-force insurance policy liabilities, resulting in negative VOBA, which is presented separately from VOBA as an additional insurance liability included in other policy-related balances. The estimated fair value of the acquired obligations is based on projections, by each block of business, of future policy and contract charges, premiums, mortality and morbidity, separate account performance, surrenders, expenses, investment returns, nonperformance risk adjustment and other factors. Actual experience on the purchased business may vary from these projections. The recovery of DAC and VOBA is dependent upon the future profitability of the related business.

80
Separate account rates of return on variable universal life contracts and variable deferred annuity contracts affect in-force account balances on such contracts each reporting period, which can result in significant fluctuations in amortization of DAC and VOBA. Our practice to determine the impact of gross profits resulting from returns on separate accounts assumes that long-term appreciation in equity markets is not changed by short-term market fluctuations, but is only changed when sustained interim deviations are expected. We monitor these events and only change the assumption when our long-term expectation changes. The effect of an increase (decrease) by 100 basis points in the assumed future rate of return is reasonably likely to result in a decrease (increase) in the DAC and VOBA amortization with an offset to our unearned revenue liability which nets to approximately $40 million. We use a mean reversion approach to separate account returns where the mean reversion period is five years with a long-term separate account return after the five-year reversion period is over. The current long-term rate of return assumption for the variable universal life contracts and variable deferred annuity contracts is 7.0%.

We periodically review long-term assumptions underlying the projections of estimated gross margins and profits. These assumptions primarily relate to investment returns, policyholder dividend scales, interest crediting rates, mortality, persistency, and expenses to administer business. Assumptions used in the calculation of estimated gross margins and profits which may have significantly changed are updated annually. If the update of assumptions causes expected future gross margins and profits to increase, DAC and VOBA amortization will decrease, resulting in a current period increase to earnings. The opposite result occurs when the assumption update causes expected future gross margins and profits to decrease.

Our most significant assumption updates resulting in a change to expected future gross margins and profits and the amortization of DAC and VOBA are due to revisions to expected future investment returns, expenses, in-force or persistency assumptions and policyholder dividends on participating traditional life contracts, variable and universal life contracts and annuity contracts. We expect these assumptions to be the ones most reasonably likely to cause significant changes in the future. Changes in these assumptions can be offsetting and we are unable to predict their movement or offsetting impact over time. 

At December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, DAC and VOBA for the Company was $18.9 billion, $18.4 billion and $17.6 billion, respectively. Amortization of DAC and VOBA associated with the variable and universal life and annuity contracts was significantly impacted by movements in equity markets. The following illustrates the effect on DAC and VOBA of changing each of the respective assumptions, as well as updating estimated gross margins or profits with actual gross margins or profits during the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016. Increases (decreases) in DAC and VOBA balances, as presented below, resulted in a corresponding decrease (increase) in amortization.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

81
Significant items contributing to the changes to DAC and VOBA amortization in 2018 consisted of the following:

•Net increase in amortization of $215 million associated with net investment/net derivative gains (losses) and GMIB, primarily driven by the following:

–An increase in amortization of $90 million from net derivative gains from freestanding derivatives hedging the variable annuity guarantees, partially offset by a decrease in amortization of approximately $30 million from net derivative losses resulting from the increases in variable annuity guarantee obligations.

–An increase in amortization of approximately $35 million associated with gains from GMIB hedges and the decreases in GMIB obligations.

–Net increase in amortization of approximately $100 million from the annual actuarial assumption update and other investment activities.

Significant items contributing to the changes to DAC and VOBA amortization in 2017 consisted of the following:

•Net decrease in amortization of $58 million associated with net investment/net derivative gains (losses) and GMIB, primarily driven by the following:

–A decrease in amortization of approximately $90 million from net derivative losses from freestanding derivatives hedging the variable annuity guarantees, largely offset by an increase in amortization of approximately $80 million from net derivative gains resulting from the decreases in variable annuity guarantee obligations. 

–Net decrease in amortization of approximately $45 million from other investment activities.

•Net decrease in amortization of $68 million related to policyholder dividends, expense and other primarily driven by the following:

–A decrease in amortization of approximately $60 million from the annual actuarial assumption update of the closed block, partially offset by an increase in amortization of approximately $40 million from updating the dividend scales of the participating life contracts.

–A decrease in amortization of approximately $55 million due to an adjustment related to certain participating whole life business assumed from Brighthouse.

Significant items contributing to the changes to DAC and VOBA amortization in 2016 consisted of the following: 

•Net decrease in amortization of $270 million associated with net investment/net derivatives gains (losses) and GMIB, primarily driven by the following:

–A decrease in amortization of approximately $180 million from net derivative losses from freestanding derivatives hedging the variable annuity guarantees.

–A decrease in amortization of approximately $20 million from net derivative losses resulting from the increases in the variable annuity guarantee obligations. 

–A decrease in amortization of approximate $40 million primarily associated with losses from GMIB hedges and the decreases in GMIB obligations.

–Net decrease in amortization of approximately $30 million from the annual actuarial assumption update and other investment activities.

•An increase in amortization of $187 million related to policyholder dividends, expense and other primarily driven by the following:

–An increase in amortization of approximately $110 million from the annual actuarial assumption update of the closed block.

–An increase in amortization of approximately $70 million from updating the dividend scales of the participating life contracts. 

Our DAC and VOBA balance is also impacted by unrealized investment gains (losses) and the amount of amortization which would have been recognized if such gains and losses had been realized. The decrease in unrealized investment gains (losses) increased the DAC and VOBA balance by $521 million, $529 million and $163 million in 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively. See Notes 5 and 8 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding the DAC and VOBA offset to unrealized investment gains (losses).

82
Estimated Fair Value of Investments

In determining the estimated fair value of our investments, fair values are based on unadjusted quoted prices for identical investments in active markets that are readily and regularly obtainable. When such unadjusted quoted prices are not available, estimated fair values are based on quoted prices in markets that are not active, quoted prices for similar but not identical investments, or other observable inputs. If these inputs are not available, or observable inputs are not determinable, unobservable inputs and/or adjustments to observable inputs requiring management judgment are used to determine the estimated fair value of investments.

The methodologies, assumptions and inputs utilized are described in Note 10 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Financial markets are susceptible to severe events evidenced by rapid depreciation in asset values accompanied by a reduction in asset liquidity. Our ability to sell investments, or the price ultimately realized for investments, depends upon the demand and liquidity in the market and increases the use of judgment in determining the estimated fair value of certain investments.

Investment Impairments

One of the significant estimates related to fixed maturity securities available-for-sale (“AFS”) is our impairment evaluation. The assessment of whether an other-than-temporary impairment (“OTTI”) occurred is based on our case-by-case evaluation of the underlying reasons for the decline in estimated fair value on a security-by-security basis. Our review of each security for OTTI includes an analysis of gross unrealized losses by three categories of severity and/or age of gross unrealized loss. An extended and severe unrealized loss position on a security may not have any impact on the ability of the issuer to service all scheduled interest and principal payments. Accordingly, such an unrealized loss position may not impact our evaluation of recoverability of all contractual cash flows or the ability to recover an amount at least equal to its amortized cost based on the present value of the expected future cash flows to be collected.

Additionally, we consider a wide range of factors about the security issuer and use our best judgment in evaluating the cause of the decline in the estimated fair value of the security and in assessing the prospects for near-term recovery. Inherent in our evaluation of the security are assumptions and estimates about the operations of the issuer and its future earnings potential. Factors we consider in the OTTI evaluation process are described in Note 8 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

The determination of the amount of allowances and impairments on the remaining invested asset classes is highly subjective and is based upon our periodic evaluation and assessment of known and inherent risks associated with the respective asset class. Such evaluations and assessments are revised as conditions change and new information becomes available.

See Notes 1 and 8 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information relating to our determination of the amount of allowances and impairments.

Derivatives

The determination of the estimated fair value of freestanding derivatives, when quoted market values are not available, is based on market standard valuation methodologies and inputs that management believes are consistent with what other market participants would use when pricing the instruments. Derivative valuations can be affected by changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, financial indices, credit spreads, default risk, nonperformance risk, volatility, liquidity and changes in estimates and assumptions used in the pricing models. See Note 10 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional details on significant inputs into the OTC derivative pricing models and credit risk adjustment.

83
We issue variable annuity products with guaranteed minimum benefits, some of which are embedded derivatives measured at estimated fair value separately from the host variable annuity product, with changes in estimated fair value reported in net derivative gains (losses). The estimated fair values of these embedded derivatives are determined based on the present value of projected future benefits minus the present value of projected future fees. The projections of future benefits and future fees require capital market and actuarial assumptions, including expectations concerning policyholder behavior. A risk neutral valuation methodology is used under which the cash flows from the guarantees are projected under multiple capital market scenarios using observable risk-free rates. The valuation of these embedded derivatives also includes an adjustment for our nonperformance risk and risk margins for non-capital market inputs. The nonperformance risk adjustment, which is captured as a spread over the risk-free rate in determining the discount rate to discount the cash flows of the liability, is determined by taking into consideration publicly available information relating to spreads in the secondary market for MetLife, Inc.’s debt, including related credit default swaps. These observable spreads are then adjusted, as necessary, to reflect the priority of these liabilities and the claims paying ability of the issuing insurance subsidiaries compared to MetLife, Inc. Risk margins are established to capture the non-capital market risks of the instrument which represent the additional compensation a market participant would require to assume the risks related to the uncertainties in certain actuarial assumptions. The establishment of risk margins requires the use of significant management judgment, including assumptions of the amount and cost of capital needed to cover the guarantees.

The table below illustrates the impact that a range of reasonably likely variances in credit spreads would have on our consolidated balance sheet, excluding the effect of income tax, related to the embedded derivative valuation on certain variable annuity products measured at estimated fair value. In determining the ranges, we have considered current market conditions, as well as the market level of spreads that can reasonably be anticipated over the near term. The ranges do not reflect extreme market conditions such as those experienced during the 2008-2009 financial crisis, as we do not consider those to be reasonably likely events in the near future.

The impact of the range of reasonably likely variances in credit spreads increased significantly as compared to prior periods. However, these estimated effects do not take into account potential changes in other variables, such as equity price levels and market volatility, which can also contribute significantly to changes in carrying values. Therefore, the table does not necessarily reflect the ultimate impact on the consolidated financial statements under the credit spread variance scenarios presented below. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The accounting for derivatives is complex and interpretations of accounting standards continue to evolve in practice. If it is determined that hedge accounting designations were not appropriately applied, reported net income could be materially affected. Assessments of hedge effectiveness and measurements of ineffectiveness of hedging relationships are also subject to interpretations and estimations and different interpretations or estimates may have a material effect on the amount reported in net income.

Variable annuities with guaranteed minimum benefits may be more costly than expected in volatile or declining equity markets. Market conditions including, but not limited to, changes in interest rates, equity indices, market volatility and foreign currency exchange rates, changes in our nonperformance risk, variations in actuarial assumptions regarding policyholder behavior, mortality and risk margins related to non-capital market inputs, may result in significant fluctuations in the estimated fair value of the guarantees that could materially affect net income. If interpretations change, there is a risk that features previously not bifurcated may require bifurcation and reporting at estimated fair value on the consolidated financial statements and respective changes in estimated fair value could materially affect net income.

84
Additionally, we ceded the risk associated with certain of the variable annuities with guaranteed minimum benefits described in the preceding paragraphs. The value of the embedded derivatives on the ceded risk is determined using a methodology consistent with that described previously for the guarantees directly written by us with the exception of the input for nonperformance risk that reflects the credit of the reinsurer. Because certain of the direct guarantees do not meet the definition of an embedded derivative and, thus are not accounted for at fair value, significant fluctuations in net income may occur since the change in fair value of the embedded derivative on the ceded risk is being recorded in net income without a corresponding and offsetting change in fair value of the direct guarantee.

See Note 9 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on our derivatives and hedging programs.

Goodwill 

Goodwill is tested for impairment at least annually or more frequently if events or circumstances, such as adverse changes in the business climate, indicate that there may be justification for conducting an interim test.

For purposes of goodwill impairment testing, if the carrying value of a reporting unit exceeds its estimated fair value, the implied fair value of the reporting unit goodwill is compared to the carrying value of that goodwill to measure the amount of impairment loss, if any. In such instances, the implied fair value of the goodwill is determined in the same manner as the amount of goodwill that would be determined in a business acquisition. The key inputs, judgments and assumptions necessary in determining estimated fair value of the reporting units include projected adjusted earnings, current book value, the level of economic capital required to support the mix of business, long-term growth rates, comparative market multiples, the account value of in-force business, projections of new and renewed business, as well as margins on such business, the level of interest rates, credit spreads, equity market levels, and the discount rate that we believe is appropriate for the respective reporting unit.

In the third quarter of 2018, the Company tested the MetLife Holdings life reporting unit for impairment using the actuarial based embedded value fair valuation approach. The estimated fair value of the reporting unit exceeded the carrying value by approximately 25% and, therefore, the reporting unit was not impaired. If we had assumed that the discount rate was 100 basis points higher than the discount rate used, the estimated fair value of the MetLife Holdings life reporting unit would have been higher than the carrying value by approximately 5%. The MetLife Holdings life reporting unit consists of operations relating to products and businesses no longer actively marketed by the Company. As of December 31, 2018, the amount of goodwill allocated to the MetLife Holdings life reporting unit was $887 million.

The Company also performed its annual goodwill impairment tests of all other reporting units during the third quarter of 2018 using a qualitative assessment and/or quantitative assessments under the market multiple and discounted cash flow valuation approaches based on best available data as of June 30, 2018 and concluded that the estimated fair values of all such reporting units were substantially in excess of their carrying values and, therefore, goodwill was not impaired.

We apply significant judgment when determining the estimated fair value of our reporting units and when assessing the relationship of market capitalization to the aggregate estimated fair value of our reporting units. The valuation methodologies utilized are subject to key judgments and assumptions that are sensitive to change. Estimates of fair value are inherently uncertain and represent only management’s reasonable expectation regarding future developments. These estimates and the judgments and assumptions upon which the estimates are based will, in all likelihood, differ in some respects from actual future results. Declines in the estimated fair value of our reporting units could result in goodwill impairments in future periods which could materially adversely affect our results of operations or financial position.

See Note 11 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on our goodwill.

Employee Benefit Plans

Certain subsidiaries of MetLife, Inc. sponsor and/or administer various plans that provide defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefits covering eligible employees. See Note 17 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information on amendments to our U.S. benefit plans. The calculation of the obligations and expenses associated with these plans requires an extensive use of assumptions such as the discount rate, expected rate of return on plan assets, rate of future compensation increases and healthcare cost trend rates, as well as assumptions regarding participant demographics such as rate and age of retirement, withdrawal rates and mortality. In consultation with external actuarial firms, we determine these assumptions based upon a variety of factors such as historical experience of the plan and its assets, currently available market and industry data, and expected benefit payout streams.

85
We determine the expected rate of return on plan assets based upon an approach that considers inflation, real return, term premium, credit spreads, equity risk premium and capital appreciation, as well as expenses, expected asset manager performance, asset weights and the effect of rebalancing. Given the amount of plan assets as of December 31, 2017, the beginning of the measurement year, if we had assumed an expected rate of return for both our pension and other postretirement benefit plans that was 100 basis points higher or 100 basis points lower than the rates we assumed, the change in our net periodic benefit costs would have been a decrease of $109 million and an increase of $109 million, respectively, in 2018. This considers only changes in our assumed long-term rate of return given the level and mix of invested assets at the beginning of the year, without consideration of possible changes in any of the other assumptions described above that could ultimately accompany any changes in our assumed long-term rate of return.

We determine the discount rates used to value the Company’s pension and postretirement obligations, based upon rates commensurate with current yields on high quality corporate bonds. Given our pension and postretirement obligations as of December 31, 2017, the beginning of the measurement year, if we had assumed a discount rate for both our pension and postretirement benefit plans that was 100 basis points higher or 100 basis points lower than the rates we assumed, the change in our net periodic benefit costs would have been a decrease of $117 million and an increase of $113 million, respectively, in 2018. This considers only changes in our assumed discount rates without consideration of possible changes in any of the other assumptions described above that could ultimately accompany any changes in our assumed discount rate. The assumptions used may differ materially from actual results due to, among other factors, changing market and economic conditions and changes in participant demographics. These differences may have a significant impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements and liquidity.

See Note 17 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion of assumptions used in measuring liabilities relating to our employee benefit plans.

Income Taxes

We provide for federal, state and foreign income taxes currently payable, as well as those deferred due to temporary differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities. Our accounting for income taxes represents our best estimate of various events and transactions. Tax laws are often complex and may be subject to differing interpretations by the taxpayer and the relevant governmental taxing authorities. In establishing a provision for income tax expense, we must make judgments and interpretations about the application of inherently complex tax laws. We must also make estimates about when in the future certain items will affect taxable income in the various tax jurisdictions in which we conduct business.

In establishing a liability for unrecognized tax benefits, assumptions may be made in determining whether, and to what extent, a tax position may be sustained. Once established, unrecognized tax benefits are adjusted when there is more information available or when events occur requiring a change. 

Valuation allowances are established against deferred tax assets when management determines, based on available information, that it is more likely than not that deferred income tax assets will not be realized. Significant judgment is required in determining whether valuation allowances should be established, as well as the amount of such allowances. See Note 1 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information relating to our determination of such valuation allowances.

We may be required to change our provision for income taxes when estimates used in determining valuation allowances on deferred tax assets significantly change, or when receipt of new information indicates the need for adjustment in valuation allowances. Additionally, future events, such as changes in tax laws, tax regulations, or interpretations of such laws or regulations, could have an impact on the provision for income tax and the effective tax rate. Any such changes could significantly affect the amounts reported on the consolidated financial statements in the year these changes occur.

In December 2017, U.S. Tax Reform was signed into law. U.S. GAAP requires that the impact of tax legislation be recognized in the period in which the law was enacted. As a result, the Company recognized the tax effects of U.S. Tax Reform for the year ended December 31, 2017. While the Company recorded a reasonable estimate of the tax effects of U.S. Tax Reform in the period of enactment, its income tax accounting was not complete due to uncertainties that existed at the time. Accordingly, certain U.S. Tax Reform amounts were revised in the Company’s consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2018.

 See also Notes 1 and 18 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on our income taxes.

86
Litigation Contingencies

We are a defendant in a large number of litigation matters and are involved in a number of regulatory investigations. Given the large and/or indeterminate amounts sought in certain of these matters and the inherent unpredictability of litigation, it is possible that an adverse outcome in certain matters could, from time to time, have a material effect on the Company’s consolidated net income or cash flows in particular quarterly or annual periods. Liabilities are established when it is probable that a loss has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. Liabilities related to certain lawsuits, including our asbestos-related liability, are especially difficult to estimate due to the limitation of reliable data and uncertainty regarding numerous variables that can affect liability estimates. On a quarterly and annual basis, we review relevant information with respect to liabilities for litigation, regulatory investigations and litigation-related contingencies to be reflected in our consolidated financial statements. It is possible that an adverse outcome in certain of our litigation and regulatory investigations, including asbestos-related cases, or the use of different assumptions in the determination of amounts recorded could have a material effect upon our consolidated net income or cash flows in particular quarterly or annual periods.

See Note 20 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding our assessment of litigation contingencies.

Economic Capital

Economic capital is an internally developed risk capital model, the purpose of which is to measure the risk in the business and to provide a basis upon which capital is deployed. The economic capital model accounts for the unique and specific nature of the risks inherent in our business.

Our economic capital model, coupled with considerations of local capital requirements, aligns segment allocated equity with emerging standards and consistent risk principles. The model applies statistics-based risk evaluation principles to the material risks to which the Company is exposed. These consistent risk principles include calibrating required economic capital shock factors to a specific confidence level and time horizon while applying an industry standard method for the inclusion of diversification benefits among risk types. Economic capital-based risk estimation is an evolving science and industry best practices have emerged and continue to evolve. Areas of evolving industry best practices include stochastic liability valuation techniques, alternative methodologies for the calculation of diversification benefits, and the quantification of appropriate shock levels. MetLife’s management is responsible for the ongoing production and enhancement of the economic capital model and reviews its approach periodically to ensure that it remains consistent with emerging industry practice standards.

Segment net investment income is credited or charged based on the level of allocated equity; however, changes in allocated equity do not impact our consolidated net investment income, income (loss) from continuing operations, net of income tax, or adjusted earnings. 

Net investment income is based upon the actual results of each segment’s specifically identifiable investment portfolios adjusted for allocated equity. Other costs are allocated to each of the segments based upon: (i) a review of the nature of such costs; (ii) time studies analyzing the amount of employee compensation costs incurred by each segment; and (iii) cost estimates included in the Company’s product pricing.

Acquisitions and Dispositions

Separation of Brighthouse

For information regarding the Separation, the Company’s 2018 sale of the FVO Brighthouse Common Stock, and ongoing transactions between MetLife and Brighthouse, see Notes 3 and 12 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Disposition of MetLife Afore, S.A. de C.V.

For information regarding the Company’s 2018 disposition of MetLife Afore, its pension fund management business in Mexico, see Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Acquisition of Logan Circle Partners, L.P.

In 2017, the Company completed the acquisition of Logan Circle Partners, L.P. (“Logan Circle Partners”), from Fortress Investment Group LLC, for approximately $250 million in cash. Logan Circle Partners was a fundamental research-based investment manager providing institutional clients actively managed investment solutions across a broad spectrum of fixed income strategies.

87
U.S. Retail Advisor Force Divestiture

In 2016, MetLife, Inc. completed the sale to Massachusetts Mutual Life Insurance Company of its U.S. retail advisor force and certain assets associated with the MetLife Premier Client Group, including all of the issued and outstanding shares of MetLife’s affiliated broker-dealer, MSI, a wholly-owned subsidiary of MetLife, Inc. (collectively, the “U.S. Retail Advisor Force Divestiture”) for $291 million. See Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information.

88
Results of Operations

Consolidated Results

Business Overview. Overall sales for the year ended December 31, 2018 increased over 2017 levels reflecting higher sales in the majority of our businesses. In our U.S. segment, improved sales in our RIS business were partially offset by slightly lower sales in our Group Benefits business as the impact of strong jumbo case sales in our core products in 2017 more than offset strong sales in our voluntary products in 2018. The improvement in RIS was the result of higher sales of pension risk transfers, most notably a large pension risk transfer transaction in the second quarter of 2018, stable value, specialized life insurance, and structured settlement products, partially offset by lower funding agreement issuances. An increase in sales in our Asia segment was primarily driven by growth in sales of foreign currency-denominated annuity and life products, as well as accident & health products, in Japan, partially offset by a decrease in sales in Korea and Hong Kong. In our Latin America segment, sales increased compared to 2017, driven by higher individual accident & health, credit life and retirement product sales in Chile, partially offset by lower pension and group medical sales in Mexico. Sales in EMEA decreased primarily due to the closure of the U.K. wealth management product to new business in the third quarter of 2017 and a decline in sales of our employee benefits product in the Gulf region. Revenues in our MetLife Holdings segment decreased as a result of the discontinuance of the marketing of life and annuity products in early 2017.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

89
Year Ended December 31, 2018 Compared with the Year Ended December 31, 2017

During the year ended December 31, 2018, net income (loss) increased $1.1 billion from 2017, primarily driven by favorable changes in net derivative gains (losses), adjusted earnings, income (loss) from discontinued operations, and results from our divested businesses, partially offset by 2017 tax-related benefits, primarily related to U.S. Tax Reform.

Management of Investment Portfolio and Hedging Market Risks with Derivatives. We manage our investment portfolio using disciplined ALM principles, focusing on cash flow and duration to support our current and future liabilities. Our intent is to match the timing and amount of liability cash outflows with invested assets that have cash inflows of comparable timing and amount, while optimizing risk-adjusted net investment income and risk-adjusted total return. Our investment portfolio is heavily weighted toward fixed income investments, with over 80% of our portfolio invested in fixed maturity securities AFS and mortgage loans. These securities and loans have varying maturities and other characteristics which cause them to be generally well suited for matching the cash flow and duration of insurance liabilities. In addition, our general account investment portfolio includes, within contractholder-directed equity securities and fair value option securities (collectively, “Unit-linked and FVO Securities”), contractholder-directed equity securities supporting unit-linked variable annuity type liabilities (“Unit-linked investments”), which do not qualify as separate account assets. The returns on these Unit-linked investments, which can vary significantly from period to period, include changes in estimated fair value subsequent to purchase, inure to contractholders and are offset in earnings by a corresponding change in policyholder account balances through interest credited to policyholder account balances.

We purchase investments to support our insurance liabilities and not to generate net investment gains and losses. However, net investment gains and losses are incurred and can change significantly from period to period due to changes in external influences, including changes in market factors such as interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, credit spreads and equity markets; counterparty specific factors such as financial performance, credit rating and collateral valuation; and internal factors such as portfolio rebalancing. Changes in these factors from period to period can significantly impact the levels of both impairments and realized gains and losses on investments sold.

We also use derivatives as an integral part of our management of the investment portfolio and insurance liabilities to hedge certain risks, including changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, credit spreads and equity market levels. We use freestanding interest rate, equity, credit and currency derivatives to hedge certain invested assets and insurance liabilities. A portion of these hedges are designated and qualify as accounting hedges, which reduce volatility in earnings. For those hedges not designated as accounting hedges, changes in market factors lead to the recognition of fair value changes in net derivative gains (losses) generally without an offsetting gain or loss recognized in earnings for the item being hedged, which creates volatility in earnings. We actively evaluate market risk hedging needs and strategies to ensure our free cash flow and capital objectives are met under a range of market conditions. For example, during 2017, we restructured certain derivative hedges to decrease volatility from nonqualified interest rate derivatives and to help meet prospective dividend and free cash flow objectives under varying interest rate scenarios. As part of this restructuring, we replaced certain nonqualified derivatives with derivatives that qualify for hedge accounting treatment. In addition, we also entered into replication transactions using interest rate swaps, which are accounted for at amortized cost under statutory guidelines and are nonqualified derivatives under GAAP.

Certain variable annuity products with guaranteed minimum benefits contain embedded derivatives that are measured at estimated fair value separately from the host variable annuity contract, with changes in estimated fair value recorded in net derivative gains (losses). We use freestanding derivatives to hedge the market risks inherent in these variable annuity guarantees. Ongoing refinement of the strategy may be required to take advantage of recently adopted NAIC rules related to a statutory accounting election for derivatives that mitigate interest rate sensitivity related to variable annuity guarantees. The restructured hedge strategy is classified as a macro hedge program, included in the non-VA program derivatives section of the table below, to protect our overall statutory capital from significant adverse economic conditions. The valuation of these embedded derivatives includes a nonperformance risk adjustment, which is unhedged, and can be a significant driver of net derivative gains (losses) and volatility in earnings, but does not have an economic impact on us.

90
Net Derivative Gains (Losses). The variable annuity embedded derivatives and associated freestanding derivative hedges are collectively referred to as “VA program derivatives.” All other derivatives that are economic hedges of certain invested assets and insurance liabilities are referred to as “non-VA program derivatives.” The table below presents the impact on net derivative gains (losses) from non-VA program derivatives and VA program derivatives:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The favorable change in net derivative gains (losses) on non-VA program derivatives was $1.1 billion ($890 million, net of income tax). This was primarily due to the U.S. dollar strengthening relative to other key currencies in 2018 versus mostly weakening in 2017, favorably impacting foreign currency swaps that primarily hedge foreign currency-denominated bonds. In addition, there was a favorable change in interest rate impact due to: (i) the impact of the 2017 restructuring of the hedge program to decrease volatility from nonqualified interest rate derivatives and to help meet prospective dividend and free cash flow objectives under varying interest rate scenarios; (ii) long-term U.S. interest rates increased in 2018 and mostly decreased in 2017, favorably impacting receive float interest rate swaps; (iii) mid-term rates increased more significantly in 2018 than 2017, positively impacting interest rate caps; and (iv) certain foreign interest rates decreased in 2018 and increased in 2017, favorably impacting receive fixed interest rate swaps indexed to those rates. Also, equity markets decreased in 2018 and increased in 2017, favorably impacting new equity options acquired primarily as part of our macro hedge program. There was also a change in the value of the underlying assets favorably impacting non-VA embedded derivatives related to funds withheld on a certain reinsurance agreement. These increases were partially offset by credit spreads widening in 2018 and narrowing in 2017, unfavorably impacting written credit default swaps used in replications. Because certain of these hedging strategies are not designated or do not qualify as accounting hedges, the changes in the estimated fair value of these freestanding derivatives are recognized in net derivative gains (losses) without an offsetting gain or loss recognized in earnings for the items being hedged.

The favorable change in net derivative gains (losses) on VA program derivatives was $314 million ($248 million, net of income tax). This was due to a favorable change of $369 million ($292 million, net of income tax) in market risks in embedded derivatives, net of the impact of freestanding derivatives hedging those risks, and a favorable change of $323 million ($255 million, net of income tax) in the nonperformance risk adjustment on embedded derivatives, partially offset by an unfavorable change of $378 million, ($299 million, net of income tax) in other risks in embedded derivatives. Other risks relate primarily to the impact of policyholder behavior and other non-market risks that generally cannot be hedged. 

The aforementioned $369 million ($292 million, net of income tax) favorable change reflects a $1.5 billion ($1.2 billion, net of income tax) favorable change in freestanding derivatives hedging market risks in embedded derivatives, partially offset by a $1.1 billion ($871 million, net of income tax) unfavorable change in market risks in embedded derivatives.

91
The primary changes in market factors are summarized as follows:

•Key equity index levels decreased in 2018 and increased in 2017, contributing to a favorable change in our freestanding derivatives and an unfavorable change in our embedded derivatives. For example, the S&P 500 Index decreased 6% in 2018 and increased 19% in 2017.

•Long-term U.S. interest rates increased in 2018 and mostly decreased in 2017, contributing to a favorable change in our embedded derivatives. Our freestanding interest rate derivatives were favorably impacted by the restructuring of the VA hedging strategy, partially offset by the increase in interest rates. For example, the 30-year U.S. swap rate increased 30 basis points in 2018 and decreased 5 basis points in 2017.

•Changes in foreign currency exchange rates contributed to a favorable change in our freestanding derivatives and an unfavorable change in our embedded derivatives related to the assumed variable annuity guarantees from our former operating joint venture in Japan. For example, the Japanese yen strengthened against the euro by 7% in 2018 and weakened by 10% in 2017.

The aforementioned $378 million ($299 million, net of income tax) unfavorable change in other risks in embedded derivatives reflects:

•Actuarial assumption updates associated with variable annuity guarantees assumed from our former operating joint venture in Japan,

•Updates to actuarial policyholder behavior assumptions within the valuation model, and

•A combination of other factors, which include fees being deducted from accounts, changes in the benefit base, premiums, lapses, withdrawals and deaths.

The aforementioned $323 million ($255 million, net of income tax) favorable change in the nonperformance risk adjustment on embedded derivatives resulted from a favorable change of $172 million, before income tax, as a result of model changes and changes in capital market inputs, such as long-term interest rates and key equity index levels, on variable annuity guarantees, in addition to a favorable change of $151 million, before income tax, related to changes in our own credit spread.

When equity index levels decrease in isolation, the variable annuity guarantees become more valuable to policyholders, which results in an increase in the undiscounted embedded derivative liability. Discounting this unfavorable change by the risk adjusted rate yields a smaller loss than by discounting at the risk-free rate, thus creating a gain from including an adjustment for nonperformance risk.

When the risk-free interest rate decreases in isolation, discounting the embedded derivative liability produces a higher valuation of the liability than if the risk-free interest rate had remained constant. Discounting this unfavorable change by the risk adjusted rate yields a smaller loss than by discounting at the risk-free interest rate, thus creating a gain from including an adjustment for nonperformance risk.

When our own credit spread increases in isolation, discounting the embedded derivative liability produces a lower valuation of the liability than if our own credit spread had remained constant. As a result, a gain is created from including an adjustment for nonperformance risk. For each of these primary market drivers, the opposite effect occurs when they move in the opposite direction.

Net Investment Gains (Losses). The favorable change in net investment gains (losses) of $10 million ($8 million, net of income tax) primarily reflects lower non-investment portfolio losses in 2018. In 2017, we recognized a mark-to-market loss on our retained investment in Brighthouse Financial, Inc. in connection with the Separation. In 2018, we recognized lower losses representing both the change in estimated fair value of FVO Brighthouse Common Stock we held through date of disposal and the loss upon disposal in June 2018. In addition, in 2018, we recognized mark-to-market losses on equity securities which are measured at fair value through net income and in 2018 compared to 2017, there were lower gains on sales of fixed maturity securities AFS and real estate joint ventures.

Actuarial Assumption Review and Certain Other Insurance Adjustments. Results for 2018 include a $358 million ($272 million, net of income tax) charge associated with our annual review of actuarial assumptions related to reserves and DAC, of which a $131 million loss ($94 million, net of income tax) was recognized in net derivative gains (losses). 

Of the $358 million charge, $20 million ($20 million, net of income tax) was related to DAC and $338 million ($252 million, net of income tax) was associated with reserves. The portion of the $358 million charge that was included in adjusted earnings was $53 million ($42 million, net of income tax).

92
The $131 million loss recognized in net derivative gains (losses) associated with our annual review of actuarial assumptions was included within the other risks in embedded derivatives caption in the table above.

As a result of our annual review of actuarial assumptions, changes were made to economic, biometric, policyholder behavior, and operational assumptions. The most significant impacts were in the Asia and MetLife Holdings segments related to Japan variable annuities and the projection of closed block results, respectively, and are summarized as follows:

•Economic assumption updates resulted in net favorable changes in reserves and DAC of $38 million ($29 million, net of income tax).

•Changes to biometric assumptions resulted in net favorable changes in reserves and DAC of $55 million ($44 million, net of income tax).

•Changes in policyholder behavior assumptions resulted in a net charge of $321 million ($241 million, net of income tax).

•Changes in operational assumptions, most notably related to closed block projections, resulted in a net charge of $130 million ($104 million, net of income tax).

Results for 2017 include a $37 million ($25 million, net of 2017 income tax) gain associated with our annual review of actuarial assumptions related to reserves and DAC, of which a $21 million ($14 million, net of 2017 income tax) gain was recognized in net derivative gains (losses). Of the $37 million gain, a $96 million ($64 million, net of 2017 income tax) gain was associated with DAC and a loss of $59 million ($39 million, net of 2017 income tax) was related to reserves. The portion of the $37 million gain that is included in adjusted earnings is $100 million ($66 million, net of 2017 income tax).

Certain other insurance adjustments recorded in 2018 include a $79 million ($63 million, net of income tax) charge due to a 2018 increase in our IBNR life reserves, reflecting enhancements to our processes related to potential claims in our MetLife Holdings segment, and a favorable net insurance adjustment of $47 million ($37 million, net of income tax) resulting from reserve and DAC modeling improvements in our individual disability insurance business in our U.S. segment. These adjustments were included in adjusted earnings.

Divested Businesses. Income (loss) before provision for income tax related to the divested businesses, excluding net investment gains (losses) and net derivative gains (losses), increased $936 million ($650 million, net of income tax) to a loss of $122 million ($97 million, net of income tax) in 2018 from a loss of $1.1 billion ($747 million, net of income tax) in 2017. Included in this increase was an increase in total revenues of $570 million, before income tax, and a decrease in total expenses of $366 million, before income tax. Divested businesses primarily include activity related to the Separation.

Discontinued Operations. Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of income tax, increased $986 million for the year ended December 31, 2018 from a loss of $986 million, net of income tax, for the year ended December 31, 2017. Income (loss) from discontinued operations reflects the results of our former Brighthouse Financial segment. For further information, see Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

93
Taxes and Other Tax-Related Items. Income tax expense for the year ended December 31, 2018 was $1.2 billion, or 19% of income (loss) from continuing operations before provision for income tax, compared with an income tax benefit of $1.5 billion, or 42% of income (loss) from continuing operations before provision for income tax, for the year ended December 31, 2017. The Company’s effective tax rates differ from the U.S. statutory rate of 21% typically due to non-taxable investment income, tax credits for investments in low income housing, and foreign earnings taxed at different rates than the U.S. statutory rate. Our 2018 results include the following tax items: (i) a net tax-related benefit of $366 million related to the settlement of tax audits, which includes a $349 million benefit related to the tax treatment of a wholly-owned U.K. investment subsidiary of MLIC (comprised of a $168 million tax benefit and a $181 million interest benefit), (ii) an adjusted earnings charge of $124 million related to U.S. Tax Reform (comprised of a $78 million tax charge and a $46 million, net of income tax, reduction in net investment income), (iii) a benefit of $36 million related to a non-cash transfer of assets from a wholly-owned U.K. investment subsidiary to MLIC, (iv) a charge of $69 million related to the non-deductible loss incurred on the mark-to-market and disposition of FVO Brighthouse Common Stock, (v) a charge of $17 million related to a tax adjustment in Chile, and (vi) a charge of $5 million in Colombia to establish a deferred tax liability due to a change in tax status. Our 2017 results include the following tax items: (i) a net benefit of $1.3 billion related to the impact of U.S. Tax Reform, which includes a net benefit of $1.6 billion (comprised of a $1.8 billion tax benefit and a $222 million increase in other divested expenses reflective of a reduction in other receivables due to the revaluation of a tax receivable from Brighthouse) and an adjusted earnings charge of $298 million (comprised of a $254 million tax charge and a $44 million, net of income tax, reduction in net investment income), (ii) a tax-related benefit of $540 million related to the Separation, (iii) a $41 million benefit from the finalization of certain tax audits, (iv) a net charge of $180 million as a result of the repatriation of approximately $3.0 billion of cash following the post-Separation review of our capital needs, partially offset by a benefit associated with dividends from our non-U.S. operations, and (v) a benefit of $9 million related to the settlement of a tax audit in Argentina. 

Adjusted Earnings. As more fully described in “— Non-GAAP and Other Financial Disclosures,” we use adjusted earnings, which does not equate to income (loss) from continuing operations, net of income tax, as determined in accordance with GAAP, to analyze our performance, evaluate segment performance and allocate resources. We believe that the presentation of adjusted earnings and adjusted earnings available to common shareholders, as we measure it for management purposes, enhances the understanding of our performance by highlighting the results of operations and the underlying profitability drivers of the business. Adjusted earnings and other financial measures based on adjusted earnings allow analysis of our performance relative to our business plan and facilitate comparisons to industry results. Adjusted earnings and adjusted earnings available to common shareholders should not be viewed as substitutes for net income (loss) and net income (loss) available to MetLife, Inc.’s common shareholders, respectively. Adjusted earnings available to common shareholders increased $1.2 billion, net of income tax, to $5.5 billion, net of income tax, for the year ended December 31, 2018 from $4.2 billion, net of income tax, for the year ended December 31, 2017.

Year Ended December 31, 2017 Compared with the Year Ended December 31, 2016

During the year ended December 31, 2017, net income (loss) increased $3.2 billion from 2016 primarily driven by favorable changes in discontinued operations and adjusted earnings, as well as the favorable impact of U.S. Tax Reform, partially offset by an unfavorable change in net investment gains (losses).

94
Net Derivative Gains (Losses). The variable annuity embedded derivatives and associated freestanding derivative hedges are collectively referred to as “VA program derivatives” in the following table. All other derivatives that are economic hedges of certain invested assets and insurance liabilities are referred to as “non-VA program derivatives” in the following table. The table below presents the impact on net derivative gains (losses) from non-VA program derivatives and VA program derivatives:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The unfavorable change in net derivative gains (losses) on non-VA program derivatives was $394 million ($256 million, net of income tax). This was primarily due to the U.S. dollar, relative to other key currencies, weakening in 2017 versus mostly strengthening in 2016, unfavorably impacting foreign currency swaps that primarily hedge foreign currency-denominated bonds. Additionally, there was a change in the value of the underlying assets unfavorably impacting non-VA embedded derivatives related to funds withheld on a certain reinsurance agreement. These decreases were partially offset by long-term interest rates mostly decreasing in 2017 and mostly increasing in 2016, favorably impacting receive-fixed interest rate swaps and total rate of return swaps hedging long-duration liability portfolios. Because certain of these hedging strategies are not designated or do not qualify as accounting hedges, the changes in the estimated fair value of these freestanding derivatives are recognized in net derivative gains (losses) without an offsetting gain or loss recognized in earnings for the item being hedged.

The favorable change in net derivative gains (losses) on VA program derivatives was $494 million ($321 million, net of income tax). This was due to a favorable change of $795 million ($517 million, net of income tax) in other risks in embedded derivatives and a favorable change of $45 million ($29 million, net of income tax) in market risks in embedded derivatives, net of the impact of freestanding derivatives hedging those risks, partially offset by an unfavorable change of $346 million, ($225 million, net of income tax) in the nonperformance risk adjustment on embedded derivatives. Other risks relate primarily to the impact of policyholder behavior and other non-market risks that generally cannot be hedged.

The foregoing $45 million ($29 million, net of income tax) favorable change reflects a $688 million ($447 million, net of income tax) favorable change in market risks in embedded derivatives, partially offset by a $643 million ($418 million, net of income tax) unfavorable change in freestanding derivatives hedging market risks in embedded derivatives. 

95
The primary changes in market factors are summarized as follows:

•Changes in foreign currency exchange rates contributed to an unfavorable change in our freestanding derivatives and a favorable change in our embedded derivatives related to the assumed variable annuity guarantees from our former operating joint venture in Japan. For example, the Japanese yen weakened against the euro by 10% in 2017 and strengthened by 6% in 2016.

•Key equity index levels increased more in 2017 than in 2016, contributing to an unfavorable change in our freestanding derivatives and a favorable change in our embedded derivatives. For example, the S&P 500 Index increased 19% in 2017 and increased 10% in 2016.

•Long-term interest rates in Japan increased in 2017 and decreased in 2016, contributing to a favorable change in our embedded derivatives and an unfavorable change in our freestanding derivatives related to the assumed variable annuity guarantees from our former operating joint venture in Japan. This was partially offset by long-term U.S. interest rates mostly decreasing in 2017 and mostly increasing in 2016. For example, the 30-year Japan swap rate increased five basis points in 2017 and decreased 41 basis points in 2016, and the 20-year U.S. swap rate decreased three basis points in 2017 and increased three basis points in 2016.

The foregoing $795 million ($517 million, net of income tax) favorable change in other risks in embedded derivatives reflects:

•Updates to actuarial policyholder behavior assumptions within the valuation model.

• A change in the risk margin adjustment measuring policyholder behavior risks, along with market and interest rate changes, and

•The partially offsetting impact of a combination of other factors, which include fees being deducted from accounts and changes in the benefit base, premiums, lapses, withdrawals and mortality rates.

The aforementioned $346 million ($225 million, net of income tax) unfavorable change in the nonperformance risk adjustment on embedded derivatives resulted from an unfavorable change of $209 million, before income tax, as a result of model changes and changes in capital market inputs, such as long-term interest rates and key equity index levels, on variable annuity guarantees, in addition to an unfavorable change of $137 million, before income tax, related to changes in our own credit spread.

Net Investment Gains (Losses). The unfavorable change in net investment gains (losses) of $625 million ($406 million, net of income tax) primarily reflects a 2017 loss recognized in connection with the Separation, while the 2016 results include gains from the U.S. Retail Advisor Force Divestiture and foreign currency transactions. These unfavorable changes were partially offset by higher gains on sales of real estate joint ventures and a lower provision for mortgage loan losses.

Actuarial Assumption Review. Results for 2017 include a $37 million ($25 million, net of income tax) gain associated with our annual review of actuarial assumptions related to reserves and DAC, of which a $21 million ($14 million, net of income tax) gain was recognized in net derivative gains (losses). Of the $37 million gain, a $96 million ($64 million, net of income tax) gain was associated with DAC, and a loss of $59 million ($39 million, net of income tax) was related to reserves. The $21 million gain recognized in net derivative gains (losses) associated with this review of actuarial assumptions was included within the other risks in embedded derivatives caption in the table above.

As a result of our annual review of actuarial assumptions, changes were made to economic, policyholder behavior, biometric and operational assumptions. These are summarized as follows:

•Changes in operational assumptions, most notably related to updates to maintenance expense and closed block projections, resulted in a net gain of $114 million ($74 million net of income tax).

•Changes in policyholder behavior assumptions resulted in reserve increases, partially offset by favorable DAC, resulting in a net charge of $47 million ($29 million, net of income tax).

•Economic assumption updates resulted in reserve increases and DAC releases, resulting in a charge of $19 million ($13 million net of income tax).

•Changes to biometric assumptions resulted in an increase in reserves, partially offset by favorable DAC, resulting in a charge of $11 million ($7 million, net of income tax). 

The most significant impacts were in the MetLife Holdings Life and Annuities businesses.

96
Results for 2016 include a $648 million ($421 million, net of income tax) loss associated with our annual review of actuarial assumptions related to reserves and DAC, of which a $709 million ($461 million, net of income tax) loss was recognized in net derivative gains (losses) and a $103 million ($67 million, net of income tax) loss was recognized in updates to the closed block projection. Of the $648 million loss, a $729 million ($474 million, net of income tax) loss was related to reserves while an $81 million ($53 million, net of income tax) gain was associated with DAC.

Divested Businesses and Lag Elimination. Income (loss) before provision for income tax related to the divested businesses and lag elimination, excluding net investment gains (losses) and net derivative gains (losses), decreased $861 million ($618 million, net of income tax) to a loss of $1.1 billion ($747 million, net of income tax) in 2017 from a loss of $197 million ($129 million, net of income tax) in 2016. Included in this decline was a decrease in total revenues of $272 million, before income tax, and an increase in total expenses of $589 million, before income tax. Divested businesses include activity primarily related to the Separation. In addition, divested businesses for 2016 also include the financial impact of converting our Japan operations to calendar year-end reporting.

Discontinued Operations. Loss from discontinued operations, net of income tax, decreased $1.7 billion for the year ended December 31, 2017 to a loss of $986 million, net of income tax, from a loss of $2.7 billion, net of income tax, for the year ended December 31, 2016. Income (loss) from discontinued operations reflects the results of our former Brighthouse Financial segment. The favorable change in income (loss) from discontinued operations was primarily due to a favorable change in net derivative gains (losses) of $3.1 billion, net of income tax, primarily driven by the impact of the 2016 annual actuarial assumption review on certain variable annuity products that contain embedded derivatives, partially offset by a loss of $1.2 billion, net of income tax, as a result of the Separation in 2017. For further information regarding the Separation, see Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Taxes. Income tax benefit for the year ended December 31, 2017 was $1.5 billion, or 42% of income from continuing operations before provision for income tax, compared with income tax expense of $693 million, or 16% of income before provision for income tax, for the year ended December 31, 2016. Our effective tax rates differ from the U.S. statutory rate of 35% due to non-taxable investment income, tax credits for low income housing, and foreign earnings taxed at lower rates than the U.S. statutory rate. Our 2017 results include the following tax items: (i) a net benefit of $1.3 billion related to the impact of U.S. Tax Reform, which includes a net benefit of $1.6 billion (comprised of a $1.8 billion tax benefit and a $222 million increase in other divested expenses reflective of a reduction in other receivables due to the revaluation of a tax receivable from Brighthouse) and an adjusted earnings charge of $298 million (comprised of a $254 million tax charge and a $44 million, net of income tax, reduction in net investment income), (ii) a tax-related benefit of $540 million related to the Separation, (iii) a $41 million tax benefit from the finalization of certain tax audits, (iv) a net tax charge of $180 million as a result of the repatriation of approximately $3.0 billion of cash following the post-Separation review of our capital needs, partially offset by a tax benefit associated with dividends from our non-U.S. operations, and (v) a tax benefit of $9 million related to the settlement of an audit in Argentina. Our 2016 results include a tax benefit of $110 million in Japan related to a change in tax rate, a tax charge of $26 million related to the repatriation of earnings from Japan and a tax charge of $19 million in Chile, related to a change in tax rate. In addition, 2016 results include a one-time tax benefit of $46 million for the finalization of certain tax audits.

Adjusted Earnings. Adjusted earnings available to common shareholders increased $202 million, net of income tax, to $4.2 billion, net of income tax, for the year ended December 31, 2017 from $4.0 billion, net of income tax, for the year ended December 31, 2016.

97
Reconciliation of income (loss) from continuing operations, net of income tax, to adjusted earnings available to common shareholders

Year Ended December 31, 2018

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Year Ended December 31, 2017

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Year Ended December 31, 2016

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

__________________

(1)See definitions and components of adjusted revenues and adjusted expenses under “— Non-GAAP and Other Financial Disclosures.” Further, see “— Reconciliation of revenues to adjusted revenues and expenses to adjusted expenses” for additional details on these adjustments by financial statement line item.

98
Reconciliation of revenues to adjusted revenues and expenses to adjusted expenses

Year Ended December 31, 2018

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Year Ended December 31, 2017

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

99
Year Ended December 31, 2016

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Consolidated Results — Adjusted Earnings

Year Ended December 31, 2018 Compared with the Year Ended December 31, 2017

Unless otherwise stated, all amounts discussed below are net of income tax.

Overview. The primary drivers of the increase in adjusted earnings were higher net investment income due to a larger asset base and higher investment yields, the favorable impact of U.S. Tax Reform, other favorable tax items, favorable refinements to DAC and certain insurance-related liabilities, lower expenses and favorable underwriting, partially offset by higher interest credited expenses and the net unfavorable change from our annual actuarial assumption review.

Foreign Currency. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates had a $7 million negative impact on adjusted earnings for 2018 compared to 2017. Unless otherwise stated, all amounts discussed below are net of foreign currency fluctuations. Foreign currency fluctuations can result in significant variances in the financial statement line items.

U.S. Tax Reform. The changes from U.S. Tax Reform resulted in a net increase in adjusted earnings of $477 million for 2018 compared to 2017, which includes a slight reduction in net investment income related to tax credit partnership investments. Our 2018 results include a tax benefit of $303 million, primarily related to the lower tax rate. Our 2017 results include a tax charge of $254 million to reflect the enactment of U.S. Tax Reform. Our 2018 results also include an additional tax charge of $78 million to reflect a revision to the estimate of this enactment.

Business Growth. We benefited from positive net flows from many of our businesses, which increased our invested asset base. Growth in the investment portfolios of our U.S., Asia, and Latin America segments resulted in higher net investment income. However, this was partially offset by a corresponding increase in interest credited expenses on certain insurance-related liabilities. In our U.S. segment, an increase in average premium per policy in our auto business, partially offset by a decrease in exposures, improved adjusted earnings. Business growth also drove an increase in commissions and other variable expenses, which were partially offset by higher DAC capitalization. The combined impact of the items affecting our business growth resulted in a $153 million increase in adjusted earnings.

100
Market Factors. Market factors, including interest rate levels, variability in equity market returns, and foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, continued to impact our results; however, certain impacts were mitigated by derivatives used to hedge these risks. Excluding the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates on net investment income in our non-U.S. segments and changes in inflation rates on our inflation-indexed investments, investment yields increased. Investment yields were positively affected by higher yields on fixed income securities and mortgage loans, income on derivatives, returns on real estate investments and a reduction in investment expenses. These increases were partially offset by lower returns on private equities, driven by a decrease in partnership distributions, lower returns on hedge funds and lower returns on fair value option securities (“FVO Securities”). The improvement in yields was more than offset by the impact of higher average interest credited rates, which drove an increase in interest credited expenses, primarily in our U.S. segment. The changes in market factors discussed above resulted in a $79 million decrease in adjusted earnings.

Underwriting, Actuarial Assumption Review and Other Insurance Adjustments. Favorable underwriting resulted in a $74 million increase in adjusted earnings primarily as a result of lower catastrophe losses, as well as favorable morbidity in our U.S. and MetLife Holdings segments, partially offset by unfavorable claims experience in our EMEA and Asia segments, as well as higher non-catastrophe losses in our Property & Casualty business. In addition, favorable mortality in our Latin America and U.S. segments was partially offset by unfavorable mortality in our MetLife Holdings segment. Our annual actuarial assumption review resulted in a decrease of $121 million in adjusted earnings when compared to 2017, primarily due to less favorable assumption changes in our MetLife Holdings and Asia segments. Refinements to DAC and certain insurance-related liabilities, which were recorded in both 2018 and 2017 across all of our segments, resulted in a $103 million increase in adjusted earnings, most notably in our U.S. segment.

Expenses. Our unit cost initiative improved expense margins and contributed to a $101 million decrease in expenses from lower (i) Separation-related expenses, (ii) employee-related costs, including expenses related to pension and postretirement benefits, and (iii) expenses for interest on certain tax positions, as well as expenses incurred in 2017 related to the guaranty fund assessment for Penn Treaty. These decreases were partially offset by higher expenses in 2018 associated with enterprise-wide initiatives, including the continued investment in our unit cost initiative. 

Taxes and Other Tax-Related Items. Our effective tax rates differ from the U.S. statutory rate of 21% typically due to nontaxable investment income, tax credits for investments in low income housing and foreign earnings taxed at different rates than the U.S. statutory rate. This incremental tax benefit was lower in 2018 compared to 2017 which resulted in a $47 million decrease in adjusted earnings. Our results for 2018 include the following tax items: (i) a net tax-related benefit of $366 million related to the settlement of tax audits, which included a $349 million benefit related to the tax treatment of a wholly-owned U.K. investment subsidiary of MLIC (comprised of a $168 million tax benefit and a $181 million interest benefit), (ii) a benefit of $36 million related to a non-cash transfer of assets from a wholly-owned U.K. investment subsidiary to MLIC, (iii) a charge of $17 million related to a tax adjustment in Chile, and (iv) a $5 million charge in Colombia to establish a deferred tax liability due to a change in tax status. Our results for 2017 include the following tax items: (i) a benefit of $41 million related to the finalization of certain tax audits, (ii) charges of $180 million related to the repatriation of approximately $3.0 billion of cash following the post-Separation review of our capital needs, partially offset by a tax benefit associated with dividends from our non-U.S. operations, and (iii) a benefit of $9 million related to the settlement of a tax audit in Argentina. Other tax-related items in both 2018 and 2017, primarily due to the changes in the valuation of the peso in Argentina, resulted in a $45 million increase in adjusted earnings.

Year Ended December 31, 2017 Compared with the Year Ended December 31, 2016 

Unless otherwise stated, all amounts discussed below are net of income tax.

Overview. The primary drivers of the increase in adjusted earnings were annuities reinsurance activity with Brighthouse, the impact of 2017 and 2016 refinements made to DAC and certain insurance-related liabilities, and the impact in both 2017 and 2016 of our annual actuarial assumption review, partially offset by the negative impact of U.S. Tax Reform and other unfavorable tax items.

Foreign Currency. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates had a $22 million negative impact on adjusted earnings for 2017 compared to 2016. Unless otherwise stated, all amounts discussed below are net of foreign currency fluctuations. Foreign currency fluctuations can result in significant variances in the financial statement line items.

101
Business Growth. An increase of $70 million in adjusted earnings was attributable to business growth. We benefited from positive net flows from many of our businesses. As a result, growth in the investment portfolios of our U.S., Asia and Latin America segments generated higher net investment income. However, this was partially offset by a corresponding increase in interest credited expense on certain insurance-related liabilities. In our U.S. segment, an increase in average premium per policy in our auto and homeowners business, partially offset by a decrease in exposures, improved adjusted earnings. Growth in our segments abroad also contributed to the increase in adjusted earnings. In our MetLife Holdings segment, negative net flows contributed to a decrease in average separate account balances and, consequently, asset-based fee income. Improved results from our start-up operations increased adjusted earnings.

Market Factors. Market factors, including interest rate levels, variability in equity market returns, and foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, continued to impact our results; however, certain impacts were mitigated by derivatives used to hedge these risks. Excluding the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates on reported net investment income in our non-U.S. segments and changes in inflation rates on our inflation-indexed investments, investment yields decreased. Investment yields were negatively affected by lower prepayment fees, lower derivative income and lower returns on real estate joint ventures. In addition, earnings on our securities lending program decreased, which primarily resulted from lower margins due to a flatter yield curve, and lower returns on alternative investments (excluding the impact of U.S. Tax Reform). These decreases in net investment income were partially offset by higher returns on other limited partnership interests, driven by improvements in equity market performance. In addition, higher interest credited expenses, primarily driven by our U.S. segment as a result of a higher average interest credited rate, reduced adjusted earnings. These decreases were partially offset by higher asset-based fees in our MetLife Holdings segment as a result of favorable equity market performance in 2017. The changes in market factors discussed above resulted in a $69 million decrease in adjusted earnings.

Underwriting, Actuarial Assumption Review and Other Insurance Adjustments. Unfavorable underwriting resulted in a $13 million decrease in adjusted earnings primarily as a result of unfavorable claims experience, higher catastrophe losses and unfavorable mortality, largely offset by favorable morbidity and favorable development of prior year non-catastrophe losses in our Property & Casualty business. Favorable morbidity in our U.S. segment was partially offset by unfavorable morbidity in our MetLife Holdings segment. Higher lapses and claims in Japan, partially offset by favorable claims experience in other countries, drove unfavorable claims experience in our Asia segment. Unfavorable mortality in our Latin America and U.S. segments was partially offset by favorable mortality in our MetLife Holdings segment. The impact in both 2017 and 2016 of our annual actuarial assumption review resulted in a $166 million increase in adjusted earnings, primarily due to favorable DAC unlockings in 2017 compared to unfavorable DAC unlockings in 2016 in our MetLife Holdings segment. Refinements to DAC and certain insurance-related liabilities, which were recorded in both 2017 and 2016 across our segments, resulted in a $191 million increase in adjusted earnings. This includes favorable 2017 refinements of (i) a $36 million DAC adjustment related to certain participating whole life business assumed from Brighthouse; and (ii) a reserve adjustment resulting from modeling improvements in the reserving process of $55 million in our life business, as well as (iii) a 2017 unfavorable charge of $90 million to increase certain RIS policy reserves. This also includes an unfavorable 2016 refinement of $65 million resulting from modeling improvements in the reserving process.

Expenses. A $46 million decrease in expenses was primarily driven by lower costs as a result of the U.S. Retail Advisor Force Divestiture, a decrease in certain corporate expenses, and favorable net adjustments to certain reinsurance assets and liabilities, partially offset by (i) Separation-related costs, (ii) higher employee-related expenses, (iii) higher costs associated with corporate initiatives and projects (including leasehold impairments and costs related to our unit cost initiative), (iv) an increase in asbestos and litigation reserves, and (v) an increase in expenses incurred related to the guaranty fund assessment for Penn Treaty. 

Interest Expense on Debt. Interest expense on debt decreased by $35 million, mainly due to the maturity of $1.25 billion of our senior notes in June 2016.

Taxes. Our effective tax rates differ from the U.S. statutory rate of 35% due to non-taxable investment income, tax credits for investments in low income housing, and foreign earnings taxed at lower rates than the U.S. statutory rate. This incremental tax benefit was lower in 2017 compared to 2016 which resulted in a $7 million decrease in adjusted earnings. Our results for 2017 include the following tax items: (i) a charge of $298 million related to the impact of U.S. Tax Reform, which includes a $254 million tax charge and a $44 million, net of income tax, reduction in net investment income, (ii) a tax benefit of $41 million related to the finalization of certain tax audits, (iii) tax charges of $180 million related to the repatriation of offshore earnings, and (iv) a tax benefit of $9 million related to the settlement of an audit in Argentina. Our results for 2016 include the following tax items: (i) a tax benefit of $25 million in Japan and a tax charge of $12 million in Chile, both related to changes in tax rates that pertain to periods prior to 2016, (ii) a tax charge of $26 million related to the repatriation of earnings from Japan, and (iii) a tax benefit of $46 million for the finalization of certain tax audits.

102
Other. In connection with the Separation, annuities reinsurance activity with Brighthouse increased adjusted earnings by $267 million. This favorable impact was primarily due to the recapture in 2016 of certain assumed single-premium deferred annuity reinsurance agreements, and the elimination of interest credited payments on the related reinsurance payable, as well as lower DAC amortization. This increase was partially offset by the net unfavorable impact in 2017 from the recapture and novation of, as well as refinements to, assumed and ceded agreements covering certain variable annuity business. 

103
Segment Results and Corporate & Other

U.S.

Business Overview. Sales increased compared to 2017, primarily driven by our RIS business, as higher sales of pension risk transfers (driven by a large transaction in the second quarter of 2018), stable value, specialized life insurance and structured settlement products were partially offset by lower funding agreement issuances. Changes in premiums for the RIS business were almost entirely offset by the related changes in policyholder benefits and claims. Sales were slightly lower compared to 2017 in the Group Benefits business, as strong sales in our voluntary products were offset by the impact of strong jumbo case sales in our core products in 2017. The resulting increase in premiums, fees and other revenues was partially offset by the loss of a large dental contract in the second quarter of 2017. In our Property & Casualty business, sales increased over 2017. In addition, the number of exposures decreased from 2017, reflecting management actions to improve the quality of the business.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Year Ended December 31, 2018 Compared with the Year Ended December 31, 2017 

Unless otherwise stated, all amounts discussed below are net of income tax.

U.S. Tax Reform. The changes from U.S. Tax Reform resulted in an increase in adjusted earnings of $417 million for 2018 compared to 2017.

Business Growth. Net investment income improved as a result of higher average invested assets due to the impact of increased premiums and deposits, primarily due to pension risk transfer sales, partially offset by a decrease in net flows from funding agreements. However, consistent with the growth in average invested assets from increased premiums, interest credited expenses on long-duration and deposit-type liabilities increased. An increase in average premium per policy in our auto business, partially offset by the decrease in exposures, improved adjusted earnings. Higher volume-related, direct and premium tax expenses were partially offset by lower pension and postretirement expenses. This net increase in expenses, coupled with the increase due to the 2018 reinstatement of the annual health insurer fee under the PPACA, were more than offset by a corresponding increase in premiums, fees and other revenues. The combined impact of the items affecting our business growth increased adjusted earnings by $171 million.

104
Market Factors. Market factors, including interest rate levels, variability in equity market returns and foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, continued to impact our results; however, certain impacts were mitigated by derivatives used to hedge these risks. Investment yields increased, primarily due to higher yields on fixed income securities and mortgage loans, coupled with higher returns on real estate investments, partially offset by lower returns on private equities, as a result of a decrease in partnership distributions. The net increase in investment yields was more than offset by the impact of higher average interest credited rates on both our long-duration and deposit-type liabilities, which drove an increase in interest credited expenses. The changes in market factors discussed above resulted in an $86 million decrease in adjusted earnings.

Underwriting and Other Insurance Adjustments. In our Property & Casualty business, catastrophe-related losses decreased $88 million as compared to 2017. Losses from our commercial business increased $26 million. Non-catastrophe claim costs increased $21 million, as a result of higher auto and homeowner severities, as well as an increase in auto frequencies, partially offset by lower homeowner frequencies. As a result of overall lower claim activity, loss adjustment expenses decreased, increasing adjusted earnings by $15 million. In addition, less favorable development of prior period losses decreased adjusted earnings by $8 million. Favorable claims experience in our Group Benefits business resulted in a $47 million increase in adjusted earnings. This was primarily driven by favorable renewal results in our group disability business, as well as lower claim incidence and severity, coupled with growth and favorable claims experience in our accident & health business, partially offset by less favorable claims experience in our dental, vision and individual disability businesses. Mortality results were flat as less favorable claim experience in our term life business was offset by favorable mortality in our universal life and accidental death & dismemberment businesses. Favorable mortality in our specialized life insurance, pension risk transfer and structured settlement businesses increased adjusted earnings by $57 million. Refinements to certain insurance and other liabilities, which were recorded in both 2018 and 2017, resulted in a $131 million increase in adjusted earnings. Such refinements include favorable insurance adjustments resulting from reserve and DAC modeling improvements in our individual disability insurance business in 2018 and a charge in 2017 to increase certain RIS policy reserves.

Year Ended December 31, 2017 Compared with the Year Ended December 31, 2016

Unless otherwise stated, all amounts discussed below are net of income tax.

Business Growth. The impact of deposits, net flows from funding agreements and increased premiums in 2017 resulted in higher average invested assets, improving net investment income. However, consistent with the growth in average invested assets from increased premiums, interest credited on long-duration contracts increased. An increase in average premium per policy in both our auto and homeowners businesses, partially offset by the decrease in exposures, improved adjusted earnings. The remaining increase in premiums, fees and other revenues, coupled with a decline in direct expenses, was partially offset by higher volume-related expenses. The 2017 abatement of the annual health insurer fee under PPACA was offset by a corresponding decrease in premiums, fees and other revenues. The combined impact of the items discussed above increased adjusted earnings by $198 million.

Market Factors. Market factors, including interest rate levels, variability in equity market returns and foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, continued to impact our results; however, certain impacts were mitigated by derivatives used to hedge these risks. Investment yields decreased, primarily due to lower prepayment fees, derivative income and lower returns on real estate and real estate joint ventures. In addition, lower investment earnings on our securities lending program resulted primarily from lower margins, due to a flatter yield curve. These decreases in investment yields were largely offset by higher returns on other limited partnership interests, primarily in private equities, driven by improvements in equity market performance. Higher average interest credited rates drove an increase in interest credited expenses; however, this was partially offset by an increase in adjusted earnings due to a decrease in the crediting rate on certain long-duration insurance contracts. The changes in market factors discussed above resulted in a $74 million decrease in adjusted earnings.

105
Underwriting and Other Insurance Adjustments. Favorable prior year reserve development, lower utilization and the positive impact of pricing actions in our dental business, as well as favorable claims experience in our accident & health and group disability businesses were partially offset by slightly less favorable claims experience in our individual disability business, which resulted in a $120 million increase in adjusted earnings. Less favorable mortality in 2017, mainly due to less favorable claim experience in our group life businesses resulted in a $20 million decrease in adjusted earnings. Favorable mortality from our pension risk transfer and structured settlement businesses was mostly offset by less favorable mortality in our specialized life insurance and income annuities businesses. In our Property & Casualty business, catastrophe-related losses increased $24 million in 2017, primarily due to severe storm activity. Non-catastrophe claim costs increased slightly as a result of higher auto-related severities and higher homeowners-related frequencies, mostly offset by lower auto-related frequencies and lower homeowners-related severities. Favorable development of prior year non-catastrophe losses of $12 million increased adjusted earnings. Refinements to certain insurance and other liabilities, which were recorded in both 2017 and 2016, resulted in a $75 million decrease in adjusted earnings, which included a $90 million charge in 2017 to increase certain RIS policy reserves.

Asia

Business Overview. Sales increased compared to 2017 primarily driven by growth in foreign currency-denominated annuity and life products as well as accident & health product sales in Japan. This was partially offset by a decrease in sales in Korea, as a result of the continued negative impact of regulatory changes on sales of savings retirement products, as well as a decrease in life sales in Hong Kong.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Year Ended December 31, 2018 Compared with the Year Ended December 31, 2017

Unless otherwise stated, all amounts discussed below are net of income tax.

Foreign Currency. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates increased adjusted earnings by $6 million for 2018 compared to 2017, primarily due to the strengthening of the Korean won against the U.S. dollar. Unless otherwise stated, all amounts discussed below are net of foreign currency fluctuations. Foreign currency fluctuations can result in significant variances in the financial statement line items.

U.S. Tax Reform. The changes from U.S. Tax Reform resulted in an increase in adjusted earnings of $47 million for 2018 compared to 2017.

106
Business Growth. Asia’s premiums, fees and other revenues remained flat compared to 2017 as growth in our foreign currency-denominated life and accident & health products was offset by the decline in yen-denominated life products in Japan. Changes in premiums from these products were partially offset by related changes in policyholder benefits. Positive net flows in Japan and Korea resulted in higher average invested assets, which improved net investment income. Business growth also drove an increase in commissions and other variable expenses, which were partially offset by higher DAC capitalization. The combined impact of the items affecting our business growth improved adjusted earnings by $109 million.

Market Factors. Market factors, including interest rate levels and variability in equity market returns, continued to impact our results; however, certain impacts were mitigated by derivatives used to hedge these risks. Investment results were favorably impacted by higher returns on real estate investments, derivative income, and yields on mortgage loans. In addition, higher earnings from our operating joint venture in China improved net investment income. An increase in higher-yielding fixed income securities supporting U.S. dollar-denominated products sold in Japan was partially offset by lower yields on fixed income securities in Korea. Investment yields were negatively impacted by increased investment expenses and lower returns on hedge funds. The net increase in investment yields was partially offset by an increase in interest credited expenses on certain insurance liabilities. The combined impact of the items discussed above increased adjusted earnings by $7 million.

Underwriting, Actuarial Assumption Review and Other Insurance Adjustments. Higher lapses and claims in Japan decreased adjusted earnings by $48 million. Our annual actuarial assumption review resulted in a decrease of $63 million in adjusted earnings when compared to 2017. Refinements to certain insurance and other liabilities, which were recorded in both 2018 and 2017, resulted in a $31 million decrease in adjusted earnings. Our results for 2018 include favorable liability refinements of $11 million in Japan and $6 million in Australia, largely offset by an unfavorable liability refinement of $16 million in Bangladesh. Our 2017 results include a favorable refinement of $12 million related to reinsurance receivables in Australia.

Expenses and Taxes. Higher expenses, primarily driven by higher employee-related and project costs, as well as an increase in corporate overhead costs, reduced adjusted earnings by $24 million. Various tax items in both 2018 and 2017 resulted in a $5 million increase in adjusted earnings.

Year Ended December 31, 2017 Compared with the Year Ended December 31, 2016 

Unless otherwise stated, all amounts discussed below are net of income tax.

Foreign Currency. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates decreased adjusted earnings by $8 million for 2017 compared to 2016 primarily due to the weakening of the Japanese yen, partially offset by the strengthening of the Korean won, against the U.S. dollar. Unless otherwise stated, all amounts discussed below are net of foreign currency fluctuations. Foreign currency fluctuations can result in significant variances in the financial statement line items.

Business Growth. Asia’s premiums and policy fee income increased from 2016 mainly driven by growth in our foreign currency-denominated life and accident & health businesses in Japan, as well as our group insurance business in Australia. Changes in premiums for these businesses were partially offset by related changes in policyholder benefits. Positive net flows in Japan and Korea resulted in higher average invested assets, which improved net investment income. The combined impact of the items discussed above improved adjusted earnings by $61 million.

Market Factors. Market factors, including interest rate levels and variability in equity market returns continued to impact our results; however, certain impacts were mitigated by derivatives used to hedge these risks. Investment results were favorably impacted by higher returns on other limited partnership interests, driven by improvements in equity market performance, and higher income on real estate investments, which included a lease termination fee. These increases were partially offset by the unfavorable impact of lower interest rates on fixed maturity securities AFS in Japan. The decrease in returns from lower interest rates in Japan was partially offset by the favorable impact of increased sales of foreign currency-denominated fixed annuities in Japan, primarily in its Australian dollar-denominated portfolio, which drove an increase in higher yielding foreign currency-denominated fixed maturity securities AFS. The combined impact of the items discussed above increased adjusted earnings by $45 million. 

Underwriting, Actuarial Assumption Review and Other Insurance Adjustments. Higher lapses and claims in Japan, partially offset by favorable claims experience in other countries, decreased adjusted earnings by $51 million. The impact in both 2017 and 2016 of our annual actuarial assumption review resulted in a slight increase in adjusted earnings. Refinements to certain insurance and other liabilities, which were recorded in both 2017 and 2016, resulted in a $69 million increase in adjusted earnings, which includes a $12 million favorable refinement in 2017 of the $44 million charge in 2016 related to reinsurance receivables in Australia. 

107
Expenses and Taxes. Higher expenses, primarily driven by project costs, reduced adjusted earnings by $11 million. Results for 2017 include a charge of $70 million related to a U.S. tax on dividends from our Japan operations. Results for 2016 include a $25 million tax benefit related to a change in the corporate tax rate in Japan (which includes a benefit of $20 million that pertains to prior periods). 

Latin America

Business Overview. Total sales for Latin America increased compared to 2017, driven by higher individual accident & health, credit life and retirement product sales in Chile, partially offset by lower pension and group medical sales in Mexico.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Year Ended December 31, 2018 Compared with the Year Ended December 31, 2017

Unless otherwise stated, all amounts discussed below are net of income tax.

Foreign Currency. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates decreased adjusted earnings by $13 million for 2018 compared to 2017 mainly due to the weakening of the Mexican and Argentine pesos against the U.S. dollar. Unless otherwise stated, all amounts discussed below are net of foreign currency fluctuations. Foreign currency fluctuations can result in significant variances in the financial statement line items.

U.S. Tax Reform. The changes from U.S. Tax Reform resulted in a decrease in adjusted earnings of $40 million for 2018 compared to 2017.

Business Growth. Latin America experienced growth across several lines of business primarily within Chile and Mexico. This growth resulted in increased premiums and policy fee income, which was largely offset by related changes in policyholder benefits. Positive net flows, primarily from Chile and Argentina, resulted in an increase in average invested assets and generated higher net investment income. This was partially offset by an increase in interest credited expenses on certain insurance liabilities. Business growth also drove an increase in commissions, which was partially offset by higher DAC capitalization. The combined impact of the items affecting our business growth increased adjusted earnings by $10 million.

108
Market Factors. Market factors, including interest rate levels and variability in equity market returns, continued to impact our results; however, certain impacts were mitigated by derivatives used to hedge these risks. Changes in market factors resulted in an $8 million decrease in adjusted earnings despite higher investment yields. This was primarily due to lower returns on FVO Securities in Chile and higher interest credited expenses, partially offset by improved yields on fixed income securities in Mexico and Chile, as well as higher derivative income in Chile.

Underwriting, Actuarial Assumption Review and Other Insurance Adjustments. Favorable underwriting resulted in a $57 million increase to adjusted earnings primarily driven by lower claims experience in Mexico. Our annual actuarial assumption review resulted in a $13 million increase to adjusted earnings when compared to 2017. In addition, refinements to certain insurance liabilities and other adjustments in both 2018 and 2017, primarily in Brazil, Mexico and Chile, resulted in an $18 million decrease to adjusted earnings.

Expenses and Taxes. A $17 million decrease in expenses was primarily the result of a 2018 reduction of a litigation reserve in Argentina. Our results for 2018 include a $17 million tax charge related to a tax adjustment in Chile, a $5 million tax charge in Colombia to establish a deferred tax liability due to a change in tax status, a $2 million tax charge as a result of tax reform legislation also in Colombia, partially offset by a $4 million tax benefit due to inflation in Argentina. Our results for 2017 include a $9 million tax benefit related to the settlement of a tax audit and a $4 million tax charge incurred as a result of tax reform legislation, both in Argentina. Other tax-related items in both 2018 and 2017, primarily due to the changes in the valuation of the peso in Argentina, resulted in a $14 million increase in adjusted earnings.

Year Ended December 31, 2017 Compared with the Year Ended December 31, 2016

Unless otherwise stated, all amounts discussed below are net of income tax.

Foreign Currency. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates resulted in a slight decrease to adjusted earnings for 2017 as compared to 2016 mainly due to the weakening of the Mexican and Argentinean pesos against the U.S. dollar. Unless otherwise stated, all amounts discussed below are net of foreign currency fluctuations. Foreign currency fluctuations can result in significant variances in the financial statement line items.

Business Growth. Latin America experienced growth across several lines of business within Chile, Mexico and Brazil. This growth resulted in increased premiums and policy fee income which was partially offset by related changes in policyholder benefits. Positive net flows, primarily from Mexico and Chile, resulted in an increase in average invested assets and generated higher net investment income. This was partially offset by an increase in interest credited expense on certain insurance liabilities. Business growth also drove an increase in adjusted expenses and commissions, which were partially offset by higher DAC capitalization. The items discussed above resulted in an $86 million increase in adjusted earnings.

Market Factors. Market factors, including interest rate levels and variability in equity market returns continued to impact our results; however, certain impacts were mitigated by derivatives used to hedge these risks. Changes in market factors resulted in a $19 million increase in adjusted earnings primarily due to higher investment yields. The increase in investment yields was primarily driven by higher returns from FVO Securities in Chile and mortgage loans in Mexico. These increases were largely offset by higher interest credited expenses and lower yields on fixed income securities in Chile and Argentina.

Underwriting, Actuarial Assumption Review and Other Insurance Adjustments. Unfavorable underwriting resulted in a $37 million decrease to adjusted earnings driven by higher claims experience in Mexico. The impact in both 2017 and 2016 of our annual actuarial assumption review resulted in a slight decrease in adjusted earnings. In addition, refinements to certain insurance liabilities, primarily in the ProVida pension business, and other adjustments in both 2017 and 2016 resulted in a $5 million increase to adjusted earnings.

Expenses and Taxes. Higher expenses, primarily driven by employee-related and marketing costs, decreased adjusted earnings by $48 million as compared to 2016. Our results for 2017 include a $9 million tax benefit related to the settlement of a tax audit and a $4 million tax charge incurred as a result of tax reform legislation, both in Argentina. Our results for 2016 included a tax charge of $12 million as a result of tax reform legislation in Chile (including a charge of $10 million that pertains to periods prior to 2016). Also, our results for 2016 included a tax charge of $11 million related to the 2015 filing of local tax returns in Mexico and Chile. Other tax-related items in both 2017 and 2016 resulted in a $6 million decrease in adjusted earnings, primarily driven by a 2016 tax benefit due to inflation in Argentina.

109
EMEA

Business Overview. Sales decreased in 2018 primarily due to the closure of the U.K. wealth management product to new business in the third quarter of 2017 and a decline in sales of our employee benefits product in the Gulf region.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Year Ended December 31, 2018 Compared with the Year Ended December 31, 2017

Unless otherwise stated, all amounts discussed below are net of income tax.

Foreign Currency. The impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates resulted in a slight increase in adjusted earnings for 2018 compared to 2017, primarily driven by the weakening of the U.S. dollar against the euro, the British pound, and the Polish zloty, almost entirely offset by the strengthening of the U.S. dollar against the Turkish lira. Unless otherwise stated, all amounts discussed below are net of foreign currency fluctuations. Foreign currency fluctuations can result in significant variances in the financial statement line items.

U.S. Tax Reform. The changes from U.S. Tax Reform resulted in a decrease in adjusted earnings of $21 million for 2018 as compared to 2017.

Business Growth. Growth from our credit life and accident & health businesses in Turkey and across several European markets resulted in a $25 million increase in adjusted earnings.

Underwriting, Actuarial Assumption Review and Other Insurance Adjustments. Less favorable underwriting, primarily in our accident & health business in Greece and our employee benefits business in the U.K., as well as unfavorable underwriting in the Gulf region and in our life insurance business in France, decreased adjusted earnings by $55 million. Our annual actuarial assumption review resulted in a decrease in adjusted earnings of $15 million when compared to 2017. In addition, adjusted earnings decreased by $2 million due to refinements recorded in 2017 in our employee benefits business in the U.K. and the Gulf region and, in 2018, in our life insurance business in the Gulf region.

Expenses. Adjusted earnings increased by $62 million due to lower costs associated with enterprise-wide initiatives, notably the closing of the wealth management product to new business in the U.K. in the third quarter of 2017, declines in various other expenses and the release of provisions arising from finalization of historic corporate tax filings.

110
Taxes and Other. A decrease in our invested asset base, primarily due to dividend payments, negatively impacted net investment income resulting in an $8 million decrease in adjusted earnings. In addition, adjusted earnings decreased by $5 million due to unfavorable revisions to tax assets in both 2018 and 2017 and a reinsurance profit share in 2017 resulted in a $2 million decrease in adjusted earnings.

Year Ended December 31, 2017 Compared with the Year Ended December 31, 2016 

Unless otherwise stated, all amounts discussed below are net of income tax.

Foreign Currency. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates reduced adjusted earnings by $12 million for 2017 as compared to 2016, primarily driven by the strengthening of the U.S. dollar against the Egyptian pound and Turkish lira, partially offset by the weakening of the U.S. dollar against the Russian ruble and the Euro. Unless otherwise stated, all amounts discussed below are net of foreign currency fluctuations. Foreign currency fluctuations can result in significant variances in the financial statement line items.

Business Growth. Growth from our accident & health and credit life businesses in Turkey and our employee benefits business in the U.K., as well as growth across several European markets, partially offset by lower premium persistency in our employee benefits business in the Gulf, increased adjusted earnings by $25 million.

Underwriting, Actuarial Assumption Review and Other Insurance Adjustments. Underwriting experience was essentially unchanged as unfavorable underwriting, primarily in our credit life business in Turkey and across several European markets, was offset by favorable underwriting in our accident & health business in Greece. The impact in both 2017 and 2016 of our annual actuarial assumption review resulted in an $8 million increase in net adjusted earnings. Refinements to certain insurance liabilities and other adjustments in both 2017 and 2016 resulted in a $4 million decrease in adjusted earnings.

Expenses. Adjusted earnings increased by $5 million primarily due to expense discipline across the region, as well as enterprise-wide initiatives, notably the closing of the wealth management product to new business in the U.K., partially offset by additional costs related to regulatory and compliance requirements.

Taxes and Other. Our 2017 results include an unfavorable revision to the estimate of the valuation allowance required for a deferred tax asset in our non-life business of $5 million and an incremental tax expense in Russia of $2 million. This was offset by lower effective tax rates, which resulted in a $7 million increase to adjusted earnings. In addition, a 2017 reinsurance profit share of $2 million was offset by a 2016 benefit of $3 million following the cancellation of a distribution agreement with one of our bancassurance partners.

111
MetLife Holdings

Business Overview. In connection with the Separation and the U.S. Retail Advisor Force Divestiture, we have discontinued the marketing of life and annuity products in this segment, which has led to lower revenues. This will result in a declining DAC asset over time and we anticipate an average decline in premiums, fees and other revenues of approximately 5% per year from expected business run-off. A significant portion of our adjusted earnings is driven by separate account balances. Most directly, these balances determine asset-based fee income but they also impact DAC amortization and asset-based commissions. Separate account balances are driven by sales, movements in the market, surrenders, withdrawals, benefit payments, transfers and policy charges. Separate account balances decreased primarily due to the impact of negative net flows, as benefits, surrenders and withdrawals exceeded sales, as well as equity market performance. Although we have discontinued selling our long-term care product, we continue to collect premiums and administer the existing block of business, which contributed to asset growth in the segment, and we expect the related reserves to grow as this block matures.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Year Ended December 31, 2018 Compared with the Year Ended December 31, 2017

Unless otherwise stated, all amounts discussed below are net of income tax.

U.S. Tax Reform. The changes from U.S. Tax Reform resulted in an increase in adjusted earnings of $213 million for 2018 compared to 2017.

Business Growth. Lower net investment income, resulting from a reduced invested asset base, primarily in fixed income securities, decreased adjusted earnings. The reduced invested asset base is primarily the result of negative net flows in our deferred annuities and life businesses. This decline was partially offset by invested asset growth in our long-term care business. The negative net flows in our annuities business and a decrease in universal life deposits resulted in lower fee income and lower interest credited expenses. The continued maturing of the existing long-term care block of business resulted in higher interest credited expenses. The combined impact of the items affecting our business growth, partially offset by lower DAC amortization, resulted in a $192 million decrease in adjusted earnings.

Market Factors. Market factors, including interest rate levels, variability in equity market returns, and foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, continued to impact our results; however, certain impacts were mitigated by derivatives used to hedge these risks. Higher DAC amortization from annuities, driven by lower equity market returns, resulted in a decrease in adjusted earnings. Investment yields were favorably impacted by a reduction in investment expenses in addition to higher returns on both real estate investments and FVO Securities. These improvements in investment yields were partially offset by a decline in mortgage loan yields and lower returns on private equities. The changes in market factors discussed above resulted in a $31 million decrease in adjusted earnings.

112
Underwriting, Actuarial Assumption Review, and Other Insurance Adjustments. Unfavorable mortality in our life businesses, partially offset by favorable underwriting, primarily due to the impact of favorable rate actions in our long-term care business, and mortality gains on life-contingent annuities, resulted in a $32 million decrease in adjusted earnings. Our annual actuarial assumption review resulted in a decrease of $56 million in adjusted earnings when compared to 2017. Changes in operational assumptions, including updates to closed block projections, maintenance and other expenses, were less favorable in the current period. Refinements to DAC and certain insurance-related liabilities that were recorded in both 2018 and 2017 resulted in a $23 million increase in adjusted earnings. This includes the following 2018 refinements: (i) a charge relating to an increase in our IBNR life reserves, reflecting enhancements to our processes related to potential claims; (ii) a favorable reserve adjustment relating to certain variable annuity guarantees assumed from a former joint venture in Japan; and (iii) two separate favorable reserve adjustments resulting from modeling improvements in our life business. This also includes the following 2017 refinements: (i) a favorable DAC adjustment related to certain assumed participating whole life business; (ii) two separate favorable reserve adjustments resulting from modeling improvements in our life business; (iii) an unfavorable adjustment related to the recapture and novation of, as well as adjustments to, assumed and ceded agreements covering certain variable annuity business; (iv) an unfavorable net impact from a life reinsurance recapture; and (v) an unfavorable reserve adjustment resulting from modeling improvements in our long-term care business.

Expenses. Adjusted earnings increased by $145 million as a result of lower expenses, primarily due to declines in Separation-related expenses, as well as lower employee-related costs, including expenses related to pension and postretirement benefits.

Year Ended December 31, 2017 Compared with the Year Ended December 31, 2016

Unless otherwise stated, all amounts discussed below are net of income tax.

Business Growth. Lower net investment income, resulting from a reduced invested asset base, decreased adjusted earnings. The reduced asset base is primarily the result of the 2016 recapture of certain assumed single-premium deferred annuity reinsurance agreements with Brighthouse. This decline was partially offset by net asset growth in our long-term care and life businesses. Consistent with this asset growth, interest credited on insurance liabilities increased. In our deferred annuities business, negative net flows contributed to a decrease in average separate account balances, and consequently, asset-based fee income. The discontinuance of a distribution agreement, resulting from the Separation, also contributed to the decline in variable annuity fee income. In our life business, a decrease in universal life sales resulted in lower fee income, net of DAC amortization, decreasing adjusted earnings. The combined impact of the items discussed above resulted in a $314 million decrease in adjusted earnings.

Market Factors. Market factors, including interest rate levels, variability in equity market returns, and foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, continued to impact our results; however, certain impacts were mitigated by derivatives used to hedge these risks. Investment yields decreased primarily due to declines in prepayment fees and derivative income, as well as lower returns on real estate joint ventures. These reductions in yields were partially offset by higher returns on other limited partnership interests, driven by improvements in equity market performance. In our deferred annuity business, higher equity returns drove an increase in average separate account balances which resulted in higher asset-based fee income. Adjusted earnings increased due to declines in DAC amortization. The changes in market factors discussed above resulted in an $8 million increase in adjusted earnings.

Underwriting, Actuarial Assumption Review and Other Insurance Adjustments. Unfavorable claims experience in our long-term care business, partially offset by favorable mortality in our life business, resulted in a $20 million decrease in adjusted earnings. The impact in both 2017 and 2016 of our annual actuarial assumption review resulted in an increase of $156 million in adjusted earnings and was primarily related to favorable DAC unlockings in 2017 compared to unfavorable DAC unlockings in 2016, primarily in our life business. Refinements to DAC and certain insurance-related liabilities that were recorded in 2017 and 2016 resulted in a $196 million increase in adjusted earnings. This includes favorable 2017 refinements of (i) a $36 million DAC adjustment related to certain participating whole life business assumed from Brighthouse; and (ii) a $55 million reserve adjustment resulting from modeling improvements in our life business reserving process. This also includes a 2017 net unfavorable impact from a life reinsurance recapture and an unfavorable 2016 adjustment of $30 million resulting from modeling improvements in the reserving process in our universal life business.

Expenses. Adjusted earnings increased by $181 million as a result of lower expenses, primarily due to lower costs as a result of the U.S. Retail Advisor Force Divestiture, partially offset by Separation-related expenses. 

113
Other. Adjusted earnings increased by $267 million as a result of the Separation and continued annuities reinsurance activity with Brighthouse. This favorable impact was primarily due to the recapture in 2016 of certain assumed single-premium deferred annuity reinsurance agreements, and the elimination of interest credited payments on the related reinsurance payable, as well as lower DAC amortization. This increase was partially offset by the net unfavorable impact in 2017 from the recapture and novation of, as well as refinements to, assumed and ceded agreements covering certain variable annuity business. Favorable results from our reinsurance agreement with our former operating joint venture in Japan due to higher fund returns resulted in a $13 million increase in adjusted earnings.

Corporate & Other

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The table below presents adjusted earnings available to common shareholders by source: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

114
Year Ended December 31, 2018 Compared with the Year Ended December 31, 2017

Unless otherwise stated, all amounts discussed below are net of income tax.

U.S. Tax Reform. The changes from U.S. Tax Reform resulted in a decrease in adjusted earnings of $139 million for 2018 compared to 2017. Our 2018 results included a decrease in adjusted earnings of $315 million, primarily related to the lower tax rate along with a slight reduction in net investment income. Our 2017 results included a tax charge of $254 million to reflect the enactment of U.S. Tax Reform. Our 2018 results also include an additional tax charge of $78 million to reflect a revision to the estimate of this enactment.

Other Net Investment Income. Higher yields on fixed income securities, as well as higher returns on private equities and real estate investments, were partially offset by lower returns on the remainder of the portfolio, resulting in an increase of $33 million in other net investment income.

Interest Expense on Debt. Interest expense on debt decreased by $96 million, primarily due to: (i) the exchange of senior notes for FVO Brighthouse Common Stock; (ii) the redemption of senior notes for cash; (iii) the maturity of senior notes during 2018; (iv) lower interest rates on certain intercompany senior notes redenominated to Japanese yen; and (v) the maturity of $1.0 billion of senior notes in December 2017. These redenominated intercompany senior notes, which eliminate in consolidation, are held by our business segments.

Corporate Initiatives and Projects. Expenses associated with corporate initiatives and projects increased by $103 million, primarily due to higher costs associated with the continued investment in our unit cost initiative, partially offset by 2017 lease impairments and lower costs associated with certain other enterprise-wide initiatives.

Other. Adjusted earnings increased $13 million, primarily as a result of a $45 million decrease in expenses for interest on certain tax positions and $18 million of expenses incurred in 2017 and taxed at the 2017 rate related to the guaranty fund assessment for Penn Treaty. These favorable items are partially offset by a $39 million increase in certain corporate-related expenses and a $20 million increase in litigation accruals.

Provision for Income Tax (Expense) Benefit and Other Tax-Related Items. In addition to the impact of U.S. Tax Reform, Corporate & Other’s effective tax rate differs from the U.S. statutory rate of 21% typically due to benefits from the impact of certain permanent tax-preferenced items, including non-taxable investment income, tax credits for investments in low income housing and foreign earnings taxed at different rates than the U.S. statutory rate. In 2018, the Company recognized net tax-related benefits of $364 million related to the settlement of tax audits. Of this amount, $349 million related to the tax treatment of a wholly-owned U.K. investment subsidiary of MLIC which was comprised of a $168 million tax benefit and a $181 million interest benefit. Our 2018 results also included a $36 million tax benefit related to a non-cash transfer of assets from a wholly-owned U.K. investment subsidiary to MLIC, as well as a $32 million tax charge for decreased utilization of tax-preferenced items. In 2017, the Company recognized a $180 million net tax charge related to the repatriation of approximately $3.0 billion of cash following the post-Separation review of our capital needs, partially offset by a tax benefit associated with dividends from our non-U.S. operations. Our 2017 results also included a $41 million net tax-related benefit from the finalization of certain tax audits.

Preferred Stock Dividends. Preferred stock dividends increased $38 million as a result of the issuance of Series D and Series E preferred stock in 2018.

Year Ended December 31, 2017 Compared with the Year Ended December 31, 2016

Unless otherwise stated, all amounts discussed below are net of income tax.

Other Business Activities. Adjusted earnings from other business activities increased $23 million. This was primarily due to growth and improved results from our start-up operations predominantly from our investment management business.

Other Net Investment Income. Other net investment income decreased by $76 million primarily driven by a lower invested asset base and lower returns on alternative investments (excluding the impact of U.S. Tax Reform) and real estate joint ventures. These decreases were partially offset by a decrease in the amount credited to the segments due to both a reduction in the crediting rate and the amount of economic capital managed by Corporate & Other on their behalf.

Interest Expense on Debt. Interest expense on debt decreased by $35 million, mainly due to the maturity of $1.3 billion of our senior notes in June 2016.

Corporate Initiatives and Projects. Expenses associated with corporate initiatives and projects increased by $50 million, primarily due to higher costs associated with enterprise-wide initiatives, primarily related to lease impairments and costs related to our unit cost initiative.

115
Other. Adjusted earnings decreased from 2016 as a result of a $32 million increase in asbestos and litigation reserves, a $25 million increase in employee-related expenses, $18 million of expenses incurred in 2017 related to the guaranty fund assessment for Penn Treaty, and a $13 million increase in expenses for interest on uncertain tax positions. These decreases in adjusted earnings were partially offset by a $31 million decrease in certain corporate expenses and $26 million of favorable net adjustments to certain reinsurance assets and liabilities in both 2017 and 2016.

Incremental Tax Benefit and Other Tax-Related Items. Corporate & Other benefits from the impact of certain permanent tax preferenced items, including non-taxable investment income and tax credits for investments in low income housing. As a result, our effective tax rate differs from the U.S. statutory rate of 35%. In 2017, we had a $180 million net tax charge related to the repatriation of approximately $3.0 billion of cash following the post-Separation review of our capital needs, partially offset by a tax benefit associated with dividends from our non-U.S. operations and a $41 million tax benefit from the finalization of certain tax audits. Results for 2016 include a $46 million tax benefit related to the finalization of certain tax audits. In addition, higher utilization of tax preferenced items increased adjusted earnings by $106 million over 2016. 

U.S. Tax Reform resulted in a $298 million charge in 2017, which includes a $44 million reduction in net investment income and a $254 million tax charge.

Effects of Inflation

Management believes that inflation has not had a material effect on the Company’s consolidated results of operations, except insofar as inflation may affect interest rates.

An increase in inflation could affect our business in several ways. During inflationary periods, the value of fixed income investments falls which could increase realized and unrealized losses. Inflation also increases expenses for labor and other materials, potentially putting pressure on profitability if such costs cannot be passed through in our product prices. Inflation could also lead to increased costs for losses and loss adjustment expenses in certain of our businesses, which could require us to adjust our pricing to reflect our expectations for future inflation. Prolonged and elevated inflation could adversely affect the financial markets and the economy generally, and dispelling it may require governments to pursue a restrictive fiscal and monetary policy, which could constrain overall economic activity, inhibit revenue growth and reduce the number of attractive investment opportunities.

116
Investments

Investment Risks

Our primary investment objective is to optimize, net of income tax, risk-adjusted investment income and risk-adjusted total return while ensuring that assets and liabilities are managed on a cash flow and duration basis. The Investments Department, led by the Chief Investment Officer, manages investment risks using a risk control framework comprised of policies, procedures and limits, as discussed further below. The Investments Risk Committee, chaired by GRM, reviews and monitors investment risk limits and tolerances. We are exposed to the following primary sources of investment risks:

•credit risk, relating to the uncertainty associated with the continued ability of a given obligor to make timely payments of principal and interest;

•interest rate risk, relating to the market price and cash flow variability associated with changes in market interest rates. Changes in market interest rates will impact the net unrealized gain or loss position of our fixed income investment portfolio and the rates of return we receive on both new funds invested and reinvestment of existing funds;

•liquidity risk, relating to the diminished ability to sell certain investments, in times of strained market conditions;

•market valuation risk, relating to the variability in the estimated fair value of investments associated with changes in market factors such as credit spreads and equity market levels. A widening of credit spreads will adversely impact the net unrealized gain (loss) position of the fixed income investment portfolio, will increase losses associated with credit-based non-qualifying derivatives where we assume credit exposure, and, if credit spreads widen significantly or for an extended period of time, will likely result in higher OTTI. Credit spread tightening will reduce net investment income associated with purchases of fixed maturity securities AFS and will favorably impact the net unrealized gain (loss) position of the fixed income investment portfolio;

•currency risk, relating to the variability in currency exchange rates for foreign denominated investments including with respect to the U.K.’s planned withdrawal from the EU. This risk relates to potential decreases in estimated fair value and net investment income resulting from changes in currency exchange rates versus the U.S. dollar. In general, the weakening of foreign currencies versus the U.S. dollar will adversely affect the estimated fair value of our foreign denominated investments; and

•real estate risk, relating to commercial, agricultural and residential real estate, and stemming from factors, which include, but are not limited to, market conditions, including the supply and demand of leasable commercial space, creditworthiness of borrowers and their tenants and joint venture partners, capital markets volatility, changes in market interest rates, commodity prices, farm incomes and U.S. housing market conditions.

We manage investment risk through in-house fundamental credit analysis of the underlying obligors, issuers, transaction structures and real estate properties. We also manage credit, market and liquidity risk through industry and issuer diversification and asset allocation. These risk limits, approved annually by a committee of directors that oversees our investment portfolio, promote diversification by asset sector, avoid concentrations in any single issuer and limit overall aggregate credit and equity risk exposure, as measured by our economic capital framework. For real estate assets, we manage credit and market risk through asset allocation and by diversifying by geography, property and product type. We manage interest rate risk as part of our ALM strategies. These strategies include maintaining an investment portfolio with diversified maturities that has a weighted average duration that reflects the duration of our estimated liability cash flow profile, and utilizing product design, such as the use of market value adjustment features and surrender charges, to manage interest rate risk. We also manage interest rate risk through proactive monitoring and management of certain NGEs of our products, such as the resetting of credited interest and dividend rates for policies that permit such adjustments. In addition to hedging with foreign currency derivatives, we manage currency risk by matching much of our foreign currency liabilities in our foreign subsidiaries with their respective foreign currency assets, thereby reducing our risk to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuation. We also use certain derivatives in the management of credit, interest rate, and market valuation risk.

We enter into market standard purchased and written credit default swap contracts. Payout under such contracts is triggered by certain credit events experienced by the referenced entities. For credit default swaps covering North American corporate issuers, credit events typically include bankruptcy and failure to pay on borrowed money. For European corporate issuers, credit events typically also include involuntary restructuring. With respect to credit default contracts on sovereign debt, credit events typically include failure to pay debt obligations, repudiation, moratorium, or involuntary restructuring. In each case, payout on a credit default swap is triggered only after the Credit Derivatives Determinations Committee of the International Swaps and Derivatives Association determines that a credit event has occurred.

117
We use purchased credit default swaps to mitigate credit risk in our investment portfolio. Generally, we purchase credit protection by entering into credit default swaps referencing the issuers of specific assets we own. In certain cases, basis risk exists between these credit default swaps and the specific assets we own. For example, we may purchase credit protection on a macro basis to reduce exposure to specific industries or other portfolio concentrations. In such instances, the referenced entities and obligations under the credit default swaps may not be identical to the individual obligors or securities in our investment portfolio. In addition, our purchased credit default swaps may have shorter tenors than the underlying investments they are hedging, which gives us more flexibility in managing our credit exposures. We believe that our purchased credit default swaps serve as effective economic hedges of our credit exposure.

Current Environment

As a global insurance company, we continue to be impacted by the changing global financial and economic environment, as well as the monetary policy of central banks around the world. See “— Industry Trends — Financial and Economic Environment.” Measures taken by central banks, including with respect to the level of interest rates, may have an impact on the pricing levels of risk-bearing investments and may adversely impact our business operations, investment portfolio and derivatives. The current environment continues to impact our net investment income, net investment gains (losses), net derivative gains (losses), level of unrealized gains (losses) within the various asset classes in our investment portfolio, and our level of investment in lower yielding cash equivalents, short-term investments and government securities. See “Risk Factors — Economic Environment and Capital Markets Risks — Difficult Economic Conditions May Adversely Affect Our Business, Results of Operations and Financial Condition.”

European Investments

We maintain general account investments in Europe to support our insurance operations and related policyholder liabilities in these countries and certain of our non-European operations invest in Europe for diversification. In Europe, we have proactively mitigated risk in both direct and indirect exposures by investing in a diversified portfolio of high quality investments with a focus on the higher-rated countries, including the U.K., France, Germany, the Netherlands, Poland, Switzerland and Belgium. The sovereign and agency debt of these countries continues to maintain investment grade credit ratings from all major rating agencies. European sovereign and agency fixed maturity securities AFS, at estimated fair value, were $8.4 billion at December 31, 2018. Our European corporate securities (fixed maturity and perpetual hybrid securities classified as non-redeemable preferred stock) are invested in a diversified portfolio of primarily non-financial services securities, which comprised $21.3 billion, or 68%, of European corporate securities, at estimated fair value, at December 31, 2018. Of these European fixed maturity securities AFS, 96% were investment grade and, for the 4% that were below investment grade, the majority were non-financial services corporate securities at December 31, 2018. European financial services corporate securities, at estimated fair value, were $10.0 billion (including $6.3 billion within the banking sector) with 99% investment grade, at December 31, 2018. Total European fixed maturity securities AFS, at estimated fair value, were $40.0 billion at December 31, 2018, including $348 million of Structured Securities (see “— Fixed Maturity Securities AFS and Equity Securities”).

Selected Country and Sector Investments

We have country specific exposure to volatility, as we maintain general account investments in the selected countries as summarized below to support our insurance operations and related policyholder liabilities in these countries and we also have exposure through our global portfolio diversification. In addition, we have sector specific exposure to volatility, including the impact of lower oil prices and variability in oil prices, on the energy sector.

118
Selected Country: The following table presents a summary of fixed maturity securities AFS in these countries. The information below is presented on a country of risk basis (e.g. the country where the issuer primarily conducts business). Sovereign includes government and agency.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

__________________[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Selected Sector: Our exposure to energy sector fixed maturity securities AFS was $8.5 billion (comprised of fixed maturity securities AFS of $8.5 billion at estimated fair value and related net written credit default swaps of $55 million at notional value), of which 86% were investment grade, with unrealized losses of $15 million at December 31, 2018. We maintain a diversified energy sector fixed maturities securities portfolio across sub-sectors and issuers. This portfolio comprised less than 2% of total investments at December 31, 2018.

We manage direct and indirect investment exposure in the selected countries and the energy sector through fundamental credit analysis and we continually monitor and adjust our level of investment exposure. We do not expect that our general account investments in these countries or the energy sector will have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition.

Investment Portfolio Results

The reconciliation of net investment income under GAAP to net investment income, as reported on an adjusted earnings basis, is presented below.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

__________________

(1)See “— Non-GAAP and Other Financial Disclosures — Adjusted earnings and related measures — Adjusted revenues and adjusted expenses — Net investment income” for a discussion of the adjustments made to net investment income under GAAP in calculating net investment income, as reported on an adjusted basis.

119
The following yield table presents our investment portfolio results for the periods indicated. We calculate yields on our investment portfolio using the non-GAAP performance metric of net investment income, as reported on an adjusted basis. Net investment income, as reported on an adjusted basis, includes the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. This yield table presentation is consistent with how we measure our investment performance for management purposes, and we believe it enhances understanding of our investment portfolio results. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

__________________

(1)Yields are calculated as investment income as a percent of average quarterly asset carrying values. Investment income excludes recognized gains and losses. Asset carrying values exclude unrealized gains (losses), collateral received in connection with our securities lending program, annuities funding structured settlement claims, freestanding derivative assets, collateral received from derivative counterparties, the effects of consolidating certain variable interest entities (“VIEs”) under GAAP that are treated as consolidated securitization entities (“CSEs”), Unit-linked investments and FVO Brighthouse Common Stock. A yield is not presented for other invested assets as it is not considered a meaningful measure of performance for this asset class.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(3)Investment income from fixed maturity securities AFS and mortgage loans includes prepayment fees.

(4)See “— Non-GAAP and Other Financial Disclosures” for discussion of divested businesses and lag elimination.

See “— Results of Operations — Consolidated Results — Adjusted Earnings” for an analysis of the period over period changes in investment portfolio results.

120
Fixed Maturity Securities AFS and Equity Securities

The following table presents fixed maturity securities AFS and equity securities by type (public or private) and information about perpetual and redeemable securities held at:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Included within fixed maturity securities AFS are structured securities including residential mortgage-backed securities (“RMBS”), asset-backed securities (“ABS”) and commercial mortgage-backed securities (“CMBS”) (collectively, “Structured Securities”).

Perpetual securities are included within fixed maturity securities AFS and equity securities. Upon acquisition, we classify perpetual securities that have attributes of both debt and equity as fixed maturity securities AFS if the securities have an interest rate step-up feature which, when combined with other qualitative factors, indicates that the securities have more debt-like characteristics; while those with more equity-like characteristics are classified as equity securities. Many of such securities, commonly referred to as “perpetual hybrid securities,” have been issued by non-U.S. financial institutions that are accorded the highest two capital treatment categories by their respective regulatory bodies (i.e. core capital, or “Tier 1 capital” and perpetual deferrable securities, or “Upper Tier 2 capital”).

Redeemable preferred stock with a stated maturity is included within fixed maturity securities AFS. These securities, which are commonly referred to as “capital securities,” primarily have cumulative interest deferral features and are primarily issued by U.S. financial institutions.

121
Valuation of Securities. We are responsible for the determination of the estimated fair value of our investments. We determine the estimated fair value of publicly-traded securities after considering one of three primary sources of information: quoted market prices in active markets, independent pricing services, or independent broker quotations. We determine the estimated fair value of privately-placed securities after considering one of three primary sources of information: market standard internal matrix pricing, market standard internal discounted cash flow techniques, or independent pricing services (after we determine the independent pricing services’ use of available observable market data). For publicly-traded securities, the number of quotations obtained varies by instrument and depends on the liquidity of the particular instrument. Generally, we obtain prices from multiple pricing services to cover all asset classes and obtain multiple prices for certain securities, but ultimately utilize the price with the highest placement in the fair value hierarchy. Independent pricing services that value these instruments use market standard valuation methodologies based on data about market transactions and inputs from multiple pricing sources that are market observable or can be derived principally from or corroborated by observable market data. See Note 10 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of the types of market standard valuation methodologies utilized and key assumptions and observable inputs used in applying these standard valuation methodologies. When a price is not available in the active market or through an independent pricing service, management values the security primarily using market standard internal matrix pricing or discounted cash flow techniques, and non-binding quotations from independent brokers who are knowledgeable about these securities. Independent non-binding broker quotations utilize inputs that may be difficult to corroborate with observable market data. As shown in the following section, less than 1% of our fixed maturity securities AFS were valued using non-binding quotations from independent brokers at December 31, 2018.

Senior management, independent of the trading and investing functions, is responsible for the oversight of control systems and valuation policies for securities, mortgage loans and derivatives. On a quarterly basis, new transaction types and markets are reviewed and approved to ensure that observable market prices and market-based parameters are used for valuation, wherever possible, and for determining that valuation adjustments, when applied, are based upon established policies and are applied consistently over time. Senior management oversees the selection of independent third-party pricing providers and the controls and procedures to evaluate third-party pricing. 

We review our valuation methodologies on an ongoing basis and revise those methodologies when necessary based on changing market conditions. Assurance is gained on the overall reasonableness and consistent application of input assumptions, valuation methodologies and compliance with fair value accounting standards through controls designed to ensure valuations represent an exit price. Several controls are utilized, including certain monthly controls, which include, but are not limited to, analysis of portfolio returns to corresponding benchmark returns, comparing a sample of executed prices of securities sold to the fair value estimates, comparing fair value estimates to management’s knowledge of the current market, reviewing the bid/ask spreads to assess activity, comparing prices from multiple independent pricing services and ongoing due diligence to confirm that independent pricing services use market-based parameters. The process includes a determination of the observability of inputs used in estimated fair values received from independent pricing services or brokers by assessing whether these inputs can be corroborated by observable market data. We ensure that prices received from independent brokers, also referred to herein as “consensus pricing,” are representative of estimated fair value by considering such pricing relative to our knowledge of the current market dynamics and current pricing for similar financial instruments. While independent non-binding broker quotations are utilized, they are not used for a significant portion of the portfolio.

We also apply a formal process to challenge any prices received from independent pricing services that are not considered representative of estimated fair value. If prices received from independent pricing services are not considered reflective of market activity or representative of estimated fair value, independent non-binding broker quotations are obtained, or an internally developed valuation is prepared. Internally developed valuations of current estimated fair value, compared with pricing received from the independent pricing services, did not produce material differences in the estimated fair values for the majority of the portfolio; accordingly, overrides were not material. This is, in part, because internal estimates are generally based on available market evidence and estimates used by other market participants. In the absence of such market-based evidence, management’s best estimate is used.

We have reviewed the significance and observability of inputs used in the valuation methodologies to determine the appropriate fair value hierarchy level for each of our securities. Based on the results of this review and investment class analysis, each instrument is categorized as Level 1, 2 or 3 based on the lowest level significant input to its valuation. See Note 10 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding the valuation techniques and inputs by level within the three-level fair value hierarchy by major classes of invested assets.

122
Fair Value of Fixed Maturity Securities AFS and Equity Securities

Fixed maturity securities AFS and equity securities measured at estimated fair value on a recurring basis and their corresponding fair value pricing sources are as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

See Note 10 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the fixed maturity securities AFS and equity securities fair value hierarchy.

The majority of the Level 3 fixed maturity securities AFS and equity securities were concentrated in three sectors: U.S. and foreign corporate securities and RMBS at December 31, 2018. During the year ended December 31, 2018, Level 3 fixed maturity securities AFS decreased by $1.4 billion, or 9%. The decrease was driven by transfers out of Level 3 in excess of transfers into Level 3 and a decrease in estimated fair value recognized in OCI, partially offset by purchases in excess of sales.

See “— Fixed Maturity Securities AFS and Equity Securities — Valuation of Securities” for further information regarding the composition of fair value pricing sources for securities. See Note 10 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a rollforward of the fair value measurements for securities measured at estimated fair value on a recurring basis using significant unobservable (Level 3) inputs; transfers into and/or out of Level 3; and further information about the valuation approaches and inputs by level by major classes of invested assets that affect the amounts reported above. 

Fixed Maturity Securities AFS 

See Notes 1 and 8 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information about fixed maturity securities AFS by sector, contractual maturities and continuous gross unrealized losses.

Fixed Maturity Securities AFS Credit Quality — Ratings 

The Securities Valuation Office of the NAIC evaluates the fixed maturity security investments of insurers for regulatory reporting and capital assessment purposes and assigns securities to one of six credit quality categories called “NAIC designations.” If no designation is available from the NAIC, then, as permitted by the NAIC, an internally developed designation is used. The NAIC designations are generally similar to the credit quality ratings of the NRSRO for fixed maturity securities AFS, except for certain Structured Securities as described below. Rating agency ratings are based on availability of applicable ratings from rating agencies on the NAIC credit rating provider list, including Moody’s, S&P, Fitch, Dominion Bond Rating Service, A.M. Best, Kroll Bond Rating Agency, Egan Jones Ratings Company and Morningstar Credit Ratings, LLC (“Morningstar”). If no rating is available from a rating agency, then an internally developed rating is used.

123
The NAIC has adopted revised methodologies for certain Structured Securities comprised of non-agency RMBS, CMBS and ABS. The NAIC’s objective with the revised methodologies for these Structured Securities was to increase the accuracy in assessing expected losses, and to use the improved assessment to determine a more appropriate capital requirement for such Structured Securities. The revised methodologies reduce regulatory reliance on rating agencies and allow for greater regulatory input into the assumptions used to estimate expected losses from Structured Securities. We apply the revised NAIC methodologies to Structured Securities held by MetLife, Inc.’s insurance subsidiaries that maintain the NAIC statutory basis of accounting. The NAIC’s present methodology is to evaluate Structured Securities held by insurers using the revised NAIC methodologies on an annual basis. If MetLife, Inc.’s insurance subsidiaries acquire Structured Securities that have not been previously evaluated by the NAIC, but are expected to be evaluated by the NAIC in the upcoming annual review, an internally developed designation is used until a NAIC designation becomes available. NAIC designations may not correspond to NRSRO ratings.

The following table presents total fixed maturity securities AFS by NRSRO rating and the applicable NAIC designation from the NAIC published comparison of NRSRO ratings to NAIC designations, except for certain Structured Securities, which are presented using the revised NAIC methodologies as described above, as well as the percentage, based on estimated fair value that each NAIC designation is comprised of at:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

124
The following tables present total fixed maturity securities AFS, based on estimated fair value, by sector classification and by NRSRO rating and the applicable NAIC designations from the NAIC published comparison of NRSRO ratings to NAIC designations, except for certain Structured Securities, which are presented using the revised NAIC methodologies as described above:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

125
U.S. and Foreign Corporate Fixed Maturity Securities AFS

We maintain a diversified portfolio of corporate fixed maturity securities AFS across industries and issuers. This portfolio does not have any exposure to any single issuer in excess of 1% of total investments and the top 10 holdings comprised 1% of total investments at both December 31, 2018 and 2017. The tables below present our U.S. and foreign corporate securities holdings by industry at:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Structured Securities

We held $49.5 billion and $49.3 billion of Structured Securities, at estimated fair value, at December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively, as presented in the RMBS, ABS and CMBS sections below.

RMBS 

Our RMBS holdings by security type, risk profile and ratings profile are as follows at:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

126
Collateralized mortgage obligations are structured by dividing the cash flows of mortgage loans into separate pools or tranches of risk that create multiple classes of bonds with varying maturities and priority of payments. Pass-through mortgage-backed securities are secured by a mortgage loan or collection of mortgage loans. The monthly mortgage loan payments from homeowners pass from the originating bank through an intermediary, such as a government agency or investment bank, which collects the payments and, for a fee, remits or passes these payments through to the holders of the pass-through securities.

The majority of our RMBS holdings were rated Aaa/AAA by Moody’s, S&P or Fitch; and were designated NAIC 1 by the NAIC at December 31, 2018 and 2017. Agency RMBS were guaranteed or otherwise supported by Federal National Mortgage Association, Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation or Government National Mortgage Association. Non-agency RMBS include prime, alternative residential mortgage loans (“Alt-A”) and sub-prime RMBS. Prime residential mortgage lending includes the origination of residential mortgage loans to the most creditworthy borrowers with high quality credit profiles. Alt-A is a classification of mortgage loans where the risk profile of the borrower is between prime and sub-prime. Sub-prime mortgage lending is the origination of residential mortgage loans to borrowers with weak credit profiles.

Included within prime and Alt-A RMBS are re-securitization of real estate mortgage investment conduit (“Re-REMIC”) securities. Re-REMIC RMBS involve the pooling of previous issues of prime and Alt-A RMBS and restructuring the combined pools to create new senior and subordinated securities. The credit enhancement on the senior tranches is improved through the re-securitization.

Historically, we have managed our exposure to sub-prime RMBS holdings by focusing primarily on senior tranche securities, stress testing the portfolio with severe loss assumptions and closely monitoring the performance of the portfolio. Our sub-prime RMBS portfolio consists predominantly of securities that were purchased after 2012 at significant discounts to par value and discounts to the expected principal recovery value of these securities. The vast majority of these securities are investment grade under the NAIC designations (e.g., NAIC 1 and NAIC 2). The estimated fair value of our sub-prime RMBS holdings purchased since 2012 was $3.4 billion and $3.1 billion at December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively, with unrealized gains (losses) of $201 million and $200 million at December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.

ABS 

Our ABS holdings are diversified both by collateral type and by issuer. The following table presents our ABS holdings by collateral type and ratings profile at:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

127
CMBS 

Our CMBS holdings are diversified by vintage year. The following tables present our CMBS holdings by NRSRO rating and vintage year at:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The tables above reflect NRSRO ratings including Moody’s, S&P, Fitch and Morningstar. CMBS designated NAIC 1 were 98.3% and 98.0% of total CMBS at December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.

Evaluation of Fixed Maturity Securities AFS for OTTI and Evaluating Temporarily Impaired Fixed Maturity Securities AFS

See Note 8 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information about the evaluation of fixed maturity securities AFS for OTTI and evaluation of temporarily impaired fixed maturity securities AFS.

OTTI Losses on Fixed Maturity Securities AFS Recognized in Earnings

See Note 8 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information about OTTI losses and gross gains and gross losses on fixed maturity securities AFS sold.

128
Overview of OTTI Losses on Securities Recognized in Earnings

Credit-related impairments of fixed maturity securities AFS were $40 million, $10 million and $97 million for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively.

Explanations of changes in fixed maturity securities AFS and equity securities impairments are as follows:

Year Ended December 31, 2018 Compared with the Year Ended December 31, 2017

Overall OTTI losses recognized in earnings on fixed maturity securities AFS were $40 million for the year ended December 31, 2018, as compared to $10 million for the year ended December 31, 2017. The most significant increase in OTTI losses was in U.S. and foreign corporate securities and foreign government securities, which comprised $40 million for the year ended December 31, 2018, as compared to $4 million for the year ended December 31, 2017. An increase of $36 million in OTTI losses was mainly concentrated in consumer and Argentine foreign government securities and was a result of issuer specific factors and from weakening of the Argentine peso. 

In 2018, we adopted new guidance under which equity securities are no longer evaluated for impairment, rather are measured at fair value through net income. Accordingly, there were no equity securities impairments for the year ended December 31, 2018. See Note 1 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Year Ended December 31, 2017 Compared with the Year Ended December 31, 2016

Overall OTTI losses recognized in earnings on fixed maturity securities AFS were $10 million for the year ended December 31, 2017, as compared to $107 million for the year ended December 31, 2016. The most significant decrease in OTTI losses was in U.S. and foreign corporate securities, which comprised $4 million for the year ended December 31, 2017, as compared to $87 million for the year ended December 31, 2016. A decrease of $83 million in OTTI losses was concentrated in industrial securities and was the result of lower oil prices impacting the energy sector in 2016.

Overall OTTI losses recognized in earnings on equity securities were $25 million for the year ended December 31, 2017, as compared to $75 million for the year ended December 31, 2016, a decrease of $50 million, reflecting the impact of lower oil prices impacting the energy sector in 2016.

Future Impairments

Future OTTI on fixed maturity securities AFS will depend primarily on economic fundamentals, issuer performance (including changes in the present value of future cash flows expected to be collected), and changes in credit ratings, collateral valuation and foreign currency exchange rates. If economic fundamentals deteriorate or if there are adverse changes in the above factors, OTTI may be incurred in upcoming periods. See Note 1 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of new guidance to be adopted in 2020 regarding the measurement of credit losses on financial instruments.

Contractholder-Directed Equity Securities and Fair Value Option Securities

The estimated fair value of these investments, which are primarily comprised of Unit-linked investments, was $12.6 billion and $16.7 billion, or 2.8% and 3.7% of cash and invested assets, at December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. See Notes 1 and 10 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of this portfolio, its fair value hierarchy and a rollforward of the fair value measurements for these investments measured at estimated fair value on a recurring basis using significant unobservable (Level 3) inputs.

Securities Lending and Repurchase Agreements

We participate in a securities lending program whereby securities are loaned to third parties, primarily brokerage firms and commercial banks. In addition, we participate in short-term repurchase agreement transactions with unaffiliated financial institutions.

See “— Liquidity and Capital Resources — The Company — Liquidity and Capital Uses — Securities Lending,” “— Liquidity and Capital Resources — The Company — Liquidity and Capital Uses — Repurchase Agreements” and Notes 1 and 8 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding our securities lending program and our repurchase agreement transactions.

FHLB of Boston Advance Agreements

A subsidiary of the Company has entered into short-term advance agreements with the FHLB of Boston.

See Note 8 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding our FHLB of Boston advance agreement transactions.

129
Mortgage Loans

Our mortgage loans are principally collateralized by commercial, agricultural and residential properties. Mortgage loans and the related valuation allowances are summarized as follows at:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The information presented in the tables herein exclude mortgage loans where we elected the FVO. Such amounts are presented in Note 8 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The carrying value of all mortgage loans, net of valuation allowance was 16.8% and 15.0% of cash and invested assets at December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.

We diversify our mortgage loan portfolio by both geographic region and property type to reduce the risk of concentration. Of our commercial and agricultural mortgage loan portfolios, 84% are collateralized by properties located in the United States, with the remaining 16% collateralized by properties located outside the United States, which includes 5% of properties located in the U.K., at December 31, 2018. The carrying values of our commercial and agricultural mortgage loans located in California, New York and Texas were 19%, 11% and 7%, respectively, of total commercial and agricultural mortgage loans at December 31, 2018. Additionally, we manage risk when originating commercial and agricultural mortgage loans by generally lending up to 75% of the estimated fair value of the underlying real estate collateral.

We manage our residential mortgage loan portfolio in a similar manner to reduce risk of concentration, with 92% collateralized by properties located in the United States, and the remaining 8% collateralized by properties located outside the United States, at December 31, 2018. The carrying values of our residential mortgage loans located in California, Florida, and New York were 31%, 9%, and 6%, respectively, of total residential mortgage loans at December 31, 2018.

130
Commercial Mortgage Loans by Geographic Region and Property Type. Commercial mortgage loans are the largest component of the mortgage loan invested asset class. The tables below present the diversification across geographic regions and property types of commercial mortgage loans at:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

__________________

Mortgage Loan Credit Quality — Monitoring Process. We monitor our mortgage loan investments on an ongoing basis, including a review of loans that are current, past due, restructured and under foreclosure. See Note 8 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for tables that present mortgage loans by credit quality indicator, past due and nonaccrual mortgage loans, impaired loans, as well as the carrying value of foreclosed mortgage loans included in real estate and real estate joint ventures.

We review our commercial mortgage loans on an ongoing basis. These reviews may include an analysis of the property financial statements and rent roll, lease rollover analysis, property inspections, market analysis, estimated valuations of the underlying collateral, loan-to-value ratios, debt service coverage ratios and tenant creditworthiness. The monitoring process focuses on higher risk loans, which include those that are classified as restructured, delinquent or in foreclosure, as well as loans with higher loan-to-value ratios and lower debt service coverage ratios. The monitoring process for agricultural mortgage loans is generally similar, with a focus on higher risk loans, such as loans with higher loan-to-value ratios, including reviews on a geographic and sector basis. We review our residential mortgage loans on an ongoing basis. See Note 8 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information on our evaluation of residential mortgage loans and related valuation allowance methodology.

131
Loan-to-value ratios and debt service coverage ratios are common measures in the assessment of the quality of commercial mortgage loans. Loan-to-value ratios are a common measure in the assessment of the quality of agricultural mortgage loans. Loan-to-value ratios compare the amount of the loan to the estimated fair value of the underlying collateral. A loan-to-value ratio greater than 100% indicates that the loan amount is greater than the collateral value. A loan-to-value ratio of less than 100% indicates an excess of collateral value over the loan amount. Generally, the higher the loan-to-value ratio, the higher the risk of experiencing a credit loss. The debt service coverage ratio compares a property’s net operating income to amounts needed to service the principal and interest due under the loan. Generally, the lower the debt service coverage ratio, the higher the risk of experiencing a credit loss. For our commercial mortgage loans, our average loan-to-value ratio was 55% and 54% at December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively, and our average debt service coverage ratio was 2.5x and 2.7x at December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. The debt service coverage ratio, as well as the values utilized in calculating the ratio, is updated annually on a rolling basis, with a portion of the portfolio updated each quarter. In addition, the loan-to-value ratio is routinely updated for all but the lowest risk loans as part of our ongoing review of our commercial mortgage loan portfolio. For our agricultural mortgage loans, our average loan-to-value ratio was 46% and 44% at December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. The values utilized in calculating the agricultural mortgage loan loan-to-value ratio are developed in connection with the ongoing review of the agricultural loan portfolio and are routinely updated.

Mortgage Loan Valuation Allowances. Our valuation allowances are established both on a loan specific basis for those loans considered impaired where a property specific or market specific risk has been identified that could likely result in a future loss, as well as for pools of loans with similar risk characteristics where a property specific or market specific risk has not been identified, but for which we expect to incur a loss. Accordingly, a valuation allowance is provided to absorb these estimated probable credit losses. 

The determination of the amount of valuation allowances is based upon our periodic evaluation and assessment of known and inherent risks associated with our loan portfolios. Such evaluations and assessments are based upon several factors, including our experience for loan losses, defaults and loss severity, and loss expectations for loans with similar risk characteristics. These evaluations and assessments are revised as conditions change and new information becomes available, which can cause the valuation allowances to increase or decrease over time as such evaluations are revised. Negative credit migration, including an actual or expected increase in the level of problem loans, will result in an increase in the valuation allowance. Positive credit migration, including an actual or expected decrease in the level of problem loans, will result in a decrease in the valuation allowance. 

See Note 8 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information about how valuation allowances are established and monitored and activity in and balances of the valuation allowance as of and for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016.

Real Estate and Real Estate Joint Ventures

Real estate and real estate joint ventures is comprised of wholly-owned real estate and joint ventures with interests in single property income-producing real estate, and to a lesser extent joint ventures with interests in multi-property projects with varying strategies ranging from the development of properties to the operation of income-producing properties, as well as a runoff portfolio. The carrying values of real estate and real estate joint ventures was $9.7 billion and $9.6 billion, or 2.1% and 2.1% of cash and invested assets, at December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. The estimated fair value of our real estate investments was $15.4 billion and $14.9 billion at December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. The total gross market value of such real estate investments was $20.1 billion and $19.1 billion at December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. Gross market value is the total estimated fair value of these investments regardless of encumbering debt.

There were no impairments recognized on real estate and real estate joint ventures for the year ended December 31, 2018, however impairments were $13 million and less than $1 million for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. Depreciation expense on real estate investments was $92 million, $103 million and $92 million for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively. Real estate investments were net of accumulated depreciation of $931 million and $898 million at December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.

We diversify our real estate investments by both geographic region and property type to reduce risk of concentration. 

Geographical diversification: Of our real estate investments, excluding funds, 63% were located in the United States, with the remaining 37% located outside the United States, at December 31, 2018. The carrying value of our real estate investments, excluding funds, located in Japan, California and DC were 33%, 13% and 10%, respectively, of total real estate investments, excluding funds, at December 31, 2018. Real estate funds were 20% of our real estate investments at December 31, 2018. The majority of these funds hold underlying real estate investments that are well diversified across the United States.

132
Property type diversification: Real estate and real estate joint venture investments by property type are categorized by sector as follows at:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Other Limited Partnership Interests

Other limited partnership interests are comprised of investments in private funds, including private equity funds and hedge funds. At December 31, 2018 and 2017, the carrying value of other limited partnership interests was $6.6 billion and $5.7 billion, or 1.5% and 1.3% of cash and invested assets, which included $634 million and $643 million of hedge funds, respectively. Cash distributions on these investments are generated from investment gains, operating income from the underlying investments of the funds and liquidation of the underlying investments of the funds.

Other Invested Assets

The following table presents the carrying value of our other invested assets by type at:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) See Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

(2) See Note 8 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Leveraged lease impairments were $105 million, $79 million and $77 million for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively. 

133
See Notes 1, 8 and 9 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding freestanding derivatives with positive estimated fair values, tax credit and renewable energy partnerships, leveraged and direct financing leases, annuities funding structured settlement claims, FHLB common stock, operating joint ventures and funds withheld.

Derivatives 

Derivative Risks

We are exposed to various risks relating to our ongoing business operations, including interest rate, foreign currency exchange rate, credit and equity market. We use a variety of strategies to manage these risks, including the use of derivatives. See Note 9 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for: 

•A comprehensive description of the nature of our derivatives, including the strategies for which derivatives are used in managing various risks.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

See “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk — Management of Market Risk Exposures — Hedging Activities” for more information about our use of derivatives by major hedge program.

Fair Value Hierarchy

See Note 10 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for derivatives measured at estimated fair value on a recurring basis and their corresponding fair value hierarchy.

The valuation of Level 3 derivatives involves the use of significant unobservable inputs and generally requires a higher degree of management judgment or estimation than the valuations of Level 1 and Level 2 derivatives. Although Level 3 inputs are unobservable, management believes they are consistent with what other market participants would use when pricing such instruments and are considered appropriate given the circumstances. The use of different inputs or methodologies could have a material effect on the estimated fair value of Level 3 derivatives and could materially affect net income.

Derivatives categorized as Level 3 at December 31, 2018 include: interest rate forwards with maturities which extend beyond the observable portion of the yield curve; interest rate total return swaps with unobservable repurchase rates; foreign currency swaps and forwards with certain unobservable inputs, including the unobservable portion of the yield curve; credit default swaps priced using unobservable credit spreads, or that are priced through independent broker quotations; equity variance swaps with unobservable volatility inputs; and equity index options with unobservable correlation inputs. At December 31, 2018, less than 1% of the estimated fair value of our derivatives was priced through independent broker quotations.

See Note 10 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a rollforward of the fair value measurements for derivatives measured at estimated fair value on a recurring basis using significant unobservable (Level 3) inputs.

The gain (loss) on Level 3 derivatives primarily relates to foreign currency swaps and forwards that are valued using an unobservable portion of the swap yield curves and interest rate total return swaps with unobservable repurchase rates. Other significant inputs, which are observable, include equity index levels, equity volatility and the swap yield curves. We validate the reasonableness of these inputs by valuing the positions using internal models and comparing the results to broker quotations.

The gain (loss) on Level 3 derivatives, percentage of gain (loss) attributable to observable and unobservable inputs, and the primary drivers of observable gain (loss) are summarized as follows: 

  Year Ended December 31, 2018

Gain (loss) recognized in net income (loss)  ($161) million

Approximate percentage of gain (loss) attributable to observable inputs 31%

Primary drivers of observable gain (loss) Increases in interest rates on interest rate total return swaps

Approximate percentage of gain (loss) attributable to unobservable inputs 69%

See “— Summary of Critical Accounting Estimates — Derivatives” for further information on the estimates and assumptions that affect derivatives.

134
Credit Risk

See Note 9 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information about how we manage credit risk related to derivatives and for the estimated fair value of our net derivative assets and net derivative liabilities after the application of master netting agreements and collateral.

Our policy is not to offset the fair value amounts recognized for derivatives executed with the same counterparty under the same master netting agreement. This policy applies to the recognition of derivatives on the consolidated balance sheets, and does not affect our legal right of offset.

Credit Derivatives

The following table presents the gross notional amount and estimated fair value of credit default swaps at:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The following table presents the gross gains, gross losses and net gains (losses) recognized in net derivative gains (losses) for credit default swaps as follows: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

__________________

(1)Gains (losses) do not include earned income (expense) on credit default swaps.

The favorable change in net gains (losses) on purchased credit default swaps of $30 million was due to certain credit spreads on credit default swaps hedging certain bonds widening in the current period as compared to narrowing in the prior period. The unfavorable change in net gains (losses) on written credit default swaps of ($277) million was due to certain credit spreads on certain credit default swaps used as replications widening in the current period as compared to narrowing the prior period.

The maximum amount at risk related to our written credit default swaps is equal to the corresponding gross notional amount. In a replication transaction, we pair an asset on our balance sheet with a written credit default swap to synthetically replicate a corporate bond, a core asset holding of life insurance companies. Replications are entered into in accordance with the guidelines approved by state insurance regulators and the NAIC and are an important tool in managing the overall corporate credit risk within the Company. In order to match our long-dated insurance liabilities, we seek to buy long-dated corporate bonds. In some instances, these may not be readily available in the market, or they may be issued by corporations to which we already have significant corporate credit exposure. For example, by purchasing Treasury bonds (or other high-quality assets) and associating them with written credit default swaps on the desired corporate credit name, we can replicate the desired bond exposures and meet our ALM needs. In addition, given the shorter tenor of the credit default swaps (generally five-year tenors) versus a long-dated corporate bond, we have more flexibility in managing our credit exposures. 

135
Embedded Derivatives

See Note 10 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information about embedded derivatives measured at estimated fair value on a recurring basis and their corresponding fair value hierarchy and a rollforward of the fair value measurements for embedded derivatives measured at estimated fair value on a recurring basis using significant unobservable (Level 3) inputs.

See Note 9 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information about the nonperformance risk adjustment included in the valuation of guaranteed minimum benefits accounted for as embedded derivatives.

See “— Summary of Critical Accounting Estimates — Derivatives” for further information on the estimates and assumptions that affect embedded derivatives.

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

Credit and Committed Facilities

We maintain an unsecured revolving credit facility, as well as committed facilities, with various financial institutions. See “— Liquidity and Capital Resources — The Company — Liquidity and Capital Sources — Global Funding Sources — Credit and Committed Facilities” for further descriptions of such arrangements. For the classification of expenses on such credit and committed facilities and the nature of the associated liability for letters of credit issued and drawdowns on these credit and committed facilities, see Note 12 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Collateral for Securities Lending, Third-Party Custodian Administered Repurchase Programs and Derivatives

We participate in a securities lending program and third-party custodian administered repurchase programs in the normal course of business for the purpose of enhancing the total return on our investment portfolio. See Notes 1 and 8 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of our securities lending program and repurchase agreement transactions, the classification of revenues and expenses, and the nature of the secured financing arrangements and associated liabilities.

Securities lending: Periodically we receive non-cash collateral for securities lending from counterparties, which cannot be sold or re-pledged, and which is not reflected on our consolidated balance sheets. The amount of this non-cash collateral was $78 million and $19 million at estimated fair value at December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. 

Third-party custodian administered repurchase programs: We loan certain of our fixed maturity securities AFS to unaffiliated financial institutions and, in exchange, non-cash collateral is put on deposit by the unaffiliated financial institutions on our behalf with third-party custodians. The estimated fair value of securities loaned in connection with these transactions was $78 million and $182 million at December 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively. Non-cash collateral on deposit with third-party custodians on our behalf was $84 million and $194 million, at estimated fair value, at December 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively, which cannot be sold or re-pledged, and which is not reflected on our consolidated balance sheets.

Derivatives: We enter into derivatives to manage various risks relating to our ongoing business operations. We receive non-cash collateral from counterparties for derivatives, which can be sold or re-pledged subject to certain constraints, and which is not reflected on our consolidated balance sheets. The amount of this non-cash collateral was $1.3 billion and $1.1 billion, at estimated fair value, at December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. See “— Liquidity and Capital Resources — The Company — Liquidity and Capital Uses — Pledged Collateral” and Note 9 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding the earned income on and the gross notional amount, estimated fair value of assets and liabilities and primary underlying risk exposure of our derivatives.

Lease Commitments

As lessee, we have entered into various lease and sublease agreements for office space and equipment. Our commitments under such lease agreements are included within the contractual obligations table. See “— Liquidity and Capital Resources — The Company — Contractual Obligations” and Note 20 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Guarantees

See “Guarantees” in Note 20 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

136
Other

We enter into the following additional commitments in the normal course of business for the purpose of enhancing the total return on our investment portfolio: mortgage loan commitments and commitments to fund partnerships, bank credit facilities, bridge loans and private corporate bond investments. See “Net Investment Income” and “Net Investment Gains (Losses)” in Note 8 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information on the investment income, investment expense, and gains and losses from such investments. See also “— Investments — Fixed Maturity Securities AFS and Equity Securities” and “— Investments — Mortgage Loans” for information on our investments in fixed maturity securities AFS and mortgage loans. See “— Investments — Real Estate and Real Estate Joint Ventures” and “— Investments — Other Limited Partnership Interests” for information on our partnership investments. 

Other than the commitments disclosed in Note 20 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, there are no other material obligations or liabilities arising from the commitments to fund mortgage loans, partnerships, bank credit facilities, bridge loans, and private corporate bond investments. For further information on commitments to fund partnership investments, mortgage loans, bank credit facilities, bridge loans and private corporate bond investments, see “— Liquidity and Capital Resources — The Company — Contractual Obligations.”

Insolvency Assessments

See Note 20 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Policyholder Liabilities 

We establish, and carry as liabilities, actuarially determined amounts that are calculated to meet policy obligations or to provide for future annuity payments. Amounts for actuarial liabilities are computed and reported on the consolidated financial statements in conformity with GAAP. For more details on Policyholder Liabilities, see “— Summary of Critical Accounting Estimates.”

Due to the nature of the underlying risks and the uncertainty associated with the determination of actuarial liabilities, we cannot precisely determine the amounts that will ultimately be paid with respect to these actuarial liabilities, and the ultimate amounts may vary from the estimated amounts, particularly when payments may not occur until well into the future.

We periodically review our estimates of actuarial liabilities for future benefits and compare them with our actual experience. We revise estimates, to the extent permitted or required under GAAP, if we determine that future expected experience differs from assumptions used in the development of actuarial liabilities. We charge or credit changes in our liabilities to expenses in the period the liabilities are established or re-estimated. If the liabilities originally established for future benefit payments prove inadequate, we must increase them. Such an increase could adversely affect our earnings and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.

We have experienced, and will likely in the future experience, catastrophe losses and possibly acts of terrorism, as well as turbulent financial markets that may have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Due to their nature, we cannot predict the incidence, timing, severity or amount of losses from catastrophes and acts of terrorism, but we make broad use of catastrophic and non-catastrophic reinsurance to manage risk from these perils. We also use hedging, reinsurance and other risk management activities to mitigate financial market volatility.

See “Business — Regulation — Insurance Regulation — Policy and Contract Reserve Adequacy Analysis” for information regarding required analyses of the adequacy of statutory reserves of our insurance operations.

Future Policy Benefits

We establish liabilities for amounts payable under insurance policies. See Notes 1 and 4 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “— Industry Trends — Impact of a Sustained Low Interest Rate Environment — Low Interest Rate Scenario” and “— Variable Annuity Guarantees.” A discussion of future policy benefits by segment (as well as Corporate & Other) follows.

137
U.S.

Amounts payable under insurance policies for this segment are comprised of group insurance and annuities, as well as property and casualty policies. For group insurance, future policyholder benefits are comprised mainly of liabilities for disabled lives under disability waiver of premium policy provisions, liabilities for survivor income benefit insurance, active life policies and premium stabilization and other contingency liabilities held under life insurance contracts. For group annuity contracts, future policyholder benefits are primarily related to payout annuities, including pension risk transfers, structured settlement annuities and institutional income annuities. There is no interest rate crediting flexibility on these liabilities. As a result, a sustained low interest rate environment could negatively impact earnings; however, we mitigate our risks by applying various ALM strategies, including the use of various interest rate derivative positions. The components of future policy benefits related to our property and casualty policies are liabilities for unpaid claims, estimated based upon assumptions such as rates of claim frequencies, levels of severities, inflation, judicial trends, legislative changes or regulatory decisions. Assumptions are based upon our historical experience and analysis of historical development patterns of the relationship of loss adjustment expenses to losses for each line of business, and we consider the effects of current developments, anticipated trends and risk management programs, reduced for anticipated salvage and subrogation.

Asia

Future policy benefits for this segment are held primarily for traditional life, endowment, annuity and accident & health contracts. They are also held for total return pass-through provisions included in certain universal life and savings products. They include certain liabilities for variable annuity and variable life guarantees of minimum death benefits, and longevity guarantees. Factors impacting these liabilities include sustained periods of lower yields than rates established at policy issuance, lower than expected asset reinvestment rates, market volatility, actual lapses resulting in lower than expected income, and actual mortality or morbidity resulting in higher than expected benefit payments. We mitigate our risks by applying various ALM strategies.

Latin America

Future policy benefits for this segment are held primarily for immediate annuities in Chile, Argentina and Mexico and traditional life contracts mainly in Mexico, Brazil and Colombia. There are also liabilities held for total return pass-through provisions included in certain universal life and savings products in Mexico. Factors impacting these liabilities include sustained periods of lower yields than rates established at policy issuance, lower than expected asset reinvestment rates, and mortality and lapses different than expected. We mitigate our risks by applying various ALM strategies.

EMEA

Future policy benefits for this segment include unearned premium reserves for group life and credit insurance contracts. Future policy benefits are also held for traditional life, endowment and annuity contracts with significant mortality risk and accident & health contracts. Factors impacting these liabilities include lower than expected asset reinvestment rates, market volatility, actual lapses resulting in lower than expected income, and actual mortality or morbidity resulting in higher than expected benefit payments. We mitigate our risks by having premiums which are adjustable or cancellable in some cases, and by applying various ALM strategies.

MetLife Holdings 

Future policy benefits for the life business are comprised mainly of liabilities for traditional life insurance contracts. In order to manage risk, we have often reinsured a portion of the mortality risk on life insurance policies. We routinely evaluate our reinsurance programs, which may result in increases or decreases to existing coverage. We have entered into various interest rate derivative positions to mitigate the risk that investment of premiums received and reinvestment of maturing assets over the life of the policy will be at rates below those assumed in the original pricing of these contracts. For the annuities business, future policy benefits are comprised mainly of liabilities for life-contingent income annuities and liabilities for the variable annuity guaranteed minimum benefits that are accounted for as insurance. Other future policyholder benefits are comprised mainly of liabilities for disabled lives under disability waiver of premium policy provisions, and active life policies. In addition, for our other products, future policyholder benefits related to the reinsurance of our former Japan joint venture are comprised of liabilities for the variable annuity guaranteed minimum benefits that are accounted for as insurance.

Corporate & Other

Future policy benefits primarily include liabilities for other reinsurance business. 

138
Policyholder Account Balances 

Policyholder account balances are generally equal to the account value, which includes accrued interest credited, but excludes the impact of any applicable charge that may be incurred upon surrender. See “— Industry Trends — Impact of a Sustained Low Interest Rate Environment — Low Interest Rate Scenario” and “— Variable Annuity Guarantees.” See also Notes 1 and 4 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. A discussion of policyholder account balances by segment follows.

U.S.

Policyholder account balances in this segment are comprised of funding agreements, retained asset accounts, universal life policies, the fixed account of variable life insurance policies and specialized life insurance products for benefit programs. 

Group Benefits

Policyholder account balances in this business are held for retained asset accounts, universal life policies, the fixed account of variable life insurance policies and specialized life insurance products for benefit programs. Policyholder account balances are credited interest at a rate we determine, which is influenced by current market rates. A sustained low interest rate environment could adversely impact liabilities and earnings as a result of the minimum credited rate guarantees present in most of these policyholder account balances. We have various interest rate derivative positions to partially mitigate the risks associated with such a scenario.

The table below presents the breakdown of account value subject to minimum guaranteed crediting rates for Group Benefits:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Retirement and Income Solutions

Policyholder account balances in this business are primarily comprised of funding agreements. Interest crediting rates vary by type of contract, and can be fixed or variable. Variable interest crediting rates are generally tied to an external index, most commonly (1-month or 3-month) LIBOR. We are exposed to interest rate risks, as well as foreign currency exchange rate risk, when guaranteeing payment of interest and return of principal at the contractual maturity date. We may invest in floating rate assets or enter into receive-floating interest rate swaps, also tied to external indices, as well as interest rate caps, to mitigate the impact of changes in market interest rates. We also mitigate our risks by applying various ALM strategies and seek to hedge all foreign currency exchange rate risk through the use of foreign currency hedges, including cross currency swaps.

The table below presents the breakdown of account value subject to minimum guaranteed crediting rates for RIS:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

139
Asia

Policyholder account balances in this segment are held largely for fixed income retirement and savings plans, fixed deferred annuities, interest sensitive whole life products, universal life and, to a lesser degree, liability amounts for Unit-linked investments that do not meet the GAAP definition of separate accounts. Also included are certain liabilities for retirement and savings products sold in certain countries in Asia that generally are sold with minimum credited rate guarantees. Liabilities for guarantees on certain variable annuities in Asia are accounted for as embedded derivatives and recorded at estimated fair value and are also included within policyholder account balances. A sustained low interest rate environment could adversely impact liabilities and earnings as a result of the minimum credited rate guarantees present in most of these policyholder account balances. We mitigate our risks by applying various ALM strategies and with reinsurance. Liabilities for Unit-linked investments are impacted by changes in the fair value of the associated underlying investments, as the return on assets is generally passed directly to the policyholder.

The table below presents the breakdown of account value subject to minimum guaranteed crediting rates for Asia:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Latin America

Policyholder account balances in this segment are held largely for investment-type products and universal life products in Mexico and Chile, and deferred annuities in Brazil. Some of the deferred annuities in Brazil are Unit-linked investments that do not meet the GAAP definition of separate accounts. The rest of the deferred annuities have minimum credited rate guarantees, which could adversely impact liabilities and earnings in a sustained low interest rate environment. Liabilities for Unit-linked investments are impacted by changes in the fair value of the associated investments, as the return on assets is generally passed directly to the policyholder.

EMEA

Policyholder account balances in this segment are held mostly for universal life, deferred annuity, pension products, and Unit-linked investments that do not meet the GAAP definition of separate accounts. They are also held for endowment products without significant mortality risk. A sustained low interest rate environment could adversely impact liabilities and earnings as a result of the minimum credited rate guarantees present in many of these policyholder account balances. We mitigate our risks by applying various ALM strategies. Liabilities for Unit-linked investments are impacted by changes in the fair value of the associated investments, as the return on assets is generally passed directly to the policyholder.

MetLife Holdings 

Life policyholder account balances are held for retained asset accounts, universal life policies, the fixed account of variable life insurance policies, and funding agreements. For annuities, policyholder account balances are held for fixed deferred annuities, the fixed account portion of variable annuities, non-life contingent income annuities, and embedded derivatives related to variable annuity guarantees. Interest is credited to the policyholder’s account at interest rates we determine which are influenced by current market rates, subject to specified minimums. A sustained low interest rate environment could adversely impact liabilities and earnings as a result of the minimum credited rate guarantees present in most of these policyholder account balances. We have various interest rate derivative positions to partially mitigate the risks associated with such a scenario. Additionally, for our other products, policyholder account balances are held for variable annuity guarantees assumed from a former operating joint venture in Japan that are accounted for as embedded derivatives.

140
The table below presents the breakdown of account value subject to minimum guaranteed crediting rates for the MetLife Holdings segment:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Variable Annuity Guarantees

We issue, directly and through assumed business, certain variable annuity products with guaranteed minimum benefits that provide the policyholder a minimum return based on their initial deposit (i.e., the benefit base) less withdrawals. In some cases, the benefit base may be increased by additional deposits, bonus amounts, accruals or optional market value resets. See Notes 1 and 4 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.

Certain guarantees, including portions thereof, have insurance liabilities established that are included in future policy benefits. Guarantees accounted for in this manner include GMDBs, the life-contingent portion of GMWBs, elective GMIB annuitizations, and the life contingent portion of GMIBs that require annuitization when the account balance goes to zero. These liabilities are accrued over the life of the contract in proportion to actual and future expected policy assessments based on the level of guaranteed minimum benefits generated using multiple scenarios of separate account returns. The scenarios are based on best estimate assumptions consistent with those used to amortize DAC. When current estimates of future benefits exceed those previously projected or when current estimates of future assessments are lower than those previously projected, liabilities will increase, resulting in a current period charge to net income. The opposite result occurs when the current estimates of future benefits are lower than those previously projected or when current estimates of future assessments exceed those previously projected. At the end of each reporting period, we update the actual amount of business remaining in-force, which impacts expected future assessments and the projection of estimated future benefits resulting in a current period charge or increase to earnings.

Certain guarantees, including portions thereof, accounted for as embedded derivatives, are recorded at estimated fair value and included in policyholder account balances. Guarantees accounted for as embedded derivatives include GMABs, the non-life contingent portion of GMWBs and certain non-life contingent portions of GMIBs. The estimated fair values of guarantees accounted for as embedded derivatives are determined based on the present value of projected future benefits minus the present value of projected future fees. The projections of future benefits and future fees require capital market and actuarial assumptions including expectations concerning policyholder behavior. A risk neutral valuation methodology is used to project the cash flows from the guarantees under multiple capital market scenarios to determine an economic liability. The reported estimated fair value is then determined by taking the present value of these risk-free generated cash flows using a discount rate that incorporates a spread over the risk-free rate to reflect our nonperformance risk and adding a risk margin. For more information on the determination of estimated fair value, see Note 10 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

141
The table below presents the carrying value for guarantees at:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The carrying amounts for guarantees included in policyholder account balances above include nonperformance risk adjustments of $263 million and $130 million at December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. These nonperformance risk adjustments represent the impact of including a credit spread when discounting the underlying risk neutral cash flows to determine the estimated fair values. The nonperformance risk adjustment does not have an economic impact on us as it cannot be monetized given the nature of these policyholder liabilities. The change in valuation arising from the nonperformance risk adjustment is not hedged.

The carrying values of these guarantees can change significantly during periods of sizable and sustained shifts in equity market performance, equity volatility, interest rates or foreign currency exchange rates. Carrying values are also impacted by our assumptions around mortality, separate account returns and policyholder behavior, including lapse rates.

As discussed below, we use a combination of product design, hedging strategies, reinsurance, and other risk management actions to mitigate the risks related to these benefits. Within each type of guarantee, there is a range of product offerings reflecting the changing nature of these products over time. Changes in product features and terms are in part driven by customer demand but, more importantly, reflect our risk management practices of continuously evaluating the guaranteed benefits and their associated asset-liability matching. We continue to diversify the concentration of income benefits in our portfolio by focusing on withdrawal benefits, variable annuities without living benefits and index-linked annuities. 

The sections below provide further detail by total account value for certain of our most popular guarantees. Total account values include amounts not reported on the consolidated balance sheets from assumed business, Unit-linked investments that do not qualify for presentation as separate account assets, and amounts included in our general account. The total account values and the net amounts at risk include direct and assumed business, but exclude offsets from hedging or ceded reinsurance, if any.

142
GMDBs

We offer a range of GMDBs to our contractholders. The table below presents GMDBs, by benefit type, at December 31, 2018:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

__________________

(1)Total account value excludes $230 million for contracts with no GMDBs. The Company’s annuity contracts with guarantees may offer more than one type of guarantee in each contract. Therefore, the amounts listed for GMDBs and for living benefit guarantees are not mutually exclusive.

Based on total account value, less than 19% of our GMDBs included enhanced death benefits such as the annual step-up or roll-up and step-up combination products. We expect the above GMDB risk profile to be relatively consistent for the foreseeable future.

Living Benefit Guarantees 

The table below presents our living benefit guarantees based on total account values at December 31, 2018:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

__________________

(1)Total account value excludes $22.0 billion for contracts with no living benefit guarantees. The Company’s annuity contracts with guarantees may offer more than one type of guarantee in each contract. Therefore, the amounts listed for GMDBs and for living benefit guarantee amounts are not mutually exclusive.

(2)The Asia and EMEA segments include the non-life contingent portion of the GMWB total account value of $936 million with a guarantee at annuitization. 

In terms of total account value, GMIBs are our most significant living benefit guarantee. Our primary risk management strategy for our GMIB products is our derivatives hedging program as discussed below. Additionally, we have engaged in certain reinsurance agreements covering some of our GMIB business. As part of our overall risk management approach for living benefit guarantees, we continually monitor the reinsurance markets for the right opportunity to purchase additional coverage for our GMIB business. We stopped selling GMIBs in February 2016.

143
The table below presents our GMIB associated total account values, by their guaranteed payout basis, at December 31, 2018:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The annuitization interest rates on GMIBs have been decreased from 2.5% to 0.5% over time, partially in response to the low interest rate environment, accompanied by an increase in the setback period from seven years to 10 years and the introduction of a 10-year mortality projection.

Additionally, 42% of the $20.7 billion of GMIB total account value has been invested in managed volatility funds as of December 31, 2018. These funds seek to manage volatility by adjusting the fund holdings within certain guidelines based on capital market movements. Such activity reduces the overall risk of the underlying funds while maintaining their growth opportunities. These risk mitigation techniques reduce or eliminate the need for us to manage the funds’ volatility through hedging or reinsurance. 

Our GMIB products typically have a waiting period of 10 years to be eligible for annuitization. As of December 31, 2018, only 19% of our contracts with GMIBs were eligible for annuitization. The remaining contracts are not eligible for annuitization for an average of five years.

Once eligible for annuitization, contractholders would be expected to annuitize only if their contracts were in-the-money. We calculate in-the-moneyness with respect to GMIBs consistent with net amount at risk as discussed in Note 4 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, by comparing the contractholders’ income benefits based on total account values and current annuity rates versus the guaranteed income benefits. The net amount at risk was $483 million at December 31, 2018, of which $418 million was related to GMIBs. For those contracts with GMIB, the table below presents details of contracts that are in-the-money and out-of-the-money at December 31, 2018:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

144
Derivatives Hedging Variable Annuity Guarantees

Our risk mitigating hedging strategy uses various OTC and exchange traded derivatives. The table below presents the gross notional amount, estimated fair value and primary underlying risk exposure of the derivatives hedging our variable annuity guarantees:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The change in estimated fair values of our derivatives is recorded in policyholder benefits and claims if such derivatives are hedging guarantees included in future policy benefits, and in net derivative gains (losses) if such derivatives are hedging guarantees included in policyholder account balances.

Our hedging strategy involves the significant use of static longer-term derivative instruments to avoid the need to execute transactions during periods of market disruption or higher volatility. We continually monitor the capital markets for opportunities to adjust our liability coverage, as appropriate. Futures are also used to dynamically adjust the daily coverage levels as markets and liability exposures fluctuate.

We remain liable for the guaranteed benefits in the event that reinsurers or derivative counterparties are unable or unwilling to pay. Certain of our reinsurance agreements and substantially all derivative positions are collateralized and derivatives positions are subject to master netting agreements, both of which significantly reduce the exposure to counterparty risk. In addition, we are subject to the risk that hedging and other risk management actions prove ineffective or that unanticipated policyholder behavior or mortality, combined with adverse market events, produces economic losses beyond the scope of the risk management techniques employed.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

Overview

Our business and results of operations are materially affected by conditions in the global capital markets and the economy generally. Stressed conditions, volatility and disruptions in global capital markets, particular markets, or financial asset classes can have an adverse effect on us, in part because we have a large investment portfolio and our insurance liabilities and derivatives are sensitive to changing market factors. Changing conditions in the global capital markets and the economy may affect our financing costs and market interest for our debt or equity securities. For further information regarding market factors that could affect our ability to meet liquidity and capital needs, see “— Industry Trends” and “— Investments — Current Environment.”

Liquidity Management

Based upon the strength of our franchise, diversification of our businesses, strong financial fundamentals and the substantial funding sources available to us as described herein, we continue to believe we have access to ample liquidity to meet business requirements under current market conditions and reasonably possible stress scenarios. We continuously monitor and adjust our liquidity and capital plans for MetLife, Inc. and its subsidiaries in light of market conditions, as well as changing needs and opportunities.

145
Short-term Liquidity

We maintain a substantial short-term liquidity position, which was $11.1 billion and $10.0 billion at December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. Short-term liquidity includes cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments, excluding assets that are pledged or otherwise committed, including amounts received in connection with securities lending, repurchase agreements, derivatives, and secured borrowings, as well as amounts held in the closed block. 

Liquid Assets

An integral part of our liquidity management includes managing our level of liquid assets, which was $202.7 billion and $209.1 billion at December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. Liquid assets include cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments and publicly-traded securities, excluding assets that are pledged or otherwise committed. Assets pledged or otherwise committed include amounts received in connection with securities lending, repurchase agreements, derivatives, regulatory deposits, the collateral financing arrangement, funding agreements and secured borrowings, as well as amounts held in the closed block.

Capital Management

We have established several senior management committees as part of our capital management process. These committees, including the Capital Management Committee and the Enterprise Risk Committee (“ERC”), regularly review actual and projected capital levels (under a variety of scenarios including stress scenarios) and our annual capital plan in accordance with our capital policy. The Capital Management Committee is comprised of members of senior management, including MetLife, Inc.’s Chief Financial Officer (“CFO”), Treasurer, and Chief Risk Officer (“CRO”). The ERC is also comprised of members of senior management, including MetLife, Inc.’s CFO, CRO and Chief Investment Officer.

Our Board of Directors and senior management are directly involved in the development and maintenance of our capital policy. The capital policy sets forth, among other things, minimum and target capital levels and the governance of the capital management process. All capital actions, including proposed changes to the annual capital plan, capital targets or capital policy, are reviewed by the Finance and Risk Committee of the Board of Directors prior to obtaining full Board of Directors approval. The Board of Directors approves the capital policy and the annual capital plan and authorizes capital actions, as required.

See “Risk Factors — Capital Risks — Legal and Regulatory Restrictions May Prevent Us from Paying Dividends and Repurchasing Our Stock at the Level We Wish” and Note 15 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding restrictions on payment of dividends and stock repurchases. See also “— The Company — Liquidity and Capital Uses — Common Stock Repurchases” for information regarding MetLife, Inc.’s common stock repurchase authorizations.

The Company

Liquidity

Liquidity refers to the ability to generate adequate amounts of cash to meet our needs. We determine our liquidity needs based on a rolling 12-month forecast by portfolio of invested assets which we monitor daily. We adjust the asset mix and asset maturities based on this rolling 12-month forecast. To support this forecast, we conduct cash flow and stress testing, which include various scenarios of the potential risk of early contractholder and policyholder withdrawal. We include provisions limiting withdrawal rights on many of our products, including general account pension products sold to employee benefit plan sponsors. Certain of these provisions prevent the customer from making withdrawals prior to the maturity date of the product. In the event of significant cash requirements beyond anticipated liquidity needs, we have various alternatives available depending on market conditions and the amount and timing of the liquidity need. These available alternatives include cash flows from operations, sales of liquid assets, global funding sources including commercial paper and various credit and committed facilities.

Under certain stressful market and economic conditions, our access to liquidity may deteriorate, or the cost to access liquidity may increase. If we require significant amounts of cash on short notice in excess of anticipated cash requirements or if we are required to post or return cash collateral in connection with derivatives or our securities lending program, we may have difficulty selling investments in a timely manner, be forced to sell them for less than we otherwise would have been able to realize, or both. In addition, in the event of such forced sale, for securities in an unrealized loss position, realized losses would be incurred on securities sold and impairments would be incurred, if there is a need to sell securities prior to recovery, which may negatively impact our financial condition. See “Risk Factors — Investment Risks — We May Have Difficulty Selling Certain Holdings in Our Investment Portfolio or in Our Securities Lending Program in a Timely Manner and Realizing Full Value.”

146
All general account assets within a particular legal entity — other than those which may have been pledged to a specific purpose — are generally available to fund obligations of the general account of that legal entity.

Capital

We manage our capital position to maintain our financial strength and credit ratings. Our capital position is supported by our ability to generate strong cash flows within our operating companies and borrow funds at competitive rates, as well as by our demonstrated ability to raise additional capital to meet operating and growth needs despite adverse market and economic conditions.

Rating Agencies

Rating agencies assign insurer financial strength ratings to MetLife, Inc.’s U.S. life insurance subsidiaries and credit ratings to MetLife, Inc. and certain of its subsidiaries. Financial strength ratings represent the opinion of rating agencies regarding the ability of an insurance company to pay obligations under insurance policies and contracts in accordance with their terms. Credit ratings indicate the rating agency’s opinion regarding a debt issuer’s ability to meet the terms of debt obligations in a timely manner. They are important factors in our overall funding profile and ability to access certain types of liquidity. The level and composition of regulatory capital at the subsidiary level and our equity capital are among the many factors considered in determining our insurer financial strength ratings and credit ratings. Each agency has its own capital adequacy evaluation methodology, and assessments are generally based on a combination of factors. In addition to heightening the level of scrutiny that they apply to insurance companies, rating agencies have increased and may continue to increase the frequency and scope of their credit reviews, may request additional information from the companies that they rate and may adjust upward the capital and other requirements employed in the rating agency models for maintenance of certain ratings levels.

Downgrades in our insurer financial strength ratings could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations in many ways. See “Risk Factors — Economic Environment and Capital Markets Risks — A Downgrade or a Potential Downgrade in Our Financial Strength or Credit Ratings Could Result in a Loss of Business and Materially Adversely Affect Our Financial Condition and Results of Operations.”

A downgrade in the credit ratings or insurer financial strength ratings of MetLife, Inc. or its subsidiaries would likely impact us in the following ways, including:

•impact our ability to generate cash flows from the sale of funding agreements and other capital market products offered by our RIS business;

•impact the cost and availability of financing for MetLife, Inc. and its subsidiaries; and

•result in additional collateral requirements or other required payments under certain agreements, which are eligible to be satisfied in cash or by posting investments held by the subsidiaries subject to the agreements. See “— Liquidity and Capital Uses — Pledged Collateral.”

Statutory Capital and Dividends

Our U.S. insurance subsidiaries have statutory surplus well above levels to meet current regulatory requirements.

RBC requirements are used as minimum capital requirements by the NAIC and the state insurance departments to identify companies that merit regulatory action. RBC is based on a formula calculated by applying factors to various asset, premium, claim, expense and statutory reserve items. The formula takes into account the risk characteristics of the insurer, including asset risk, insurance risk, interest rate risk, market risk and business risk and is calculated on an annual basis. The formula is used as an early warning regulatory tool to identify possible inadequately capitalized insurers for purposes of initiating regulatory action, and not as a means to rank insurers generally. These rules apply to most of our U.S. insurance subsidiaries. State insurance laws provide insurance regulators the authority to require various actions by, or take various actions against, insurers whose total adjusted capital does not meet or exceed certain RBC levels. As of the date of the most recent annual statutory financial statements filed with insurance regulators, the total adjusted capital of each of these subsidiaries subject to these requirements was in excess of each of those RBC levels.

As a Delaware corporation, American Life is subject to Delaware law; however, because it does not conduct insurance business in Delaware or any other U.S. state, it is exempt from RBC requirements under Delaware law. American Life’s operations are also regulated by applicable authorities of the jurisdictions in which it operates and is subject to capital and solvency requirements in those jurisdictions.

147
The amount of dividends that our insurance subsidiaries can pay to MetLife, Inc. or to other parent entities is constrained by the amount of surplus we hold to maintain our ratings and provides an additional margin for risk protection and investment in our businesses. We proactively take actions to maintain capital consistent with these ratings objectives, which may include adjusting dividend amounts and deploying financial resources from internal or external sources of capital. Certain of these activities may require regulatory approval. Furthermore, the payment of dividends and other distributions to MetLife, Inc. and other parent entities by their respective insurance subsidiaries is governed by insurance laws and regulations. See “Business — Regulation — Insurance Regulation,” “— MetLife, Inc. — Liquidity and Capital Sources — Dividends from Subsidiaries” and Note 15 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Affiliated Captive Reinsurance Transactions

MLIC cedes specific policy classes, including term and universal life insurance, participating whole life insurance, LTD insurance, group life insurance and other business to various wholly-owned captive reinsurers. The reinsurance activities among these affiliated companies are eliminated within our consolidated results of operations. The statutory reserves of such affiliated captive reinsurers are supported by a combination of funds withheld assets, investment assets and letters of credit issued by unaffiliated financial institutions. MetLife, Inc. has entered into various support agreements in connection with the activities of these captive reinsurers. See “— MetLife, Inc. — Liquidity and Capital Uses — Support Agreements” for further details on certain of these guarantees. MLIC has entered into reinsurance agreements with affiliated captive reinsurers for risk and capital management purposes, as well as to manage statutory reserve requirements related to universal life and term life insurance policies and other business. 

The NYDFS continues to have a moratorium on new reserve financing transactions involving captive insurers. We are not aware of any states other than New York and California implementing such a moratorium. While such a moratorium would not impact our existing reinsurance agreements with captive reinsurers, a moratorium placed on the use of captives for new reserve financing transactions could impact our ability to write certain products and/or impact our RBC ratios and ability to deploy excess capital in the future. This could result in our need to increase prices, modify product features or limit the availability of those products to our customers. While this affects insurers across the industry, it could adversely impact our competitive position and our results of operations in the future. We continue to evaluate product modifications, pricing structure and alternative means of managing risks, capital and statutory reserves and we expect the discontinued use of captive reinsurance on new reserve financing transactions would not have a material impact on our future consolidated financial results. See Note 6 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on our reinsurance activities.

148
Summary of the Company’s Primary Sources and Uses of Liquidity and Capital

Our primary sources and uses of liquidity and capital are summarized as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Cash Flows from Operations

The principal cash inflows from our insurance activities come from insurance premiums, net investment income, annuity considerations and deposit funds. The principal cash outflows are the result of various life insurance, property and casualty, annuity and pension products, operating expenses and income tax, as well as interest expense. A primary liquidity concern with respect to these cash flows is the risk of early contractholder and policyholder withdrawal. The cash flows from discontinued operations are not separately classified, but generally arise from the same activities described above.

Cash Flows from Investments

The principal cash inflows from our investment activities come from repayments of principal, proceeds from maturities and sales of investments and settlements of freestanding derivatives. The principal cash outflows relate to purchases of investments, issuances of policy loans and settlements of freestanding derivatives. Additional cash outflows relate to purchases of businesses. We typically have a net cash outflow from investing activities because cash inflows from insurance operations are reinvested in accordance with our ALM discipline to fund insurance liabilities. We closely monitor and manage these risks through our comprehensive investment risk management process. The primary liquidity concerns with respect to these cash flows are the risk of default by debtors and market disruption. The cash flows from discontinued operations are not separately classified, but generally arise from the same activities described above.

149
Cash Flows from Financing

The principal cash inflows from our financing activities come from issuances of debt and other securities, deposits of funds associated with policyholder account balances and lending of securities. The principal cash outflows come from repayments of debt and collateral financing arrangements, payments of dividends on and repurchases of MetLife, Inc.’s securities, withdrawals associated with policyholder account balances, cash disposed of in the distribution of Brighthouse and the return of securities on loan. The primary liquidity concerns with respect to these cash flows are market disruption and the risk of early contractholder and policyholder withdrawal. The cash flows from discontinued operations are not separately classified, but generally arise from the same activities described above.

Liquidity and Capital Sources

In addition to the general description of liquidity and capital sources in “— Summary of the Company’s Primary Sources and Uses of Liquidity and Capital,” the Company’s primary sources of liquidity and capital are set forth below. See Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding financing transactions related to the Separation.

Global Funding Sources

Liquidity is provided by a variety of global funding sources, including funding agreements, credit and committed facilities and commercial paper. Capital is provided by a variety of global funding sources, including short-term and long-term debt, the collateral financing arrangement, junior subordinated debt securities, preferred securities, equity securities and equity-linked securities. MetLife, Inc. maintains a shelf registration statement with the SEC that permits the issuance of public debt, equity and hybrid securities. As a “Well-Known Seasoned Issuer” under SEC rules, MetLife, Inc.’s shelf registration statement provides for automatic effectiveness upon filing and has no stated issuance capacity. The diversity of our global funding sources enhances our funding flexibility, limits dependence on any one market or source of funds and generally lowers the cost of funds. Our primary global funding sources include:

Preferred Stock

In June 2018, MetLife, Inc. issued 32,200 shares of 5.625% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series E (the “Series E preferred stock”) with a $0.01 par value per share and a liquidation preference of $25,000 per share, for aggregate net proceeds of $780 million.

In March 2018, MetLife, Inc. issued 500,000 shares of 5.875% Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series D (the “Series D preferred stock”) with a $0.01 par value per share and a liquidation preference of $1,000 per share, for aggregate net proceeds of $494 million.

See Note 15 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Common Stock

See Note 15 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Commercial Paper, Reported in Short-term Debt

MetLife, Inc. and MetLife Funding each have a commercial paper program that is supported by our unsecured revolving credit facility (see “— Credit and Committed Facilities”). MetLife Funding raises cash from its commercial paper program and uses the proceeds to extend loans through MetLife Credit Corp., another subsidiary of MLIC, to affiliates in order to enhance the financial flexibility and liquidity of these companies.

Federal Home Loan Bank Funding Agreements, Reported in Policyholder Account Balances

Certain of our U.S. insurance subsidiaries are members of a regional FHLB. During the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, we issued $27.3 billion, $22.4 billion and $17.0 billion, respectively, and repaid $27.5 billion, $22.4 billion and $15.2 billion, respectively, under funding agreements with certain regional FHLBs. At December 31, 2018 and 2017, total obligations outstanding under these funding agreements were $15.1 billion and $15.3 billion, respectively. See Note 4 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

150
Federal Home Loan Bank Advance Agreements, Reported in Payables for Collateral Under Securities Loaned and Other Transactions

During the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, we issued $3.1 billion and $301 million, respectively, and repaid $2.6 billion and $1 million, respectively, under advance agreements with a regional FHLB. At December 31, 2018 and 2017, total obligations outstanding under these advance agreements were $800 million and $300 million, respectively. There were no such transactions during the year ended December 31, 2016. See Note 8 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Special Purpose Entity Funding Agreements, Reported in Policyholder Account Balances

We issue fixed and floating rate funding agreements which are denominated in either U.S. dollars or foreign currencies, to certain special purpose entities (“SPEs”) that have issued either debt securities or commercial paper for which payment of interest and principal is secured by such funding agreements. During the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, we issued $41.8 billion, $42.7 billion and $39.7 billion, respectively, and repaid $43.7 billion, $41.4 billion and $38.5 billion, respectively, under such funding agreements. At December 31, 2018 and 2017, total obligations outstanding under these funding agreements were $32.3 billion and $34.2 billion, respectively. See Note 4 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Federal Agricultural Mortgage Corporation Funding Agreements, Reported in Policyholder Account Balances

We have issued funding agreements to a subsidiary of Farmer Mac, as well as to certain SPEs that have issued debt securities for which payment of interest and principal is secured by such funding agreements, and such debt securities are also guaranteed as to payment of interest and principal by Farmer Mac. The obligations under all such funding agreements are secured by a pledge of certain eligible agricultural mortgage loans. During the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, we issued $900 million, $1.0 billion and $1.2 billion, respectively, and repaid $900 million, $1.0 billion and $1.2 billion, respectively, under such funding agreements. At both December 31, 2018 and 2017, total obligations outstanding under these funding agreements were $2.6 billion. See Note 4 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Credit and Committed Facilities

At December 31, 2018, we maintained a $3.0 billion unsecured revolving credit facility and certain committed facilities aggregating $3.3 billion, of which MetLife, Inc. is a party and/or guarantor. When drawn upon, these facilities bear interest at varying rates in accordance with the respective agreements. See Note 12 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

The unsecured revolving credit facility is used for general corporate purposes, to support the borrowers’ commercial paper programs and for the issuance of letters of credit. At December 31, 2018, we had outstanding $446 million in letters of credit and no drawdowns against this facility. Remaining availability was $2.6 billion at December 31, 2018.

The committed facilities are used as collateral for certain of our affiliated reinsurance liabilities. At December 31, 2018, we had outstanding $2.8 billion in letters of credit and no drawdowns against these facilities. Remaining availability was $491 million at December 31, 2018. As of December 31, 2018, Brighthouse was a beneficiary of $2.4 billion of letters of credit issued under these committed facilities. See Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

We have no reason to believe that our lending counterparties will be unable to fulfill their respective contractual obligations under these facilities. As commitments under our credit and committed facilities may expire unused, these amounts do not necessarily reflect our actual future cash funding requirements.

Affiliated Preferred Units Issuances

In June 2017, Brighthouse Holdings, LLC issued 50,000 units of 6.50% fixed rate cumulative preferred units to MetLife, Inc. and, in turn, MetLife, Inc. sold the preferred units to third-party investors for net proceeds of $49 million. See Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

151
Outstanding Debt Under Global Funding Sources

The following table summarizes our outstanding debt excluding long-term debt relating to CSEs at:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]__________________[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(3)For information regarding the junior subordinated debt securities, see Note 14 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements and Note 5 of the Notes to the MetLife, Inc. (Parent Company Only) Condensed Financial Information in Schedule II.

Debt and Facility Covenants

Certain of our debt instruments and committed facilities, as well as our unsecured revolving credit facility, contain various administrative, reporting, legal and financial covenants. We believe we were in compliance with all applicable financial covenants at December 31, 2018.

Dispositions

Cash proceeds from dispositions during the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 were $0, $0, and $291 million, respectively. See Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Liquidity and Capital Uses

In addition to the general description of liquidity and capital uses in “— Summary of the Company’s Primary Sources and Uses of Liquidity and Capital” and “— Contractual Obligations,” the Company’s primary uses of liquidity and capital are set forth below.

Common Stock Repurchases

See Note 15 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information relating to authorizations by the Board of Directors to repurchase MetLife, Inc. common stock, amounts of common stock repurchased pursuant to such authorizations during the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, and the amount remaining under such authorizations at December 31, 2018. See Note 22 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding shares of common stock repurchased subsequent to December 31, 2018.

Common stock repurchases are subject to the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend upon our capital position, liquidity, financial strength and credit ratings, general market conditions, the market price of MetLife, Inc.’s common stock compared to management’s assessment of the stock’s underlying value, applicable regulatory approvals, and other legal and accounting factors. Restrictions on the payment of dividends that may arise under so-called “Dividend Stopper” provisions would also restrict MetLife, Inc.’s ability to repurchase common stock. See “— Dividends” for information about these restrictions. See also “Risk Factors — Capital Risks — Legal and Regulatory Restrictions May Prevent Us from Paying Dividends and Repurchasing Our Stock at the Level We Wish.”

Dividends

During the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, MetLife, Inc. paid dividends on its preferred stock of $141 million, $103 million and $103 million, respectively. During each of the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, MetLife, Inc. paid $1.7 billion of dividends on its common stock. See Note 15 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding the calculation and timing of these dividend payments.

152
Dividends are paid quarterly on MetLife, Inc.’s Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series A. Dividends are paid semi-annually on MetLife, Inc.’s 5.25% Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series C, until June 15, 2020 and, thereafter, will be paid quarterly. Dividends are paid semi-annually on MetLife, Inc.’s 5.875% Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series D, in September and March until March 15, 2028 and, thereafter, will be paid quarterly. Dividends are paid quarterly on MetLife, Inc.’s 5.625% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series E.

The declaration and payment of common stock dividends are subject to the discretion of our Board of Directors, and will depend on MetLife, Inc.’s financial condition, results of operations, cash requirements, future prospects, regulatory restrictions on the payment of dividends by MetLife, Inc.’s insurance subsidiaries and other factors deemed relevant by the Board. See Note 22 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding a common stock dividend declared subsequent to December 31, 2018.

“Dividend Stopper” Provisions in MetLife’s Preferred Stock and Junior Subordinated Debentures

MetLife, Inc.’s preferred stock and junior subordinated debentures contain “dividend stopper” provisions under which MetLife, Inc. may not pay dividends on instruments junior to those instruments if payments have not been made on those instruments. Moreover, MetLife, Inc.’s Series A preferred stock and its junior subordinated debentures contain provisions that would limit the payment of dividends or interest on those instruments if MetLife, Inc. fails to meet certain tests (“Trigger Events”), to an amount not greater than the net proceeds from sales of common stock and other specified instruments during a period preceding the dividend declaration date or the interest payment date, as applicable. If such proceeds were under the circumstances insufficient to make such payments on those instruments, the dividend stopper provisions affecting common stock (and preferred stock, as applicable) would come into effect.

A “Trigger Event” would occur if:

•the RBC ratio of MetLife’s largest U.S. insurance subsidiaries in the aggregate (as defined in the applicable instrument) were to be less than 175% of the company action level based on the subsidiaries’ prior year annual financial statements filed (generally around March 1) with state insurance commissioners; or

•at the end of a quarter (“Final Quarter End Test Date”), consolidated GAAP net income for the four-quarter period ending two quarters before such quarter-end (the “Preliminary Quarter End Test Date”) is zero or a negative amount and the consolidated GAAP stockholders’ equity, minus AOCI (the “adjusted stockholders’ equity amount”), as of the Final Quarter End Test Date and the Preliminary Quarter End Test Date, declined by 10% or more from (A) its level 10 quarters before the Final Quarter End Test Date (the “Benchmark Quarter End Test Date”), for Benchmark Quarter End Test Dates after August 4, 2017 (the date of the Separation), or (B) $49,282,000,000, the consolidated GAAP stockholders’ equity, minus AOCI as of June 30, 2017 as reported on a pro forma basis reflecting the Separation in MetLife’s Form 8-K filed with the SEC on August 9, 2017, for Benchmark Quarter End Test Dates prior to August 4, 2017. 

Once a Trigger Event occurs for a Final Quarter End Test Date, the suspension of payments of dividends and interest (in the absence of sufficient net proceeds from the issuance of certain securities during specified periods) would continue until there is no Trigger Event at a subsequent Final Quarter End Test Date, and, if the test in the second paragraph above caused the Trigger Event, the adjusted stockholders’ equity amount is no longer 10% or more below its level at the Benchmark Quarter End Test Date that is associated with the Trigger Event. In the case of successive Trigger Events, the suspension would continue until MetLife satisfies these conditions for each of the Trigger Events.

The junior subordinated debentures further provide that MetLife, Inc. may, at its option and provided that certain conditions are met, elect to defer payment of interest. See Note 14 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Any such elective deferral would trigger the dividend stopper provisions.

Further, MetLife, Inc. is a party to certain replacement capital covenants which limit its ability to eliminate these restrictions through the repayment, redemption or purchase of the junior subordinated debentures by requiring MetLife, Inc., with some limitations, to receive cash proceeds during a specified period from the sale of specified replacement securities prior to any repayment, redemption or purchase. See Note 14 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of such covenants.

153
Debt Repayments

See Notes 12 and 13 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on long-term and short-term debt and the collateral financing arrangement, respectively, including:

•During 2018, 2017 and 2016, following regulatory approval, MetLife Reinsurance Company of Charleston (“MRC”), a wholly-owned subsidiary of MetLife, Inc., repurchased and canceled $61 million, $153 million and $68 million, respectively, in aggregate principal amount of its surplus notes, which were reported in collateral financing arrangement on the consolidated balance sheets;

•In August 2018, MetLife, Inc. repaid at maturity the remaining $533 million of its 6.817% senior notes;

•In December 2017, MetLife, Inc. repaid at maturity its $500 million 1.756% senior notes;

•In December 2017, MetLife, Inc. repaid at maturity its $500 million 1.903% senior notes; and

•In June 2016, MetLife, Inc. repaid at maturity its $1.3 billion 6.750% senior notes.

Debt Repurchases, Redemptions and Exchanges

We may from time to time seek to retire or purchase our outstanding debt through cash purchases, redemptions and/or exchanges for other securities, in open market purchases, privately negotiated transactions or otherwise. Any such repurchases, redemptions, or exchanges will be dependent upon several factors, including our liquidity requirements, contractual restrictions, general market conditions, and applicable regulatory, legal and accounting factors. Whether or not to repurchase or redeem any debt and the size and timing of any such repurchases or redemptions will be determined at our discretion.

In June 2018, MetLife, Inc. sold FVO Brighthouse Common Stock in exchange for $944 million in aggregate principal amount of its senior notes. In December, August and June 2018, MetLife, Inc. purchased for cash $500 million, $566 million and $160 million, respectively, in aggregate principal amount of its senior notes. See Note 12 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on long-term and short-term debt.

Support Agreements

MetLife, Inc. and several of its subsidiaries (each, an “Obligor”) are parties to various capital support commitments and guarantees with subsidiaries. Under these arrangements, each Obligor has agreed to cause the applicable entity to meet specified capital and surplus levels or has guaranteed certain contractual obligations. We anticipate that in the event these arrangements place demands upon us, there will be sufficient liquidity and capital to enable us to meet such demands. See “— MetLife, Inc. — Liquidity and Capital Uses — Support Agreements.”

Insurance Liabilities

Liabilities arising from our insurance activities primarily relate to benefit payments under various life insurance, property and casualty, annuity and group pension products, as well as payments for policy surrenders, withdrawals and loans. For annuity or deposit type products, surrender or lapse behavior differs somewhat by segment. In the MetLife Holdings segment, which includes individual annuities, lapses and surrenders tend to occur in the normal course of business. During the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, general account surrenders and withdrawals from annuity products were $1.8 billion and $1.6 billion, respectively. In the RIS business within the U.S. segment, which includes pension risk transfers, bank-owned life insurance and other fixed annuity contracts, as well as funding agreements and other capital market products, most of the products offered have fixed maturities or fairly predictable surrenders or withdrawals. With regard to the RIS business products that provide customers with limited rights to accelerate payments, at December 31, 2018, there were funding agreements totaling $148 million that could be put back to the Company.

154
Pledged Collateral

We pledge collateral to, and have collateral pledged to us by, counterparties in connection with our derivatives. At both December 31, 2018 and 2017, we had received pledged cash collateral from counterparties of $5.0 billion. At December 31, 2018 and 2017, we had pledged cash collateral to counterparties of $283 million and $456 million, respectively. With respect to OTC-bilateral derivatives in a net liability position and have credit contingent provisions, a one-notch downgrade in the Company’s credit or financial strength rating, as applicable, would have required $10 million of additional collateral be provided to our counterparties as of December 31, 2018. See Note 9 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information about collateral pledged to us, collateral we pledge and derivatives subject to credit contingent provisions. 

We pledge collateral and have had collateral pledged to us, and may be required from time to time to pledge additional collateral or be entitled to have additional collateral pledged to us, in connection with the collateral financing arrangement related to the reinsurance of closed block liabilities. See Note 13 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

We pledge collateral from time to time in connection with funding agreements and advance agreements. See Note 4 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Securities Lending

We participate in a securities lending program whereby securities are loaned to third parties, primarily brokerage firms and commercial banks. We obtain collateral, usually cash, from the borrower, which must be returned to the borrower when the loaned securities are returned to us. Under our securities lending program, we were liable for cash collateral under our control of $18.0 billion and $19.4 billion at December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. Of these amounts, $2.7 billion and $3.8 billion at December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively, were on open, meaning that the related loaned security could be returned to us on the next business day requiring the immediate return of cash collateral we hold. The estimated fair value of the securities on loan related to the cash collateral on open at December 31, 2018 was $2.7 billion, all of which were U.S. government and agency securities which, if put to us, could be immediately sold to satisfy the cash requirement. See Note 8 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Repurchase Agreements

We participate in short-term repurchase agreements whereby securities are loaned to unaffiliated financial institutions. We obtain collateral, usually cash, from the borrower, which must be returned to the borrower when the loaned securities are returned to us. Under these repurchase agreements, we were liable for cash collateral under our control of $1.1 billion at both December 31, 2018 and 2017. The estimated fair value of the securities on loan at December 31, 2018 was $1.1 billion which were primarily U.S. government and agency securities which, if put to us, could be immediately sold to satisfy the cash requirement. See Note 8 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Litigation

We establish liabilities for litigation and regulatory loss contingencies when it is probable that a loss has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. For material matters where a loss is believed to be reasonably possible but not probable, no accrual is made but we disclose the nature of the contingency and an aggregate estimate of the reasonably possible range of loss in excess of amounts accrued, when such an estimate can be made. It is not possible to predict the ultimate outcome of all pending investigations and legal proceedings. In some of the matters referred to herein, very large and/or indeterminate amounts, including punitive and treble damages, are sought. Given the large and/or indeterminate amounts sought in certain of these matters and the inherent unpredictability of litigation, it is possible that an adverse outcome in certain matters could, from time to time, have a material adverse effect on our consolidated net income or cash flows in particular quarterly or annual periods. See Note 20 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Acquisitions

Cash outflows for acquisitions and investments in strategic partnerships during the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 were $0, $211 million and $0, respectively.

155
Contractual Obligations

The following table summarizes our major contractual obligations at December 31, 2018:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Insurance Liabilities

Insurance liabilities include future policy benefits, other policy-related balances, policyholder dividends payable and the policyholder dividend obligation, which are all reported on the consolidated balance sheet and are more fully described in Notes 1 and 4 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The amounts presented reflect future estimated cash payments and (i) are based on mortality, morbidity, lapse and other assumptions comparable with our experience and expectations of future payment patterns; and (ii) consider future premium receipts on current policies in-force. All estimated cash payments presented are undiscounted as to interest, net of estimated future premiums on in-force policies and gross of any reinsurance recoverable. Payment of amounts related to policyholder dividends left on deposit are projected based on assumptions of policyholder withdrawal activity. Because the exact timing and amount of the ultimate policyholder dividend obligation is subject to significant uncertainty and the amount of the policyholder dividend obligation is based upon a long-term projection of the performance of the closed block, we have reflected the obligation at the amount of the liability, if any, presented on the consolidated balance sheet in the more than five years category. Additionally, the more than five years category includes estimated payments due for periods extending for more than 100 years.

The sum of the estimated cash flows of $318.1 billion exceeds the liability amounts of $204.4 billion included on the consolidated balance sheet principally due to (i) the time value of money, which accounts for a substantial portion of the difference; (ii) differences in assumptions, most significantly mortality, between the date the liabilities were initially established and the current date; and (iii) liabilities related to accounting conventions, or which are not contractually due, which are excluded.

Actual cash payments may differ significantly from the liabilities as presented on the consolidated balance sheet and the estimated cash payments as presented due to differences between actual experience and the assumptions used in the establishment of these liabilities and the estimation of these cash payments.

For the majority of our insurance operations, estimated contractual obligations for future policy benefits and policyholder account balances, as presented, are derived from the annual asset adequacy analysis used to develop actuarial opinions of statutory reserve adequacy for state regulatory purposes. These cash flows are materially representative of the cash flows under GAAP. See “— Policyholder Account Balances.”

Policyholder Account Balances

See Notes 1 and 4 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of the components of policyholder account balances. See “— Insurance Liabilities” regarding the source and uncertainties associated with the estimation of the contractual obligations related to future policy benefits and policyholder account balances.

Amounts presented represent the estimated cash payments undiscounted as to interest and including assumptions related to the receipt of future premiums and deposits; withdrawals, including unscheduled or partial withdrawals; policy lapses; surrender charges; annuitization; mortality; future interest credited; policy loans and other contingent events as appropriate for the respective product type. Such estimated cash payments are also presented net of estimated future premiums on policies currently in-force and gross of any reinsurance recoverable. For obligations denominated in foreign currencies, cash payments have been estimated using current spot foreign currency rates.

156
The sum of the estimated cash flows of $235.0 billion exceeds the liability amount of $183.7 billion included on the consolidated balance sheet principally due to (i) the time value of money, which accounts for a substantial portion of the difference; (ii) differences in assumptions, between the date the liabilities were initially established and the current date; and (iii) liabilities related to accounting conventions, or which are not contractually due, which are excluded.

Payables for Collateral Under Securities Loaned and Other Transactions

We have accepted cash collateral in connection with securities lending and derivatives. As the securities lending transactions expire within the next year and the timing of the return of the derivatives collateral is uncertain, the return of the collateral has been included in the one year or less category in the table above. We also held non-cash collateral, which is not reflected as a liability on the consolidated balance sheet, of $1.4 billion at December 31, 2018.

Debt

Amounts presented for debt include short-term debt, long-term debt, the collateral financing arrangement and junior subordinated debt securities, the total of which differs from the total of the corresponding amounts presented on the consolidated balance sheet as the amounts presented herein (i) do not include premiums or discounts upon issuance or purchase accounting fair value adjustments; (ii) include future interest on such obligations for the period from January 1, 2019 through maturity; and (iii) do not include long-term debt relating to CSEs at December 31, 2018 as such debt does not represent our contractual obligation. Future interest on variable rate debt was computed using prevailing rates at December 31, 2018 and, as such, does not consider the impact of future rate movements. Future interest on fixed rate debt was computed using the stated rate on the obligations for the period from January 1, 2019 through maturity, except with respect to junior subordinated debt which was computed using the stated rates through the scheduled redemption dates as it is our expectation that such obligations will be redeemed as scheduled. Inclusion of interest payments on junior subordinated debt securities through the final maturity dates would increase the contractual obligation by $7.7 billion. Pursuant to the collateral financing arrangement, MetLife, Inc. may be required to deliver cash or pledge collateral to the unaffiliated financial institution. See Note 13 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Investment Commitments

To enhance the return on our investment portfolio, we commit to lend funds under mortgage loans, bank credit facilities, bridge loans and private corporate bond investments and we commit to fund partnership investments. In the table above, the timing of the funding of mortgage loans and private corporate bond investments is based on the expiration dates of the corresponding commitments. As it relates to commitments to fund partnerships and bank credit facilities, we anticipate that these amounts could be invested any time over the next five years; however, as the timing of the fulfillment of the obligation cannot be predicted, such obligations are generally presented in the one year or less category. Commitments to fund bridge loans are short-term obligations and, as a result, are presented in the one year or less category. See Note 20 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements and “— Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements.”

Operating Leases

As a lessee, we have various operating leases, primarily for office space. Contractual provisions exist that could increase or accelerate those lease obligations presented, including various leases with early buyouts and/or escalation clauses. However, the impact of any such transactions would not be material to our financial position or results of operations. See Note 20 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Other

Other obligations presented are principally comprised of amounts due under reinsurance agreements, payables related to securities purchased but not yet settled, securities sold short, accrued interest on debt obligations, estimated fair value of derivative obligations, deferred compensation arrangements, guaranty liabilities, and accruals and accounts payable due under contractual obligations, which are all reported in other liabilities on the consolidated balance sheet. If the timing of any of these other obligations is sufficiently uncertain, the amounts are included within the one year or less category. Items reported in other liabilities on the consolidated balance sheet that were excluded from the table represent accounting conventions or are not liabilities due under contractual obligations. Unrecognized tax benefits and related accrued interest totaling $1.3 billion were excluded as the timing of payment could not be reliably determined at December 31, 2018.

Separate account liabilities are excluded as they are fully funded by cash flows from the corresponding separate account assets and are set equal to the estimated fair value of separate account assets.

We also enter into agreements to purchase goods and services in the normal course of business; however, such amounts are excluded as these purchase obligations were not material to our consolidated results of operations or financial position at December 31, 2018.

157
Additionally, we have agreements in place for services we conduct, generally at cost, between subsidiaries relating to insurance, reinsurance, loans and capitalization. Intercompany transactions have been eliminated in consolidation. Intercompany transactions among insurance subsidiaries and affiliates have been approved by the appropriate insurance regulators as required.

MetLife, Inc.

Liquidity and Capital Management

Liquidity and capital are managed to preserve stable, reliable and cost-effective sources of cash to meet all current and future financial obligations and are provided by a variety of sources, including a portfolio of liquid assets, a diversified mix of short- and long-term funding sources from the wholesale financial markets and the ability to borrow through credit and committed facilities. Liquidity is monitored through the use of internal liquidity risk metrics, including the composition and level of the liquid asset portfolio, timing differences in short-term cash flow obligations, access to the financial markets for capital and debt transactions and exposure to contingent draws on MetLife, Inc.’s liquidity. MetLife, Inc. is an active participant in the global financial markets through which it obtains a significant amount of funding. These markets, which serve as cost-effective sources of funds, are critical components of MetLife, Inc.’s liquidity and capital management. Decisions to access these markets are based upon relative costs, prospective views of balance sheet growth and a targeted liquidity profile and capital structure. A disruption in the financial markets could limit MetLife, Inc.’s access to liquidity.

MetLife, Inc.’s ability to maintain regular access to competitively priced wholesale funds is fostered by its current credit ratings from the major credit rating agencies. We view our capital ratios, credit quality, stable and diverse earnings streams, diversity of liquidity sources and our liquidity monitoring procedures as critical to retaining such credit ratings. See “— The Company — Capital — Rating Agencies.”

Liquidity

For a summary of MetLife, Inc.’s liquidity, see “— The Company — Liquidity.”

Capital

For a summary of MetLife, Inc.’s capital, see “— The Company — Capital.” See also “— The Company — Liquidity and Capital Uses — Common Stock Repurchases” for information regarding MetLife, Inc.’s common stock repurchases.

Liquid Assets

At December 31, 2018 and 2017, MetLife, Inc. and other MetLife holding companies had $3.0 billion and $5.7 billion, respectively, in liquid assets. Of these amounts, $2.4 billion and $4.1 billion were held by MetLife, Inc. and $607 million and $1.6 billion were held by other MetLife holding companies at December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. Liquid assets include cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments and publicly-traded securities, excluding assets that are pledged or otherwise committed. Assets pledged or otherwise committed include amounts received in connection with derivatives and a collateral financing arrangement.

Liquid assets held in non-U.S. holding companies are generated in part through dividends from non-U.S. insurance operations. Such dividends are subject to local insurance regulatory requirements, as discussed in “— Liquidity and Capital Sources — Dividends from Subsidiaries.” The cumulative earnings of certain active non-U.S. operations have historically been reinvested indefinitely in such non-U.S. operations. Following a post-Separation review of our capital needs in the third quarter of 2017, we disclosed our intent to repatriate approximately $3.0 billion of pre-2017 earnings. The Company repatriated $2.6 billion in the fourth quarter of 2017 and the remaining $400 million in the second quarter of 2018. As a result of U.S. Tax Reform, we expect to repatriate future foreign earnings back to the U.S. with minimal or no additional U.S. tax. See Note 18 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements and “— Risk Factors — Regulatory and Legal Risks — Changes in Tax Laws or Interpretations of Such Laws Could Reduce Our Earnings and Materially Impact Our Operations by Increasing Our Corporate Taxes and Making Some of Our Products Less Attractive to Consumers.”

See “— Executive Summary — Consolidated Company Outlook,” for the targeted level of liquid assets at the holding companies.

158
MetLife, Inc. and Other MetLife Holding Companies Sources and Uses of Liquid Assets and Sources and Uses of Liquid Assets included in Free Cash Flow

MetLife, Inc.’s sources and uses of liquid assets, as well as sources and uses of liquid assets included in free cash flow are summarized as follows.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

__________________

159
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(2)Included in free cash flow is the portion of long-term debt issued that represents incremental debt to be at or below target leverage ratios.

(3)See MetLife, Inc. (Parent Company Only) Condensed Statements of Cash Flows included in Schedule II of the Financial Statement Schedules for the source of liquid assets from receipts on loans to subsidiaries (excluding interest) and for the use of liquid assets for the issuances of loans to subsidiaries (excluding interest).[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(6)In 2018, $268 million of Separation-related items (comprised of certain Separation-related inflows primarily related to reinsurance benefit from Brighthouse) were included in free cash flow, which increased our holding companies’ liquid assets, as well as our free cash flow ratio. Excluding these Separation-related items, adjusted free cash flow would be $3.1 billion for the year ended December 31, 2018. In 2017, $2.1 billion of Separation-related items (comprised of certain Separation-related inflows primarily related to dividends from Brighthouse, net of outflows) were included in the free cash flow, which increased our holding companies’ liquid assets, as well as our free cash flow ratio. Excluding these Separation-related items, adjusted free cash flow would be $3.6 billion for the year ended December 31, 2017. In 2016, we incurred $2.3 billion of Separation-related items (comprised of certain Separation-related outflows, net of inflows related to dividends from Brighthouse subsidiaries) which reduced our holding companies’ liquid assets, as well as our free cash flow and free cash flow ratio. Excluding these Separation-related items, adjusted free cash flow would be $4.7 billion for the year ended December 31, 2016.

(7)See “— Non-GAAP and Other Financial Disclosures” for the reconciliation of net cash provided by operating activities of MetLife, Inc. to free cash flow of all holding companies.

Sources and Uses of Liquid Assets of MetLife, Inc.

The primary sources of MetLife, Inc.’s liquid assets are dividends and returns of capital from subsidiaries, issuances of long-term debt, issuances of common and preferred stock, and net receipts from subsidiaries under a tax sharing agreement. MetLife, Inc.’s insurance subsidiaries are subject to regulatory restrictions on the payment of dividends imposed by the regulators of their respective domiciles. See “— Liquidity and Capital Sources — Dividends from Subsidiaries.”

The primary uses of MetLife, Inc.’s liquid assets are principal and interest payments on long-term debt, dividends on and repurchases of common and preferred stock, capital contributions to subsidiaries, funding of business acquisitions, income taxes and operating expenses. MetLife, Inc. is party to various capital support commitments and guarantees with certain of its subsidiaries. See “— Liquidity and Capital Uses — Support Agreements.”

In addition, MetLife, Inc. issues loans to subsidiaries or subsidiaries issue loans to MetLife, Inc. Accordingly, changes in MetLife, Inc. liquid assets include issuances of loans to subsidiaries, proceeds of loans from subsidiaries and the related repayment of principal and payment of interest on such loans. See “— Liquidity and Capital Sources — Affiliated Long-term Debt” and “— Liquidity and Capital Uses — Affiliated Capital and Debt Transactions.”

Sources and Uses of Liquid Assets of Other MetLife Holding Companies

The primary sources of liquid assets of other MetLife holding companies are dividends, returns of capital and remittances from their subsidiaries and branches, principally non-U.S. insurance companies; capital contributions received; receipts of principal and interest on loans to subsidiaries and affiliates and borrowings from subsidiaries and affiliates. MetLife, Inc.’s non-U.S. operations are subject to regulatory restrictions on the payment of dividends imposed by local regulators. See “— Liquidity and Capital Sources — Dividends from Subsidiaries.” 

160
The primary uses of liquid assets of other MetLife holding companies are capital contributions paid to their subsidiaries and branches, principally non-U.S. insurance companies; loans to subsidiaries and affiliates; principal and interest paid on loans from subsidiaries and affiliates; dividends and returns of capital to MetLife, Inc. and the following items, which are reported within other, net: business acquisitions; and operating expenses. There were no uses of liquid assets of other MetLife holding companies to fund business acquisitions during the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017, or 2016.

Liquidity and Capital Sources

In addition to the description of liquidity and capital sources in “— The Company — Summary of the Company’s Primary Sources and Uses of Liquidity and Capital” and “— The Company — Liquidity and Capital Sources,” MetLife, Inc.’s primary sources of liquidity and capital are set forth below.

Dividends from Subsidiaries

MetLife, Inc. relies, in part, on dividends from its subsidiaries to meet its cash requirements. MetLife, Inc.’s insurance subsidiaries are subject to regulatory restrictions on the payment of dividends imposed by the regulators of their respective domiciles. See Note 15 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The dividend limitation for U.S. insurance subsidiaries is generally based on the surplus to policyholders at the end of the immediately preceding calendar year and statutory net gain from operations for the immediately preceding calendar year. Statutory accounting practices, as prescribed by insurance regulators of various states in which we conduct business, differ in certain respects from accounting principles used in financial statements prepared in conformity with GAAP. The significant differences relate to the treatment of DAC, certain deferred income tax, required investment liabilities, statutory reserve calculation assumptions, goodwill and surplus notes.

The table below sets forth the dividends permitted to be paid by MetLife, Inc.’s primary insurance subsidiaries without insurance regulatory approval and the actual dividends paid:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]__________________

(1)Reflects dividend amounts that may be paid during the relevant year without prior regulatory approval (“ordinary dividends”). However, because dividend tests may be based on dividends previously paid over rolling 12-month periods, if paid before a specified date during such year, some or all of such dividends may require regulatory approval. 

(2)Reflects all amounts paid, including those where regulatory approval was obtained as required (“extraordinary dividends”).[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(4)In 2016, MLIC paid an ordinary cash dividend to MetLife, Inc. in the amount of $3.6 billion. In addition, in December 2016, MLIC distributed all of the issued and outstanding shares of common stock of each of New England Life Insurance Company (“NELICO”) and GALIC to MetLife, Inc. in the form of a non-cash extraordinary dividend in the amount of $981 million and $1.2 billion, respectively, as calculated on a statutory basis.

161
(5)In April 2017, in connection with the Separation, MetLife, Inc. contributed all of the issued and outstanding shares of common stock of each of Brighthouse Insurance and NELICO to Brighthouse Holdings, LLC. As a result of the Separation, Brighthouse Insurance and NELICO ceased to be subsidiaries of MetLife, Inc. See Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding the Separation.

(6)In April 2018, MTL merged with GALIC (“MTL Merger”). The surviving entity of the merger was MTL, which re-domesticated from Delaware to Nebraska immediately prior to the merger. The total dividends paid of $191 million is equal to the sum of the individual 2018 ordinary dividends that MTL and GALIC would each have been permitted to pay computed on a stand-alone basis if the MTL Merger had not occurred.

In addition to the amounts presented in the table above, in August 2017, Brighthouse Financial, Inc. paid a cash dividend to MetLife, Inc. of $1.8 billion in connection with the Separation. For the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, MetLife, Inc. also received cash payments of $7 million, $39 million and $26 million, respectively, representing dividends from non-Brighthouse subsidiaries. Additionally, for the year ended December 31, 2018, MetLife, Inc. received cash returns of capital of $87 million. For the year ended December 31, 2017, MetLife, Inc. received cash returns of capital of $610 million from certain subsidiaries, including $590 million from MetLife Reinsurance Company of South Carolina (“MRSC”), in connection with the Separation. For the year ended December 31, 2016, MetLife, Inc. received cash of $80 million, representing returns of capital from certain subsidiaries. See Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

The dividend capacity of our non-U.S. operations is subject to similar restrictions established by the local regulators. The non-U.S. regulatory regimes also commonly limit dividend payments to the parent company to a portion of the subsidiary’s prior year statutory income, as determined by the local accounting principles. The regulators of our non-U.S. operations, including the FSA, may also limit or not permit profit repatriations or other transfers of funds to the U.S. if such transfers are deemed to be detrimental to the solvency or financial strength of the non-U.S. operations, or for other reasons. Most of our non-U.S. subsidiaries are second tier subsidiaries which are owned by various non-U.S. holding companies. The capital and rating considerations applicable to our first tier subsidiaries may also impact the dividend flow into MetLife, Inc.

We proactively manage target and excess capital levels and dividend flows and forecast local capital positions as part of the financial planning cycle. The dividend capacity of certain U.S. and non-U.S. subsidiaries is also subject to business targets in excess of the minimum capital necessary to maintain the desired rating or level of financial strength in the relevant market. See “Risk Factors — Capital Risks — As a Holding Company, MetLife, Inc. Depends on the Ability of Its Subsidiaries to Pay Dividends, a Major Component of Holding Company Free Cash Flow” and Note 15 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Short-term Debt

MetLife, Inc. maintains a commercial paper program, the proceeds of which can be used to finance the general liquidity needs of MetLife, Inc. and its subsidiaries. MetLife, Inc. had no short-term debt outstanding at either December 31, 2018 or 2017.

Preferred Stock

For information on MetLife, Inc.’s preferred stock, see “— The Company — Liquidity and Capital Sources — Global Funding Sources — Preferred Stock.”

Affiliated Long-term Debt 

In May 2018, $500 million in senior notes previously issued by MetLife, Inc. to MLIC and other subsidiaries were redenominated to new 54.6 billion Japanese yen senior notes. The 54.6 billion Japanese yen senior notes mature in December 2021 and bear interest at a rate per annum of 3.14%, payable semi-annually.

In April 2018, $500 million in senior notes previously issued by MetLife, Inc. to MLIC and other subsidiaries were redenominated to new 53.7 billion Japanese yen senior notes. The 53.7 billion Japanese yen senior notes mature in July 2021 and bear interest at a rate per annum of 2.97%, payable semi-annually.

In March 2018, three senior notes previously issued by MetLife, Inc. to MLIC were redenominated to Japanese yen. A $500 million senior note was redenominated to a new 53.3 billion Japanese yen senior note. The 53.3 billion Japanese yen senior note matures in June 2019 and bears interest at a rate per annum of 1.45%, payable semi-annually. A $250 million senior note was redenominated to a new 26.5 billion Japanese yen senior note. The 26.5 billion Japanese yen senior note matures in October 2019 and bears interest at a rate per annum of 1.72%, payable semi-annually. A $250 million senior note was also redenominated to a new 26.5 billion Japanese yen senior note. The 26.5 billion Japanese yen senior note matures in September 2020 and bears interest at a rate per annum of 0.82%, payable semi-annually.

162
In September 2016, a $250 million senior note issued to MLIC matured and, subsequently, in September 2016 MetLife, Inc. issued a new $250 million senior note to MLIC. The senior note matures in September 2020 and bears interest at a rate per annum of 3.03%, payable semi-annually.

Collateral Financing Arrangement and Junior Subordinated Debt Securities

For information on MetLife, Inc.’s collateral financing arrangement and junior subordinated debt securities, see Notes 13 and 14 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, respectively, and Note 5 of the Notes to the MetLife, Inc. (Parent Company Only) Condensed Financial Information in Schedule II. 

Credit and Committed Facilities

See “— The Company — Liquidity and Capital Sources — Global Funding Sources — Credit and Committed Facilities,” as well as Note 12 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, for further information regarding the unsecured revolving credit facility and these committed facilities.

In June 2016, MetLife, Inc. entered into a five-year agreement with an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary, MetLife Ireland Treasury d.a.c. (formerly known as MetLife Ireland Treasury Limited) (“MIT”), to borrow up to $1.3 billion on a revolving basis, at interest rates based on the IRS safe harbor interest rate in effect at the time of the borrowing. MetLife, Inc. may borrow funds under the agreement at MIT’s discretion and subject to the availability of funds. There were no outstanding borrowings at December 31, 2018. 

Long-term Debt Outstanding

The following table summarizes the outstanding long-term debt of MetLife, Inc. at:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]__________________

(1)See “— Affiliated Long-term Debt.” 

Debt and Facility Covenants

Certain of MetLife, Inc.’s debt instruments and committed facilities, as well as its unsecured revolving credit facility, contain various administrative, reporting, legal and financial covenants. MetLife, Inc. believes it was in compliance with all applicable financial covenants at December 31, 2018.

Dispositions

Cash proceeds from dispositions during the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 were $0, $0 and $291 million, respectively. See Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Liquidity and Capital Uses

The primary uses of liquidity of MetLife, Inc. include debt service, cash dividends on common and preferred stock, capital contributions to subsidiaries, common stock, preferred stock and debt repurchases, payment of general operating expenses and acquisitions. Based on our analysis and comparison of our current and future cash inflows from the dividends we receive from subsidiaries that are permitted to be paid without prior insurance regulatory approval, our investment portfolio and other cash flows and anticipated access to the capital markets, we believe there will be sufficient liquidity and capital to enable MetLife, Inc. to make payments on debt, pay cash dividends on its common and preferred stock, contribute capital to its subsidiaries, repurchase its common stock, pay all general operating expenses and meet its cash needs.

In addition to the description of liquidity and capital uses in “— The Company — Liquidity and Capital Uses” and “— The Company — Contractual Obligations,” MetLife, Inc.’s primary uses of liquidity and capital are set forth below.

163
Affiliated Capital and Debt Transactions

During the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, MetLife, Inc. invested a net amount of $778 million and $729 million, respectively, in various non-Brighthouse subsidiaries. During the year ended December 31, 2016, MetLife, Inc. invested a net amount of $1.5 billion, in various subsidiaries, which included a cash capital contribution of $1.5 billion to Brighthouse Insurance in connection with the Separation.

MetLife, Inc. lends funds, as necessary, through credit agreements or otherwise to its subsidiaries and affiliates, some of which are regulated, to meet their capital requirements or to provide liquidity. MetLife, Inc. had loans to subsidiaries outstanding of $100 million at both December 31, 2018 and 2017.

In April 2017, in connection with the Separation, MetLife Reinsurance Company of Delaware (“MRD”) repaid $750 million and $350 million of surplus notes to MetLife, Inc., in an exchange transaction. The $750 million surplus note bore interest at a fixed rate of 5.13% and the $350 million surplus note bore interest at a fixed rate of 6.00%, both payable semi-annually. Simultaneously, MetLife, Inc. repaid $750 million and $350 million senior notes to MRD.

In February 2017, in connection with the Separation, MetLife, Inc. exchanged $750 million aggregate principal amount of its 9.250% Fixed-to-Floating Rate Junior Subordinated Debentures due 2068 for $750 million aggregate liquidation preference of the 9.250% Fixed-to- Floating Rate Exchangeable Surplus Trust Securities of MetLife Capital Trust X (the “Trust”). As a result of the exchange, MetLife, Inc. became the sole beneficial owner of the Trust, a special purpose entity which issued the exchangeable surplus trust securities to third-party investors. In March 2017, MetLife, Inc. dissolved the Trust and became the direct holder of $750 million 8.595% surplus notes previously held by the Trust that were issued by Brighthouse Insurance. See Note 14 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. In June 2017, MetLife, Inc. forgave Brighthouse Insurance’s obligation to pay the principal amount of such surplus notes. This transaction, which was a non-cash capital contribution to Brighthouse Holdings, LLC, and a corresponding non-cash capital contribution to Brighthouse Insurance, had no impact on the consolidated financial statements of MetLife, Inc. as of the date of the transaction.

In April 2016, American Life issued a $140 million short-term note to MetLife, Inc. which was repaid in June 2016. The short-term note bore interest at six-month LIBOR plus 1.00%.

Debt Repayments

For information on MetLife, Inc.’s debt repayments, see “— The Company — Liquidity and Capital Uses — Debt Repayments.” MetLife, Inc. intends to repay or refinance, in whole or in part, all the debt that is due in 2019. See Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for discussion of a $2.8 billion repayment on the MRSC collateral financing agreement liability in April 2017 in connection with the Separation, utilizing assets held in trust.

Repayments of Affiliated Long-term Debt 

In April 2017, in connection with the Separation, MetLife, Inc. in an exchange transaction repaid $750 million and $350 million of senior notes to MRD due September 2032 and December 2033, respectively. The $750 million senior note bore interest at a fixed rate of 4.21% and the $350 million senior note bore interest at a fixed rate of 5.10%. Simultaneously, MRD repaid $750 million and $350 million of surplus notes to MetLife, Inc.

In June 2016 and March 2016, MetLife, Inc. repaid $204 million and $10 million, respectively, of affiliated long-term debt to MetLife Exchange Trust I, at maturity, in exchange for returns of capital. The long-term notes bore interest at three-month LIBOR plus 0.70%.

164
Maturities of Senior Notes

The following table summarizes MetLife, Inc.’s outstanding senior notes by year of maturity through 2023 and 2024 to 2046, excluding any premium or discount and unamortized issuance costs, at December 31, 2018:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

 __________________

 (1) Represents affiliated debt. 

Support Agreements

MetLife, Inc. is party to various capital support commitments and guarantees with certain of its subsidiaries. Under these arrangements, MetLife, Inc. has agreed to cause each such entity to meet specified capital and surplus levels or has guaranteed certain contractual obligations. See “— The Company — Liquidity and Capital Uses — Support Agreements.”

MetLife, Inc. guarantees the obligations of its subsidiary, Missouri Reinsurance, Inc. (“MoRe”), under a retrocession agreement with RGA Reinsurance (Barbados) Inc., pursuant to which MoRe retrocedes a portion of the closed block liabilities associated with industrial life and ordinary life insurance policies that it assumed from MLIC. 

MetLife, Inc. guarantees the obligations of MetLife Reinsurance Company of Bermuda, Ltd. (“MrB”), a Bermuda insurance affiliate and an indirect, wholly-owned subsidiary of MetLife, Inc. under a reinsurance agreement with Mitsui Sumitomo Primary Life Insurance Co., Ltd. (“Mitsui”), a former affiliate that is now an unaffiliated third party, under which MrB reinsures certain variable annuity business written by Mitsui.

MetLife, Inc. guarantees the obligations of MrB in an aggregate amount up to $1.0 billion, under a reinsurance agreement with MetLife Europe d.a.c. (“MEL”) (formerly known as MetLife Europe Limited), under which MrB reinsured the guaranteed living benefits and guaranteed death benefits associated with certain unit-linked variable annuity type liability contracts issued by MEL.

MetLife, Inc., in connection with MetLife Reinsurance Company of Vermont’s (“MRV”) reinsurance of certain universal life and term life insurance risks, committed to the Vermont Department of Banking, Insurance, Securities and Health Care Administration to take necessary action to cause the two protected cells of MRV to maintain total adjusted capital in an amount that is equal to or greater than 200% of each such protected cell’s authorized control level RBC, as defined in Vermont state insurance statutes. See Note 12 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

MetLife, Inc., in connection with the collateral financing arrangement associated with MRC’s reinsurance of a portion of the liabilities associated with the closed block, committed to the South Carolina Department of Insurance to make capital contributions, if necessary, to MRC so that MRC may at all times maintain its total adjusted capital in an amount that is equal to or greater than 200% of the company action level RBC, as defined in South Carolina state insurance statutes as in effect on the date of determination or December 31, 2007, whichever calculation produces the greater capital requirement, or as otherwise required by the South Carolina Department of Insurance. See Note 13 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

165
MetLife, Inc. guarantees obligations arising from OTC-bilateral derivatives of the following subsidiaries: MrB, MetLife International Holdings, LLC and MetLife Worldwide Holdings, LLC. These subsidiaries are exposed to various risks relating to their ongoing business operations, including interest rate, foreign currency exchange rate, credit and equity market. These subsidiaries use a variety of strategies to manage these risks, including the use of derivatives. Further, all of the subsidiaries’ derivatives are subject to industry standard netting agreements and collateral agreements that limit the unsecured portion of any open derivative position. On a net counterparty basis at December 31, 2018 and 2017, derivative transactions with positive mark-to-market values (in-the-money) were $302 million and $515 million, respectively, and derivative transactions with negative mark-to-market values (out-of-the-money) were $84 million and $126 million, respectively. To secure the obligations represented by the out of-the-money transactions, the subsidiaries had provided collateral to their counterparties with an estimated fair value of $84 million and $114 million at December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. Accordingly, unsecured derivative liabilities guaranteed by MetLife, Inc. were $0 and $12 million at December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.

MetLife, Inc. also guarantees the obligations of certain of its subsidiaries under committed facilities with third-party banks. See Note 12 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Acquisitions

Cash outflows for acquisitions during the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 were $0, $211 million and $0, respectively.

Adoption of New Accounting Pronouncements

See Note 1 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Future Adoption of New Accounting Pronouncements

See Note 1 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Non-GAAP and Other Financial Disclosures 

In this report, the Company presents certain measures of its performance that are not calculated in accordance with GAAP. We believe that these non-GAAP financial measures enhance the understanding of our performance by highlighting the results of operations and the underlying profitability drivers of our business. 

The following non-GAAP financial measures should not be viewed as substitutes for the most directly comparable financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable historical GAAP measures are included in this section and the results of operations, see “— Results of Operations.” Reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures are not accessible on a forward-looking basis because we believe it is not possible without unreasonable effort to provide other than a range of net investment gains and losses and net derivative gains and losses, which can fluctuate significantly within or outside the range and from period to period and may have a material impact on net income. 

Our definitions of the various non-GAAP and other financial measures discussed in this report may differ from those used by other companies.

166
Adjusted earnings and related measures:

•adjusted earnings; and

•adjusted earnings available to common shareholders.

These measures are used by management to evaluate performance and allocate resources. Consistent with GAAP guidance for segment reporting, adjusted earnings is also our GAAP measure of segment performance. Adjusted earnings and other financial measures based on adjusted earnings are also the measures by which senior management’s and many other employees’ performance is evaluated for the purposes of determining their compensation under applicable compensation plans. Adjusted earnings and other financial measures based on adjusted earnings allow analysis of our performance relative to our business plan and facilitate comparisons to industry results. 

Adjusted earnings is defined as adjusted revenues less adjusted expenses, net of income tax. Adjusted loss is defined as negative adjusted earnings. Adjusted earnings available to common shareholders is defined as adjusted earnings less preferred stock dividends.

Adjusted revenues and adjusted expenses 

The financial measures of adjusted revenues and adjusted expenses focus on our primary businesses principally by excluding the impact of market volatility, which could distort trends, and revenues and costs related to non-core products and certain entities required to be consolidated under GAAP. Also, these measures exclude results of discontinued operations under GAAP and other businesses that have been or will be sold or exited by MetLife but do not meet the discontinued operations criteria under GAAP and are referred to as divested businesses. Divested businesses also includes the net impact of transactions with exited businesses that have been eliminated in consolidation under GAAP and costs relating to businesses that have been or will be sold or exited by MetLife that do not meet the criteria to be included in results of discontinued operations under GAAP. In addition, for the year ended December 31, 2016, adjusted revenues and adjusted expenses exclude the financial impact of converting the Company’s Japan operations to calendar year-end reporting without retrospective application of this change to prior periods and is referred to as lag elimination. Adjusted revenues also excludes net investment gains (losses) and net derivative gains (losses). Adjusted expenses also excludes goodwill impairments.

The following additional adjustments are made to revenues, in the line items indicated, in calculating adjusted revenues:

•Universal life and investment-type product policy fees excludes the amortization of unearned revenue related to net investment gains (losses) and net derivative gains (losses) and certain variable annuity GMIB fees (“GMIB fees”);

•Net investment income: (i) includes earned income on derivatives and amortization of premium on derivatives that are hedges of investments or that are used to replicate certain investments, but do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment (“Investment hedge adjustments”), (ii) excludes post-tax adjusted earnings adjustments relating to insurance joint ventures accounted for under the equity method, (iii) excludes certain amounts related to contractholder-directed equity securities (“Unit-linked contract income”), (iv) excludes certain amounts related to securitization entities that are VIEs consolidated under GAAP and (v) includes distributions of profits from certain other limited partnership interests that were previously accounted for under the cost method, but are now accounted for at estimated fair value, where the change in estimated fair value is recognized in net investment gains (losses) under GAAP; and

•Other revenues is adjusted for settlements of foreign currency earnings hedges and excludes fees received in association with services provided under transition service agreements (“TSA fees”). 

167
The following additional adjustments are made to expenses, in the line items indicated, in calculating adjusted expenses:

•Policyholder benefits and claims and policyholder dividends excludes: (i) changes in the policyholder dividend obligation related to net investment gains (losses) and net derivative gains (losses), (ii) inflation-indexed benefit adjustments associated with contracts backed by inflation-indexed investments and amounts associated with periodic crediting rate adjustments based on the total return of a contractually referenced pool of assets and other pass through adjustments, (iii) benefits and hedging costs related to GMIBs (“GMIB costs”) and (iv) market value adjustments associated with surrenders or terminations of contracts (“Market value adjustments”);

•Interest credited to policyholder account balances includes adjustments for earned income on derivatives and amortization of premium on derivatives that are hedges of policyholder account balances but do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment and excludes certain amounts related to net investment income earned on contractholder-directed equity securities;

•Amortization of DAC and VOBA excludes amounts related to: (i) net investment gains (losses) and net derivative gains (losses), (ii) GMIB fees and GMIB costs and (iii) Market value adjustments;

•Amortization of negative VOBA excludes amounts related to Market value adjustments;

•Interest expense on debt excludes certain amounts related to securitization entities that are VIEs consolidated under GAAP; and

•Other expenses excludes costs related to: (i) noncontrolling interests, (ii) implementation of new insurance regulatory requirements and (iii) acquisition, integration and other costs. Other expenses includes TSA fees.

Adjusted earnings also excludes the recognition of certain contingent assets and liabilities that could not be recognized at acquisition or adjusted for during the measurement period under GAAP business combination accounting guidance. 

The tax impact of the adjustments mentioned above are calculated net of the U.S. or foreign statutory tax rate, which could differ from the Company’s effective tax rate. Additionally, the provision for income tax (expense) benefit also includes the impact related to the timing of certain tax credits, as well as certain tax reforms.

Return on equity, allocated equity and related measures:

•MetLife, Inc.’s common stockholders’ equity, excluding AOCI other than FCTA, is defined as MetLife, Inc.’s common stockholders’ equity, excluding the net unrealized investment gains (losses) and defined benefit plans adjustment components of AOCI, net of income tax.

•Adjusted return on MetLife, Inc.’s common stockholders’ equity is defined as adjusted earnings available to common shareholders divided by MetLife, Inc.’s average common stockholders’ equity.

•Adjusted return on MetLife, Inc.’s common stockholders’ equity, excluding AOCI other than FCTA is defined as adjusted earnings available to common shareholders divided by MetLife, Inc.’s average common stockholders’ equity, excluding AOCI other than FCTA.

•Allocated equity is the portion of MetLife, Inc.’s common stockholders’ equity that management allocates to each of its segments and sub-segments based on local capital requirements and economic capital. See “— Economic Capital.” Allocated equity excludes the impact of AOCI other than FCTA.

The above measures represent a level of equity consistent with the view that, in the ordinary course of business, we do not plan to sell most investments for the sole purpose of realizing gains or losses. Also refer to the utilization of adjusted earnings and other financial measures based on adjusted earnings mentioned above. 

Expense ratio and direct expense ratio:

•Expense ratio: other expenses, net of capitalization of DAC, divided by premiums, fees and other revenues.

•Direct expense ratio: direct expenses, on an adjusted basis, divided by adjusted premiums, fees and other revenues. Direct expenses are comprised of employee-related costs, third party staffing costs, and general and administrative expenses.

•Direct expense ratio, excluding total notable items related to direct expenses and pension risk transfers: direct expenses, on an adjusted basis, excluding total notable items related to direct expenses, divided by adjusted premiums, fees and other revenues, excluding pension risk transfers.

168
The following additional information is relevant to an understanding of our performance results:

•The impact of changes in our foreign currency exchange rates is calculated using the average foreign currency exchange rates for the most recent year being compared and applied to the comparable prior year (“Constant Currency Basis”).

•We sometimes refer to sales activity for various products. These sales statistics do not correspond to revenues under GAAP, but are used as relevant measures of business activity. Further, sales statistics for our Latin America, Asia and EMEA segments are on a Constant Currency Basis.

•Near-term represents one to three years.

•Asymmetrical and non-economic accounting refers to: (i) the portion of net derivative gains (losses) on embedded derivatives attributable to the inclusion of our credit spreads in the liability valuations, (ii) hedging activity that generates net derivative gains (losses) and creates fluctuations in net income because hedge accounting cannot be achieved and the item being hedged does not a have an offsetting gain or loss recognized in earnings, (iii) inflation-indexed benefit adjustments associated with contracts backed by inflation-indexed investments and amounts associated with periodic crediting rate adjustments based on the total return of a contractually referenced pool of assets and other pass through adjustments, and (iv) impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates on the re-measurement of foreign denominated unhedged funding agreements and financing transactions to the U.S. dollar and the re-measurement of certain liabilities from non-functional currencies to functional currencies. We believe that excluding the impact of asymmetrical and non-economic accounting from total GAAP results enhances investor understanding of our performance by disclosing how these accounting practices affect reported GAAP results.

•Notable items represent a positive (negative) impact to adjusted earnings available to common shareholders. Notable items reflect the unexpected impact of events that affect MetLife’s results, but that were unknown and that MetLife could not anticipate when it devised its Business Plan. Notable items also include certain items regardless of the extent anticipated in the Business Plan, to help investors have a better understanding of MetLife’s results and to evaluate and forecast those results. 

•The Company uses a measure of free cash flow to facilitate an understanding of its ability to generate cash for reinvestment into its businesses or use in non-mandatory capital actions. The Company defines free cash flow as the sum of cash available at MetLife’s holding companies from dividends from operating subsidiaries, expenses and other net flows of the holding companies (including capital contributions to subsidiaries), and net contributions from debt to be at or below target leverage ratios. This measure of free cash flow is prior to capital actions, such as common stock dividends and repurchases, debt reduction and mergers and acquisitions. Free cash flow should not be viewed as a substitute for net cash provided by (used in) operating activities calculated in accordance with GAAP. The free cash flow ratio is typically expressed as a percentage of annual adjusted earnings available to common shareholders. A reconciliation of net cash provided by operating activities of MetLife, Inc. (parent company only) to free cash flow of all holding companies for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 is provided below.

169
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

__________________[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

170
(2)Including the free cash flow of other MetLife, Inc. holding companies of ($1.0) billion, ($501) million and $1.0 billion for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively, in the numerator of the ratio, this ratio, as adjusted, would be 90%, 153% and 636%, respectively. Including the free cash flow of other MetLife, Inc. holding companies in the numerator of the ratio and excluding the Separation-related costs and uncertain tax position non-cash charge from the denominator of the ratio, this ratio, as adjusted, would be 88%, 141% and 579% for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively.

(3)i) In 2018, $268 million of Separation-related items (comprised of certain Separation-related inflows primarily related to reinsurance benefit from Brighthouse) were included in free cash flow, which increased our holding companies’ liquid assets, as well as our free cash flow ratio. Excluding these Separation-related items, adjusted free cash flow would be $3.1 billion for the year ended December 31, 2018. Consolidated adjusted earnings available to common shareholders for 2018 was negatively impacted by notable items, primarily related to expense initiative costs of $284 million, net of income tax, partially offset by tax adjustments of $247 million, net of income tax. Excluding the Separation-related items, which increased free cash flow, from the numerator of the ratio and excluding such notable items negatively impacting consolidated adjusted earnings available to common shareholders from the denominator of the ratio, the adjusted free cash flow ratio for 2018 would be 56%. 

ii) In 2017, $2.1 billion of Separation-related items (comprised of certain Separation-related inflows primarily related to dividends from Brighthouse, net of outflows) were included in the free cash flow, which increased our holding companies’ liquid assets, as well as our free cash flow ratio. Excluding these Separation-related items, adjusted free cash flow would be $3.6 billion for the year ended December 31, 2017. Consolidated adjusted earnings available to common shareholders for 2017 was negatively impacted by notable items, primarily related to tax adjustments, of $622 million, net of income tax. Excluding the Separation-related items, which increased free cash flow, from the numerator of the ratio and excluding such notable items negatively impacting consolidated adjusted earnings available to common shareholders from the denominator of the ratio, the adjusted free cash flow ratio for 2017 would be 75%. 

iii) In 2016, we incurred $2.3 billion of Separation-related items (comprised of certain Separation-related outflows, net of inflows related to dividends from Brighthouse subsidiaries) which reduced our holding companies’ liquid assets, as well as our free cash flow and free cash flow ratio. Excluding these Separation-related items, adjusted free cash flow would be $4.7 billion for the year ended December 31, 2016. Consolidated adjusted earnings available to common shareholders for 2016 was negatively impacted by notable items, primarily related to the actuarial assumption review and other insurance adjustments, of $709 million, net of income tax, and Separation-related costs of $15 million, net of income tax. Excluding the Separation-related items, which reduced free cash flow, from the numerator of the ratio and excluding such notable items and Separation-related costs negatively impacting consolidated adjusted earnings available to common shareholders from the denominator of the ratio, the adjusted free cash flow ratio for 2016 would be 98%. 

Subsequent Events

See Note 22 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk