Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

Risk Management

We have an integrated process for managing risk, which we conduct through multiple Board and senior management committees (financial and non-financial) across the GRM, ALM, Finance, Treasury, Investments and business segment departments. The risk committee structure is designed to provide a consolidated enterprise-wide assessment and management of risk. The ERC is responsible for reviewing all material risks to the enterprise and deciding on actions, if necessary, in the event risks exceed desired tolerances, taking into consideration industry best practices and the current environment to resolve or mitigate those risks. Additional committees at the MetLife, Inc. and subsidiary insurance company level manage capital and risk positions and establish corporate business standards. 

Global Risk Management

Independent from the lines of business, the centralized GRM, led by the CRO, coordinates across all committees to ensure that all material risks are properly identified, measured, aggregated, managed and reported across the Company. The CRO reports to the Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”) and is primarily responsible for maintaining and communicating the Company’s enterprise risk policies and for monitoring and analyzing all material risks.

171
GRM considers and monitors a full range of risks against the Company’s solvency, liquidity, earnings, business operations and reputation. GRM’s primary responsibilities consist of:

•implementing a corporate risk framework, which outlines our enterprise approach for managing risk;

•developing policies and procedures for identifying, managing, measuring, monitoring and controlling those risks identified in the corporate risk framework;

•coordinating Own Risk and Solvency Assessments for Board, senior management and regulator use;

•establishing appropriate corporate risk tolerance levels;

•recommending risk appetite statements and investment general authorizations to the Board;

•measuring capital on an economic basis;

•recommending capital allocations on an economic capital basis; and

•reporting to (i) the Finance and Risk Committee of MetLife, Inc.’s Board of Directors; (ii) the Investment Committee of MetLife, Inc.’s Board of Directors; (iii) the Compensation Committee of MetLife, Inc.’s Board of Directors; and (iv) the financial and non-financial senior management committees on various aspects of risk.

Asset/Liability Management

We actively manage our assets using an approach that is liability driven and balances quality, diversification, asset/liability matching, liquidity, concentration and investment return. The goals of the investment process are to optimize, net of income tax, risk-adjusted investment income and risk-adjusted total return while ensuring that the assets and liabilities are reasonably aligned on a cash flow and duration basis. The ALM process is the shared responsibility of the ALM, GRM, and Investments departments, with the engagement of senior members of the business segments, and is governed by the ALM Committees. The ALM Committees’ duties include reviewing and approving target portfolios investment guidelines and limits, approving significant portfolio and ALM strategies and providing oversight of the ALM process. The directives of the ALM Committees are carried out and monitored through ALM Working Groups which are set up to manage risk by geography, product or portfolio type. The ALM Steering Committee oversees the activities of the underlying ALM Committees and Working Groups. The ALM Steering Committee reports to the ERC.

We establish portfolio guidelines that define ranges and limits related to asset allocation, interest rate risk, liquidity, concentration and other risks for each major business segment, legal entity or insurance product group. These guidelines support implementation of investment strategies used to adequately fund our liabilities within acceptable levels of risk. We also establish hedging programs and associated investment portfolios for different blocks of business. The ALM Working Groups monitor these strategies and programs through regular review of portfolio metrics, such as effective duration, yield curve sensitivity, convexity, value at risk, market sensitivities (to interest rates, equity market levels, equity volatility, and foreign exchange rates), stress scenario payoffs, liquidity, foreign exchange, asset sector concentration and credit quality.

Market Risk Exposures

We regularly analyze our exposure to interest rate, foreign currency exchange rate and equity market price risk. As a result of that analysis, we have determined that the estimated fair values of certain assets and liabilities are materially exposed to changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and equity markets. We have exposure to market risk through our insurance operations and investment activities. For purposes of this disclosure, “market risk” is defined as the risk of loss resulting from changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and equity markets.

Interest Rates

Our exposure to interest rate changes results most significantly from our holdings of fixed maturity securities, as well as our interest rate sensitive liabilities. The fixed maturity securities AFS include U.S. and foreign government bonds, securities issued by government agencies, corporate bonds, mortgage-backed securities and ABS, all of which are mainly exposed to changes in medium- and long-term interest rates. The interest rate sensitive liabilities for purposes of this disclosure include debt, policyholder account balances related to certain investment type contracts, and embedded derivatives on variable annuities with guaranteed minimum benefits which have the same type of interest rate exposure (medium- and long-term interest rates) as fixed maturity securities AFS. The interest rate sensitive liabilities for purposes of this disclosure exclude a significant portion of the liabilities relating to insurance contracts. See “Risk Factors — Economic Environment and Capital Markets Risks — Difficult Economic Conditions May Adversely Affect Our Business, Results of Operations and Financial Condition.”

172
Foreign Currency Exchange Rates

Our exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates against the U.S. dollar results from our holdings in non-U.S. dollar denominated fixed maturity and equity securities, mortgage loans, and certain liabilities, as well as through our investments in foreign subsidiaries. The foreign currency exchange rate liabilities for purposes of this disclosure exclude a significant portion of the liabilities relating to insurance contracts. The principal currencies that create foreign currency exchange rate risk in our investment portfolios and liabilities are the Euro, the Japanese yen and the British pound. Selectively, we use U.S. dollar assets to support certain long-duration foreign currency liabilities. Through our investments in foreign subsidiaries and joint ventures, we are primarily exposed to the Japanese yen, the Euro, the Australian dollar, the British pound, the Mexican peso, the Chilean peso and the Korean won. In addition to hedging with foreign currency swaps, forwards and options, local surplus in some countries may be held entirely or in part in U.S. dollar assets, which further minimize exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuation risk. We have matched much of our foreign currency liabilities in our foreign subsidiaries with their respective foreign currency assets, thereby reducing our risk to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuation. See “Risk Factors — Economic Environment and Capital Markets Risks — Difficult Economic Conditions May Adversely Affect Our Business, Results of Operations and Financial Condition.”

Equity Market

Along with investments in equity securities, we have exposure to equity market risk through certain liabilities that involve long-term guarantees on equity performance such as embedded derivatives on variable annuities with guaranteed minimum benefits and certain policyholder account balances. Equity exposures associated with limited partnership interests are excluded from this discussion as they are not considered financial instruments under GAAP.

Management of Market Risk Exposures

We use a variety of strategies to manage interest rate, foreign currency exchange rate and equity market risk, including the use of derivatives.

Interest Rate Risk Management

To manage interest rate risk, we analyze interest rate risk using various models, including multi-scenario cash flow projection models that forecast cash flows of the liabilities and their supporting investments, including derivatives. These projections involve evaluating the potential gain or loss on most of our in-force business under various increasing and decreasing interest rate environments. The NYDFS regulations require that we perform some of these analyses annually as part of our review of the sufficiency of our regulatory reserves. For several of our legal entities, we maintain segmented operating and surplus asset portfolios for the purpose of ALM and the allocation of investment income to product lines. In the U.S., for each segment, invested assets greater than or equal to the GAAP liabilities net of certain non-invested assets allocated to the segment are maintained, with any excess allocated to Corporate & Other. The business segments may reflect differences in legal entity, statutory line of business and any product market characteristic which may drive a distinct investment strategy with respect to duration, liquidity or credit quality of the invested assets. Certain smaller entities make use of unsegmented general accounts for which the investment strategy reflects the aggregate characteristics of liabilities in those entities. We measure relative sensitivities of the value of our assets and liabilities to changes in key assumptions utilizing internal models. These models reflect specific product characteristics and include assumptions based on current and anticipated experience regarding lapse, mortality and interest crediting rates. In addition, these models include asset cash flow projections reflecting interest payments, sinking fund payments, principal payments, bond calls, mortgage loan prepayments and defaults.

We employ product design, pricing and ALM strategies to reduce the potential effects of interest rate movements. Product design and pricing strategies include the use of surrender charges or restrictions on withdrawals in some products and the ability to reset crediting rates for certain products. ALM strategies include the use of derivatives. We also use reinsurance to mitigate interest rate risk.

We also use common industry metrics, such as duration and convexity, to measure the relative sensitivity of assets and liability values to changes in interest rates. In computing the duration of liabilities, we consider all policyholder guarantees and how we intend to set indeterminate policy elements such as interest credits or dividends. Each asset portfolio or portfolio group has a duration target based on the liability duration and the investment objectives of that portfolio. Where a liability cash flow may exceed the maturity of available assets, we may support such liabilities with equity investments, derivatives or interest rate curve mismatch strategies.

173
Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk Management

MetLife has a well-established Enterprise Foreign Exchange (“FX”) Risk Policy to manage foreign currency exchange rate exposures within its risk tolerance. In general, investments backing specific liabilities are currency matched. This is achieved through direct investments in matching currency or through the use of FX derivatives. Enterprise FX risk limits are established by the ERC. Management of each of our segments, with oversight from our FX Risk Committee and the respective ALM committee for the segment, is responsible for managing any foreign currency exchange rate exposure.

We use foreign currency swaps, forwards and options to mitigate the liability exposure, risk of loss and financial statement volatility associated with our investments in foreign subsidiaries, foreign currency denominated fixed income investments and the sale of certain insurance products.

Equity Market Risk Management

We manage equity market risk on an integrated basis with other risks through our ALM strategies, including the dynamic hedging of certain variable annuity guarantee benefits, as well as reinsurance, in order to limit losses, minimize exposure to large risks, and provide additional capacity for future growth. We also manage equity market risk exposure in our investment portfolio through the use of derivatives. These derivatives include exchange-traded equity futures, equity index options contracts, total rate of return swaps and equity variance swaps. This risk is managed by our ALM Unit in partnership with the Investments Department. 

Hedging Activities

We use derivative contracts primarily to hedge a wide range of risks including interest rate risk, foreign currency exchange rate risk, and equity market risk. Derivative hedges are designed to reduce risk on an economic basis while considering their impact on financial results under different accounting regimes, including U.S. GAAP and local statutory accounting. Our derivative hedge programs vary depending on the type of risk being hedged. Some hedge programs are asset or liability specific while others are portfolio hedges that reduce risk related to a group of liabilities or assets. Our use of derivatives by major hedge programs is as follows:

•Risks Related to Guarantee Benefits — We use a wide range of derivative contracts to mitigate the risk associated with living guarantee benefits. These derivatives include equity and interest rate futures, interest rate swaps, currency futures/forwards, equity indexed options, total rate of return swaps, interest rate option contracts and equity variance swaps.

•Minimum Interest Rate Guarantees — For certain liability contracts, we provide the contractholder a guaranteed minimum interest rate. These contracts include certain fixed annuities and other insurance liabilities. We purchase interest rate caps and floors to reduce risk associated with these liability guarantees.

•Reinvestment Risk in Long-Duration Liability Contracts — Derivatives are used to hedge interest rate risk related to certain long-duration liability contracts. Hedges include interest rate swaps and swaptions.

•Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk — We use currency swaps, forwards and options to hedge foreign currency exchange rate risk. These hedges are generally used to swap foreign currency denominated bonds, investments in foreign subsidiaries or equity market exposures to U.S. dollars. Our foreign subsidiaries also use these hedges to swap non-local currency assets to local currency, to match liabilities.

•General ALM Hedging Strategies — In the ordinary course of managing our asset/liability risks, we use interest rate futures, interest rate swaps, interest rate caps, and inflation swaps. These hedges are designed to reduce interest rate risk or inflation risk related to the existing assets or liabilities or related to expected future cash flows.

174
Risk Measurement: Sensitivity Analysis

We measure market risk related to our market sensitive assets and liabilities based on changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and equity market prices utilizing a sensitivity analysis. For purposes of this disclosure, a significant portion of the liabilities relating to insurance contracts is excluded, as discussed further below. This analysis estimates the potential changes in estimated fair value based on a hypothetical 10% change (increase or decrease) in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and equity market prices. We believe that a 10% change (increase or decrease) in these market rates and prices is reasonably possible in the near term. In performing the analysis summarized below, we used market rates at December 31, 2018. The sensitivity analysis separately calculates each of our market risk exposures (interest rate, foreign currency exchange rate and equity market) relating to our assets and liabilities. We modeled the impact of changes in market rates and prices on the estimated fair values of our market sensitive assets and liabilities as follows:

•the net present values of our interest rate sensitive exposures resulting from a 10% change (increase or decrease) in interest rates;

•the U.S. dollar equivalent estimated fair values of our foreign currency exposures due to a 10% change (increase in the value of the U.S. dollar compared to all foreign currencies or decrease in the value of the U.S. dollar compared to all foreign currencies) in foreign currency exchange rates; and

•the estimated fair value of our equity positions due to a 10% change (increase or decrease) in equity market prices.

The sensitivity analysis is an estimate and should not be viewed as predictive of our future financial performance. We cannot ensure that our actual losses in any particular period will not exceed the amounts indicated in the table below. Limitations related to this sensitivity analysis include:

•interest sensitive and foreign currency exchange sensitive liabilities do not include $203.3 billion, at carrying value, of insurance contracts. Management believes that the changes in the economic value of those contracts under changing interest rates and changing foreign currency exchange rates would offset a significant portion of the fair value changes of interest sensitive and foreign currency exchange rate sensitive assets;

•the market risk information is limited by the assumptions and parameters established in creating the related sensitivity analysis, including the impact of prepayment rates on mortgage loans;

•sensitivities do not include the impact on asset or liability valuation of changes in market liquidity or changes in market credit spreads;

•foreign currency risk is not isolated for certain embedded derivatives within host asset and liability contracts, as the risk on these instruments is reflected as equity;

•for the derivatives that qualify as hedges, and for certain other assets such as mortgage loans, the impact on reported earnings may be materially different from the change in market values;

•the analysis excludes liabilities pursuant to insurance contracts and real estate holdings; and

•the model assumes that the composition of assets and liabilities remains unchanged throughout the period.

Accordingly, we use such models as tools and not as substitutes for the experience and judgment of our management. Based on our analysis of the impact of a 10% change (increase or decrease) in market rates and prices, we have determined that such a change could have a material adverse effect on the estimated fair value of certain assets and liabilities from interest rate, foreign currency exchange rate and equity market exposures.

The table below illustrates the potential loss in estimated fair value for each market risk exposure of our market sensitive assets and liabilities at:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

__________________

175
The risk sensitivities derived used a 10% increase to interest rates, a 10% strengthening of the U.S. dollar against foreign currencies, and a 10% increase in equity prices. The potential losses in estimated fair value presented are for non-trading securities.

The table below provides additional detail regarding the potential loss in estimated fair value of our interest sensitive financial instruments due to a 10% increase in interest rates by type of asset or liability at:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]__________________

(1)Separate account assets and liabilities and Unit-linked investments and associated policyholder account balances, which are interest rate sensitive, are not included herein as any interest rate risk is borne by the contractholder, notwithstanding any general account guarantees which are included within embedded derivatives (see footnote (2) below) or included within future policy benefits and other policy-related balances (see footnote (3) below). FVO Securities and long-term debt exclude $4 million and $5 million, respectively, related to CSEs. 

176
(2)Embedded derivatives are recognized on the consolidated balance sheet in the same caption as the host contract.

(3)Excludes $203.3 billion of liabilities, at carrying value, pursuant to insurance contracts reported within future policy benefits and other policy-related balances. These liabilities would economically offset a significant portion of the net change in fair value of our financial instruments resulting from a 10% increase in interest rates.

Sensitivity to rising interest rates decreased $206 million, or 4%, to $5.7 billion at December 31, 2018 from $5.9 billion at December 31, 2017.

The table below provides additional detail regarding the potential loss in estimated fair value of our portfolio due to a 10% increase in the U.S. dollar compared to all foreign currencies at:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

__________________

177
(1)Does not necessarily represent those financial instruments solely subject to foreign currency exchange rate risk. Separate account assets and liabilities and Unit-linked investments and associated policyholder account balances, which are foreign currency exchange rate sensitive, are not included herein as any foreign currency exchange rate risk is borne by the contractholder, notwithstanding any general account guarantees which are included within embedded derivatives (see footnote (2) below) or included within future policy benefits and other policy-related balances (see footnote (3) below). FVO Securities and long-term debt exclude $4 million and $5 million, respectively, related to CSEs. 

(2)Embedded derivatives are recognized on the consolidated balance sheet in the same caption as the host contract.

(3)Excludes $203.3 billion of liabilities, at carrying value, pursuant to insurance contracts reported within future policy benefits and other policy-related balances. These liabilities would economically offset a significant portion of the net change in fair value of our financial instruments resulting from a 10% appreciation in the U.S. dollar relative to all other currencies.

Sensitivity to foreign currency exchange rates decreased $60 million to $7.8 billion at December 31, 2018 from $7.9 billion at December 31, 2017. These sensitivities exclude those liabilities, at carrying value, pursuant to insurance contracts reported within future policy benefits and other policy-related balances. These liabilities would economically offset a significant portion of the net change in fair value of our financial instruments resulting from a 10% appreciation in the U.S. dollar relative to all other currencies.

178
The table below provides additional detail regarding the potential loss in estimated fair value of our portfolio due to a 10% increase in equity prices by type of asset or liability at:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

__________________

(1)Does not necessarily represent those financial instruments solely subject to equity price risk. Additionally, separate account assets and liabilities and Unit-linked investments and associated policyholder account balances, which are equity market sensitive, are not included herein as any equity market risk is borne by the contractholder, notwithstanding any general account guarantees which are included within embedded derivatives (see footnote (2) below) or included within future policy benefits and other policy-related balances (see footnote (3) below).

(2)Embedded derivatives are recognized on the consolidated balance sheet in the same caption as the host contract.

(3)Excludes $203.3 billion of liabilities, at carrying value, pursuant to insurance contracts reported within future policy benefits and other policy-related balances.

As of December 31, 2018, sensitivity to a 10% equity market increase was $1 million. This compares to a $71 million sensitivity to a 10% equity market decrease at December 31, 2017.

179
Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data