Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the information under Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data and the other financial information found elsewhere in this Form 10-K. The following discussion includes forward-looking statements that involve certain risks and uncertainties. See "Disclosures Regarding Forward-Looking Statements" (immediately prior to Part I) and Item 1A. Risk Factors. 

Each of our two reportable operating segments are organized by geographic location and managed according to the nature of the products and services offered.

•United States – explores for, produces and markets crude oil and condensate, NGLs and natural gas in the United States;

•International – explores for, produces and markets crude oil and condensate, NGLs and natural gas outside of the United States and produces and markets products manufactured from natural gas, such as LNG and methanol, in E.G.

Executive Overview

During 2018, we continued our outstanding operational execution and capital efficiency across our multi-basin U.S. portfolio, maintained a strong balance sheet and delivered solid financial results. Total proved reserves were 1.3 billion boe and total assets were $21.3 billion at December 31, 2018. Additionally in 2018, we closed on the sale of our subsidiary, Marathon Oil Libya Limited and entered into agreements to complete a full country exit in Kurdistan. Our 2018 financial and operating results highlighted below reflect our ongoing commitment to our core strategy of continuous corporate returns improvement, sustainable cash flow generation at conservative oil prices and the return of capital to shareholders. 

Key highlights include the following:

Simplifying and concentrating our portfolio[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•During 2018 we entered into agreements for the sale of our interest in the non-operated Sarsang and Atrush blocks which will complete our full country exit from Kurdistan. We expect the remaining transaction for our subsidiary Marathon Oil KDV B.V., which holds our non-operated interest in the Atrush block, to close in the first half of 2019.

•In July 2018 we closed on the sale of non-core, non-operated conventional assets in the U.S. segment for a pre-tax gain of $32 million, including three in the Gulf of Mexico, further concentrating and simplifying our portfolio.

•In Northern Delaware we acquired 1,800 net acres in New Mexico for $105 million from the Bureau of Land Management lease sale, which is synergistic with our existing footprint in the resource play.

•Captured approximately 260,000 net acres in the emerging Louisiana Austin Chalk play at a cost of less than $850 per acre. 

Strengthened balance sheet and liquidity[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•Reduced estimated costs of our asset retirement obligations by $338 million primarily through accelerating our U.K. abandonment timing to capture favorable market conditions and through the disposition of Gulf of Mexico assets.

•Cash and cash equivalents increased approximately $900 million as a result of the sale of our Libya subsidiary and the receipt of the remaining proceeds from the sale of our Canadian business.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Financial and operational results[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

27

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

◦Production expense, taxes other than income and shipping, handling and other increased 18%, 63% and 33%, during 2018 as a result of an increase in net sales volumes across our U.S. resource plays.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Outlook 

Capital Budget 

On February 13, 2019 we announced our total 2019 Capital Budget of $2.6 billion, which includes approximately $2.4 billion of development capital and approximately $200 million to fund resource play leasing and exploration ("REx"). Our $2.4 billion development capital budget is 95% dedicated to the four U.S. resource plays with approximately 60% allocated to the Eagle Ford and Bakken and approximately 40% allocated to Oklahoma and the Northern Delaware.

Our 2019 Capital Budget is broken down by reportable segment in the table below:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a) Includes approximately $200 million of spend to fund REx.

(b) International and corporate other includes our International segment and other corporate items.

Operations

Our net sales volumes increased 11% in 2018 primarily as a result of new wells to sales across all U.S. resource plays.

The following table presents a summary of our sales volumes for each of our segments. Refer to the Results of Operations section for a price-volume analysis for each of the segments.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

United States 

Net sales volumes in the segment were higher during the year ended December 31, 2018 primarily as a result of new wells to sales across all U.S. resource plays. The following tables provide additional details regarding net sales volumes, sales mix and operational drilling activity for our significant operations within this segment: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a) Year ended December 31, 2018 includes decreases of 5 mboed, relating primarily to the disposition of certain assets in the Gulf of Mexico and conventional assets in Oklahoma in July 2018 and September 2017 and Colorado in October 2017. Additionally, year ended December 31, 2017 includes decreases of 14 mboed, consisting of the disposition of Wyoming and certain non-operated CO2 and waterflood assets in West Texas and New Mexico in 2016. See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data - Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements for information about these dispositions.

28

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

29

International 

 Net sales volumes in the segment were lower during the year ended December 31, 2018 primarily due to the sale of our subsidiary in Libya, planned maintenance activities and natural declines in E.G. The following table provides details regarding net sales volumes for our significant operations within this segment: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a)  Includes natural gas acquired for injection and subsequent resale.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•Libya – During the first quarter of 2018 we closed on the sale of our subsidiary in Libya. See Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements for further information. 

Market Conditions

Crude oil and condensate and NGLs benchmarks increased in 2018 as compared to the same period in 2017. As a result, we experienced increased price realizations associated with those benchmarks. We continue to expect crude oil and condensate, NGLs and natural gas benchmark prices to remain volatile based on global supply and demand, which will result in increases or decreases in our price realizations during 2019. See Item 1A. Risk Factors and Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition – Critical Accounting Estimates for further discussion of how declines in commodity prices could impact us. Additional detail on market conditions, including our average price realizations and benchmarks for crude oil and condensate, NGLs and natural gas relative to our operating segments, follows.

30

United States 

 The following table presents our average price realizations and the related benchmarks for crude oil and condensate, NGLs and natural gas for 2018, 2017 and 2016. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a) Excludes gains or losses on commodity derivative instruments.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(c) Inclusion of realized gains (losses) on natural gas derivative instruments would have a minimal impact on average price realizations for the periods presented.

(d) Bloomberg Finance LLP: Y-grade Mix NGL of 50% ethane, 25% propane, 10% butane, 5% isobutane and 10% natural gasoline.

Crude oil and condensate – Price realizations may differ from benchmarks due to the quality and location of the product. 

Natural gas liquids – The majority of our sales volumes are at reference to Mont Belvieu prices. 

Natural gas – A significant portion of volumes are sold at bid-week prices, or first-of-month indices relative to our producing areas. 

International 

The following table presents our average price realizations and the related benchmark for crude oil for 2018, 2017 and 2016. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a) Average of monthly prices obtained from the United States Energy Information Agency website.

United Kingdom

Crude oil and condensate – Generally sold in relation to the Brent crude benchmark. 

Equatorial Guinea

Crude oil and condensate – Alba Field liquids production is primarily condensate and generally sold in relation to the Brent crude benchmark. Alba Plant LLC processes the rich hydrocarbon gas which is supplied by the Alba Field under a fixed price long term contract. Alba Plant LLC extracts NGL’s and secondary condensate which is then sold by Alba Plant LLC at market prices, with our share of the revenue reflected in income from equity method investments on the consolidated statements of income. 

Natural gas liquids – Wet gas is sold to Alba Plant LLC at a fixed-price term contract resulting in realized prices not fully tracking market price. Alba Plant LLC extracts NGLs, which are sold at market price, with our share of income from Alba Plant LLC being reflected in the income from equity method investments on the consolidated statements of income.

31

Natural gas - Dry natural gas is sold to EGHoldings and AMPCO at fixed-price long term contracts resulting in realized prices not fully tracking market price. We derive additional value from the equity investment in our downstream gas processing units EG LNG and AMPCO that market LNG and methanol at market prices.

Consolidated Results of Operations: 2018 compared to 2017 

Revenues from contracts with customers are presented by segment in the table below:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Below is a price/volume analysis for each segment. Refer to the preceding Operations and Market Conditions sections for additional detail related to our net sales volumes and average price realizations. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Net loss on commodity derivatives decreased $22 million in 2018 from 2017. We have multiple crude oil and natural gas derivative contracts indexed to NYMEX WTI and Henry Hub. We record commodity derivative gains/losses as the index pricing and forward curves change each period. See Note 14 to the consolidated financial statements for further information.

Marketing revenues decreased $162 million in 2018 from 2017. This decrease is the result of adopting the new revenue standard, ASC Topic 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers during the first quarter of 2018. As a result of this standard, we have changed our presentation of marketing revenues and marketing expenses from the historical gross presentation to a net presentation. See Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements for further information.

Income from equity method investments decreased $31 million primarily due to higher production costs and lower volumes and pricing at our E.G. LNG production facility. Our higher production costs and lower volumes were primarily driven by planned maintenance activities during the first quarter 2018. 

Net gain on disposal of assets increased $261 million in 2018 from 2017. This increase was primarily related to the 2018 sale of our Libya subsidiary for a pre-tax gain of $255 million; and also includes the sale of non-core assets in the Gulf of Mexico and our International segment during the current year. See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data - Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements for information about these dispositions. 

Other income increased $72 million in 2018 from 2017 primarily a result of the reduction of our U.K. asset retirement obligation during 2018. See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data - Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements for detail about our asset retirement obligation. 

Production expenses increased $126 million during 2018 from 2017 primarily due to higher sales volumes across our United States segment. Our United States segment increased $149 million primarily due to higher costs as a result of increased 

32

sales volumes and new wells to sales in our developing Northern Delaware asset. International segment decreased $24 million primarily due to the sale of our subsidiary in Libya in the first quarter 2018. 

The following table provides production expense and production expense rates for each segment: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Marketing costs decreased $168 million in 2018 from 2017. This decrease is the result of adopting the new revenue standard, ASC Topic 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers during the first quarter of 2018. As a result of this standard, we have changed our presentation of marketing revenues and marketing expenses from the historical gross presentation to a net presentation. See Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements for further information.

Shipping, handling and other operating expenses increased $144 million in 2018 from 2017 primarily as a result of increased sales volumes in our United States segment.

 Exploration expenses decreased $120 million during 2018 versus the comparable 2017. The decrease was primarily due to lower unproved property impairments and dry well costs in certain non-core international properties in 2018 versus 2017. See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data - Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements for details of these items. 

The following table summarizes the components of exploration expenses:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Depreciation, depletion and amortization increased $69 million in 2018 from 2017 primarily as a result of an increase of $206 million in the United States segment primarily due to higher sales volumes across all U.S. resource plays. Offsetting this higher expense was a decrease of $131 million in our International segment primarily due to the reduction of our estimated U.K. asset retirement costs. Additionally, lower sales volumes in E.G., asset sales in Libya and Kurdistan all contributed to the lower expense during 2018. Our segments apply the units-of-production method to the majority of their assets, including capitalized asset retirement costs; therefore, volumes have an impact on DD&A expense.

The DD&A rate (expense per boe), which is impacted by field-level changes in reserves, capitalized costs and sales volumes, can also impact our DD&A expense. Our United States DD&A rate decreased in 2018 primarily due to increased proved developed reserves in our U.S. resource plays in late 2017; as well as reduced capitalized costs relating to the Gulf of Mexico impairment charge in 2017 and the subsequent sale of these assets in 2018. The DD&A rate for International decreased with the reduction of our estimated U.K. asset retirement costs in the second half of 2018 and 2017. 

The following table provides DD&A rates for each segment: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

 Impairments decreased $154 million in 2018 from 2017.  This decrease was primarily the result of the proved property impairments in the third quarter 2017 in certain non-core international properties and certain properties in the Gulf of Mexico. See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data - Note 11 to the consolidated financial statement for detail of proved property impairments each year. 

Taxes other than income tend to increase or decrease in relation to revenue and sales volumes, primarily in the U.S. As U.S. sales volumes and revenues increased during 2018, this resulted in an increase of $116 million compared to 2017. Additionally, the State of Oklahoma approved an increase to the gross production tax from 2% to 5% on all existing and new wells for the first thirty-six months, effective July 1, 2018. The following table summarizes the components of taxes other than 

33

income: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

General and administrative expenses increased $23 million in 2018 compared to 2017. This was primarily the result of officer and non-officer compensation, including improved performance of stock-based performance units. 

Net interest and other decreased $44 million during 2018 compared to 2017. This decrease was primarily due the redemption of $1.76 billion of debt during 2017, partially offset by the termination of our forward starting interest rate swaps in 2017, which resulted in a gain of $46 million. The components of net interest and other are detailed in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data - Note 21 to the consolidated financial statements.

Loss on early extinguishment of debt decreased $51 million in 2018 compared to 2017 primarily due to make-whole call provisions paid upon redemption of $1.76 billion in senior unsecured notes in 2017. See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data - Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements for further detail.

Provision (benefit) for income taxes reflects an effective tax rate from continuing operations of 23% and 83% for 2018 and 2017. See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data - Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements for a discussion of the effective income tax rate. 

Discontinued operations are presented net of tax. See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data - Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements for financial information concerning our discontinued operations.

Segment Results: 2018 compared to 2017

Segment Income (Loss) 

Segment income (loss) represents income (loss) from continuing operations excluding certain items not allocated to operating segments, net of income taxes. A portion of our corporate and operations general and administrative support costs are not allocated to the operating segments. Gains or losses on dispositions, certain impairments, unrealized gains or losses on commodity derivative instruments, pension settlement losses, or other items (as determined by the CODM) are not allocated to operating segments.

The following table reconciles segment income (loss) to net income (loss):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a)  See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data - Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements for further detail about items not allocated to segments. 

(b) We sold our Canadian business in the second quarter of 2017. The Canadian business is reflected as discontinued operations in 2017. 

 United States segment income increased $756 million after-tax in 2018 compared to 2017 primarily due to higher price realizations and an increase in net sales volumes, which resulted in increased revenues. This increase in revenue was partially offset by an increase in our net loss on commodity derivatives. Additionally, our increase in net sales volumes resulted in a corresponding increase to production expenses, DD&A, taxes other than income, and shipping, handling and other operating expenses which partially offset the increase to revenues. 

 International segment income increased $99 million after-tax in 2018 compared to 2017 as a result of increased income in Other International and the U.K. primarily as a result of increased price realizations and an increase in Other International sales 

volumes. Lower expenses in 2018 were primarily driven by lower DD&A expense as a result of the decrease in estimated U.K. asset retirement costs, lower E.G. sales volumes and the sale of certain Other International properties. This was partially offset by lower income in Libya due to the 2018 sale of our Libya subsidiary (see Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements for further information).

Consolidated Results of Operations: 2017 compared to 2016 

Revenues from contracts with customers are presented by segment in the table below:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Below is a price/volume analysis for each segment. Refer to the preceding Operations and Market Conditions sections for additional detail related to our net sales volumes and average price realizations.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a) Year ended December 31, 2016 includes sales volumes of 14 mboed on an annualized basis relating to assets sold when compared to 2017, primarily consisting of the disposition of Wyoming and certain non-operated CO2 and waterflood assets in West Texas and New Mexico in 2016.

Net gain (loss) on commodity derivatives decreased $30 million in 2017 from 2016. We have multiple crude oil and natural gas derivative contracts indexed to NYMEX WTI and Henry Hub. We record commodity derivative gains/losses as the index pricing and forward curves change each period. See Note 14 to the consolidated financial statements for further information.

Marketing revenues decreased $78 million in 2017 from 2016, primarily as a result of lower marketed volumes in the United States segment due to non-core asset dispositions. Marketing activities include the purchase of commodities from third parties for resale and serve to aggregate volumes in order to satisfy transportation commitments as well as to achieve flexibility within product types and delivery points. Since the volume of marketing activity is based on market dynamics, it can fluctuate from period to period. 

Income from equity method investments increased $81 million primarily due to higher price realizations from LPG at our Alba plant and methanol at our AMPCO methanol facility. Also contributing to the increase was improvement in net sales volumes primarily driven by the completion of the Alba field compression project in E.G. during the second half of 2016.

Net gain on disposal of assets decreased $331 million in 2017 from 2016. This decrease was primarily related to the sale of non-core assets in the first half of 2016 in Wyoming, West Texas and New Mexico, and the Gulf of Mexico. See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data - Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements for information about these dispositions.

Other income increased $25 million in 2017 from 2016. This increase was primarily a result of a downward revision in U.K. estimated asset retirement costs as well as timing of abandonment activities in the U.K. See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data - Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements for detail about our asset retirement obligation. 

34

Production expenses remained nearly flat during 2017 while our sales volumes from continuing operations increased. During 2017, our production expense rate (expense per boe) for United States was lower primarily due to the disposition of higher cost non-core assets in Wyoming. The International expense rate decreased in the year of 2017 primarily due to an increase in sales volumes in E.G. and Libya, combined with lower maintenance costs in E.G.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Marketing costs decreased $77 million in 2017 from the prior year, consistent with the decrease in marketing revenues discussed above. 

Shipping, handling, and other operating expenses decreased $53 million compared to 2016 which included the termination payment of our Gulf of Mexico deepwater drilling commitment in 2016.

 Exploration expenses increased $86 million in 2017 versus the comparable 2016 period, due primarily to charges taken as a result of lower forecasted long-term commodity prices and the anticipated sales of certain non-core properties in our International segment. In 2017, we recorded non-cash charges of $159 million comprised of $95 million in unproved property impairments in our International segment and $64 million dry well costs related to our Diaba License G4-223 in the Republic of Gabon. Additionally, our decision not to develop the Tchicuate offshore Block in the Republic of Gabon resulted in an increase to exploration expenses of $43 million during 2017. Unproved property impairments during 2016 primarily consist of non-cash charges related to our decision to not drill our remaining Gulf of Mexico leases. 

The following table summarizes the components of exploration expenses:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Exploration expense are also discussed in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data - Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements.

Depreciation, depletion and amortization increased $216 million in 2017 from the prior year primarily as a result of an increase of $176 million in the United States due to a 5% increase in net sales volumes, and an increase in the DD&A rates within our U.S. resource plays.  Also contributing to this higher expense was an increase of $52 million in our International segment resulting from increased sales volumes due to the completion and start-up of our E.G. Alba field compression project in mid-2016, and the resumption of sales volumes and production in Libya. Our segments apply the units-of-production method to the majority of their assets, including capitalized asset retirement costs; therefore, volumes have an impact on DD&A expense.

The DD&A rate (expense per boe), which is impacted by field-level changes in sales volumes, reserves and capitalized costs, can also cause changes to our DD&A. The DD&A rate for United States increased primarily due to the sales volume mix between our U.S. resource plays, and the outside-operated Gunflint field achieving first production in mid-2016. Also contributing to the increase was a reduction to the Eagle Ford proved developed reserve base in the fourth quarter of 2016. The DD&A rate for our International segment remained relatively consistent with the 2016 rate. The following table provides DD&A rates for each segment. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

35

 Impairments increased $162 million in 2017 from the comparable 2016 period. This increase was primarily consisting of $136 million of proved property impairments in certain non-core properties in our International segment as a result of our anticipated sales and lower forecasted long-term commodity prices. Additionally, included in proved property impairments was $89 million in 2017 and $67 million in 2016, both relating to lower forecasted commodity prices in conventional properties in Oklahoma and the Gulf of Mexico. See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data - Note 11 to the consolidated financial statement for additional detail. 

 Taxes other than income includes production, severance and ad valorem taxes, primarily in the U.S., which tend to increase or decrease in relation to revenue and sales volumes. Taxes other than income increased $32 million in the current year as a result of increased revenue and sales volumes, and due to a reserve being established for non-income tax examinations relating to open tax years. 

The following table summarizes the components of taxes other than income: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Net interest and other decreased $62 million during 2017 primarily as a result of the termination of our forward starting interest rate swaps, which resulted in a gain of $46 million. Additionally, during 2017 we reduced total long-term debt by approximately $1.75 billion which resulted in a reduction to our net interest and other. The components of net interest and other are detailed in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data - Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements.

Loss on early extinguishment of debt increased $51 million in 2017 primarily due to make-whole call provisions of $46 million paid upon the redemption of $1.76 billion in senior unsecured notes. See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data - Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements for further detail.

Other net periodic benefit costs decreased $83 million primarily due to reduced pension settlement charges of $32 million in 2017 compared to $103 million in 2016.

Provision (benefit) for income taxes reflects an effective tax rate from continuing operations of 83% and 79% for 2017 and 2016. In 2017, our tax expense was primarily a result of our full valuation allowance on our net federal deferred tax assets throughout 2017 and the effects of our foreign operations. See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data - Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements for a discussion of the effective income tax rate. 

Discontinued operations are presented net of tax. See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data - Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements for financial information concerning our discontinued operations.

36

Segment Results: 2017 compared to 2016 

Segment Income (Loss) 

Segment income (loss) represents income (loss) from continuing operations excluding certain items not allocated to operating segments, net of income taxes. A portion of our corporate and operations general and administrative support costs are not allocated to the operating segments. Gains or losses on dispositions, certain impairments, unrealized gains or losses on commodity derivative instruments, pension settlement losses, or other items (as determined by the CODM) are not allocated to operating segments.

The following table reconciles segment income (loss) to net income (loss):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a)  See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data - Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements for further detail about items not allocated to segments. 

(b) We sold our Canadian business in the second quarter of 2017. The Canadian business is reflected as discontinued operations in all periods presented. 

 United States segment loss decreased $267 million in 2017 compared to 2016 primarily due to higher price realizations and higher sales volumes. Partially offsetting this revenue increase was an increase in DD&A and a decrease in the income tax benefit, as we did not realize a tax benefit on any net federal deferred tax assets generated in 2017 due to the full valuation allowance on net federal deferred tax assets in the prior year. 

 International segment income increased $146 million in 2017 compared to 2016 primarily due to higher price realizations, and an increase in sales volumes in E.G. and Libya. This was partially offset by an increase in DD&A and income tax expense as a result of the increase in sales volumes. 

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition, Cash Flows and Liquidity

Commodity prices are the most significant factor impacting our operating cash flows and the amount of capital available to reinvest into the business. In 2018, we experienced an increase in operating cash flows primarily due to improvements in the commodity price environment with increased consolidated average crude oil and condensate price realizations of over 25% to $63.32, and an increase to net sales volumes of 11% to 420 mboed. 

During 2018 we continued our cash flow growth with highlights that include:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•Used this additional cash provided by operating activities to return capital to shareholders by executing $700 million of share repurchases.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•Additionally these divestiture proceeds were used to capture additional acreage in our resource play leasing and exploration program of $369 million.

At December 31, 2018, we had approximately $4.9 billion of liquidity consisting of $1.5 billion in cash and cash equivalents and $3.4 billion available under our revolving credit facility. Additionally, during 2018 we extended the maturity date of our Credit Facility from May 28, 2021, to May 28, 2022. As previously discussed in our Outlook section, we are targeting a $2.6 billion Capital Budget for 2019. We believe our current liquidity level, cash flow from operations and ability to access the capital markets provides us with the flexibility to fund our business throughout the different commodity price cycles. We will continue to evaluate the commodity price environment and our spending throughout 2019.

37

Cash Flows

The following table presents sources and uses of cash and cash equivalents from continuing operations for 2018, 2017 and 2016:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Cash flows generated from operating activities in 2018 were 63% higher as both commodity price realizations and net sales volumes improved compared to 2017. Consolidated average crude oil and condensate price realizations increased by over 25% and net sales volumes increased 11% during 2018 as compared to 2017. 

Proceeds from the disposals of assets for 2018 are primarily related to our non-operated interest in Libya as well as the remaining proceeds from the sale of our Canadian business. Proceeds from the disposals of assets for 2017 is primarily the result of the disposal of our Canadian business, and in 2016 are primarily from the sale of our Wyoming upstream and midstream assets, as well as the sale of certain other non-operated CO2 and waterflood assets in West Texas and New Mexico. Disposition transactions are discussed in further detail in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements.

Issuance of common stock reflects net proceeds received in 2016 from our public sale of common stock. 

Borrowings in 2017 are a result of the issuance of $1 billion of 4.4% senior unsecured notes due in 2027. Financing transactions are discussed in further detail in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information.

Additions to property, plant and equipment reflect a significant use of cash and cash equivalents. The following table shows capital expenditures related to continuing operations by segment and reconciles to additions to property, plant and equipment as presented in the consolidated statements of cash flows: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a)  2018 capital expenditures includes 1,800 net acres in New Mexico for $105 million acquired from the Bureau of Land Management lease sale.

38

Additions to other assets relates to deposits on our resource play leasing and exploration program. During 2018 our resource play leasing and exploration capital expenditures totaled $369 million, largely including costs within property, plant and equipment, other assets and acquisitions. These expenditures were more than fully funded through the divestiture proceeds received in 2018.

During 2017, we closed on multiple Permian basin acquisitions for approximately $1.9 billion with cash on hand. Additionally, during 2016, we closed the Oklahoma STACK acquisition for a purchase price of $904 million, net of cash acquired. See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements for further information concerning acquisitions. 

In 2018, we acquired 36 million common shares at a cost of $700 million, excluding transaction fees and commissions, under our share repurchase program. Shares purchased were held as treasury stock. See Note 23 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information.

In December 2017, we redeemed $1 billion of 5.125% municipal revenue bonds due in 2037 in a refunding transaction. Additionally, during the third quarter of 2017, we used the net proceeds of the borrowing disclosed above plus existing cash on hand to redeem $1.76 billion in senior unsecured notes resulting in a recognized loss on early extinguishment of debt of $46 million, primarily due to make-whole call provisions. Financing transactions are discussed in further detail in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information.

During 2018, 2017 and 2016, the Board of Directors approved a $0.05 per share quarterly dividend. See Capital Requirements below for additional information about the fourth quarter 2018 dividend. 

Liquidity and Capital Resources

In October 2018, we extended the maturity date of our Credit Facility from May 28, 2021, to May 28, 2022. Fees on the unused commitment to the lenders, as well as the borrowing options under the Credit Facility, remain unaffected by the term extension. We retain the ability to request two one-year extensions and an option to increase the commitment amount by up to an additional $107 million, subject to the consent of any increasing lenders. The sub-facilities for swing-line loans and letters of credit remain unchanged allowing up to an aggregate amount of $100 million and $500 million, respectively.

Our main sources of liquidity are cash and cash equivalents, internally generated cash flow from operations, sales of non-core assets, capital market transactions, and our revolving Credit Facility. At December 31, 2018, we had approximately $4.9 billion of liquidity consisting of $1.5 billion in cash and cash equivalents and $3.4 billion available under our revolving Credit Facility. Our working capital requirements are supported by these sources and we may draw on our revolving Credit Facility to meet short-term cash requirements, or issue debt or equity securities through the shelf registration statement discussed below as part of our longer-term liquidity and capital management program. Because of the alternatives available to us as discussed above, we believe that our short-term and long-term liquidity are adequate to fund not only our current operations, but also our near-term and long-term funding requirements including our capital spending budgets, dividend payments, defined benefit plan contributions, repayment of debt maturities, and other amounts that may ultimately be paid in connection with contingencies. 

General economic conditions, commodity prices, and financial, business and other factors could affect our operations and our ability to access the capital markets. Our corporate credit ratings as of December 31, 2018 are: Standard & Poor's Ratings Services BBB- (positive); Fitch Ratings BBB (stable); and Moody's Investor Services, Inc. Ba1 (positive).  A downgrade in our credit ratings could increase our future cost of financing or limit our ability to access capital, and result in additional collateral requirements. See Item 1A. Risk Factors for a discussion of how a further downgrade in our credit ratings could affect us.

Additionally, in December of 2017, we redeemed $1 billion of 5.125% municipal revenue bonds due in 2037 in a refunding transaction that preserved our ability to remarket up to $1 billion of tax-exempt municipal bonds prior to 2037. We may incur additional debt in order to fund our capital expenditures, acquisitions or development activities, or for general corporate or other purposes. A higher level of indebtedness could increase the risk that our liquidity and financial flexibility deteriorates. See Item 1A. Risk Factors for a further discussion of how our level of indebtedness could affect us.

Capital Resources

Credit Arrangements and Borrowings

At December 31, 2018, we had no borrowings against our revolving credit facility. 

At December 31, 2018, we had $5.5 billion in long-term debt outstanding, with our next debt maturity in the amount of $600 million due in 2020. We do not have any triggers on any of our corporate debt that would cause an event of default in the case of a downgrade of our credit ratings.

39

Shelf Registration

We have a universal shelf registration statement filed with the SEC under which we, as a "well-known seasoned issuer" for purposes of SEC rules, have the ability to issue and sell an indeterminate amount of various types of debt and equity securities.

Asset Disposals 

We entered into an agreement to sell our subsidiary, Marathon Oil KDV B.V., which holds our 15% non-operated interest in the Atrush block in Kurdistan for proceeds of $63 million, before closing adjustments. Disposition transactions are discussed in further detail in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements.

Debt-To-Capital Ratio

The Credit Facility includes a covenant requiring that our ratio of total debt to total capitalization not exceed 65% as of the last day of each fiscal quarter. Our debt-to-capital ratio was 31% at December 31, 2018 and 32% at December 31, 2017.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Capital Requirements

Capital Spending

Our approved Capital Budget for 2019 is $2.6 billion. Additional details were previously discussed in Outlook.

Share Repurchase Program

 In 2018, we acquired 36 million common shares at a cost of $700 million under our share repurchase program. The remaining share repurchase authorization as of December 31, 2018 is $800 million. 

Other Expected Cash Outflows

On January 30, 2019, our Board of Directors approved a dividend of $0.05 per share for the fourth quarter of 2018. The dividend is payable on March 11, 2019 to shareholders of record on February 20, 2019. 

We plan to make contributions of up to $50 million to our funded pension plans during 2019. Cash contributions to be paid from our general assets for the unfunded pension and postretirement plans are expected to be approximately $5 million and $18 million in 2019. 

40

Contractual Cash Obligations

The table below provides aggregated information on our consolidated obligations to make future payments under existing contracts as of December 31, 2018. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(b) Oil and gas activities include contracts to acquire property, plant and equipment and commitments for oil and gas exploration such as costs related to contractually obligated exploratory work programs that are expensed immediately.

(c) Service and materials contracts include contracts to purchase services such as utilities, supplies and various other maintenance and operating services.

(d) Includes any drilling rigs and fracturing crews that are not considered lease obligations.

(e) Primarily includes obligations for pension and other postretirement benefits including medical and life insurance. We have estimated projected funding requirements through 2027. Although unrecognized tax benefits are not a contractual obligation, they are presented in this table because they represent potential demands on our liquidity.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Transactions with Related Parties

We own a 63% working interest in the Alba field offshore E.G. Onshore E.G., we own a 52% interest in an LPG processing plant, a 60% interest in an LNG production facility and a 45% interest in a methanol production plant, each through equity method investees. We sell our natural gas from the Alba field to these equity method investees as the feedstock for their production processes. 

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

Off-balance sheet arrangements comprise those arrangements that may potentially impact our liquidity, capital resources and results of operations, even though such arrangements are not recorded as liabilities under accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. Although off-balance sheet arrangements serve a variety of our business purposes, we are not dependent on these arrangements to maintain our liquidity and capital resources, and we are not aware of any circumstances that are reasonably likely to cause the off-balance sheet arrangements to have a material adverse effect on liquidity and capital resources.

We will issue stand-alone letters of credit when required by a business partner. Such letters of credit outstanding at December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 aggregated $52 million, $89 million and $166 million. Most of the letters of credit are in support of obligations recorded in the consolidated balance sheet. For example, they are issued to counterparties to support firm transportation agreements and future abandonment liabilities.

In 2018, we signed an agreement with a lessor to construct and lease a new build-to-suit office building in Houston, Texas. The new Houston office location is expected to be completed in 2021. The lessor and other participants are providing financing for up to $380 million, to fund the estimated project costs. As of December 31, 2018 project costs incurred totaled $45 million, primarily for land acquisition costs. The five-year lease term will commence once construction is substantially complete and the new Houston office is able to be occupied. At the end of the initial lease term, we can extend the term of the lease for an additional five years, subject to the approval of the participants; purchase the property subject to certain terms and conditions; remarket the property to an unrelated third party. As of December 31, 2018 we have recorded this agreement as an operating lease, see Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Note 24 to the consolidated financial statements for further information on operating leases.

41

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Environmental Matters, Litigation and Contingencies

We have incurred and may continue to incur substantial capital, operating and maintenance and remediation expenditures as a result of environmental laws and regulations. If these expenditures, as with all costs, are not ultimately reflected in the prices of our products and services, our operating results will be adversely affected. We believe that substantially all of our competitors must comply with similar environmental laws and regulations. However, the specific impact on each competitor may vary depending on a number of factors, including the age and location of its operating facilities, marketing areas and production processes.

We accrue for environmental remediation activities when the responsibility to remediate is probable and the amount of associated costs can be reasonably estimated. As environmental remediation matters proceed toward ultimate resolution or as additional remediation obligations arise, charges in excess of those previously accrued may be required. 

New or expanded environmental requirements, which could increase our environmental costs, may arise in the future. We strive to comply with all legal requirements regarding the environment, but as not all costs are fixed or presently determinable (even under existing legislation) and may be affected by future legislation or regulations, it is not possible to predict all of the ultimate costs of compliance, including remediation costs that may be incurred and penalties that may be imposed.

For more information on environmental regulations that impact us, or could impact us, see Item 1. Business – Environmental, Health and Safety Matters, Item 1A. Risk Factors and Item 3. Legal Proceedings.

Critical Accounting Estimates

The preparation of financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities as of the date of the consolidated financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the respective reporting periods. Accounting estimates are considered to be critical if (1) the nature of the estimates and assumptions is material due to the levels of subjectivity and judgment necessary to account for highly uncertain matters or the susceptibility of such matters to change, and (2) the impact of the estimates and assumptions on financial condition or operating performance is material. Actual results could differ from the estimates and assumptions used.

Estimated Quantities of Net Reserves

We use the successful efforts method of accounting for our oil and gas producing activities. The successful efforts method inherently relies on the estimation of proved crude oil and condensate, NGLs and natural gas reserves. The amount of estimated proved reserve volumes affect, among other things, whether certain costs are capitalized or expensed, the amount and timing of costs depreciated, depleted or amortized into net income and the presentation of supplemental information on oil and gas producing activities. In addition, the expected future cash flows to be generated by producing properties are used for testing impairment and the expected future taxable income available to realize deferred tax assets, also in part, rely on estimates of quantities of net reserves. Refer to the applicable sections below for further discussion of these accounting estimates.

The estimation of quantities of net reserves is a highly technical process performed by our engineers and geoscientists for crude oil and condensate, NGLs and natural gas, which is based upon several underlying assumptions. The reserve estimates may change as additional information becomes available and as contractual, operational, economic and political conditions change. We evaluate our reserves using drilling results, reservoir performance, seismic interpretation and future plans to develop acreage. Technologies used in proved reserves estimation includes statistical analysis of production performance, decline curve analysis, pressure and rate transient analysis, pressure gradient analysis, reservoir simulation and volumetric analysis. The observed statistical nature of production performance coupled with highly certain reservoir continuity or quality within the reliable technology areas and sufficient proved developed locations establish the reasonable certainty criteria required for booking proved reserves. The data for a given reservoir may also change over time as a result of numerous factors including, but not limited to, additional development activity, production history and continual reassessment of the viability of production under varying economic conditions. 

42

Reserve estimates are based on an unweighted arithmetic average of commodity prices during the 12-month period, using the closing prices on the first day of each month, as defined by the SEC. The table below provides the 2018 SEC pricing for certain benchmark prices:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

When determining the December 31, 2018 proved reserves for each property, the benchmark prices listed above were adjusted using price differentials that account for property-specific quality and location differences. 

Estimates of future cash flows associated with proved reserves are based on actual costs of developing and producing proved reserves at the end of the year. If annual SEC crude oil benchmark prices (see table above) were to decrease to approximately $45 per bbl, or 30% below average prices used to estimate 2018 proved reserves, we would not expect price related reserve revisions to have a material impact on proved reserve volumes. For further discussion of risks associated with our estimation of proved reserves, see Part I. Item 1A Risk Factors. 

Depreciation and depletion of crude oil and condensate, NGLs and natural gas producing properties is determined by the units-of-production method and could change with revisions to estimated proved reserves. While revisions of previous reserve estimates have not historically been significant to the depreciation and depletion rates of our segments, any reduction in proved reserves, could result in an acceleration of future DD&A expense. The following table illustrates, on average, the sensitivity of each segment's units-of-production DD&A per boe and pretax income to a hypothetical 10% change in 2018 proved reserves based on 2018 production.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Asset Retirement Obligations

We have material legal, regulatory and contractual obligations to remove and dismantle long-lived assets and to restore land or seabed at the end of oil and gas production operations. A liability equal to the fair value of such obligations and a corresponding capitalized asset retirement cost are recognized on the balance sheet in the period in which the legal obligation is incurred and a reasonable estimate of fair value can be made. The capitalized asset retirement cost is depreciated using the units-of-production method or the straight line method (dependent on the underlying asset) and the discounted liability is accreted over the period until the obligation is satisfied, the impacts of which are recognized as DD&A in the consolidated statements of income. In many cases, the satisfaction and subsequent discharge of these liabilities is projected to occur many years, or even decades, into the future. Furthermore, the legal, regulatory and contractual requirements often do not provide specific guidance regarding removal practices and the criteria that must be fulfilled when the removal and/or restoration event actually occurs.

Estimates of retirement costs are developed for each property based on numerous factors, such as the scope of the dismantlement, timing of settlement, interpretation of legal, regulatory and contractual requirements, type of production and processing structures, depth of water (if applicable), reservoir characteristics, depth of the reservoir, market demand for equipment, currently available dismantlement and restoration procedures and consultations with construction and engineering professionals. Currency exchange rates, inflation rates and credit-adjusted-risk-free interest rates are then applied to estimate the fair values of the obligations. To the extent these or other assumptions change after initial recognition of the liability, the fair value estimate is revised and the recognized liability adjusted, with a corresponding adjustment made to the related asset balance or income statement, as appropriate. Changes in estimated asset retirement obligations for late life assets could result in impairment or in the recognition of income. During 2018 we made revisions to these estimates and reduced our recognized liability by $204 million. This downward revision was primarily due to the acceleration of our U.K. abandonment activities to capture favorable market conditions and lower estimated abandonment costs. See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements for disclosures regarding our asset retirement obligation estimates.

43

An estimate of the sensitivity to net income if other assumptions had been used in recording these liabilities is not practical because of the number of obligations that must be assessed, the number of underlying assumptions and the wide range of possible assumptions.

Fair Value Estimates

Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. There are three approaches for measuring the fair value of assets and liabilities: the market approach, the income approach and the cost approach, each of which includes multiple valuation techniques. The market approach uses prices and other relevant information generated by market transactions involving identical or comparable assets or liabilities. The income approach uses valuation techniques to measure fair value by converting future amounts, such as cash flows or earnings, into a single present value, or range of present values, using current market expectations about those future amounts. The cost approach is based on the amount that would currently be required to replace the service capacity of an asset. This is often referred to as current replacement cost. The cost approach assumes that the fair value would not exceed what it would cost a market participant to acquire or construct a substitute asset of comparable utility, adjusted for obsolescence.

The fair value accounting standards do not prescribe which valuation technique should be used when measuring fair value and do not prioritize among the techniques. These standards establish a fair value hierarchy that prioritizes the inputs used in applying the various valuation techniques. Inputs broadly refer to the assumptions that market participants use to make pricing decisions, including assumptions about risk. Level 1 inputs are given the highest priority in the fair value hierarchy while Level 3 inputs are given the lowest priority. The three levels of the fair value hierarchy are as follows:

•Level 1 – Observable inputs that reflect unadjusted quoted prices for identical assets or liabilities in active markets as of the measurement date. Active markets are those in which transactions for the asset or liability occur in sufficient frequency and volume to provide pricing information on an ongoing basis.

•Level 2 – Observable market-based inputs or unobservable inputs that are corroborated by market data. These are inputs other than quoted prices in active markets included in Level 1, which are either directly or indirectly observable as of the measurement date.

•Level 3 – Unobservable inputs that are not corroborated by market data and may be used with internally developed methodologies that result in management’s best estimate of fair value.

Valuation techniques that maximize the use of observable inputs are favored. Assets and liabilities are classified in their entirety based on the lowest priority level of input that is significant to the fair value measurement. The assessment of the significance of a particular input to the fair value measurement requires judgment and may affect the placement of assets and liabilities within the levels of the fair value hierarchy. See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Note 15 to the consolidated financial statements for disclosures regarding our fair value measurements.

Significant uses of fair value measurements include:

•impairment assessments of long-lived assets;

•impairment assessments of goodwill; and

•recorded value of derivative instruments.

The need to test long-lived assets and goodwill for impairment can be based on several indicators, including a significant reduction in prices of crude oil and condensate, NGLs and natural gas, sustained declines in our common stock, reductions to our Capital Budget, unfavorable adjustments to reserves, significant changes in the expected timing of production, other changes to contracts or changes in the regulatory environment in which the property is located.

Impairment Assessments of Long-Lived Assets 

Long-lived assets in use are assessed for impairment whenever changes in facts and circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the assets may not be recoverable. For purposes of an impairment evaluation, long-lived assets must be grouped at the lowest level for which independent cash flows can be identified, which generally is field-by-field or, in certain instances, by logical grouping of assets if there is significant shared infrastructure or contractual terms that cause economic interdependency amongst separate, discrete fields. If the sum of the undiscounted estimated cash flows from the use of the asset group and its eventual disposition is less than the carrying value of an asset group, the carrying value is written down to the estimated fair value. During 2018 the anticipated sales of certain non-core proved properties in our International and United States segments triggered an assessment of certain of our long-lived assets related to oil and gas producing properties for impairment. We estimated the fair values using a market approach, based upon anticipated sales proceeds less costs to sell, and recognized impairments. As of December 31, 2018 our estimated undiscounted cash flows relating to our remaining long-lived assets significantly exceeded their carrying values in our core assets. Long-lived assets most at risk for future impairment had 

44

an estimated carrying value of less than $50 million. See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Note 11 and Note 15  to the consolidated financial statements for discussion of impairments recorded in 2018, 2017 and 2016 and the related fair value measurements. 

Fair value calculated for the purpose of testing our long-lived assets for impairment is estimated using the present value of expected future cash flows method and comparative market prices when appropriate. Significant judgment is involved in performing these fair value estimates since the results are based on forecasted assumptions. Significant assumptions include:

•Future crude oil and condensate, NGLs and natural gas prices. Our estimates of future prices are based on our analysis of market supply and demand and consideration of market price indicators. Although these commodity prices may experience extreme volatility in any given year, we believe long-term industry prices are driven by global market supply and demand. To estimate supply, we consider numerous factors, including the worldwide resource base, depletion rates and OPEC production policies. We believe demand is largely driven by global economic factors, such as population and income growth, governmental policies and vehicle stocks. The prices we use in our fair value estimates are consistent with those used in our planning and capital investment reviews. There has been significant volatility in crude oil and condensate, NGLs and natural gas prices and estimates of such future prices are inherently imprecise. See Item 1A. Risk Factors for further discussion on commodity prices.

•Estimated quantities of crude oil and condensate, NGLs and natural gas.  Such quantities are based on a combination of proved reserves and risk-weighted probable reserves and resources such that the combined volumes represent the most likely expectation of recovery. See Item 1A. Risk Factors for further discussion on reserves.

•Expected timing of production. Production forecasts are the outcome of engineering studies which estimate reserves, as well as expected capital programs. The actual timing of the production could be different than the projection. Cash flows realized later in the projection period are less valuable than those realized earlier due to the time value of money. The expected timing of production that we use in our fair value estimates is consistent with that used in our planning and capital investment reviews.

•Discount rate commensurate with the risks involved. We apply a discount rate to our expected cash flows based on a variety of factors, including market and economic conditions, operational risk, regulatory risk and political risk. A higher discount rate decreases the net present value of cash flows. 

•Future capital requirements.  Our estimates of future capital requirements are based upon a combination of authorized spending and internal forecasts.

We base our fair value estimates on projected financial information which we believe to be reasonably likely to occur. An estimate of the sensitivity to changes in assumptions in our undiscounted cash flow calculations is not practicable, given the numerous assumptions (e.g. reserves, pace and timing of development plans, commodity prices, capital expenditures, operating costs, drilling and development costs, inflation and discount rates) that can materially affect our estimates. Unfavorable adjustments to some of the above listed assumptions would likely be offset by favorable adjustments in other assumptions. For example, the impact of sustained reduced commodity prices on future undiscounted cash flows would likely be partially offset by lower costs.

Impairment Assessments of Goodwill

Goodwill is tested for impairment on an annual basis, or between annual tests when events or changes in circumstances indicate the fair value may have been reduced below its carrying value. Goodwill is tested for impairment at the reporting unit level. Our reporting units are the same as our reporting segments, of which only International includes goodwill. As of December 31, 2018, our consolidated balance sheet included goodwill of $97 million. Determining the fair value of a reporting unit requires judgment and the use of significant estimates and assumptions. We first assess the qualitative factors in order to determine whether the fair value of our International reporting unit is more likely than not less than its carrying amount. Certain qualitative factors used in our evaluation include, among other things, the results of the most recent quantitative assessment of the goodwill impairment test, macroeconomic conditions; industry and market conditions (including commodity prices and cost factors); overall financial performance; and other relevant entity-specific events. If, after considering these events and circumstances we determined that it is more likely than not that the fair value of the International reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, a quantitative goodwill test is performed. The quantitative goodwill test is performed using a combination of market and income approaches. The market approach references observable inputs specific to us and our industry, such as the price of our common equity, our enterprise value, and valuation multiples of us and our peers from the investor analyst community. The income approach utilizes discounted cash flows, which are based on forecasted assumptions. Key assumptions to the income approach are the same as those described above regarding our impairment assessment of long lived assets and are consistent with those that management uses to make business decisions.

45

During the second quarter of 2018, we performed our annual impairment test of goodwill using the qualitative assessment. Our qualitative assessment considered the significant excess fair value over carrying value in our most recent step 1 test (second quarter 2017) and noted a general improvement in the qualitative factors above. After assessing the totality of the qualitative factors which could have a positive or negative impact on goodwill, our assessment did not indicate that it is more likely than not that the fair value is less than its carrying value. As a result, we concluded that no impairment to goodwill was required for our International reporting unit. We believe the estimates and assumptions used in our impairment assessments are reasonable and based on available market information, but variations in such assumptions could result in materially different calculations of fair value and determinations of whether or not an impairment is indicated. See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements for additional discussion of goodwill. 

Derivatives

We record all derivative instruments at fair value. Fair value measurements for all our derivative instruments are based on observable market-based inputs that are corroborated by market data and are discussed in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Note 14 to the consolidated financial statements. Additional information about derivatives and their valuation may be found in Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk. 

Income Taxes

We are subject to income taxes in numerous taxing jurisdictions worldwide. Estimates of income taxes to be recorded involve interpretation of complex tax laws and assessment of the effects of foreign taxes on our U.S. federal income taxes. 

Uncertainty exists regarding tax positions taken in previously filed tax returns which remain subject to examination, along with positions expected to be taken in future returns. We provide for unrecognized tax benefits, based on the technical merits, when it is more likely than not that an uncertain tax position will not be sustained upon examination. Adjustments are made to the uncertain tax positions when facts and circumstances change, such as the closing of a tax audit; court proceedings; changes in applicable tax laws, including tax case rulings and legislative guidance; or expiration of the applicable statute of limitations.

We have recorded deferred tax assets and liabilities, measured at enacted tax rates, for temporary differences between book basis and tax basis, tax credit carryforwards and operating loss carryforwards. In accordance with U.S. GAAP accounting standards, we routinely assess the realizability of our deferred tax assets and reduce such assets, to the expected realizable amount, by a valuation allowance if it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. In assessing the need for additional or adjustments to existing valuation allowances, we consider all available positive and negative evidence. Positive evidence includes reversals of temporary differences, forecasts of future taxable income, assessment of future business assumptions and applicable tax planning strategies that are prudent and feasible. Negative evidence includes losses in recent years as well as the forecasts of future income (loss) in the realizable period. In making our assessment regarding valuation allowances, we weight the evidence based on objectivity.

We base our future taxable income estimates on projected financial information which we believe to be reasonably likely to occur. Numerous judgments and assumptions are inherent in the estimation of future taxable income, including factors such as future operating conditions and the assessment of the effects of foreign taxes on our U.S. federal income taxes. Future operating conditions can be affected by numerous factors, including (i) future crude oil and condensate, NGLs and natural gas prices, (ii) estimated quantities of crude oil and condensate, NGLs and natural gas, (iii) expected timing of production, and (iv) future capital requirements. These assumptions are described in further detail above regarding our impairment assessment of long-lived assets. An estimate of the sensitivity to changes in assumptions resulting in future taxable income calculations is not practicable, given the numerous assumptions that can materially affect our estimates. Unfavorable adjustments to some of the above listed assumptions would likely be offset by favorable adjustments in other assumptions. For example, the impact of sustained reduced commodity prices on future taxable income would likely be partially offset by lower capital expenditures.

Based on the assumptions and judgments described above, as of December 31, 2018, we reflect a valuation allowance in our consolidated balance sheet of $749 million against our gross deferred tax assets of $2.0 billion in various jurisdictions in which we operate. Our gross deferred tax assets consist primarily of federal U.S. operating loss carryforwards of $655 million, which will expire in 2035 - 2037, and $472 million in 2018 which can be carried forward indefinitely. Since December 31, 2016, we have maintained a full valuation allowance on our net federal deferred tax assets. If objective negative evidence in the form of cumulative losses are no longer present and additional weight is given to subjective evidence such as forecasted projections of taxable income in future years, we would adjust the amount of the federal deferred tax assets considered realizable and reduce the provision for income taxes in the period of adjustment. See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements for further detail. 

46

Pension and Other Postretirement Benefit Obligations

Accounting for pension and other postretirement benefit obligations involves numerous assumptions, the most significant of which relate to the following:

•the discount rate for measuring the present value of future plan obligations;

•the expected long-term return on plan assets;

•the rate of future increases in compensation levels; and

We develop our demographics and utilize the work of third-party actuaries to assist in the measurement of these obligations. We have selected different discount rates for our U.S. pension plans and our other U.S. postretirement benefit plans due to the different projected benefit payment patterns. In determining the assumed discount rates, our methods include a review of market yields on high-quality corporate debt and use of our third-party actuary's discount rate model. This model calculates an equivalent single discount rate for the projected benefit plan cash flows using a yield curve derived from bond yields. The yield curve represents a series of annualized individual spot discount rates from 0.5 to 99 years. The bonds used are rated AA or higher by a recognized rating agency, only non-callable bonds are included and outlier bonds (bonds that have a yield to maturity that significantly deviates from the average yield within each maturity grouping) are removed. Each issue is required to have at least $300 million par value outstanding. The constructed yield curve is based on those bonds representing the 50% highest yielding issuances within each defined maturity group.

Of the assumptions used to measure obligations and estimated annual net periodic benefit cost as of December 31, 2018 the discount rate has the most significant effect on the periodic benefit cost reported for the plans. The hypothetical impacts of a 0.25% change in the discount rates of 4.26% for our U.S. pension plans and 4.09% for our other U.S. postretirement benefit plans is summarized in the table below:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The asset rate of return assumption for the funded U.S. plan considers the plan's asset mix (currently targeted at approximately 55% equity and 45% other fixed income securities), past performance and other factors. Certain components of the asset mix are modeled with various assumptions regarding inflation, debt returns and stock yields. Decreasing the 6.50% asset rate of return assumption by 0.25% would not have a significant impact on our defined benefit pension expense. 

Compensation change assumptions are based on historical experience, anticipated future management actions and demographics of the benefit plans. Health care cost trend assumptions are developed based on historical cost data, the near-term outlook and an assessment of likely long-term trends.

Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Note 18 to the consolidated financial statements includes detailed information about the assumptions used to calculate the components of our annual defined benefit pension and other postretirement plan expense, as well as the obligations and accumulated other comprehensive income reported on the consolidated balance sheets.

Contingent Liabilities

We accrue contingent liabilities for environmental remediation, tax deficiencies related to operating taxes, as well as tax disputes and litigation claims when such contingencies are probable and estimable. Actual costs can differ from estimates for many reasons. For instance, settlement costs for claims and litigation can vary from estimates based on differing interpretations of laws, opinions on responsibility and assessments of the amount of damages. Similarly, liabilities for environmental remediation may vary from estimates because of changes in laws, regulations and their interpretation, additional information on the extent and nature of site contamination and improvements in technology. Our in-house legal counsel regularly assesses these contingent liabilities. In certain circumstances outside legal counsel is utilized.

We generally record losses related to these types of contingencies as other operating expense or general and administrative expense in the consolidated statements of income, except for tax contingencies unrelated to income taxes, which are recorded as taxes other than income. For additional information on contingent liabilities, see Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Environmental Matters, Litigation and Contingencies.

47

An estimate of the sensitivity to net income if other assumptions had been used in recording these liabilities is not practical because of the number of contingencies that must be assessed, the number of underlying assumptions and the wide range of reasonably possible outcomes, in terms of both the probability of loss and the estimates of such loss.

Accounting Standards Not Yet Adopted

See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements.

48

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk