ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

This discussion should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes for the year ended August 29, 2019. All period references are to our fiscal periods unless otherwise indicated. Our fiscal year is the 52 or 53-week period ending on the Thursday closest to August 31. Our fiscal 2019, 2018, and 2017 each contain 52 weeks. All tabular dollar amounts are in millions, except per share amounts.

For an overview of our business, see "Part I – Item 1. Business – Overview."

31

Results of Operations

Consolidated Results

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Total Revenue

Total revenue for 2019 decreased 23% as compared to 2018 primarily due to pricing declines resulting from the challenging memory market environment in 2019. Sales of DRAM products for 2019 decreased 28% as compared to 2018 primarily due to declines in average selling prices of approximately 30% resulting from supply and demand imbalances, customer inventory corrections, and CPU shortages. Sales of NAND products for 2019 decreased 12% as compared to 2018 primarily due to declines in average selling prices in the mid-40% range resulting from supply and demand imbalances, which were partially offset by significant increases in sales volumes. In addition, demand for our NAND products was adversely affected by the transition from SATA SSDs to NVMe SSDs. The higher NAND sales volumes in 2019 were driven by increases in sales of high-value mobile managed NAND products as well as discrete NAND products enabled by our execution in ramping 64- and 96-layer TLC 3D NAND.

Total revenue for 2018 increased 50% as compared to 2017. Higher revenue in 2018 for both DRAM and NAND as compared to 2017 were driven by strong execution in delivering high-value products featuring our 1Xnm DRAM and 64-layer 3D NAND technologies combined with strong demand for products across our primary markets. Sales of DRAM products for 2018 increased 64% from 2017 primarily due to an increase in average selling prices of approximately 35% and an increase in sales volumes of approximately 20% as a result of strong market conditions, particularly for cloud, enterprise, mobile, and graphics markets, combined with increased sales into high-value markets. Sales of NAND products for 2018 increased 20% from 2017 despite declines in average selling prices primarily due to an increase in sales volumes of approximately 30% driven by increases in sales of high-value SSD and mobile managed NAND products enabled by strong demand and our execution in delivering 3D NAND products.

Overall Gross Margin

Our overall gross margin percentage decreased to 46% for 2019 from 59% for 2018 primarily due to declines in average selling prices partially offset by cost reductions resulting from strong execution in delivering products featuring advanced technologies and from continuous improvement initiatives to reduce production costs. Underutilization of IMFT assets adversely impacted our gross margin by a per-quarter average of approximately $100 million in 2019 and $65 million in 2018, and we anticipate the adverse impact of underutilization at IMFT to increase to approximately $150 million per quarter beginning in the first quarter of 2020.

32

We continue to evaluate planned technology node transitions, capital spending and re-use rates for NAND equipment. Based on our preliminary assessment, we anticipate changing the depreciable life of our NAND equipment from five to seven years beginning in the first quarter of 2020. We anticipate this change will reduce our depreciation expense included in cost of goods sold for the first quarter of 2020 by approximately $80 million, increasing to approximately $100 to $150 million per quarter for the remainder of 2020.

Our overall gross margin percentage increased to 59% for 2018 from 42% for 2017 primarily due to favorable market conditions across key markets combined with strong execution in delivering products featuring advanced technologies, including 1Xnm DRAM and 64-layer 3D NAND, enabling manufacturing cost reductions. For 2018 as compared to 2017, pricing for DRAM products increased while manufacturing costs declined and, for NAND products, manufacturing cost reductions outpaced declines in average selling prices.

Revenue by Business Unit

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Percentages of total revenue may not total 100% due to rounding.

CNBU revenue for 2019 decreased 35% as compared to 2018 due to challenging market conditions in 2019, which led to price declines. MBU revenue for 2019 decreased 3% as compared to 2018 primarily due to price declines offset by strong execution in developing and qualifying mobile managed NAND products and continued content growth in smartphones, which combined to drive significant increase in shipment volumes. SBU revenue for 2019 decreased 24% as compared to 2018 primarily due to price declines, partially offset by significant growth in shipment volumes as a result of strong execution in ramping 64-layer and 96-layer TLC NAND products. SBU revenue includes products manufactured and sold to Intel under a long-term supply agreement at prices approximating cost, which included 3D XPoint memory and NAND, aggregating $682 million, $541 million, and $553 million, for 2019, 2018, and 2017, respectively. EBU revenue for 2019 decreased 10% as compared to 2018 primarily due to lower sales to consumer markets as a result of weak demand and pricing, partially offset by increases in sales to automotive and industrial markets.

CNBU revenue for 2018 increased 77% as compared to 2017 due to strong market conditions and demand in key markets, including cloud server, client, enterprise server, and graphics, which drove increases in pricing and sales volumes. Sales into cloud and graphics markets more than doubled in 2018 as compared to 2017. MBU revenue for 2018 increased 49% as compared to 2017 primarily due to customer qualifications for LPDRAM and managed NAND products, which combined with higher memory content in smartphones to drive improvements in DRAM pricing and increases in sales volumes. SBU revenue for 2018 from all other sales of NAND products (excluding sales to Intel at prices approximating cost) increased 13% as compared to 2017 driven by higher sales of SSD storage products, which increased by 72%, partially offset by declines in SBU NAND component sales from a strategic reallocation of supply from component sales to SSD and mobile managed NAND products. Increases in SBU sales volumes for 2018 resulting from strong demand for cloud and enterprise SSD markets more than offset declines in selling prices. EBU revenue for 2018 increased 29% as compared to 2017 primarily due to strong demand across EBU's primary markets including consumer, industrial multimarkets, and automotive.

Operating Income (Loss) by Business Unit

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Percentages reflect operating income (loss) as a percentage of revenue for each business unit.

33

CNBU operating income for 2019 decreased from 2018 primarily due to declines in pricing and higher R&D costs, partially offset by cost reductions. MBU operating income for 2019 decreased from 2018 primarily due to declines in pricing partially offset by increases in sales of high-value managed NAND products and manufacturing cost reductions. SBU operating margin for 2019 declined from 2018 primarily due to declines in pricing, which were partially offset by manufacturing cost reductions and increases in sales volumes. SBU operating results for 2019 and 2018 were adversely impacted by the underutilization charges at IMFT. EBU operating income for 2019 decreased from 2018 as a result of declines in pricing and higher R&D costs partially offset by manufacturing cost reductions and increases in sales volumes.

CNBU operating income for 2018 improved from 2017 primarily due to improved pricing and higher sales volumes resulting from strong demand for our products combined with manufacturing cost reductions. MBU operating income for 2018 improved from 2017 primarily due to increases in pricing and sales volumes for LPDRAM products, higher sales of high-value managed NAND products, and manufacturing cost reductions. SBU operating income for 2018 improved from 2017 primarily due to manufacturing cost reductions enabled by our execution in transitioning to 64-layer TLC 3D NAND products and improvements in product mix. SBU operating income for 2018 was adversely impacted by higher costs associated with IMFT's production of 3D XPoint memory products at less than full capacity. EBU operating income for 2018 increased as compared to 2017 as a result of increases in average selling prices, manufacturing cost reductions, and increases in sales volumes, partially offset by higher R&D costs.

Operating Expenses and Other

Selling, General, and Administrative

SG&A expenses for 2019 were 3% higher than 2018 primarily due to increases in legal costs and consulting fees, partially offset by a reduction in employee compensation and sales commissions. SG&A expenses for 2018 were 9% higher than 2017 primarily due to increases in legal costs, consulting fees, and employee compensation.

Research and Development

R&D expenses vary primarily with the number of development wafers processed, amounts reimbursed under R&D cost-sharing agreements, the cost of advanced equipment dedicated to new product and process development, and personnel costs. Because of the lead times necessary to manufacture our products, we typically begin to process wafers before completion of performance and reliability testing. Development of a product is deemed complete when it is qualified through reviews and tests for performance and reliability. R&D expenses can vary significantly depending on the timing of product qualification. 

R&D expenses for 2019 were 14% higher than 2018 primarily due to decreases in reimbursements from our R&D cost-sharing arrangements as described below, increases in depreciation expense as a result of increases in capital spending, and increases in employee compensation. R&D expenses for 2018 were 17% higher than 2017 primarily due to increases in employee compensation, volumes of development and pre-qualification wafers, and depreciation expense as a result of increases in capital spending.

We share the cost of certain product and process development activities under development agreements with partners, including agreements to jointly develop NAND and 3D XPoint technologies with Intel. Our R&D expenses were reduced by reimbursements under these development partner arrangements by $60 million, $201 million, and $213 million for 2019, 2018, and 2017, respectively. The decrease in R&D reimbursements for 2019 was primarily due to reductions in our joint development activities with Intel for 3D NAND and 3D XPoint technologies. In 2018, we and Intel agreed to independently develop subsequent generations of 3D NAND and we substantially completed this cost-sharing agreement in the third quarter of 2019. In 2018, we announced that we and Intel will no longer jointly develop 3D XPoint technology beyond the second generation and we substantially completed this cost-sharing agreement in the first quarter of 2020.

Income Taxes

On December 22, 2017, the United States enacted comprehensive tax legislation, commonly referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the "Tax Act"), which imposed a one-time transition tax in 2018 (the "Repatriation Tax") and, beginning in 2019, created a new minimum tax on certain foreign earnings (the "Foreign Minimum Tax"). In connection with the provisions of the Tax Act, we made an accounting policy election to treat the Foreign Minimum Tax provision as a period cost in the period the tax is incurred. SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 118 ("SAB 118") allowed the use of provisional amounts (reasonable estimates) if the analyses of the impacts of the Tax Act had not been completed when financial statements were issued. During 

34

2019, we finalized the computations of the income tax effects of the Tax Act. As such, in accordance with SAB 118, our accounting for the effects of the Tax Act is complete. 

Our income tax (provision) benefit consisted of the following:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Our effective tax rate increased in 2019 primarily as a result of the Foreign Minimum Tax. Our income tax rates include operations outside the United States, including Singapore, where we have tax incentive arrangements that further decrease our effective tax rates. 

As a result of the Tax Act, we reevaluated our indefinite reinvestment assertion in 2018 and deemed a portion of our accumulated foreign earnings to be no longer indefinitely reinvested. Although these earnings have been subject to U.S. federal income tax under the Repatriation Tax, the repatriation to the United States of all or a portion of these earnings would potentially be subject to foreign withholding and state income tax. As of August 29, 2019, we had a deferred tax liability of $10 million associated with our undistributed earnings.

We operate in a number of jurisdictions outside the Unites States, including Singapore, where we have tax incentive arrangements, which expire in whole or in part at various dates through 2034, that are conditional, in part, upon meeting certain business operations and employment thresholds. The effect of tax incentive arrangements reduced our tax provision by $756 million (benefiting our diluted earnings per share by $0.66) for 2019, by $1.96 billion ($1.59 per diluted share) for 2018, and by $742 million ($0.64 per diluted share) for 2017.

(See "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements – Income Taxes.")

Other

Interest income increased 71% for 2019 as compared to 2018 primarily due to increases in interest rates. Interest expense decreased 63% as compared to 2018 primarily due to prepayments, repurchases, and conversions of debt in 2018 and 2019 and increases in capitalized interest from higher levels of capital spending, partially offset by the issuance of the 2024 Notes, 2026 Notes, 2027 Notes, 2029 Notes, and 2030 Notes in 2019.

Interest income increased 193% for 2018 as compared to 2017 primarily due to increases in marketable investments and interest rates. Interest expense decreased 43% as compared to 2017 primarily due to decreases in debt obligations. 

Further discussion of other operating and non-operating income and expenses can be found in the following notes contained in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements":

•Equity Plans

•Research and Development

•Other Operating Income (Expense), Net

•Other Non-Operating Income (Expense), Net

35

Liquidity and Capital Resources

Our primary sources of liquidity are cash generated from operations and financing obtained from capital markets and financial institutions. Cash generated from operations is highly dependent on selling prices for our products, which can vary significantly from period to period. We are continuously evaluating alternatives for efficiently funding our capital expenditures and ongoing operations. We expect, from time to time, to engage in a variety of financing transactions for such purposes, including the issuance of securities. As of August 29, 2019, we had undrawn credit facilities totaling $3.75 billion consisting of (1) an undrawn revolving credit facility that matures in July 2023 and provides for borrowings of up to $2.50 billion and (2) a term loan facility of up to $1.25 billion available to be drawn in a single advance prior to November 9, 2019 which matures on the fifth anniversary of the funding date. We expect to draw under the term loan facility prior to acquiring Intel's interest in IMFT in the first quarter of 2020. We expect that our cash and investments, cash flows from operations, and available financing will be sufficient to meet our requirements at least through the next 12 months.

To develop new product and process technology, support future growth, achieve operating efficiencies, and maintain product quality, we must continue to invest in manufacturing technologies, facilities and equipment, and R&D. We estimate that capital expenditures in 2020 for property, plant, and equipment, net of partner contributions, to be $7 billion to $8 billion, focused on technology transitions and product enablement. The actual amounts for 2020 will vary depending on market conditions. As of August 29, 2019, we had commitments of approximately $4.3 billion for the acquisition of property, plant, and equipment, approximately $3.2 billion is expected to be paid in 2020 and the remainder in 2021.

Our Board of Directors has authorized the discretionary repurchase of up to $10 billion of our outstanding common stock beginning in 2019, which we may purchase on a discretionary basis through open-market purchases, block trades, privately-negotiated transactions, derivative transactions, and/or pursuant to a Rule 10b5-1 trading plan, subject to market conditions and our ongoing determination of the best use of available cash. The repurchase authorization does not obligate us to acquire any common stock. In 2019, we repurchased 67 million shares of our common stock for $2.66 billion under an accelerated share repurchase agreement, Rule 10b5-1 plans, and through open market repurchases. See "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements – Equity."

In January 2019, we exercised our option to acquire Intel's interest in IMFT. Intel has set the closing date to occur on October 31, 2019. In connection with our acquisition, in the first quarter of 2020, we expect to pay Intel approximately $1.4 billion for Intel's interest in IMFT as well as IMFT member debt owed to Intel. As of August 29, 2019, current debt included $693 million of IMFT member debt.

Cash and marketable investments totaled $9.12 billion as of August 29, 2019 and $7.28 billion as of August 30, 2018. Our investments consist primarily of money market funds and liquid investment-grade, fixed-income securities, diversified among industries and individual issuers. To mitigate credit risk, we invest through high-credit-quality financial institutions and by policy generally limit the concentration of credit exposure by restricting the amount of investments with any single obligor. As of August 29, 2019, $2.50 billion of our cash and marketable investments was held by our foreign subsidiaries.

Limitations on the Use of Cash and Investments

MMJ Group: Cash and marketable investments as of August 29, 2019 included $536 million held by the MMJ Group. As a result of the corporate reorganization proceedings of MMJ initiated in March 2012, and for so long as such proceedings are continuing, the MMJ Group is prohibited from paying dividends to us. In addition, pursuant to an order of the Tokyo District Court, the MMJ Group cannot make loans or advances, other than certain ordinary course advances, to us without the consent of the Tokyo District Court and may, under certain circumstances, be subject to the approval of the legal trustee. As a result, the assets of the MMJ Group are not available for use by us in our other operations. Furthermore, certain uses of the assets of the MMJ Group, including investments in certain capital expenditures, may require consent of MMJ's trustees and/or the Tokyo District Court.

IMFT: Cash and marketable investments included $130 million held by IMFT as of August 29, 2019. Our ability to access funds held by IMFT to finance our other operations is subject to agreement by Intel and contractual limitations. Amounts held by IMFT are not anticipated to be available to finance our other operations.

36

Cash Flows

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Operating Activities: For 2019, cash provided by operating activities was due primarily to cash generated by our operations and the effect of working capital adjustments, which included a $2.43 billion decrease in receivables due to a lower level of net sales and a $1.53 billion increase in inventory due to higher levels of work in process and raw materials inventories.

For 2018, cash provided by operating activities was due primarily to cash generated by our operations and the effect of working capital adjustments, which included a $1.73 billion increase in receivables due to a higher level of net sales.

For 2017, cash provided by operating activities was due primarily to cash generated by our operations and the effect of working capital adjustments, which included a $1.65 billion increase in receivables due to a higher level of net sales, $361 million of payments attributed to intercompany balances in connection with the Inotera Acquisition, and a $456 million increase in accounts payable and accrued expenses.

Investing Activities: For 2019, net cash used for investing activities consisted primarily of $9.03 billion of expenditures for property, plant, and equipment (net of partner contributions) and $1.17 billion of net outflows from sales, maturities, and purchases of available-for-sale securities.

For 2018, net cash used for investing activities consisted primarily of $7.99 billion of expenditures for property, plant, and equipment (net of partner contributions), partially offset by $164 million of net inflows from sales, maturities, and purchases of available-for-sale securities.

For 2017, net cash used for investing activities consisted primarily of $4.73 billion of expenditures for property, plant, and equipment (net of partner contributions), $2.63 billion of net cash paid for the Inotera Acquisition (net of $361 million of payments attributed to intercompany balances with Inotera included in operating activities), and $269 million of net outflows from sales, maturities, and purchases of available-for-sale securities.

Financing Activities: For 2019, net cash used for financing activities consisted primarily of $2.66 billion for the acquisition of 67 million shares of treasury stock under our $10 billion share repurchase authorization and cash payments to reduce our debt, including $1.65 billion to settle conversions of notes, $728 million to prepay the 2022 Term Loan B, $316 million for IMFT member debt repayments, and $643 million for scheduled repayment of other notes and capital leases. Cash used for financing activities was partially offset by net proceeds of $3.53 billion from the aggregate issuance of the 2024 Notes, 2026 Notes, 2027 Notes, 2029 Notes, and 2030 Notes. 

For 2018, net cash used for financing activities consisted primarily of cash payments to reduce our debt, including $9.42 billion to prepay or repurchase debt and settle conversions of notes and $774 million for scheduled repayment of other notes and capital leases. Cash used for financing activities was partially offset by net proceeds of $1.36 billion from the issuance of 34 million shares of our common stock for $41.00 per share in a public offering and $1.01 billion of proceeds from IMFT member debt.

For 2017, net cash provided by financing activities consisted primarily of $2.48 billion of net proceeds from the 2021 MSTW Term Loan, and $795 million of net proceeds from the 2021 MSAC Term Loan, partially offset by $1.63 billion to repurchase notes, repayments of $381 million of capital lease obligations, repayments of $550 million of other debt and convertible notes, and payments of $519 million on equipment purchase contracts.

See "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements – Debt."

37

Potential Settlement Obligations of Convertible Notes

Since the closing price of our common stock exceeded 130% of the conversion price per share of all our convertible notes for at least 20 trading days in the 30 trading day period ended on September 30, 2019, holders may convert these notes through the calendar quarter ended December 31, 2019. The following table summarizes the potential settlements that we could be required to make for the calendar quarter ending December 31, 2019 if all holders converted their notes. The amounts in the table below are based on our closing share price of $44.67 as of August 29, 2019.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

As of August 29, 2019, convertible notes in the table above included an aggregate of $179 million net carrying amount for the settlement obligation (including principal and amounts in excess of principal) for conversions of 2033F Notes. The 20 consecutive trading day measurement period ended in the first quarter of 2020, and we settled the conversion for $192 million in cash in the first quarter of 2020.

Contractual Obligations

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Amounts include MMJ Creditor Payments, convertible notes, and other notes.

(2) Amounts include principal and interest.

(3) Amounts include contractually obligated minimum lease payments for operating leases having an initial noncancelable term in excess of one year.

(4) Purchase obligations include all commitments to purchase goods or services of either a fixed or minimum quantity that meet any of the following criteria: (1) they are noncancelable, (2) we would incur a penalty if the agreement was canceled, or (3) we must make specified minimum payments even if we do not take delivery of the contracted products or services. If the obligation to purchase goods or services is noncancelable, the entire value of the contract was included in the above table. If the obligation is cancelable, but we would incur a penalty if canceled, only the dollar amount of the penalty was included as a purchase obligation. Contracted minimum amounts specified in any take-or-pay contracts were included in the above table as they represent the portion of each contract that is a firm commitment.

(5) Amounts represent future cash payments to satisfy other long-term liabilities recorded on our consolidated balance sheet, including $190 million for the current portion of these long-term liabilities. We are unable to reliably estimate the timing of future certain payments related to uncertain tax positions and deferred tax liabilities; therefore, the amount has been excluded from the preceding table. However, other noncurrent liabilities recorded on our consolidated balance sheet included these uncertain tax positions and deferred tax liabilities.

The timing of payment amounts of the obligations discussed above is based on current information. Any redemptions, repurchases, or conversions of debt could impact the amount and timing of our cash payments.

38

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

In connection with our 2033F Notes, we entered into the 2033F Capped Calls, which are intended to reduce the effect of potential dilution. See "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements – Equity – Micron Shareholders' Equity – Outstanding Capped Calls."

Critical Accounting Estimates

The preparation of financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses, and related disclosures. Estimates and judgments are based on historical experience, forecasted events, and various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Estimates and judgments may vary under different assumptions or conditions. We evaluate our estimates and judgments on an ongoing basis. Our management believes the accounting policies below are critical in the portrayal of our financial condition and results of operations and require management's most difficult, subjective, or complex judgments.

Business acquisitions: Accounting for acquisitions requires us to estimate the fair value of consideration paid and the individual assets and liabilities acquired, which involves a number of judgments, assumptions, and estimates that could materially affect the amount and timing of costs recognized in subsequent periods. Accounting for acquisitions can also involve significant judgment to determine when control of the acquired entity is transferred. We typically obtain independent third-party valuation studies to assist in determining fair values, including assistance in determining future cash flows, discount rates, and comparable market values. Items involving significant assumptions, estimates, and judgments include the following:

•Debt, including discount rate and timing of payments;

•Deferred tax assets, including projections of future taxable income and tax rates;

•Fair value of consideration paid or transferred;

•Intangible assets, including valuation methodology, estimations of future revenue and costs, profit allocation rates attributable to the acquired technology, and discount rates;

•Inventory, including estimated future selling prices, timing of product sales, and completion costs for work in process; and

•Property, plant, and equipment, including determination of values in a continued-use model.

Consolidation: We have interests in entities that are VIEs. Determining whether to consolidate a VIE requires judgment in assessing whether an entity is a VIE and if we are the entity's primary beneficiary. If we are the primary beneficiary of a VIE, we are required to consolidate it. To determine if we are the primary beneficiary, we evaluate whether we have the power to direct the activities that most significantly impact the VIE's economic performance and the obligation to absorb losses or the right to receive benefits of the VIE that could potentially be significant to the VIE. Our evaluation includes identification of significant activities and an assessment of our ability to direct those activities based on governance provisions and arrangements to provide or receive product and process technology, product supply, operations services, equity funding, financing, and other applicable agreements and circumstances. Our assessments of whether we are the primary beneficiary of our VIEs require significant assumptions and judgments.

Contingencies: We are subject to the possibility of losses from various contingencies. Significant judgment is necessary to estimate the probability and amount of a loss, if any, from such contingencies. An accrual is made when it is probable that a liability has been incurred or an asset has been impaired and the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated. We accrue a liability and charge operations for the estimated costs of adjudication or settlement of asserted and unasserted claims existing as of the balance sheet date. In accounting for the resolution of contingencies, significant judgment may be necessary to estimate amounts pertaining to periods prior to the resolution that are charged to operations in the period of resolution and amounts related to future periods.

Goodwill and intangible assets: We test goodwill for impairment in the fourth quarter of our fiscal year, or more frequently if indicators of an impairment exist, to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of the reporting unit with goodwill is less than its carrying value. For reporting units for which this assessment concludes that it is more likely than not that the fair value is more than its carrying value, goodwill is considered not impaired and we are not required to perform the goodwill impairment test. Qualitative factors considered in this assessment include industry and market considerations, overall financial performance, and other relevant events and factors affecting the fair value of the reporting unit. For reporting units for which this assessment concludes that it is more likely than not that the fair value is below the carrying value, goodwill is tested 

39

for impairment by determining the fair value of each reporting unit and comparing it to the carrying value of the net assets assigned to the reporting unit. If the fair value of the reporting unit exceeds its carrying value, goodwill is considered not impaired. If the carrying value of the reporting unit exceeds its fair value, then we would record an impairment loss up to the difference between the carrying value and implied fair value.

Determining when to test for impairment, the reporting units, the assets and liabilities of the reporting unit, and the fair value of the reporting unit requires significant judgment and involves the use of significant estimates and assumptions. These estimates and assumptions include revenue growth rates, forecasted manufacturing costs, and other expenses and are developed as part of our long-range planning process. The same estimates are used in business planning, forecasting, and capital budgeting as part of our long-term manufacturing capacity analysis. We test the reasonableness of the output of our long-range planning process by calculating an implied value per share and comparing that to current stock prices, analysts' consensus pricing, and management's expectations. These estimates and assumptions are used to calculate projected future cash flows for the reporting unit, which are discounted using a risk-adjusted rate to estimate a fair value. The discount rate requires determination of appropriate market comparables. We base fair value estimates on assumptions we believe to be reasonable but that are unpredictable and inherently uncertain. Actual future results may differ from those estimates. During the fourth quarter of 2019, we performed a sensitivity analysis for goodwill impairment with respect to each of our respective reporting units and determined that a hypothetical 10% decline in the fair value of each reporting unit would not result in an impairment of goodwill for any reporting unit.

We test other identified intangible assets with definite useful lives when events and circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable by comparing the carrying amount to the sum of undiscounted cash flows expected to be generated by the asset. We test intangible assets with indefinite lives annually for impairment using a fair value method such as discounted cash flows. Estimating fair values involves significant assumptions, including future sales prices, sales volumes, costs, and discount rates.

Income taxes: We are required to estimate our provision for income taxes and amounts ultimately payable or recoverable in numerous tax jurisdictions around the world. These estimates involve significant judgment and interpretations of regulations and are inherently complex. Resolution of income tax treatments in individual jurisdictions may not be known for many years after completion of the applicable fiscal year. We are also required to evaluate the realizability of our deferred tax assets on an ongoing basis in accordance with U.S. GAAP, which requires the assessment of our performance and other relevant factors. Realization of deferred tax assets is dependent on our ability to generate future taxable income. In recent periods, our results of operations have benefitted from increases in the amount of deferred taxes we expect to realize, primarily from the levels of capital spending and increases in the amount of taxable income we expect to realize in Japan and the United States. Our income tax provision or benefit is dependent, in part, on our ability to forecast future taxable income in these and other jurisdictions. Such forecasts are inherently difficult and involve significant judgments including, among others, projecting future average selling prices and sales volumes, manufacturing and overhead costs, levels of capital spending, and other factors that significantly impact our analyses of the amount of net deferred tax assets that are more likely than not to be realized.

Inventories: Inventories are stated at the lower of average cost or net realizable value. Cost includes depreciation, labor, material, and overhead costs, including product and process technology costs. Determining net realizable value of inventories involves significant judgments, including projecting future average selling prices and future sales volumes. To project average selling prices and sales volumes, we review recent sales volumes, existing customer orders, current contract prices, industry analyses of supply and demand, seasonal factors, general economic trends, and other information. When these analyses reflect estimated net realizable values below our manufacturing costs, we record a charge to cost of goods sold in advance of when inventories are actually sold. Differences in forecasted average selling prices used in calculating lower of cost or net realizable value adjustments can result in significant changes in the estimated net realizable value of product inventories and accordingly the amount of write-down recorded. For example, a 5% variance in the estimated selling prices would have changed the estimated net realizable value of our inventory by approximately $469 million as of August 29, 2019. Due to the volatile nature of the semiconductor memory and storage markets, actual selling prices and volumes often vary significantly from projected prices and volumes; as a result, the timing of when product costs are charged to operations can vary significantly.

U.S. GAAP provides for products to be grouped into categories in order to compare costs to net realizable values. The amount of any inventory write-down can vary significantly depending on the determination of inventory categories. We review the major characteristics of product type and markets in determining the unit of account for which we perform the lower of average cost or net realizable value analysis and categorize inventories primarily as memory (including DRAM, NAND, and other memory).

40

Property, plant, and equipment: We periodically assess the estimated useful lives of our property, plant, and equipment based on technology node transitions, capital spending, and equipment re-use rates. We also review the carrying value of property, plant, and equipment for impairment when events and circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an asset or group of assets may not be recoverable from the estimated future cash flows expected to result from its use and/or disposition. In cases where undiscounted expected future cash flows are less than the carrying value, an impairment loss is recognized equal to the amount by which the carrying value exceeds the estimated fair value of the assets. The estimate of future cash flows involves numerous assumptions which require significant judgment by us, including, but not limited to, future use of the assets for our operations versus sale or disposal of the assets, future selling prices for our products and future production and sales volumes. In addition, significant judgment is required in determining the groups of assets for which impairment tests are separately performed.

Research and development: Costs related to the conceptual formulation and design of products and processes are expensed as R&D as incurred. Determining when product development is complete requires significant judgment. We deem development of a product complete once the product has been thoroughly reviewed and tested for performance and reliability. Subsequent to product qualification, product costs are included in cost of goods sold.

Revenue recognition: Revenue is primarily recognized at a point in time when control of the promised goods is transferred to our customers in an amount that reflects the consideration we expect to be entitled to in exchange for those goods. Contracts with our customers are generally short-term in duration at fixed, negotiated prices with payment generally due shortly after delivery. We estimate a liability for returns using the expected value method based on historical rates of return. In addition, we generally offer price protection to our distributors, which is a form of variable consideration that decreases the transaction price. We use the expected value method, based on historical price adjustments and current pricing trends, to estimate the amount of revenue recognized from sales to distributors. Differences between the estimated and actual amounts are recognized as adjustments to revenue.

Stock-based compensation: Stock-based compensation is estimated at the grant date based on the fair value of the award and is recognized as expense using the straight-line amortization method over the requisite service period. For performance-based stock awards, the expense recognized is dependent on our assessment of the likelihood of the performance measure being achieved. We utilize forecasts of future performance to assess these probabilities and this assessment requires significant judgment.

Determining the appropriate fair-value model and calculating the fair value of stock-based awards at the grant date requires significant judgment, including estimating stock price volatility and expected option life. We develop these estimates based on historical data and market information which can change significantly over time. A small change in the estimates used can result in a relatively large change in the estimated valuation. We use the Black-Scholes option valuation model to value employee stock options and awards granted under our employee stock purchase plan. We estimate stock price volatility based on an average of historical volatility and the implied volatility derived from traded options on our stock.

Recently Adopted Accounting Standards 

 See "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements – Recently Adopted Accounting Standards."

Recently Issued Accounting Standards Not Yet Adopted

 See "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements – Recently Issued Accounting Standards Not Yet Adopted."

41

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK