ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (dollars in millions, except per ounce and per pound amounts).   

 Metal Prices   

 Changes in the market price of gold significantly affect our profitability and cash flow. Gold prices can fluctuate widely due to numerous factors, such as demand; forward selling by producers; central bank sales, purchases and lending; investor sentiment; the strength of the U.S. dollar; inflation, deflation, or other general price instability and global mine production levels. Changes in the market price of copper also affect our profitability and cash flow. Copper is traded on established international exchanges and copper prices generally reflect market supply and demand, but can also be influenced by speculative trading in the commodity or by currency exchange rates.   

 Decreases in the market price of gold and copper can also significantly affect the value of our product inventory, stockpiles and leach pads, and it may be necessary to record a write-down to the net realizable value. Net realizable value represents the estimated future sales price based on short-term and long-term metals prices, less estimated costs to complete production and bring the product to sale. The primary factors that influence the need to record write-downs of stockpiles, leach pads, and product inventory include short-term and long-term metals prices and costs for production inputs such as labor, fuel and energy, materials and supplies as well as realized ore grades and recovery rates. The significant assumptions in determining the stockpile, leach pad and product inventory adjustments for each mine site reporting unit at December 31, 2018 included production cost and capitalized expenditure assumptions unique to each operation, a short-term and long-term gold price of $1,228 and $1,300 per ounce, respectively, a short-term and long-term copper price of $2.80 and $3.00 per pound, respectively, and a short-term and long-term Australian to U.S. dollar exchange rate of $0.72 and $0.80, respectively.  

 The net realizable value measurement involves the use of estimates and assumptions unique to each mining operation regarding current and future operating and capital costs, metal recoveries, production levels, commodity prices, proven and probable reserve quantities, engineering data and other factors. A high degree of judgment is involved in determining such assumptions and estimates and no assurance can be given that actual results will not differ significantly from those estimates and assumptions. For information concerning the sensitivity of our stockpiles and ore on leach pads to changes in metal price, see the Critical Accounting Policies section in Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Consolidated Financial Condition and Results of Operation.  

 Foreign Currency   

 Changes in the foreign currency exchange rates in relation to the U.S. dollar may affect our profitability and cash flow. Foreign currency exchange rates can fluctuate widely due to numerous factors, such as supply and demand for foreign and U.S. currencies and U.S. and foreign country economic conditions. In addition to our operations in the United States, we have assets or operations in Australia, Peru, Ghana and Suriname. All of our operations sell their metal production based on U.S. dollar gold and copper prices. Fluctuations in the local currency exchange rates in relation to the U.S. dollar can increase or decrease profit margins and Costs applicable to sales per ounce/pound to the extent costs are paid in local currency at foreign operations. The Australian dollar/U.S. dollar exchange rate has had the greatest impact on our Costs applicable to sales, as measured in U.S. dollars. Foreign currency exchange rates in relation to the U.S. dollar have not had a material impact on our determination of proven and probable reserves in the past; however, if a sustained weakening of the U.S. dollar in relation to the Australian dollar, and/or to other foreign currencies that impact our cost structure, were not mitigated by offsetting increases in the U.S. dollar gold price or by other factors, profitability, cash flows and/or the amount of proven and probable reserves in the applicable foreign country could be reduced as certain proven and probable reserves may no longer be economic. The extent of any such reduction would be dependent on a variety of factors including the length of time of any such weakening of the U.S. dollar, and management’s long-term view of the applicable exchange rate. Future reductions of proven and probable reserves could result in reduced gold or copper sales and increased Depreciation and amortization and, depending on the level of reduction, could also result in impairments of Property, plant and mine development; mineral interests. For information concerning the sensitivity of our Costs applicable to sales to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, see Results of Consolidated Operations and Foreign Currency Exchange Rates sections in Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Consolidated Financial Condition and Results of Operations.   

 Hedging   

 Our strategy is to provide shareholders with leverage to changes in gold and copper prices by selling our production at spot market prices. Consequently, we do not hedge our gold and copper sales. We have and may continue to manage certain risks associated with commodity input costs, interest rates and foreign currencies using the derivative market.   

 97  

 Table of Contents  

 By using hedges, we are affected by credit risk, market risk and market liquidity risk. Credit risk is the risk that a third party might fail to fulfill its performance obligations under the terms of a financial instrument. We mitigate credit risk by entering into derivatives with high credit quality counterparties, limiting the amount of exposure to each counterparty and monitoring the financial condition of the counterparties. Market risk is the risk that the fair value of a derivative might be adversely affected by a change in underlying commodity prices, interest rates or currency exchange rates, and that this in turn affects our financial condition. We manage market risk by establishing and monitoring parameters that limit the types and degree of market risk that may be undertaken. We mitigate this potential risk to our financial condition by establishing trading agreements with counterparties under which we are not required to post any collateral or be subject to any margin calls on our derivatives. Our counterparties cannot require settlement solely because of an adverse change in the fair value of a derivative. Market liquidity risk is the risk that a derivative cannot be eliminated quickly, by either liquidating it or by establishing an offsetting position. Under the terms of our trading agreements, counterparties cannot require us to immediately settle outstanding derivatives, except upon the occurrence of customary events of default such as covenant breaches, including financial covenants, insolvency or bankruptcy. We further mitigate market liquidity risk by spreading out the maturity of our derivatives over time.   

 See Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  

 Commodity Price Exposure   

 Our provisional gold and copper sales contain an embedded derivative that is required to be separated from the host contract for accounting purposes. The host contract is the receivable from the sale of the gold and copper concentrates at the prevailing indices’ prices at the time of sale. The embedded derivative, which does not qualify for hedge accounting, is marked to market through earnings each period prior to final settlement.   

 At December 31, 2018, Newmont had gold sales of 143,000 ounces priced at an average of $1,286 per ounce, subject to final pricing over the next several months. Each $25 change in the price for provisionally priced gold sales would have an approximate $3 effect on our Net income (loss) attributable to Newmont stockholders. The LBMA settlement price at the end of 2018 for gold was $1,282 per ounce.   

 At December 31, 2018, Newmont had copper sales of 20 million pounds priced at an average of $2.71 per pound, subject to final pricing over the next several months. Each $0.10 change in the price for provisionally priced copper sales would have an approximate $1 effect on our Net income (loss) attributable to Newmont stockholders. The LME closing settlement price at the end of 2018 for copper was $2.71 per pound.   

 98  

 Table of Contents  

 ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA