ITEM 7A QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

Commodity Price Risk

General

Occidental’s results are sensitive to fluctuations in oil, NGL and natural gas prices. Price changes at current global prices and levels of production affect Occidental’s pre-tax annual income by approximately $130 million for a $1 per barrel change in oil prices and $45 million for a $1 per barrel change in NGL prices. If domestic natural gas prices varied by $0.50 per Mcf, it would have an estimated annual effect on Occidental's pre-tax income of approximately $35 million. These price-change sensitivities include the impact of PSC and similar contract volume changes on income. If production levels change in the future, the sensitivity of Occidental’s results to prices also will change. Marketing results are sensitive to price changes of oil, natural gas and, to a lesser degree, other commodities. These sensitivities are additionally dependent on marketing volumes and cannot be predicted reliably.

Occidental’s results are also sensitive to fluctuations in chemical prices. A variation in chlorine and caustic soda prices of $10 per ton would have a pre-tax annual effect on income of approximately $10 million and $30 million, respectively. A variation in PVC prices of $0.01 per lb. would have a pre-tax annual effect on income of approximately $30 million. Historically, over time, product price changes have tracked raw material and feedstock product price changes, somewhat mitigating the effect of price changes on margins. The 2018 average contract prices were: chlorine-$344 per ton; caustic soda-$768 per ton; and PVC-$0.40 per lb.

Occidental uses derivative instruments, including a combination of short-term futures, forwards, options and swaps, to obtain the average prices for the relevant production month and to improve realized prices for oil and gas. 

Risk Management

Occidental conducts its risk management activities for marketing and trading under the controls and governance of its risk control policies. The controls under these policies are implemented and enforced by a risk management group which monitors risk by providing an independent and separate evaluation and check. Members of the risk management group report to the Corporate Vice President and Treasurer. Controls for these activities include limits on value at risk, limits on credit, limits on total notional trade value, segregation of duties, delegation of authority, daily price verifications, reporting to senior management on various risk measures and a number of other policy and procedural controls. 

Fair Value of Marketing Derivative Contracts

Occidental carries derivative contracts it enters into in connection with its marketing activities at fair value. Fair values for these contracts are derived from Level 1 and Level 2 sources. The fair values in future maturity periods 

34

are insignificant. 

The following table shows the fair value of Occidental's derivatives (excluding collateral), segregated by maturity periods and by methodology of fair value estimation:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Cash-Flow Hedges

Occidental’s marketing operations, from time to time, store natural gas purchased from third parties at Occidental’s North American leased storage facilities. As of December 31, 2018, and 2017, Occidental had approximately 5 billion cubic feet (Bcf) and 7 Bcf of natural gas held in storage, respectively, and had cash-flow hedges for the forecast sales, to be settled by physical delivery, of approximately 4 Bcf and 7 Bcf of stored natural gas, respectively.

Quantitative Information

Occidental uses value at risk to estimate the potential effects of changes in fair values of commodity contracts used in trading activities. This measure determines the maximum potential negative one day change in fair value with a 95 percent level of confidence. Additionally, Occidental uses complementary trading limits including position and tenor limits and maintains liquid positions as a result of which market risk typically can be neutralized or mitigated on short notice. As a result of these controls, Occidental believes that the market risk of its trading activities is not reasonably likely to have a material adverse effect on its performance. 

Interest Rate Risk

General

Occidental's exposure to changes in interest rates is not expected to be material and relates to its variable-rate long-term debt obligations. As of December 31, 2018, variable-rate debt constituted approximately 1 percent of Occidental's total debt.

Foreign Currency Risk

Occidental’s international operations have limited currency risk. Occidental manages its exposure primarily by balancing monetary assets and liabilities and limiting cash positions in foreign currencies to levels necessary for operating purposes. A vast majority of international oil sales are denominated in United States dollars. Additionally, all of Occidental’s consolidated international oil and gas subsidiaries have the United States dollar as the functional currency. As of December 31, 2018, the fair value of foreign currency derivatives used in the marketing operations was 

immaterial. The effect of exchange rates on transactions in foreign currencies is included in periodic income.

Tabular Presentation of Interest Rate Risk

The table below provides information about Occidental's debt obligations. Debt amounts represent principal payments by maturity date.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a)Excludes net unamortized debt discounts of $36 million and debt issuance cost of $54 million.

Credit Risk

The majority of Occidental's counterparty credit risk is related to the physical delivery of energy commodities to its customers and their inability to meet their settlement commitments. Occidental manages credit risk by selecting counterparties that it believes to be financially strong, by entering into netting arrangements with counterparties and by requiring collateral or other credit risk mitigants, as appropriate. Occidental actively evaluates the creditworthiness of its counterparties, assigns appropriate credit limits, and monitors credit exposures against those assigned limits. Occidental also enters into future contracts through regulated exchanges with select clearinghouses and brokers, which are subject to minimal credit risk as a significant portion of these transactions settle on a daily margin basis. 

Certain of Occidental's OTC derivative instruments contain credit-risk-contingent features, primarily tied to credit ratings for Occidental or its counterparties, which may affect the amount of collateral that each would need to post. Occidental believes that if it had received a one-notch reduction in its credit ratings, it would not have resulted in a material change in its collateral-posting requirements as of December 31, 2018 and 2017.

As of December 31, 2018, the substantial majority of the credit exposures were with investment grade counterparties. Occidental believes its exposure to credit-related losses at December 31, 2018, was not material and losses associated with credit risk have been insignificant for all years presented.

35

ITEM 8 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA