ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

We are exposed to the impact of interest rate changes and foreign currency fluctuations. Our objective in managing exposure to foreign currency is to reduce the volatility in earnings and cash flows associated with fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates on transactions denominated in foreign currencies. Accordingly, we enter into forward contracts, which change in value as foreign currency exchange rates change, and are intended to offset the corresponding change in value of the underlying external and intercompany transactions. The principal currencies actively hedged are the British Pound, Canadian Dollar and the Euro.

At December 31, 2018, 81% of our debt was fixed rate obligations with a weighted average interest rate of 4.7%. Variable rate debt had a weighted average interest rate of 4.0% at December 31, 2018. A one-percentage point change in the effective interest rate of our variable rate debt would not have had a material impact on our 2018 pre-tax income. 

We employ established policies and procedures governing the use of financial instruments to manage our exposure to such risks and do not enter into foreign currency or interest rate transactions for speculative purposes.

We utilize a "Value-at-Risk" (VaR) model to determine the potential loss in fair value from changes in market conditions. The VaR model utilizes a "Monte Carlo" simulation approach and assumes normal market conditions, a 95% confidence level and a one-day holding period. The model includes all of our public debt and foreign exchange derivative contracts. The model excludes all anticipated transactions, firm commitments and accounts receivables and payables denominated in foreign currencies, which certain of these instruments are intended to hedge. The VaR model is a risk analysis tool and does not purport to represent actual losses in fair value that will be incurred, nor does it consider the potential effect of favorable changes in market factors.

During 2018 and 2017, our maximum potential one-day loss in fair value of our exposure to foreign exchange rates and interest rates, using the Monte Carlo simulation approach and the variance/co-variance technique, respectively, was not material.

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA