ITEM 7.MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

47
 Certain of the statements included in this section constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are made based on management’s current expectations and beliefs concerning future developments and their potential effects upon Prudential Financial, Inc. and its subsidiaries. Prudential Financial, Inc.’s actual results may differ, possibly materially, from expectations or estimates reflected in such forward-looking statements. Certain important factors that could cause actual results to differ, possibly materially, from expectations or estimates reflected in such forward-looking statements can be found in the “Risk Factors” and “Forward-Looking Statements” sections herein.

Overview

Our principal operations are comprised of five divisions, which together encompass seven segments, and our Corporate and Other operations. The PGIM division is comprised of our PGIM segment (formerly named the Investment Management segment). The U.S. Workplace Solutions division consists of our Retirement and Group Insurance segments. The U.S. Individual Solutions division consists of our Individual Annuities and Individual Life segments. The International Insurance division consists of our International Insurance segment, and the Closed Block division consists of our Closed Block segment. Our Corporate and Other operations include corporate items and initiatives that are not allocated to business segments and businesses that have been or will be divested or placed in run-off. 

Revenues and Expenses

We earn our revenues principally from insurance premiums; mortality, expense, asset management and administrative fees from insurance and investment products; and investment of general account and other funds. We receive premiums primarily from the sale of certain individual life insurance, group life and disability insurance, retirement and annuity contracts. We earn mortality, expense, and asset management fees primarily from the sale and servicing of separate account products including variable life insurance and variable annuities, and from the sale and servicing of other products including universal life insurance. We also earn asset management and administrative fees from the distribution, servicing and management of mutual funds, retirement products and other investment management products and services. Our operating expenses principally consist of insurance benefits provided and reserves established for anticipated future insurance benefits, general business expenses, dividends to policyholders, commissions and other costs of selling and servicing our products and interest credited on general account liabilities.

Profitability

Our profitability depends principally on our ability to price our insurance and annuity products at a level that enables us to earn a margin over the costs associated with providing benefits and administering those products. Profitability also depends on, among other items, our actuarial and policyholder behavior experience on insurance and annuity products, and our ability to attract and retain customer assets, generate and maintain favorable investment results, effectively deploy capital and utilize our tax capacity, and manage expenses.

Historically, the participating products included in the Closed Block have yielded lower returns on capital invested than many of our other businesses. As we have ceased offering domestic participating products, we expect that the proportion of the traditional participating products in our in-force business will gradually diminish as these older policies age, and we grow other businesses. However, the relatively lower returns to us on this existing block of business will continue to affect our consolidated results of operations for many years.

Outlook

Management expects that results in 2019 will continue to benefit from our differentiated mix of market-leading businesses that complement each other to provide competitive advantages. Our mix of high-quality protection, retirement and investment management businesses creates growth potential due to earnings diversification and the opportunity to provide customers with integrated cross-business solutions, as well as capital benefits from a balanced risk profile. While challenges exist in the form of a low interest rate environment (see “Impact of a Low Interest Rate Environment”), fee compression in certain of our businesses and other market factors, we expect that our choice of businesses coupled with strong execution will produce attractive returns. 

48
We are well positioned to meet the needs of customers and tap into significant market opportunities through our U.S. Financial Wellness businesses, PGIM, our investment management business and our International Insurance business. U.S. Financial Wellness represents our Workplace Solutions and Individual Solutions businesses. We see an opportunity to address the evolving needs of individual customers, workplace clients, and society at large through our increasingly important financial wellness solutions. We possess the key components to execute on this strategy, including a workplace platform covering twenty million individuals; solutions that cover protection, retirement, savings, income, and investment needs; and a customer-centric approach with different ways to engage with our clients through multiple channels such as meeting with one of our financial advisors, calling or video-conferencing with an advisor, or interacting with us in a purely digital manner. Our goal is to meet our customers’ needs when, where and how they want. By leveraging technology and our scale, we can significantly expand the addressable market, build deeper and longer-lasting relationships with customers and clients, and make a meaningful difference in the financial wellness of their lives.

PGIM has also produced differentiated outcomes with strong investment performance that has led to consistently positive annual net institutional flows over the past sixteen years. In addition to providing solutions for its third-party clients, PGIM provides our U.S. Financial Wellness and International Insurance businesses with a competitive advantage through its investment expertise across a broad array of asset classes, including specialty classes such as real estate, private placements, and commercial mortgages.

Our International Insurance business includes our world-class Japanese life insurance operation and investments in high-growth markets with large populations such as Brazil, India, Indonesia and China. We approach these markets in a differentiated way, and that has led to steady overall growth, attractive returns and significant capital generation.

In summary, we feel confident about our prospects for the future supported by our integrated and complementary businesses. Specific outlook considerations for each of our businesses include the following:

•U.S. Workplace Solutions. In our Retirement business we continue to provide products that respond to the needs of plan sponsors to manage risk and control their benefit costs, while ensuring we maintain appropriate pricing and return expectations under changing market conditions. Our differentiated capabilities and demonstrated execution in the pension risk transfer business is expected to continue to generate attractive growth opportunities. We expect, however, that growth will not be linear given the episodic nature of larger cases, which is the segment of the market where we are most competitive and where the returns are the most compelling. In addition, while we foresee continuation of the spread and fee compression that we have been experiencing in our full-service business, we believe these are manageable headwinds. In our Group Insurance business, we are focused on expanding our Premier market segment, while maintaining a leadership position in the national segment. We are seeing benefits from our multi-year underwriting efforts, especially in our disability business where improved claims management and our continued pricing discipline have resulted in improvements to our benefits ratio. In both Retirement and Group Insurance, we believe our Financial Wellness platform provides meaningful differentiation in the market and is helping us build deeper customer relationships.

•U.S. Individual Solutions. Our Individual Annuities business remains focused on helping its customers meet their investment and retirement needs. We expect continued strong results and stable free cash flows, with near-term returns on assets above our long-term target. We expect to incur costs associated with our enhanced risk management strategy, but this program is expected to produce less volatile net income and cash flows, particularly in adverse scenarios. In addition, we expect a natural reduction in average fee rates due to the maturation of the existing block and due to sales of newer products which generally have lower rate structures. We expect the combination of these factors to cause our returns on assets to migrate to the long-term target over time. We continue to execute on our product diversification strategy and remain focused on a broad range of outcome-oriented solutions for customers. Our Individual Life business is continuing to execute on its product diversification strategy in order to maintain a diversified product mix and an attractive risk profile. We continue to deepen relationships with distribution partners while developing a more customer-oriented experience. Recent product actions could result in a slightly higher portion of sales in term and variable life as we remain committed to achieving a diversified product offering.

49
•PGIM. Our investment management business is focused on maintaining strong investment performance while leveraging both the scale of its approximately $1.2 trillion distinctive multi-manager model and Prudential enterprise relationships. PGIM is making targeted investments to further diversify its product offerings, expand its global investment and distribution footprint, selectively acquire new investment capabilities, and further strengthen external recognition as a leading global asset manager. These capabilities will enable PGIM to continue to meet our clients’ evolving needs and, in turn, to generate flows across multiple asset classes, client segments and geographies. Underpinning our growth strategy is our ability to continue to deliver robust investment performance, and to attract and retain high-caliber investment talent. While we are experiencing fee pressures, our average fee yield has remained relatively flat due to new flows coming into higher fee yielding strategies within fixed income, equities and alternatives such as real estate and private fixed income, and because of our diverse business profile.

•International Insurance. We continue to concentrate on deepening our presence in Japan and other markets in which we currently operate and expanding our distribution capabilities in emerging markets. We continue to focus on protection solutions and innovate as clients’ needs evolve. The returns on our death protection products are largely driven by mortality margins which helps mitigate the exposure of results to interest rates. We have seen a shift in sales mix with a greater emphasis on U.S. dollar-denominated products in Japan. We expect this trend to continue. We are also focused on achieving scale in select growth markets outsides of Japan. With regard to distribution, we are seeking to grow Life Planners in all countries where that model exists and to strategically expand the Bank and Independent Agency channel, however we may see a decline in Gibraltar Life Insurance Company, Ltd. (“Gibraltar Life”) Consultants as we continue to focus on increasing quality and productivity standards.

In order to capitalize on the growth opportunities in our domestic and international markets highlighted above, we continue to make investments in and across our businesses. These investments are focused on product development, distribution and technology. We are investing in product innovation through the use of data and digital initiatives to better understand and serve the needs of a customer base with changing demographics and to achieve a goal of offering a broader array of cost effective and easily comprehensible products. We are investing in expanding our distribution capabilities through a focus on customer experience and technology enabled advice and distribution, cross-business collaboration, further development of work site relationships with individuals and expanding our ability to offer relevant products and services to customers through whichever channels they choose. In addition, we are making investments in our information technology infrastructure in order to streamline processes and enhance the effectiveness of our administrative systems.

While we expect these strategic investments to ultimately generate business growth, they may result in elevated expenses in the near term. In addition, we expect the time periods required for these investments to generate returns to vary. These investments are being funded through a combination of operating cost efficiencies and the returns generated by our businesses, and we expect to be able to continue to absorb some of these investment costs through efficiency gains.

Industry Trends

Our U.S. and international businesses are impacted by financial markets, economic conditions, regulatory oversight, and a variety of trends that affect the industries where we compete.

Financial and Economic Environment. 

U.S. Businesses - As discussed further under “Impact of a Low Interest Rate Environment” below, interest rates in the U.S. remain lower than historical levels, which may continue to negatively impact our portfolio income yields and our net investment spread results. In addition, we are subject to financial impacts associated with movements in equity markets and the evolution of the credit cycle as discussed in “Segment Results of Operations” where applicable and more broadly in “Risk Factors”.

International Businesses - Our international insurance operations, especially in Japan, continue to operate in a low interest rate environment. Although the local market in Japan has adapted to low interest rates, as discussed under “Impact of a Low Interest Rate Environment” below, the current reinvestment yields for certain blocks of business in our international insurance operations are now generally lower than the current portfolio yield supporting these blocks of business, which may negatively impact our net investment spread results. The continued low interest rate environment in the U.S. may also impact the relative attractiveness of U.S. dollar-denominated products to yen-denominated products in Japan. In addition, we are subject to financial impacts associated with movements in foreign currency rates, particularly the Japanese yen. Fluctuations in the value of the yen will continue to impact the relative attractiveness of both yen-denominated and non-yen denominated products. In addition, we are subject to financial impacts associated with movements in equity markets and the evolution of the credit cycle as discussed in “Segment Results of Operations” where applicable and more broadly in “Risk Factors”.

50
Demographics. 

U.S. Businesses - Customer demographics continue to evolve and new opportunities present themselves in different consumer segments such as the millennial and multicultural markets. Consumer expectations and preferences are changing. We believe existing customers and potential customers are increasingly looking for cost-effective solutions that they can easily understand and access through technology-enabled devices. At the same time, income protection, wealth accumulation and the needs of retiring baby boomers are continuing to shape the insurance industry. A persistent retirement security gap exists in terms of both savings and protection. Despite the ongoing phenomenon of the risk and responsibility of retirement savings shifting from employers to employees, employers are becoming increasingly focused on the financial wellness of the individuals they employ.

International Businesses- Japan has an aging population as well as a large pool of household assets invested in low-yielding deposit and savings vehicles. The aging of Japan’s population, along with strains on government pension programs, have led to a growing demand for insurance products with a significant savings element to meet savings and retirement needs as the population prepares for retirement. We are seeing a similar shift to retirement-oriented products across other Asian markets, including Korea and Taiwan, each of which also has an aging population.

Regulatory Environment. See “Business—Regulation” for a discussion of regulatory developments that may impact the Company and the associated risks.

Competitive Environment. See “Business—” for a discussion of the competitive environment and the basis on which we compete in each of our segments.

Impact of a Low Interest Rate Environment 

As a global financial services company, market interest rates are a key driver of our results of operations and financial condition. Changes in interest rates can affect our results of operations and/or our financial condition in several ways, including favorable or adverse impacts to:

•investment-related activity, including: investment income returns, net interest margins, net investment spread results, new money rates, mortgage loan prepayments and bond redemptions;

•insurance reserve levels, market experience true-ups and amortization of both deferred policy acquisition costs (“DAC”) and value of business acquired (“VOBA”);

•customer account values, including their impact on fee income;

•fair value of, and possible impairments on, intangible assets such as goodwill;

•product offerings, design features, crediting rates and sales mix; and

•policyholder behavior, including surrender or withdrawal activity.

See below for discussions related to the current interest rate environments in our two largest markets, the United States and Japan; the composition of our insurance liabilities and policyholder account balances; and the hypothetical impacts to our results if these interest rate environments are sustained.

U.S. Operations excluding the Closed Block Division

Interest rates in the U.S. have experienced a period of historically low levels in large part due to Federal Reserve efforts to assist with the economic recovery subsequent to the financial crisis of 2008. However, more recently market interest rates have begun to climb in conjunction with a series of Federal Reserve decisions to raise interest rates in response to a strengthening economy. While market conditions and events make uncertain the timing, amount and impact of any further monetary policy decisions by the Federal Reserve, a trend of rising interest rates may enhance our reinvestment yields, primarily for our investments in fixed maturity securities and commercial mortgage loans. As interest rates rise, our reinvestment yield may approach or exceed the overall portfolio yield. Conversely, if interest rates were to decline, our reinvestment yield may fall below our overall portfolio yield, resulting in an unfavorable impact to earnings.

For the general account supporting our U.S. Individual Solutions division, U.S. Workplace Solutions division, PGIM division and our Corporate and Other operations, we estimate annual principal payments and prepayments that we would be required to reinvest to be approximately 6.0% of the fixed maturity security and commercial mortgage loan portfolios through 2020. The portion of the general account attributable to these operations has approximately $198 billion of such assets (based on net carrying value) as of December 31, 2018. The average portfolio yield for fixed maturity securities and commercial mortgage loans is approximately 4.3%, as of December 31, 2018. 

51
Included in the $198 billion of fixed maturity securities and commercial mortgage loans are approximately $113 billion that are subject to call or redemption features at the issuer’s option and have a weighted average interest rate of approximately 4%. Of this $113 billion, approximately 64% contain provisions for prepayment premiums. If we reinvest scheduled payments or prepayments (not subject to a prepayment fee) at rates below the current portfolio yield, including in some cases at rates below those guaranteed under our insurance contracts, future operating results will be impacted to the extent we do not, or are unable to, reduce crediting rates on in-force blocks of business, or effectively utilize other asset/liability management strategies described below, in order to maintain current net interest margins. 

The following table sets forth the insurance liabilities and policyholder account balances of our U.S. Operations excluding the Closed Block Division, by type, for the date indicated:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The $124 billion above relates to long-duration products such as group annuities, structured settlements and other insurance products that have fixed and guaranteed terms, for which underlying assets may have to be reinvested at interest rates that are lower than portfolio rates. We seek to mitigate the impact of a prolonged low interest rate environment on these contracts through asset/liability management, as discussed further below. 

The $57 billion above relates to contracts with crediting rates that may be adjusted over the life of the contract, subject to guaranteed minimums. Although we may have the ability to lower crediting rates for those contracts above guaranteed minimums, our willingness to do so may be limited by competitive pressures. The following table sets forth the related account values by range of guaranteed minimum crediting rates and the related range of the difference, in basis points (“bps”), between rates being credited to contractholders as of December 31, 2018, and the respective guaranteed minimums. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

 __________

(1)Includes approximately $0.85 billion related to contracts that impose a market value adjustment if the invested amount is not held to maturity.

The remaining $15 billion of insurance liabilities and policyholder account balances in these operations relates to participating contracts for which the investment income risk is expected to ultimately accrue to contractholders. The crediting rates for these contracts are periodically adjusted based on the return earned on the related assets.

Assuming a hypothetical scenario where the average 10-year U.S. Treasury rate is 2.70% for the period from January 1, 2019 through December 31, 2019, and credit spreads remain unchanged from levels as of December 31, 2018, we estimate that the impact to pre-tax adjusted operating income of reinvesting in such an environment, compared to reinvesting at current average portfolio yields, would not be significant. 

52
In order to mitigate the unfavorable impact that a low interest rate environment has on our net interest margins, we employ a proactive asset/liability management program, which includes strategic asset allocation and hedging strategies within a disciplined risk management framework. These strategies seek to match the characteristics of our products, and to closely approximate the interest rate sensitivity of the assets with the estimated interest rate sensitivity of the product liabilities. Our asset/liability management program also helps manage duration gaps, currency and other risks between assets and liabilities through the use of derivatives. We adjust this dynamic process as products change, as customer behavior changes and as changes in the market environment occur. As a result, our asset/liability management process has permitted us to manage the interest rate risk associated with our products through several market cycles. Our interest rate exposure is also mitigated by our business mix, which includes lines of business for which fee-based and insurance underwriting earnings play a more prominent role in product profitability.

Closed Block Division

Substantially all of the $58 billion of general account assets in the Closed Block division support obligations and liabilities relating to the Closed Block policies only. See Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on the Closed Block.

International Insurance Operations 

While our international insurance operations have experienced a low interest rate environment for many years, the current reinvestment yields for certain blocks of business in our international insurance operations are generally lower than the current portfolio yield supporting these blocks of business. In recent years, the Bank of Japan’s monetary policy has resulted in even lower and, at times, negative yields for certain tenors of government bonds. Our international insurance operations employ a proactive asset/liability management program in order to mitigate, to the extent possible, the unfavorable impact that the current interest rate environment has on our net interest margins. In conjunction with this program, we have not purchased negative yielding assets to support the portfolio and we continue to purchase long-term bonds with tenors of 30 years or greater. Additionally, our diverse product portfolio in terms of currency mix and premium payment structure allows us to further mitigate the negative impact from this low interest rate environment. We regularly examine our product offerings and their profitability. As a result, we have repriced certain products, adjusted commissions for certain products and have discontinued sales of other products that do not meet our profit expectations. The impact of these actions, coupled with the strengthening of the yen against the U.S. dollar and introduction of certain new products, has resulted in an increase in sales of U.S. dollar-denominated products relative to products denominated in other currencies. For additional information on sales within our international insurance operations, see “—International Insurance Division—International Insurance—Sales Results,” below.

The following table sets forth the insurance liabilities and policyholder account balances of our Japanese operations, by type, for the date indicated:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The $120 billion above is predominantly comprised of long-duration insurance products that have fixed and guaranteed terms, for which underlying assets may have to be reinvested at interest rates that are lower than current portfolio yields. The remaining insurance liabilities and policyholder account balances include $26 billion related to contracts that impose a market value adjustment if the invested amount is not held to maturity and $10 billion related to contracts with crediting rates that may be adjusted over the life of the contract, subject to guaranteed minimums. Most of the current crediting rates on these contracts, however, are at or near contractual minimums. Although we have the ability in some cases to lower crediting rates for those contracts that are above guaranteed minimum crediting rates, the majority of this business has interest crediting rates that are determined by formula.

53
Assuming a hypothetical scenario within our Japanese and Korean operations where new money yields would be 25 bps lower than projected, and applying these lower new money yields to annualized investment of renewal premiums, proceeds from investment disposition and reinvestment of investment income, we estimate that the unfavorable impact would reduce adjusted operating income in 2019 by approximately $10 to $15 million. This hypothetical scenario excludes first-year premium, single pay premium, multi-currency fixed annuity cash flows, any potential benefit from repricing products and any impact from other factors, including but not limited to new business, contractholder behavior, changes in competitive conditions, changes in capital markets and the effect of derivative instruments.

Results of Operations

Consolidated Results of Operations

The following table summarizes net income (loss) for the periods presented.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

2018 to 2017 Annual Comparison. The $3,789 million decrease in “Net income (loss) attributable to Prudential Financial, Inc.” reflected the following notable items:

•$3,693 million unfavorable variance, primarily reflecting tax expense in the current year compared to a tax benefit in the prior year due to the impact of tax reform and certain other tax matters (see Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information); 

•$1,427 million unfavorable variance, on a pre-tax basis, from adjustments to reserves as well as DAC and other costs, reflecting updates to the estimated profitability of our businesses, including the impact of our annual reviews and update of assumptions and other refinements. This excludes the impact associated with the variable annuity hedging program discussed below (see “—Results of Operations by Segment—U.S. Individual Solutions Division—Individual Annuities” for additional information); and

•$221 million unfavorable variance, on a pre-tax basis, from a loss in the current period from our Divested and Run-off Businesses compared to income in the prior period, excluding the impact of our annual reviews and update of assumptions and other refinements, as discussed above.

Partially offsetting these decreases in “Net income (loss) attributable to Prudential Financial, Inc.” were the following items:

•$917 million favorable variance from net pre-tax realized investment gains and losses for PFI excluding the Closed Block division, excluding the impact of the hedging program associated with certain variable annuities discussed below (see “—General Account Investments” for additional information); and

•$635 million favorable variance, on a pre-tax basis, reflecting the net impact from changes in the value of our embedded derivatives and related hedge positions associated with certain variable annuities (see “—Results of Operations by Segment—U.S. Individual Solutions Division—Individual Annuities—Variable Annuity Risks and Risk Mitigants” for additional information).

54
2017 to 2016 Annual Comparison. The $3,495 million increase in “Net income (loss) attributable to Prudential Financial, Inc.” reflected the following notable items:

•$2,773 million favorable impact reflecting a tax benefit in 2017 compared to a tax expense in 2016 primarily as a result of tax reform (see Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information);

•$1,927 million net favorable variance, on a pre-tax basis, primarily from higher operating results from our business segments and income in 2017 from our Divested and Run-off Businesses compared to a loss in 2016;

•$1,500 million favorable variance, on a pre-tax basis, reflecting changes to the way we manage interest rate risks for certain products. This variance is primarily attributed to changes in our Individual Annuities risk management strategy implemented in 2016, whereby we terminated the existing intercompany derivative transactions between our Corporate and Other operations and Individual Annuities related to managing interest rate risk and we now manage this risk within the Individual Annuities business segment (see “—Results of Operations by Segment—Corporate and Other—Capital Protection Framework” for additional information); and

•$478 million favorable variance, on a pre-tax basis, from adjustments to DAC and other costs as well as reserves, reflecting updates to the estimated profitability of our businesses, including the impact of our annual reviews and update of assumptions and other refinements. This excludes the impact associated with the variable annuity hedging program discussed below (see “—Results of Operations by Segment—U.S. Individual Solutions Division—Individual Annuities” for additional information).

Partially offsetting these increases in “Net income (loss) attributable to Prudential Financial, Inc.” were the following items:

•$2,373 million unfavorable variance, on a pre-tax basis, reflecting the net impact from changes in the value of our embedded derivatives and related hedge positions associated with certain variable annuities (see “—Results of Operations by Segment—U.S. Individual Solutions Division—Individual Annuities—Variable Annuity Risks and Risk Mitigants” for additional information); and

•$810 million lower net pre-tax realized gains for PFI excluding the Closed Block division, and excluding the impact of the hedging program associated with certain variable annuities discussed above (see “—General Account Investments” for additional information).

Segment Results of Operations

We analyze the performance of our segments and Corporate and Other operations using a measure of segment profitability called adjusted operating income. See “—Segment Measures” for a discussion of adjusted operating income and its use as a measure of segment operating performance.

Shown below are the adjusted operating income contributions of each segment and Corporate and Other operations for the periods indicated and a reconciliation of this segment measure of performance to “Income (loss) before income taxes and equity in earnings of operating joint ventures” as presented in our Consolidated Statements of Operations.

55
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

__________

(1)Represents “Realized investment gains (losses), net,” and related adjustments. See “—General Account Investments” and Note 21 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.

(2)Includes charges that represent the impact of realized investment gains (losses), net, on the amortization of DAC and other costs, and on changes in reserves. Also includes charges resulting from payments related to market value adjustment features of certain of our annuity products and the impact of realized investment gains (losses), net, on the amortization of Unearned Revenue Reserves (“URR”).

(3)Represents net investment gains (losses) on assets supporting experience-rated contractholder liabilities. See “—Experience-Rated Contractholder Liabilities, Assets Supporting Experience-Rated Contractholder Liabilities and Other Related Investments.”

(4)Represents changes in contractholder liabilities due to asset value changes in the pool of investments supporting these experience-rated contracts. See “—Experience-Rated Contractholder Liabilities, Assets Supporting Experience-Rated Contractholder Liabilities and Other Related Investments.”

(5)Represents the contribution to income (loss) of Divested and Run-off Businesses that have been or will be sold or exited, including businesses that have been placed in wind down, but that did not qualify for “discontinued operations” accounting treatment under U.S. GAAP. See “—Divested and Run-off Businesses.” 

(6)Equity in earnings of operating joint ventures are included in adjusted operating income but excluded from “Income (loss) before income taxes and equity in earnings of operating joint ventures” as they are reflected on an after-tax U.S. GAAP basis as a separate line in our Consolidated Statements of Operations. Earnings attributable to noncontrolling interests are excluded from adjusted operating income but included in “Income (loss) before income taxes and equity in earnings of operating joint ventures” as they are reflected on a U.S. GAAP basis as a separate line in our Consolidated Statements of Operations. Earnings attributable to noncontrolling interests represent the portion of earnings from consolidated entities that relates to the equity interests of minority investors.

Segment results for 2018 presented above reflect the following:

PGIM. Segment results for 2018 decreased in comparison to 2017, primarily reflecting lower net incentive fees and reduced strategic investing results, partially offset by higher asset management fees, net of related expenses.

Retirement. Segment results for 2018 decreased in comparison to 2017, primarily reflecting lower net investment spread results, a net unfavorable comparative impact from our annual reviews and update of assumptions and other refinements and higher general and administrative expenses, partially offset by a higher contribution from reserve experience and the impact of business growth. 

56
Group Insurance. Segment results for 2018 decreased in comparison to 2017, reflecting higher expenses, a lower contribution from net investment spread results and less favorable comparative net impacts from our annual reviews and update of assumptions and other refinements, partially offset by more favorable underwriting results in our group life and group disability businesses.

Individual Annuities. Segment results for 2018 decreased in comparison to 2017, primarily reflecting lower net investment spread results, higher capital hedge costs and higher distribution expenses, partially offset by lower amortization costs and reserve provisions as well as higher asset-based fee income.

Individual Life. Segment results for 2018 increased in comparison to 2017, primarily reflecting favorable comparative net impacts from our annual reviews and update of assumptions and other refinements, partially offset by lower underwriting results and a lower contribution from net investment spread results. 

International Insurance. Segment results for 2018 increased in comparison to 2017, inclusive of favorable net impacts from foreign currency exchange rates and comparatively unfavorable net impacts from our annual reviews and update of assumptions and other refinements. Excluding these items, the increase in segment results primarily reflected business growth, lower expenses, including lower legal costs, partially offset by a lower contribution from net investment spread results and an unfavorable impact from mortality experience.

Corporate and Other operations. Results for 2018 reflected decreased losses in comparison to 2017, driven by lower levels of corporate expenses, higher income from our qualified pension plan and lower interest expense, partially offset by lower net investment income.

Closed Block Division. Results for 2018 decreased in comparison to 2017, primarily driven by a decrease in net realized investment gains and related activity, and lower net investment income, partially offset by a favorable policyholder dividend obligation adjustment and an increase in net insurance activity.

Segment Measures

Adjusted Operating Income. In managing our business, we analyze our segments’ operating performance using “adjusted operating income.” Adjusted operating income does not equate to “Income (loss) before income taxes and equity in earnings of operating joint ventures” or “Net income (loss)” as determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP, but is the measure of segment profit or loss we use to evaluate segment performance and allocate resources, and consistent with authoritative guidance, is our measure of segment performance. The adjustments to derive adjusted operating income are important to an understanding of our overall results of operations. Adjusted operating income is not a substitute for income determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP, and our definition of adjusted operating income may differ from that used by other companies. However, we believe that the presentation of adjusted operating income as we measure it for management purposes enhances the understanding of our results of operations by highlighting the results from ongoing operations and the underlying profitability of our businesses. See Note 21 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on the presentation of segment results and our definition of adjusted operating income.

Annualized New Business Premiums. In managing our Individual Life, Group Insurance and International Insurance businesses, we analyze annualized new business premiums, which do not correspond to revenues under U.S. GAAP. Annualized new business premiums measure the current sales performance of the business, while revenues primarily reflect the renewal persistency of policies written in prior years and net investment income, in addition to current sales. Annualized new business premiums include 10% of first year premiums or deposits from single pay products. No other adjustments are made for limited pay contracts.

The amount of annualized new business premiums for any given period can be significantly impacted by several factors, including but not limited to: addition of new products, discontinuation of existing products, changes in credited interest rates for certain products and other product modifications, changes in premium rates, changes in tax laws, changes in regulations or changes in the competitive environment. Sales volume may increase or decrease prior to certain of these changes becoming effective, and then fluctuate in the other direction following such changes.

Assets Under Management. In managing our PGIM business, we analyze assets under management (which do not correspond directly to U.S. GAAP assets) because the principal source of revenues is fees based on assets under management. Assets under management represents the fair market value or account value of assets which we manage directly for institutional clients, retail clients, and for our general account, as well as assets invested in our products that are managed by third-party managers.

Account Values. In managing our Individual Annuities and Retirement businesses, we analyze account values, which do not correspond to U.S. GAAP assets. Net sales (redemptions) in our Individual Annuities business and net additions (withdrawals) in our Retirement business do not correspond to revenues under U.S. GAAP, but are used as a relevant measure of business activity.

57
Impact of Foreign Currency Exchange Rates

Foreign currency exchange rate movements and related hedging strategies

As a U.S.-based company with significant business operations outside the U.S., particularly in Japan, we are subject to foreign currency exchange rate movements that could impact our U.S. dollar (“USD”)-equivalent earnings and shareholder return on equity. Our USD-equivalent earnings could be materially affected by currency fluctuations from period to period, even if earnings on a local currency basis are relatively constant. Our USD-equivalent equity is impacted as the value of our investment in international operations may also fluctuate based on changes in foreign currency exchange rates. We seek to mitigate these impacts through various hedging strategies, including the use of derivative contracts and by holding USD-denominated assets in certain of our foreign subsidiaries.

In order to reduce earnings volatility from foreign currency exchange rate movements, we enter into forward currency derivative contracts to effectively fix the currency exchange rates for a portion of our prospective non-USD-denominated earnings streams. This forward currency hedging program is primarily associated with our insurance operations in Japan and Korea.

In order to reduce equity volatility from foreign currency exchange rate movements, we primarily utilize a yen hedging strategy that calibrates the hedge level to preserve the relative contribution of our yen-based business to the Company’s overall return on equity on a leverage neutral basis. We implement this hedging strategy utilizing a variety of instruments, including USD-denominated assets, foreign currency derivative contracts, and dual currency and synthetic dual currency investments held locally in our Japanese insurance subsidiaries. The total hedge level may vary based on our periodic assessment of the relative contribution of our yen-based business to the Company’s overall return on equity.

The table below presents the aggregate amount of instruments that serve to hedge the impact of foreign currency exchange movements on our USD-equivalent shareholder return on equity from our Japanese insurance subsidiaries as of the dates indicated.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

__________

(1)Includes USD-denominated fixed maturities at amortized cost plus any related accrued investment income, as well as USD notional amount of foreign currency derivative contracts outstanding. Note this amount represents only those USD assets serving to hedge the impact of foreign currency volatility on equity. Separate from this program, our Japanese operations also have $48.9 billion and $41.2 billion as of December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively, of USD-denominated assets supporting USD-denominated liabilities related to USD-denominated products.

(2)Dual currency and synthetic dual currency investments are held by our yen-based entities in the form of fixed maturities and loans with a yen-denominated principal component and USD-denominated interest income. The amounts shown represent the present value of future USD-denominated cash flows.

The USD-denominated investments that hedge the impact of foreign currency exchange rate movements on USD-equivalent earnings and shareholder return on equity from our Japanese insurance operations are reported within yen-based entities and, as a result, foreign currency exchange rate movements will impact their value reported within our yen-based Japanese insurance entities. We seek to mitigate the risk that future unfavorable foreign currency exchange rate movements will decrease the value of these USD-denominated investments reported within our yen-based Japanese insurance entities, and therefore negatively impact their equity and regulatory solvency margins, by having our Japanese insurance operations enter into currency hedging transactions. Those hedges are with a subsidiary of Prudential Financial. These hedging strategies have the economic effect of moving the change in value of these USD-denominated investments due to foreign currency exchange rate movements from our Japanese yen-based entities to our USD-based entities.

58
These USD-denominated investments also pay a coupon which is generally higher than what a similar yen-denominated investment would pay. The incremental impact of this higher yield on our USD-denominated investments, as well as our dual currency and synthetic dual currency investments, will vary over time, and is dependent on the duration of the underlying investments as well as interest rate environments in both the U.S. and Japan at the time of the investments. 

Impact of foreign currency exchange rate movements on segment results of operations

The financial results of our International Insurance and PGIM segments reflect the impact of intercompany arrangements with our Corporate and Other operations pursuant to which certain of these segments’ non-USD earnings are translated at fixed currency exchange rates. The financial results of our Retirement segment reflected the impact of an intercompany foreign currency exchange arrangement with our Corporate and Other operations in 2016 and 2017 prior to its termination effective January 1, 2018. This foreign currency exchange risk is now managed within our Retirement segment using a strategy that may include external hedges. Results of our Corporate and Other operations include any differences between the translation adjustments recorded by the segments at the fixed currency exchange rate versus the actual average rate during the period. In addition, specific to our International Insurance segment where we hedge certain currencies, the results of our Corporate and Other operations also include the impact of any gains or losses recorded from the forward currency contracts that settled during the period, which include the impact of any over or under hedging of actual earnings that differ from projected earnings.

For International Insurance, the fixed currency exchange rates are generally determined in connection with a foreign currency income hedging program designed to mitigate the impact of exchange rate changes on the segment’s USD-equivalent earnings. Pursuant to this program, our Corporate and Other operations execute forward currency contracts with third parties to sell the net exposure of projected earnings for certain currencies in exchange for USD at specified exchange rates. The maturities of these contracts correspond with the future periods (typically on a three-year rolling basis) in which the identified non-USD-denominated earnings are expected to be generated. In establishing the level of non-USD-denominated earnings that will be hedged through this program, we exclude the anticipated level of USD-denominated earnings that will be generated by USD-denominated products and investments. For the twelve months ended December 31, 2018, approximately 18% of the segment’s earnings were yen-based and, as of December 31, 2018, we have hedged 100%, 72% and 28% of expected yen-based earnings for 2019, 2020 and 2021, respectively. To the extent currently unhedged, our International Insurance segment’s future expected USD-equivalent of yen-based earnings will be impacted by yen exchange rate movements.

As a result of these arrangements, our International Insurance segment’s results for 2018, 2017 and 2016 reflect the impact of translating yen-denominated earnings at fixed currency exchange rates of 111, 112, 106 yen per U.S. dollar, respectively, and Korean won-denominated earnings at fixed currency exchange rates of 1150, 1130, and 1100 Korean won per U.S. dollar, respectively. We expect our 2019 results to reflect the impact of translating yen-denominated earnings at a fixed currency exchange rate of 105 yen per U.S. dollar and Korean won-denominated earnings at a fixed currency exchange rate of 1110 won per U.S. dollar. Since determination of the fixed currency exchange rates for a given year is impacted by changes in foreign currency exchange rates over time, the segment’s future earnings will ultimately be impacted by these changes in exchange rates. For PGIM and certain other currencies within International Insurance, the fixed currency exchange rates for the current year are predetermined during the third quarter of the prior year using forward currency exchange rates.

The table below presents, for the periods indicated, the increase (decrease) to revenues and adjusted operating income for the International Insurance, PGIM and Retirement segments and for Corporate and Other operations, reflecting the impact of these intercompany arrangements.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

__________

59
(1)Effective January 1, 2018 the intercompany arrangement between our Corporate and Other operations and Retirement was terminated and this risk is now managed within our Retirement segment using a strategy that may include external hedges.

(2)Represents the difference between non-USD-denominated earnings translated on the basis of weighted average monthly currency exchange rates versus fixed currency exchange rates determined in connection with the foreign currency income hedging program.

(3)As of December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, the notional amounts of these forward currency contracts within our Corporate and Other operations were $2.6 billion, $2.8 billion and $2.7 billion, respectively, of which $1.3 billion, $1.5 billion and $1.6 billion, respectively, were related to our Japanese insurance operations.

Impact of products denominated in non-local currencies on U.S. GAAP earnings

While our international insurance operations offer products denominated in local currency, several also offer products denominated in non-local currencies, most notably our Japanese operations, which offer USD- and Australian dollar (“AUD”)-denominated products. The non-local currency-denominated insurance liabilities related to these products are supported by investments denominated in corresponding currencies, including a significant portion designated as available-for-sale. While the impact from foreign currency exchange rate movements on these non-local currency-denominated assets and liabilities is economically matched, differences in the accounting for changes in the value of these assets and liabilities due to changes in foreign currency exchange rate movements have historically resulted in volatility in U.S. GAAP earnings.

In the first quarter of 2015 we implemented a structure in Gibraltar Life’s operations that disaggregated the USD- and AUD-denominated businesses into separate divisions, each with its own functional currency that aligns with the underlying products and investments. The result of this alignment was to reduce differences in the accounting for changes in the value of these assets and liabilities that arise due to changes in foreign currency exchange rate movements. For the USD- and AUD-denominated assets that were transferred under this structure, the net cumulative unrealized investment gains associated with foreign exchange remeasurement that were recorded in “Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)” (“AOCI”) totaled $6.0 billion and will be recognized in earnings within “Realized investment gains (losses), net” over time as these assets mature or are sold. As of December 31, 2018, the remaining net cumulative unrealized investment gains balance related to these assets was $3.2 billion. Absent the sale of any of these assets prior to their stated maturity, approximately 9% of the $3.2 billion balance will be recognized in 2019, approximately 12% will be recognized in 2020, and a majority of the remaining balance will be recognized from 2021 through 2024.

Highly inflationary economy in Argentina

Our insurance operations in Argentina, Prudential of Argentina (“POA”), have historically utilized the Argentine peso as the functional currency given it is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates. During 2018, Argentina experienced a cumulative inflation rate that exceeded 100% over a 3-year period. As a result, Argentina’s economy was deemed to be highly inflationary resulting in reporting changes effective July 1, 2018. Under U.S. GAAP, the financial statements of a foreign entity in a highly inflationary economy are to be remeasured as if its functional currency (formerly the Argentine peso) is the reporting currency of its parent reporting entity (the USD) on a prospective basis. While this changed how the results of POA are remeasured and/or translated into the USD, the impact to our financial statements was not material nor is it expected to be material in future periods given the relative size of our POA operations. It should also be noted that due to the macroeconomic environment in Argentina, POA’s sales are predominantly denominated in USD and therefore substantially all of POA’s balance sheet consists of USD-denominated product liabilities supported by USD-denominated assets. As a result, this accounting change serves to reduce the remeasurement impact reflected in net income given that the functional currency and currency in which the assets and liabilities are denominated will be more closely aligned.

Accounting Policies & Pronouncements

Application of Critical Accounting Estimates

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires the application of accounting policies that often involve a significant degree of judgment. Management, on an ongoing basis, reviews estimates and assumptions used in the preparation of financial statements. If management determines that modifications in assumptions and estimates are appropriate given current facts and circumstances, the Company’s results of operations and financial position as reported in the Consolidated Financial Statements could change significantly.

The following sections discuss the accounting policies applied in preparing our financial statements that management believes are most dependent on the application of estimates and assumptions and require management’s most difficult, subjective, or complex judgments.

Insurance Assets

Deferred Policy Acquisition Costs and Deferred Sales Inducements 

60
We capitalize costs that are directly related to the acquisition or renewal of insurance and annuity contracts. These costs primarily include commissions, as well as costs of policy issuance and underwriting and certain other expenses that are directly related to successfully negotiated contracts. We have also deferred costs associated with sales inducements related to our variable and fixed annuity contracts primarily within our Individual Annuities segment. Sales inducements are amounts that are credited to the policyholders’ account balances mainly as an inducement to purchase the contract. For additional information about sales inducements, see Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. We generally amortize DAC and deferred sales inducements (“DSI”) over the expected lives of the contracts, based on our estimates of the level and timing of gross premiums, gross profits, or gross margins, depending on the type of contract. As described in more detail below, in calculating DAC and DSI amortization, we are required to make assumptions about investment returns, mortality, persistency, and other items that impact our estimates of the level and timing of gross margins, gross profits, or gross premiums. We also periodically evaluate the recoverability of our DAC and DSI. For certain contracts, this evaluation is performed as part of our premium deficiency testing, as discussed further below in “—Insurance Liabilities—Future Policy Benefits.” As of December 31, 2018, DAC and DSI for PFI excluding the Closed Block division were $19.8 billion and $1.0 billion, respectively, and DAC in our Closed Block division was $264 million.

Amortization methodologies

Gross Premiums. DAC associated with the non-participating term life policies of our Individual Life segment and the whole life, term life, endowment and health policies of our International Insurance segment is primarily amortized in proportion to gross premiums. Gross premiums are defined as the premiums charged to a policyholder for an insurance contract.

Gross Profits. DAC and DSI associated with the variable and universal life policies of our Individual Life and International Insurance segments and the variable and fixed annuity contracts of our Individual Annuities and International Insurance segments are generally amortized over the expected lives of these policies in proportion to total gross profits. Total gross profits include both actual gross profits and estimates of gross profits for future periods. Gross profits are defined as i) amounts assessed for mortality, contract administration, surrender charges, and other assessments plus amounts earned from investment of policyholder balances less ii) benefit claims in excess of policyholder balances, costs incurred for contract administration, the net cost of reinsurance for certain businesses, interest credited to policyholder balances and other credits. If significant negative gross profits are expected in any periods, the amount of insurance in force is generally substituted as the base for computing amortization. For variable annuities in our Individual Annuities segment, U.S. GAAP gross profits and amortization rates also include the impacts of the embedded derivatives associated with certain of the optional living benefit features of our variable annuity contracts and related hedging activities. For additional information on the significant inputs to the valuation models for these embedded derivatives including capital market assumptions and actuarially determined assumptions, see below “—Insurance Liabilities—Future Policy Benefits.” In calculating amortization expense, we estimate the amounts of gross profits that will be included in our U.S. GAAP results and in adjusted operating income, and utilize these estimates to calculate distinct amortization rates and expense amounts. We also regularly evaluate and adjust the related DAC and DSI balances with a corresponding charge or credit to current period earnings for the impact of actual gross profits and changes in our projections of estimated future gross profits on our DAC and DSI amortization rates. Adjustments to the DAC and DSI balances include the impact to our estimate of total gross profits of the annual review of assumptions, our quarterly adjustments for current period experience, and our quarterly adjustments for market performance. Each of these adjustments is further discussed below in “—Annual assumptions review and quarterly adjustments.”

Gross Margins. DAC associated with the traditional participating products of our Closed Block is amortized over the expected lives of those contracts in proportion to estimated gross margins. Gross margins are defined as: i) amounts received from premiums, earned from investment of policyholder balances and other assessments, less ii) benefits claims paid, costs for contract administration, changes in the net level premium reserve for death and endowment benefits, annual policyholder dividends and other credits. We evaluate our estimates of future gross margins and adjust the related DAC balance with a corresponding charge or credit to current period earnings for the effects of actual gross margins and changes in our expected future gross margins. DAC adjustments for these participating products generally have not created significant volatility in our results of operations since many of the factors that affect gross margins are also included in the determination of our dividends to these policyholders and, during most years, the Closed Block has recognized a cumulative policyholder dividend obligation expense in “Policyholders’ dividends,” for the excess of actual cumulative earnings over expected cumulative earnings as determined at the time of demutualization. However, if actual cumulative earnings fall below expected cumulative earnings in future periods, thereby eliminating the cumulative policyholder dividend obligation expense, changes in gross margins and DAC amortization would result in a net impact to the Closed Block results of operations. As of December 31, 2018, the excess of actual cumulative earnings over the expected cumulative earnings was $2,252 million.

The amortization methodologies for products not discussed above primarily relate to less significant DAC and DSI balances associated with products in our Group Insurance and Retirement segments, which comprised approximately 2% of the Company’s total DAC and DSI balances as of December 31, 2018.

61
Annual assumptions review and quarterly adjustments

Annually, we perform a comprehensive review of the assumptions used in estimating gross profits for future periods. Over the last several years, the Company’s most significant assumption updates resulting in a change to expected future gross profits and the amortization of DAC and DSI have been related to lapse and other contractholder behavior assumptions, mortality, and revisions to expected future rates of returns on investments. These assumptions may also cause potential significant variability in amortization expense in the future. The impact on our results of operations of changes in these assumptions can be offsetting and we are unable to predict their movement or offsetting impact over time.

The quarterly adjustments for current period experience referred to above reflect the impact of differences between actual gross profits for a given period and the previously estimated expected gross profits for that period. To the extent each period’s actual experience differs from the previous estimate for that period, the assumed level of total gross profits may change. In these cases, we recognize a cumulative adjustment to all previous periods’ amortization, also referred to as an experience true-up adjustment.

The quarterly adjustments for market performance referred to above reflect the impact of changes to our estimate of total gross profits to reflect actual fund performance and market conditions. A significant portion of gross profits for our variable annuity contracts and, to a lesser degree, our variable life policies are dependent upon the total rate of return on assets held in separate account investment options. This rate of return influences the fees we earn on variable annuity and variable life policies, costs we incur associated with the guaranteed minimum death and guaranteed minimum income benefit features related to our variable annuity contracts and expected claims to be paid on variable life contracts, as well as other sources of profit. Returns that are higher than our expectations for a given period produce higher than expected account balances, which increase the future fees we expect to earn on variable annuity and variable life policies and decrease the future costs we expect to incur associated with the guaranteed minimum death and guaranteed minimum income benefit features related to our variable annuity contracts and expected claims to be paid on variable life contracts. The opposite occurs when returns are lower than our expectations. The changes in future expected gross profits are used to recognize a cumulative adjustment to all prior periods’ amortization.

The near-term future equity rate of return assumption used in evaluating DAC and other costs for our domestic variable annuity and variable life insurance products is derived using a reversion to the mean approach, a common industry practice. Under this approach, we consider historical equity returns and adjust projected equity returns over an initial future period of five years (the “near-term”) so that equity returns converge to the long-term expected rate of return. If the near-term projected future rate of return is greater than our near-term maximum future rate of return of 15.0%, we use our maximum future rate of return. As of December 31, 2018, our variable annuities and variable life insurance businesses assume an 8.0% long-term equity expected rate of return and a 7.6% near-term mean reversion equity expected rate of return.

The weighted average rate of return assumptions consider many factors specific to each business, including asset durations, asset allocations and other factors. We generally update the near-term equity rates of return and our estimate of total gross profits each quarter to reflect the result of the reversion to the mean approach. We generally update the future interest rates used to project fixed income returns annually and in any quarter when interest rates vary significantly from these assumptions. As a result of our 2018 annual reviews and update of assumptions and other refinements, we kept our long-term expectation of the 10-year U.S. Treasury rate unchanged from last year and continue to grade to 3.75% over ten years. In Japan, we reduced the long-term expected return on 10-year Japanese Government Bonds by 20 basis points and now grade to 1.30% over ten years.

These market performance related adjustments to our estimate of total gross profits result in cumulative adjustments to prior amortization, reflecting the application of the new required rate of amortization to all prior periods’ gross profits.

Value of Business Acquired

62
In addition to DAC and DSI, we also recognize an asset for VOBA. VOBA is an intangible asset which represents an adjustment to the stated value of acquired in-force insurance contract liabilities to present them at fair value, determined as of the acquisition date. VOBA is amortized over the expected life of the acquired contracts using the same methodology and assumptions used to amortize DAC and DSI (see “—Deferred Policy Acquisition Costs and Deferred Sales Inducements” above for additional information). VOBA is also subject to recoverability testing. As of December 31, 2018, VOBA was $1.9 billion, and included $1.1 billion related to the acquisition from American International Group (“AIG”) of AIG Star Life Insurance Co., Ltd, AIG Edison Life Insurance Company, AIG Financial Assurance Japan K.K. and AIG Edison Service Co., Ltd. (collectively, the “Star and Edison Businesses”) in 2011, and $0.5 billion related to the acquisition of The Hartford Financial Services Group’s individual life insurance business in 2013. The remaining $0.3 billion primarily relates to previously-acquired traditional life, deferred annuity, defined contribution and defined benefit businesses. The VOBA associated with the in-force contracts of the Star and Edison Businesses is less sensitive to assumption changes, as the majority is amortized in proportion to gross premiums which are more predictably stable compared to gross profits.

Insurance Liabilities

Future Policy Benefits 

Future Policy Benefit Reserves, including Unpaid Claims and Claim Adjustment Expenses

We establish reserves for future policy benefits to, or on behalf of, policyholders using methodologies prescribed by U.S. GAAP. The reserving methodologies used include the following:

•For most long-duration contracts, we utilize a net premium valuation methodology in measuring the liability for future policy benefits. Under this methodology, a liability for future policy benefits is accrued when premium revenue is recognized. The liability, which represents the present value of future benefits to be paid to or on behalf of policyholders and related expenses less the present value of future net premiums (portion of the gross premium required to provide for all benefits and expenses), is estimated using methods that include assumptions applicable at the time the insurance contracts are made with provisions for the risk of adverse deviation, as appropriate. Original assumptions continue to be used in subsequent accounting periods to determine changes in the liability for future policy benefits (often referred to as the “lock-in concept”) unless a premium deficiency exists. The result of the net premium valuation methodology is that the liability at any point in time represents an accumulation of the portion of premiums received to date expected to be needed to fund future benefits (i.e., net premiums received to date), less any benefits and expenses already paid. The liability does not necessarily reflect the full policyholder obligation the Company expects to pay at the conclusion of the contract since a portion of that obligation would be funded by net premiums received in the future and would be recognized in the liability at that time. We perform premium deficiency tests using best estimate assumptions as of the testing date without provisions for adverse deviation. If the liabilities determined based on these best estimate assumptions are greater than the net reserves (i.e., GAAP reserves net of any DAC, DSI or VOBA asset), the existing net reserves are adjusted by first reducing these assets by the amount of the deficiency or to zero through a charge to current period earnings. If the deficiency is more than these asset balances for insurance contracts, we then increase the net reserves by the excess, again through a charge to current period earnings. If a premium deficiency is recognized, the assumptions as of the premium deficiency test date are locked in and used in subsequent valuations and the net reserves continue to be subject to premium deficiency testing. In addition, for limited-payment contracts, future policy benefit reserves also include a deferred profit liability representing gross premiums received in excess of net premiums. The deferred profits are generally recognized in revenue in a constant relationship with insurance in force or with the amount of expected future benefit payments.

•For certain contract features, such as those related to guaranteed minimum death benefits (“GMDB”), guaranteed minimum income benefits (“GMIB”) and no-lapse guarantees, a liability is established when associated assessments (which include all policy charges including charges for administration, mortality, expense, surrender, and other. regardless of how characterized) are recognized. This liability is established using current best estimate assumptions and is based on the ratio of the present value of total expected excess payments (i.e., payments in excess of account value) over the life of the contract divided by the present value of total expected assessments (i.e., benefit ratio). The liability equals the current benefit ratio multiplied by cumulative assessments recognized to date, plus interest, less cumulative excess payments to date. Similar to as described above for DAC, the reserves are subject to adjustments based on annual reviews of assumptions and quarterly adjustments for experience, including market performance. These adjustments reflect the impact on the benefit ratio of using actual historical experience from the issuance date to the balance sheet date plus updated estimates of future experience. The updated benefit ratio is then applied to all prior periods’ assessments to derive an adjustment to the reserve recognized through a benefit or charge to current period earnings.

63
•For certain product guarantees, primarily certain optional living benefit features of the variable annuity products in our Individual Annuities segment including guaranteed minimum accumulation benefits (“GMAB”), guaranteed minimum withdrawal benefits (“GMWB”) and guaranteed minimum income and withdrawal benefits (“GMIWB”), the benefits are accounted for as embedded derivatives using a fair value accounting framework. The fair value of these contracts is calculated as the present value of expected future benefit payments to contractholders less the present value of assessed rider fees attributable to the embedded derivative feature. Under U.S. GAAP, the fair values of these benefit features are based on assumptions a market participant would use in valuing these embedded derivatives. Changes in the fair value of the embedded derivatives are recorded quarterly through a benefit or charge to current period earnings.

The assumptions used in establishing reserves are generally based on the Company’s experience, industry experience and/or other factors, as applicable. We typically update our actuarial assumptions, such as mortality, morbidity, retirement and policyholder behavior assumptions, annually, unless a material change is observed in an interim period that we feel is indicative of a long-term trend. Generally, we do not expect trends to change significantly in the short-term and, to the extent these trends may change, we expect such changes to be gradual over the long-term. In a sustained low interest rate environment, there is an increased likelihood that the reserves determined based on best estimate assumptions may be greater than the net liabilities.

The following paragraphs provide additional details about the reserves established by each of our segments:

International Insurance. The reserves for future policy benefits of our International Insurance segment, which as of December 31, 2018, represented 45% of our total future policy benefit reserves, primarily relate to non-participating whole life and term life products and endowment contracts, and are generally calculated using the net premium valuation methodology, as described above. The primary assumptions used in determining expected future benefits and expenses include mortality, lapse, morbidity, investment yield and maintenance expense assumptions. Reserves also include claims reported but not yet paid, and claims incurred but not yet reported. In addition, future policy benefit reserves for certain contracts also include amounts related to our deferred profit liability, as described above.

Retirement. The reserves for future policy benefits of our Retirement segment, which as of December 31, 2018, represented 23% of our total future policy benefit reserves, primarily relate to our non-participating life contingent group annuity and structured settlement products and are generally calculated using the net premium valuation methodology, as described above. The primary assumptions used in establishing these reserves include mortality, retirement, maintenance expense and investment yield assumptions. In addition, future policy benefit reserves for certain contracts also include amounts related to our deferred profit liability, as described above.

Individual Annuities. The reserves for future policy benefits of our Individual Annuities segment, which as of December 31, 2018, represented 4% of our total future policy benefit reserves, primarily relate to reserves for the GMDB and GMIB features of our variable annuities, and for the optional living benefit features that are accounted for as embedded derivatives. As discussed above, in establishing reserves for GMDBs and GMIBs, we utilize current best estimate assumptions. The primary assumptions used in establishing these reserves generally include annuitization, lapse, withdrawal and mortality assumptions, as well as interest rate and equity market return assumptions. Lapse rates are adjusted at the contract level based on the in-the-moneyness of the living benefit and reflect other factors, such as the applicability of any surrender charges. Lapse rates are reduced when contracts are more in-the-money. Lapse rates are also generally assumed to be lower for the period where surrender charges apply. For life contingent payout annuity contracts, we establish reserves using best estimate assumptions with provisions for adverse deviations as of inception or best estimate assumptions as of the most recent loss recognition event.

The reserves for certain optional living benefit features, including GMAB, GMWB and GMIWB are accounted for as embedded derivatives at fair value, as described above. This methodology could result in either a liability or contra-liability balance, given changing capital market conditions and various actuarial assumptions. Since there is no observable active market for the transfer of these obligations, the valuations are calculated using internally-developed models with option pricing techniques. The models are based on a risk neutral valuation framework and incorporate premiums for risks inherent in valuation techniques, inputs, and the general uncertainty around the timing and amount of future cash flows. The significant inputs to the valuation models for these embedded derivatives include capital market assumptions, such as interest rate levels and volatility assumptions, the Company’s market-perceived risk of its own non-performance risk (“NPR”), as well as actuarially determined assumptions, including mortality rates and contractholder behavior, such as lapse rates, benefit utilization rates and withdrawal rates. Capital market inputs and actual contractholders’ account values are updated each quarter based on capital market conditions as of the end of the quarter, including interest rates, equity markets and volatility. In the risk neutral valuation, the initial swap curve drives the total returns used to grow the contractholders’ account values. The Company’s discount rate assumption is based on the London Inter-Bank Offered Rate swap curve adjusted for an additional spread, which includes an estimate of NPR. Actuarial assumptions, including contractholder behavior and mortality, are reviewed at least annually, and updated based upon emerging experience, future expectations and other data, including any observable market data, such as available industry studies or market transactions 

64
such as acquisitions and reinsurance transactions. For additional information regarding the valuation of these optional living benefit features, see Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Individual Life. The reserves for future policy benefits of our Individual Life segment, which as of December 31, 2018, represented 5% of our total future policy benefit reserves, primarily relate to term life, universal life and variable life products. For term life contracts, the future policy benefit reserves are generally calculated using the net premium valuation methodology, as described above. The primary assumptions used in determining expected future benefits and expenses include mortality, lapse, investment yield and maintenance expense assumptions. For variable and universal life products, which include universal life contracts that contain no-lapse guarantees, reserves for future policy benefits are primarily established using the reserving methodology for GMDB and GMIB contracts. As discussed above, in establishing reserves for GMDBs and GMIBs, we utilize current best estimate assumptions. The primary assumptions used in establishing these reserves generally include mortality, lapse, and premium pattern, as well as interest rate and equity market return assumptions. Reserves also include claims reported but not yet paid, and claims incurred but not yet reported.

Group Insurance. The reserves for future policy benefits of our Group Insurance segment, which as of December 31, 2018, represented 2% of our total future policy benefit reserves, primarily relate to reserves for group life and disability benefits. For short-duration contracts, a liability is established when the claim is incurred. The reserves for group life and disability benefits include our liability of $2.6 billion for unpaid claims and claim adjustment expenses for our Group Insurance segment as of December 31, 2018, which relates primarily to the group long-term disability product. This liability represents our estimate of future disability claim payments and expenses as well as estimates of claims that have been incurred, but have not yet been reported, as of the balance sheet date. The liability is determined as the present value of expected future claim payments and expenses. The primary assumptions used in determining expected future claim payments are claim termination factors, an assumed interest rate and expected Social Security offsets. The remaining reserves for future policy benefits for group life and disability benefits relate primarily to our group life business, and include reserves for Waiver of Premium, Claims In Course of Settlement and Claims Incurred But Not Reported. The Waiver of Premium reserve is calculated as the present value of future benefits and utilizes assumptions such as expected mortality and recovery rates. The Claims In Course of Settlement reserve is based on the inventory of claims that have been reported but not yet paid. The Claims Incurred But Not Reported reserve is estimated using expected patterns of claims reporting.

Corporate and Other operations. The reserves for future policy benefits of our Corporate & Other operations, which as of December 31, 2018, represented 3% of our total future policy benefit reserves, primarily relate to our long-term care products and are generally calculated using the net premium valuation methodology, as described above. Most contracts have recorded a premium deficiency reserve, for which we use assumptions as of the most recent premium deficiency reserve establishment. The primary assumptions used in establishing these reserves include interest rate, morbidity, mortality, lapse, premium rate increase and maintenance expense assumptions. In addition, certain less significant reserves for our long-term care products, such as our disabled life reserves, are established using current best estimate actuarial assumptions.

Closed Block Division. The future policy benefit reserves for the traditional participating life insurance products of the Closed Block division, which as of December 31, 2018, represented 18% of our total future policy benefit reserves are determined using the net premium valuation methodology, as described above. Under this method, the future policy benefit reserves are accrued as a level proportion of the premium paid by the policyholder. In applying this method, we use mortality assumptions to determine our expected future benefits and expected future premiums, and apply an interest rate to determine the present value of both of these amounts. The mortality assumptions are based on standard industry mortality tables that were used to determine the cash surrender value of the policies, and the interest rates used are the interest rates used to calculate the cash surrender value of the policies.

Profits Followed by Losses

In certain instances, the policyholder liability for a particular line of business may not be deficient in the aggregate to trigger loss recognition, but the pattern of earnings may be such that profits are expected to be recognized in earlier years followed by losses in later years. In these situations, accounting standards require that an additional liability (Profits Followed by Losses or “PFL” liability) be recognized by an amount necessary to sufficiently offset the losses that would be recognized in later years. The PFL liability is based on our current estimate of the present value of the amount necessary to offset losses anticipated in future periods. Because the liability is measured on a discounted basis, there will also be accretion into future earnings through an interest charge, and the liability will ultimately be released into earnings as an offset to future losses. Historically, the Company’s PFL liability has been predominantly associated with certain universal life contracts that measure net GAAP reserves using current best estimate assumptions and accordingly, has been updated each quarter using current in-force and market data and as part of the annual assumption update. At the target accrual date (i.e., date of peak deficiency), the PFL liability transitions to a premium deficiency reserve and, for universal life products, will continue to be updated each quarter using current in-force and market data and as part of the annual assumption update.

65
Policyholders’ Account Balances 

Unearned Revenue Reserve

Policyholders’ account balances liability represents the contract value that has accrued to the benefit of the policyholder as of the balance sheet date. This liability is primarily associated with the accumulated account deposits, plus interest credited, less policyholder withdrawals and other charges assessed against the account balance, as applicable. Our URR, also reported as a component of “Policyholders’ account balances,” was $3.4 billion as of December 31, 2018. This reserve primarily relates to variable and universal life products within our Individual Life and International Insurance segments and represents policy charges for services to be provided in future periods. The charges are deferred as unearned revenue and are generally amortized over the expected life of the contract in proportion to the product’s estimated gross profits, similar to DAC and DSI as discussed above.

Sensitivities for Insurance Assets and Liabilities 

The following table summarizes the impact that could result on each of the listed financial statement balances for the specified segments from changes in certain assumptions that may be considered reasonably likely to occur. The information below is for illustrative purposes and includes only the hypothetical direct impact on December 31, 2018 balances of changes in a single assumption and not changes in any combination of assumptions. The figures below are presented in aggregate for those segments that are expected to experience a significant impact as a result of the corresponding assumption change. Changes in excess of the amounts illustrated may occur in future periods. A description of the estimates and assumptions used in the preparation of each of these financial statement balances is provided further above. For traditional long duration and limited payment contracts, U.S. GAAP requires the original assumptions used when the contracts are issued to be locked-in and that those assumptions be used in all future liability calculations as long as the resulting liabilities are adequate to provide for the future benefits and expenses (i.e., there is no premium deficiency). Therefore, these products are not reflected in the sensitivity table below unless the hypothetical change in assumption would result in an adverse impact that would cause a premium deficiency. Similarly, the impact of any favorable change in assumptions for traditional long duration and limited payment contracts is not reflected in the table below given that the current assumption is required to remain locked-in, and instead the positive impacts would be recognized into net income over the life of the policies in force.

The impacts presented within this table exclude the following:

•The impacts of our asset liability management strategy which seeks to offset the changes in the balances presented within this table and is primarily comprised of investments and derivatives. See further below for a discussion of the estimates and assumptions involved with the application of U.S. GAAP accounting policies for these instruments and “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk” for hypothetical impacts on related balances as a result of changes in certain significant assumptions.

•The impacts of our Long-Term Care business, a component of our Divested and Run-off Businesses within our Corporate and Other operations. Long-Term Care sensitivities are presented separately in the immediately following table (see “—Sensitivities for the Long-Term Care business within our Corporate and Other operations”). While the accounting for long-term care products typically follows the locked-in assumptions model described above, as a result of our 2018 annual review and update of assumptions this business recognized a premium deficiency and unlocked and updated the assumption model to use a current set of best estimate assumptions. Given this unique fact pattern for this business, sensitivities are presented separately in order to provide stand-alone and supplementary information.

66
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

__________

(1)Includes GMDB/GMIB reserves, embedded derivative liabilities for certain living benefit guaranteed features, reserves for products with a premium deficiency, PFL liability, and URR.

(2)Represents the impact of a parallel shift in the long-term interest rate yield curve for the Individual Life segment and the Japanese insurance operations.

(3)Represents the impact of an increase or decrease in the long-term equity expected rate of return for the Individual Annuities segment.

(4)Represents the impact of an increase or decrease in the NPR credit spread for the Individual Annuities segment.

(5)Represents the impact of an increase or decrease in mortality rates for the Individual Life and Individual Annuities segments.

(6)Represents the impact of an increase or decrease in lapse rates for the Individual Life and Individual Annuities segments.

Sensitivities for the Long-Term Care business within our Corporate and Other operations

The following table summarizes certain significant assumptions made in establishing reserves for long-term care products and the net impact that could result from changes in these assumptions should they occur. Under U.S. GAAP, reserves for long-term care products are generally calculated using the locked-in assumptions concept described above. As such, the adverse hypothetical impacts illustrated in the table below are those that would increase our best estimate reserves and, when compared to our GAAP reserves, may cause a premium deficiency that would require us to unlock our assumptions and record a charge to net income. The favorable hypothetical impacts in the table below would decrease our best estimate reserves but they would not result in an immediate decrease to our GAAP reserves (given that we would be required to leave the current assumptions locked-in) and instead the positive impacts would be recognized into net income over the life of the policies in force.

 The information below is for illustrative purposes and includes the impacts of changes in a single assumption and not changes in any combination of assumptions. As a result of emerging future experience, impacts from changes in the significant assumptions in excess of the amounts illustrated may occur in future periods.

67
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

__________

(1)Investment rate reflects the expected investment yield over the life of the block of business, and is derived from the portfolio yield, current reinvestment rates and our intermediate and long-term assumption for investment yields.

(2)Includes future premium rate increases and benefit reductions in lieu of rate increases not yet approved.

Goodwill

As of December 31, 2018, our goodwill balance of $863 million is primarily reflected in the following reporting units: $455 million related to our Retirement Full Service business, $233 million related to our PGIM business, $154 million related to our Gibraltar Life and Other operations and $11 million related to our Life Planner operations.

We test goodwill for impairment on an annual basis, as of December 31 of each year, or more frequently if events or circumstances indicate the potential for impairment is more likely than not. The goodwill impairment analysis is performed at the reporting unit level which is equal to or one level below our operating segments. Although accounting guidance provides for an optional qualitative assessment for testing goodwill impairment, all four reporting units elected to perform the quantitative two step test. For additional information on goodwill and the process for testing goodwill for impairment, see Note 2 and Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

The Life Planner operations, the Gibraltar Life and Other operations, and the PGIM segment completed a quantitative impairment analysis using an earnings multiple approach. The earnings multiple approach indicates the value of a business based on comparison to publicly-traded comparable companies in similar lines of business. Each comparable company is analyzed based on various factors, including, but not limited to, financial risk, size, geographic diversification, profitability, adequate financial data, and an actively traded stock price. A multiple of price to earnings is developed for the comparable companies using independent analysts’ consensus estimates for each company’s 2019 forecasted earnings. The multiples are then aggregated and a mean and median multiple is calculated for the group. The lower of the mean or median multiple is then applied to the 2019 forecasted earnings of the reporting unit to develop a value. A control premium is then added to determine a total estimated fair value for the reporting unit.

68
In the Retirement Full Service business, the quantitative impairment analysis was completed using a discounted cash flow approach. This approach calculates the value of a business by applying a discount rate reflecting the market expected rate of return of the reporting unit to its projected future cash flows. These projected future cash flows were based on our internal forecasts, an expected growth rate and a terminal value. The reporting unit expected rate of return represents the required rate of return on its total capitalization. The process of deriving reporting unit specific required rates of return begins with the calculation of an overall Company Weighted Average Cost of Capital, which includes the calculation of the required return on equity using a Capital Asset Pricing Model (“CAPM”). The CAPM is a generally accepted method for estimating an equity investor’s return requirement, and hence a company’s cost of equity capital. The calculation using the CAPM begins with the long-term risk-free rate of return, then applies a market risk premium for large company common stock, as well as company specific adjustments to address volatility versus the market. The Company then determines reporting unit specific required rates of return based on their relative volatilities, benchmarks results against reporting unit comparable companies, and ensures that the sum of the reporting unit required returns (after considering the impact of unallocated Corporate costs and capital) add up to the overall Company required return. This process results in reporting unit specific discount rates which are then applied to the expected future cash flows of the Retirement Full Service business to estimate fair value.

After completion of the first step of the quantitative tests, the fair values exceeded the carrying amounts for each of the four reporting units and we concluded there was no impairment as of December 31, 2018. PGIM, Life Planner operations, Gibraltar Life and Other operations, and Retirement Full Service had estimated fair values that exceeded their carrying amounts by a weighted average of 231%. Completion of the second step of the quantitative analysis is therefore not necessary.

Estimating the fair value of reporting units is a subjective process that involves the use of significant estimates by management. For all reporting units tested, market declines or other events impacting the fair value of these businesses, including discount rates, interest rates and growth rate assumptions or increases in the level of equity required to support these businesses, could result in goodwill impairments, resulting in a charge to income.

Valuation of Investments, Including Derivatives, and the Recognition of Other-than-Temporary Impairments 

Our investment portfolio consists of public and private fixed maturity securities, commercial mortgage and other loans, equity securities, other invested assets, and derivative financial instruments. Derivatives are financial instruments whose values are derived from interest rates, foreign exchange rates, financial indices or the values of securities or commodities. Derivative financial instruments we generally use include swaps, futures, forwards and options and may be exchange-traded or contracted in the over-the-counter (“OTC”) market. We are also party to financial instruments that contain derivative instruments that are “embedded” in the financial instruments. Management believes the following accounting policies related to investments, including derivatives, are most dependent on the application of estimates and assumptions. Each of these policies is discussed further within other relevant disclosures related to the investments and derivatives, as referenced below:

•Valuation of investments, including derivatives;

•Recognition of other-than-temporary impairments (“OTTI”); and

•Determination of the valuation allowance for losses on commercial mortgage and other loans.

We present at fair value in the statements of financial position our debt security investments classified as available-for-sale, investments classified as trading such as our assets supporting experience-rated contractholder liabilities and certain fixed maturities, equity securities, and certain investments within “Other invested assets,” such as derivatives. For additional information regarding the key estimates and assumptions surrounding the determination of fair value of fixed maturity and equity securities, as well as derivative instruments, embedded derivatives and other investments, see Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements and “—Valuation of Assets and Liabilities—Fair Value of Assets and Liabilities.”

For our investments classified as available-for-sale, the impact of changes in fair value is recorded as an unrealized gain or loss in AOCI, a separate component of equity. For our investments classified as trading, equity securities, and derivatives, the impact of changes in fair value is recorded within “Other income (loss).” In addition, investments classified as available-for-sale, as well as those classified as held-to-maturity, are subject to impairment reviews to identify when a decline in value is other-than-temporary. For a discussion of our policies regarding other-than-temporary declines in investment value and the related methodology for recording OTTI of fixed maturity securities, see Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Commercial mortgage and other loans are carried primarily at unpaid principal balances, net of unamortized deferred loan origination fees and expenses and unamortized premiums or discounts and a valuation allowance for losses. For a discussion of our policies regarding the valuation allowance for commercial mortgage and other loans, see Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

69
Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits

We sponsor pension and other postretirement benefit plans covering employees who meet specific eligibility requirements. Our net periodic costs for these plans consider an assumed discount (interest) rate, an expected rate of return on plan assets, expected increases in compensation levels, mortality and trends in health care costs. Of these assumptions, our expected rate of return assumptions and our discount rate assumptions have historically had the most significant effect on our net period costs associated with these plans.

We determine our expected rate of return on plan assets based upon a building block approach that considers inflation, real return, term premium, credit spreads, equity risk premium and capital appreciation as well as expenses, the effect of active management and the effect of rebalancing for the equity, debt and real estate asset mix applied on a weighted average basis to our pension asset portfolio. See Note 17 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for our actual asset allocations by asset category and the asset allocation ranges prescribed by our investment policy guidelines for both our pension and other postretirement benefit plans. Our assumed long-term rate of return for 2018 was 6.25% for our domestic pension plans and 7.00% for our other postretirement benefit plans. Given the amount of plan assets as of December 31, 2017, the beginning of the measurement year, if we had assumed an expected rate of return for both our domestic pension and other domestic postretirement benefit plans that was 100 bps higher or 100 bps lower than the rates we assumed, the change in our net periodic costs would have been as shown in the table below. The information provided in the table below considers only changes in our assumed long-term rate of return given the level and mix of invested assets at the beginning of the measurement year, without consideration of possible changes in any of the other assumptions described above that could ultimately accompany any changes in our assumed long-term rate of return.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Foreign pension plans represent 5% of plan assets at the beginning of 2018. An increase in expected rate of return by 100 bps would result in a decrease in net periodic pension costs of $6 million; conversely, a decrease in expected rate of return by 100 bps would result in an increase in net periodic pension costs of $6 million.

We determine our discount rate, used to value the pension and postretirement benefit obligations, based upon rates commensurate with current yields on high quality corporate bonds. See Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding the December 31, 2017 methodology we employed to determine our discount rate for 2018. Our assumed discount rate for 2018 was 3.65% for our domestic pension plans and 3.60% for our other domestic postretirement benefit plans. Given the amount of pension and postretirement obligations as of December 31, 2017, the beginning of the measurement year, if we had assumed a discount rate for both our domestic pension and other postretirement benefit plans that was 100 bps higher or 100 bps lower than the rates we assumed, the change in our net periodic costs would have been as shown in the table below. The information provided in the table below considers only changes in our assumed discount rate without consideration of possible changes in any of the other assumptions described above that could ultimately accompany any changes in our assumed discount rate.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Foreign pension plans represent 14% of plan obligations at the beginning of 2018. An increase in discount rate by 100 bps would result in a decrease in net periodic pension costs of $17 million; conversely, a decrease in discount rate by 100 bps would result in an increase in net periodic pension costs of $2 million.

70
Given the application of the authoritative guidance for accounting for pensions, and the deferral and amortization of actuarial gains and losses arising from changes in our assumed discount rate, the change in net periodic pension cost arising from an increase in the assumed discount rate by 100 bps would not always be expected to equal the change in net periodic pension cost arising from a decrease in the assumed discount rate by 100 bps.

For a discussion of our expected rate of return on plan assets and discount rate for our qualified pension plan in 2018, see “—Results of Operations by Segment—Corporate and Other.”

For purposes of calculating pension income from our own qualified pension plan for the year ended December 31, 2019, we will increase the discount rate to 4.30% from 3.65% in 2018. The expected rate of return on plan assets will increase to 6.50% in 2019 from 6.25% in 2018, and the assumed rate of increase in compensation will remain unchanged at 4.5%.

In addition to the effect of changes in our assumptions, the net periodic cost or benefit from our pension and other postretirement benefit plans may change due to factors such as actual experience being different from our assumptions, special benefits to terminated employees, or changes in benefits provided under the plans.

At December 31, 2018, the sensitivity of our domestic and foreign pension and postretirement obligations to a 100 basis point change in discount rate was as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Taxes on Income

Our effective tax rate is based on income, non-taxable and non-deductible items, tax credits, statutory tax rates and tax planning opportunities available in the various jurisdictions in which we operate. Inherent in determining our annual tax rate are judgments regarding business plans, planning opportunities and expectations about future outcomes. The Dividend Received Deduction (“DRD”) is a major reason for the difference between the Company’s effective tax rate and the U.S. federal statutory rate. The DRD is an estimate that incorporates the prior and current year information, as well as the current year’s equity market performance. Both the current estimate of the DRD and the DRD in future periods can vary based on factors such as, but not limited to, changes in the amount of dividends received that are eligible for the DRD, changes in the amount of distributions received from underlying fund investments, changes in the account balances of variable life and annuity contracts, and the Company’s taxable income before the DRD.

In December 2017, Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) staff issued “Staff Accounting Bulletin 118, Income Tax Accounting Implications of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act” (“SAB 118”), which allowed the registrants to record provisional amounts during a ‘measurement period’ not to extend beyond one year. Under the relief provided by SAB 118, a company could recognize provisional amounts when it did not have the necessary information available, prepared or analyzed in reasonable detail to complete its accounting for the change in tax law. See Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of provisional amounts related to The United States Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (“Tax Act of 2017”) included in “Total income tax expense (benefit) before equity in earnings of operating joint ventures” in 2017 and adjustments to provisional amounts recorded in 2018.

The Tax Act of 2017 includes a provision causing post-1986 unremitted foreign earnings of at least 10% owned non-U.S. affiliates to be included in the Company’s U.S. income tax base, with an election to pay the associated tax on an eight-year installment basis. Unremitted foreign earnings from certain operations in foreign jurisdictions that impose a withholding tax on dividends are considered to be permanently reinvested for purposes of determining the applicable withholding tax expense. See Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of unremitted earnings for which the Company provides U.S. income taxes.

An increase or decrease in our effective tax rate by one percentage point would have resulted in a decrease or increase in our 2018 “Total income tax expense (benefit)” of $48 million.

71
Contingencies

A contingency is an existing condition that involves a degree of uncertainty that will ultimately be resolved upon the occurrence of future events. Under U.S. GAAP, accruals for contingencies are required to be established when the future event is probable and its impact can be reasonably estimated, such as in connection with an unresolved legal matter. The initial reserve reflects management’s best estimate of the probable cost of ultimate resolution of the matter and is revised accordingly as facts and circumstances change and, ultimately, when the matter is brought to closure.

Other Accounting Policies 

Accounting for Certain Reinsurance Contracts in our Individual Life business

In 2017, we recognized a charge of $237 million in our Individual Life segment, reflecting a change in our estimate of reinsurance cash flows associated with universal life products as well as a change in our method of reflecting these cash flows in the financial statements. Under our previous method of accounting, with the exception of recoveries pertaining to no lapse guarantees, we generally recognized reinsurance cash flows (e.g., premiums and recoveries) as they occurred. Under our new method, the expected reinsurance cash flows are recognized more ratably over the life of the underlying reinsured policies. In conjunction with this change, we revised how reinsurance is reflected in estimated gross profits used for the amortization of URR, DAC and VOBA. The change represents a change in accounting estimate effected by a change in accounting principle and is included within our annual reviews and update of assumptions and other refinements. The change in accounting estimate reflected insights gained from revised cashflow modeling enabled by a systems conversion, which prompted the change to a preferable accounting method. We view this new methodology as preferable as we believe it better reflects the economics of our reinsurance transactions by aligning the results of our reinsurance activity more closely to the underlying direct insurance activity and by better reflecting the profit pattern of this business for purposes of the amortization of the balances noted above.

Adoption of New Accounting Pronouncements

On August 15, 2018, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) 2018-12, Financial Services - Insurance (Topic 944): Targeted Improvements to the Accounting for Long-Duration Contracts, which is expected to have a significant impact on the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The ASU is effective January 1, 2021 (with early adoption permitted), and will impact, at least to some extent, the accounting and disclosure requirements for all long-duration insurance and investment contracts issued by the Company. See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a more detailed discussion of ASU 2018-12, as well as other accounting pronouncements issued but not yet adopted and newly adopted accounting pronouncements.

Results of Operations by Segment

PGIM Division

PGIM

Business Update

We regularly review our existing businesses and may seek to deploy capital in support of our strategy or to exit an operation if it is determined that it no longer aligns with our broader strategy. 

•In the fourth quarter of 2018, we reached a preliminary agreement with Dewan Housing Finance Corporation Limited (“DHFL”) to acquire its stake in our 50/50 joint venture, DHFL Pramerica Asset Managers (“DPAM”), an India-based asset management company. Upon close of the transaction, DPAM will become a wholly-owned business with no change to the scope of its business. The transaction, which is subject to signing of definitive documentation, customary closing conditions and regulatory and other approvals, is currently expected to close during the first half of 2019.

•In the fourth quarter of 2018, we entered into an agreement to acquire Wadhwani Asset Management LLP (“WAM”), a London-based quantitative macro-focused investment management firm. As a result of this transaction, which closed in January 2019, WAM will become part of our QMA business.

•In the second quarter of 2018, we exited our PGIM Brazil operations including the sale of our minority interest in a Brazilian asset management joint venture. The results of this divested business and impact of the sale are reflected in our Corporate and Other operations (see “—Results of Operations by Segment—Divested and Run-off Businesses—Divested and Run-off Businesses Included in Corporate and Other” for additional information).

72
Operating Results

The following table sets forth the PGIM segment’s operating results for the periods indicated.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

 __________

(1)Certain of our PGIM segment’s investment activities are based in currencies other than the U.S. dollar and are therefore subject to foreign currency exchange rate risk. For each of the periods presented, the financial results of our PGIM segment include the impact of an intercompany arrangement with our Corporate and Other operations designed to mitigate the impact of exchange rate changes on the segment’s U.S. dollar-equivalent earnings. For more information related to this intercompany arrangement, see “—Results of Operations—Impact of Foreign Currency Exchange Rates,” above.

Adjusted Operating Income

2018 to 2017 Annual Comparison. Adjusted operating income decreased $20 million. The decrease primarily reflected lower other related revenues, net of associated expenses, driven by lower net performance-based incentive fees and lower strategic investing results due to less favorable investment performance. Also contributing to the decrease was higher non-compensation expenses supporting business growth. Partially offsetting these decreases were higher asset management fees, net of related expenses, driven by an increase in average assets under management as a result of equity market appreciation and continued strong fixed income flows, partially offset by equity outflows. 

2017 to 2016 Annual Comparison. Adjusted operating income increased $192 million. The increase primarily reflected higher asset management fees, net of related expenses, driven by an increase in average assets under management as a result of net fixed income inflows, market appreciation, and a favorable fee rate modification within certain real estate funds that occurred in the third quarter of 2016. Also contributing to the increase were higher other related revenues, net of associated expenses, driven by higher strategic investing results due to favorable investment performance, higher net performance-based incentive fees, and an increase in commercial mortgage agency loan originations. These increases were partially offset by higher expenses.

Revenues and Expenses

The following table sets forth the PGIM segment’s revenues, presented on a basis consistent with the table above under “—Operating Results,” by type.

73
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

__________

(1)Consists of fees from: individual mutual funds and variable annuities and variable life insurance separate account assets; funds invested in proprietary mutual funds through our defined contribution plan products; and third-party sub-advisory relationships. Revenues from fixed annuities and the fixed-rate accounts of variable annuities and variable life insurance are included in the general account.

(2)Includes mortgage origination and spread lending revenues from our commercial mortgage origination and servicing business.

(3)Future revenues will be impacted by the level and diversification of our strategic investments, the commercial real estate market, and other domestic and international markets.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

2018 to 2017 Annual Comparison. Revenues decreased $61 million. Total asset management fees increased $125 million primarily driven by an increase in average assets under management as a result of equity market appreciation and continued strong fixed income flows, partially offset by equity outflows. This increase was more than offset by a decrease of $169 million in other related revenues due to lower gross performance-based incentive fees and lower strategic investing results driven by less favorable investment performance.

Expenses decreased $41 million, reflecting lower compensation attributable to lower earnings, partially offset by an increase in non-compensation expenses due to business growth.

2017 to 2016 Annual Comparison. Revenues increased $394 million. Total asset management fees increased $190 million primarily as a result of net inflows within fixed income, market appreciation, and the impact of a favorable fee rate modification within certain real estate funds. Other related revenues increased $184 million primarily due to an increase in gross performance-based incentive fees related to certain fixed income funds, higher strategic investing results driven by favorable investment performance, and an increase in commercial mortgage agency loan originations. Service, distribution and other revenues increased $20 million reflecting higher net investment income and other revenue related to certain consolidated funds. 

Expenses increased $202 million, primarily reflecting higher compensation attributable to higher earnings, as well as an increase in non-compensation related expenses.

Assets Under Management

The following table sets forth assets under management by asset class and source as of the dates indicated.

74
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

__________

(1)Consists of third-party institutional assets and group insurance contracts.

(2)Consists of: individual mutual funds and variable annuities and variable life insurance separate account assets; funds invested in proprietary mutual funds through our defined contribution plan products; and third-party sub-advisory relationships. Fixed annuities and the fixed-rate accounts of variable annuities and variable life insurance are included in the general account.

(3)These amounts primarily include certain assets related to annuity and variable life products in our U.S. Individual Solutions division, retirement and group life products in our U.S. Workplace Solutions division and certain general account assets of our International Insurance division. These assets are not directly managed by PGIM, but rather are invested in non-proprietary funds or are managed by either the divisions themselves or our Chief Investment Officer Organization.

The following table sets forth the component changes in PGIM’s assets under management by asset source for the periods indicated.

75
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

__________

(1)Represents assets that our PGIM segment manages for the benefit of other reporting segments within the Company. Additions and withdrawals of these assets are attributable to third-party product inflows and outflows in other reporting segments.

(2)Includes income reinvestment, where applicable.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Strategic Investments

The following table sets forth the strategic investments of the PGIM segment at carrying value (including the value of derivative instruments used to mitigate equity market and currency risk) by asset class and source as of the dates indicated.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

76
The decrease in strategic investments was primarily driven by relatively lower performance in certain strategies and sales of investments in U.S. collateralized loan obligations (“CLOs”) due to risk retention rules that were vacated in April 2018. This decrease was partially offset by investments in new CLOs and seed investments in new mutual funds, exchange-traded funds and undertakings for collective investment in transferable securities (“UCITs”).

U.S. Workplace Solutions Division

Retirement

Operating Results

The following table sets forth the Retirement segment’s operating results for the periods indicated.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 __________

(1)Certain of our Retirement segment’s non-U.S. dollar-denominated earnings are from longevity reinsurance contracts, which are denominated in British pounds sterling, and are therefore subject to foreign currency exchange rate risk. For the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, the financial results of our Retirement segment include the impact of an intercompany arrangement with our Corporate and Other operations designed to mitigate the impact of exchange rate changes on the segment’s U.S. dollar-equivalent earnings. Effective January 1, 2018 this intercompany arrangement was terminated and the foreign currency exchange rate risk is now managed within our Retirement segment using a strategy that may include external hedges. The impact of the agreement and the termination was not significant to the segment’s results. For more information related to this intercompany arrangement, see “—Results of Operations—Impact of Foreign Currency Exchange Rates,” above.

Adjusted Operating Income

2018 to 2017 Annual Comparison. Adjusted operating income decreased $195 million. Results for 2018 and 2017 reflected a net charge of $68 million and $20 million, respectively, from our annual reviews and update of assumptions and other refinements. Excluding these impacts, adjusted operating income decreased $147 million, primarily driven by lower net investment spread results and higher general and administrative expenses, partially offset by more favorable reserve experience. The decrease in net investment spread results primarily reflected lower income on non-coupon investments and lower net prepayment fee income, partially offset by growth in average account values, including growth within our pension risk transfer business. The increase in general and administrative expenses was primarily driven by higher operating expenses driven by business growth. The higher contribution from reserve experience primarily reflected higher mortality gains on a comparative basis for existing contracts. 

2017 to 2016 Annual Comparison. Adjusted operating income increased $232 million. Results for 2017 and 2016 reflected a net charge of $20 million and a net benefit of $6 million, respectively, from our annual reviews and update of assumptions and other refinements. Excluding this unfavorable comparative impact, adjusted operating income increased $258 million, primarily driven by higher net investment spread results, a higher contribution from reserve experience and higher fee income. The increase in net investment spread results primarily reflected higher income on non-coupon investments, higher invested assets and net prepayment fee income, partially offset by lower reinvestment rates net of crediting rate actions on full service general account stable value products. The higher contribution from reserve experience primarily reflected higher mortality gains on a comparative basis for existing contracts and growth within our pension risk transfer business. Higher fee income primarily reflected growth in full service average account values driven by market appreciation.

Revenues, Benefits and Expenses

77
2018 to 2017 Annual Comparison. Revenues increased $2,982 million. Premiums increased $3,053 million, primarily driven by new pension risk transfer transactions. This increase in premiums resulted in a corresponding increase in policyholders’ benefits, as discussed below. Net investment income decreased $105 million, primarily reflecting lower income on non-coupon investments and lower net prepayment fee income, partially offset by higher asset balances, including growth within our pension risk transfer business. 

Benefits and expenses increased $3,177 million. Excluding the impact of our annual reviews and update of assumptions, as discussed above, benefits and expenses increased $3,129 million primarily driven by an increase in policyholders’ benefits, including the change in policy reserves, related to the increase in premiums discussed above. 

2017 to 2016 Annual Comparison. Revenues increased $967 million. Premiums increased $699 million, primarily driven by new pension risk transfer transactions. This increase in premiums resulted in a corresponding increase in policyholders’ benefits, as discussed below. Net investment income increased $219 million, primarily reflecting higher income on non-coupon investments and higher invested assets, partially offset by lower reinvestment rates. Policy charges and fee income, asset management and service fees and other income increased $49 million, primarily driven by higher fee income from growth in full service average account values driven by market appreciation.

Benefits and expenses increased $735 million. Excluding the impact of our annual reviews and update of assumptions and other refinements, as discussed above, benefits and expenses increased $709 million primarily driven by an increase in policyholders’ benefits, including the change in policy reserves, related to the increase in premiums discussed above. 

Account Values

Account values are a significant driver of our operating results, and are primarily driven by net additions (withdrawals) and the impact of market changes. The income we earn on most of our fee-based products varies with the level of fee-based account values, since many policy fees are determined by these values. The investment income and interest we credit to policyholders on our spread-based products varies with the level of general account values. To a lesser extent, changes in account values impact our pattern of amortization of DAC and VOBA and general and administrative expenses. The following table shows the changes in the account values and net additions (withdrawals) of Retirement segment products for the periods indicated. Net additions (withdrawals) are plan sales and participant deposits or additions, as applicable, minus plan and participant withdrawals and benefits. Account values include both internally- and externally-managed client balances as the total balances drive revenue for the Retirement segment. For more information on internally-managed balances, see “—PGIM.”

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

__________

(1)Additions primarily include: group annuities calculated based on premiums received; longevity reinsurance contracts calculated as the present value of future projected benefits; and investment-only stable value contracts calculated as the fair value of customers’ funds held in a client-owned trust.

(2)“Other” activity includes the effect of foreign exchange rate changes associated with our British pounds sterling denominated longevity reinsurance business and changes in asset balances for externally-managed accounts. For the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, “other” activity also includes $3,497 million in receipts offset by $3,457 million in payments and $4,782 million in receipts offset by $4,375 million in payments, respectively, related to funding agreements backed by commercial paper which typically have maturities of less than 90 days.

2018 to 2017 Annual Comparison. The decrease in full service account values primarily reflected the unfavorable changes in the market value of customer funds, partially offset by positive net plan sales.

78
The increase in institutional investment products account values primarily reflected net additions from pension risk transfer transactions.

2017 to 2016 Annual Comparison. The increase in full service account values primarily reflected the favorable changes in the market value of customer funds and the addition of a significant defined contribution transaction. The increase in net additions was primarily driven by higher large plan sales, partially offset by higher large plan lapses.

The increase in institutional investment products account values primarily reflected net additions from pension risk transfer transactions, interest credited on customer funds and the impact from foreign currency fluctuations on longevity reinsurance account values, partially offset by net withdrawals from investment-only stable value accounts. The increase in net additions was primarily driven by higher net additions related to pension risk transfer transactions, partially offset by investment-only stable value accounts, which reflected net withdrawals in 2017 compared to net additions in 2016.

Group Insurance

Business Update

During the second quarter of 2018, we entered into a yearly renewable term reinsurance agreement with certain external counterparties to reinsure a portion of the mortality risk associated with our group life business. This resulted in a reduction in risk-based capital required to be held in the segment. Under U.S. GAAP, this agreement is accounted for under deposit accounting. Following this transaction, we expect a modest negative impact on the segment’s adjusted operating income as a result of risk charge expenses associated with this reinsurance arrangement and a reduction in investment income because we were able to release capital from the segment as a result of the transaction.

Operating Results

The following table sets forth the Group Insurance segment’s operating results and benefits and administrative operating expense ratios for the periods indicated.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

__________

(1)Ratio of policyholder benefits to earned premiums plus policy charges and fee income.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(3)Ratio of general and administrative expenses (excluding commissions) to gross premiums plus policy charges and fee income.

Adjusted Operating Income

79
2018 to 2017 Annual Comparison. Adjusted operating income decreased $24 million, including an unfavorable comparative net impact from our annual reviews and update of assumptions and other refinements. Results for 2018 included a $31 million net benefit from these updates while results for 2017 included a $55 million net benefit from these updates. The net benefit in both periods was primarily driven by favorable experience related to our group disability business. Excluding the effect of these items, adjusted operating income was in line with the prior year, reflecting more favorable underwriting results in our group life and group disability businesses primarily driven by business growth, offset by higher expenses, including expenses related to business growth, and a lower contribution from net investment spread results driven by lower income on non-coupon investments.

2017 to 2016 Annual Comparison. Adjusted operating income increased $33 million, including favorable comparative net impacts from our annual reviews and update of assumptions and other refinements. Results for 2017 included a $55 million net benefit from these updates while results for 2016 included a $41 million net benefit. The net benefit in both periods was primarily driven by favorable experience related to our group disability business. Excluding the effect of these items, adjusted operating income increased $19 million, primarily reflecting favorable underwriting results in our group disability business and a higher contribution from net investment spread results, partially offset by higher expenses.

Revenues, Benefits and Expenses

2018 to 2017 Annual Comparison. Revenues increased $214 million. Excluding an unfavorable comparative impact of $5 million resulting from our annual reviews and update of assumptions and other refinements, as discussed above, revenues increased $219 million. The increase primarily reflected higher premiums and policy charges and fee income driven by business growth in both our group life and group disability businesses, partially offset by lower income on non-coupon investments.

Benefits and expenses increased $238 million. Excluding an unfavorable comparative impact of $19 million resulting from our annual reviews and update of assumptions and other refinements, as discussed above, benefits and expenses increased $219 million. The increase primarily reflected higher policyholders’ benefits and changes in reserves driven by the growth in premiums discussed above, and an increase in general and administrative expenses driven by higher operating expenses from business growth and the termination of a third-party underwriting service provider contract in the second quarter of 2018.

2017 to 2016 Annual Comparison. Revenues increased $128 million. Excluding an unfavorable comparative impact of $37 million resulting from our annual reviews and update of assumptions and other refinements, revenues increased $165 million. The increase reflected $135 million of higher premiums and policy charges and fee income, primarily driven by the increase in new business in both our group life and group disability businesses, as well as higher premiums on experience-rated contracts in our group life business with corresponding offsets in benefits and expenses. Net investment income increased $29 million primarily driven by higher income from non-coupon investments.

Benefits and expenses increased $95 million. Excluding a favorable comparative impact of $51 million resulting from our annual reviews and update of assumptions and other refinements, benefits and expenses increased $146 million. This increase primarily reflected higher policyholders’ benefits and changes in reserves, driven by higher benefits on group life experience-rated contracts, as discussed above, higher benefit payments in our group disability business and our non-experience rated group life contracts, and higher general and administrative expenses.

Sales Results

The following table sets forth the Group Insurance segment’s annualized new business premiums, as defined under “—Segment Measures” above, for the periods indicated.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

__________

(1)Amounts exclude new premiums resulting from rate changes on existing policies, from additional coverage under our Servicemembers’ Group Life Insurance contract and from excess premiums on group universal life insurance that build cash value but do not purchase face amounts.

2018 to 2017 Annual Comparison. Total annualized new business premiums increased $119 million reflecting continued growth through sales to new and existing clients in both our group life and group disability businesses.

80
2017 to 2016 Annual Comparison. Total annualized new business premiums increased $5 million primarily driven by sales to new clients in our group disability business, partially offset by lower sales in our group life business, which included a large client sale in 2016.

U.S. Individual Solutions Division

Individual Annuities

The Individual Annuities segment includes both variable and fixed annuities that may include optional guaranteed living benefits riders (e.g., GMIB, GMAB, GMWB and GMIWB), and/or GMDB. We also offer fixed annuities that provide a guarantee of principal and interest credited at rates we determine (subject to certain contractual minimums) or at rates based upon the performance of an index (subject to caps). We derive our revenue mainly from fee income generated on variable annuity account values, as the investment return on these contractholder funds is generally attributed directly to the contractholder. We also earn investment income on general account assets supporting annuity account values and certain other management fees. Our expenses primarily consist of interest credited and other benefits to contractholders, amortization of DAC and other costs, non-deferred expenses related to the selling and servicing of the various products we offer, costs of managing certain risks associated with these products, changes in the reserves for benefit guarantees and other general business expenses. These drivers of our business results are generally included in adjusted operating income, with exceptions related to certain guarantees, as discussed below.

The U.S. GAAP accounting and our adjusted operating income treatment for our guarantees differ depending upon the specific contractual features. Under U.S. GAAP, the reserves for GMDB and GMIB are calculated based on best estimates applying our actuarial and capital markets return assumptions in accordance with an insurance fulfillment accounting framework. Under this framework, a liability is established over time representing the portion of fees collected that is expected to be used to satisfy the obligation to pay benefits in future periods. The risks associated with these benefit features are retained and results are included in adjusted operating income in a manner generally consistent with U.S. GAAP.

In contrast, certain of our guaranteed living benefit riders (e.g., GMAB, GMWB and GMIWB) are accounted for under U.S. GAAP as embedded derivatives and reported using a fair value accounting framework. These benefit features are carried at fair value, based on estimates of assumptions a market participant would use in valuing these embedded derivatives, and the change in fair value during each reporting period is recorded within “Realized investment gains (losses), net.” For purposes of measuring segment performance, adjusted operating income excludes the changes in fair value and instead reflects the performance of these riders using an insurance fulfillment accounting framework. Under this framework, adjusted operating income recognized each period reflects the rider fees earned during the period, less the portion of such fees estimated to be required to cover future benefit payments and hedging costs. For more information on how we determine the portion of fees needed to cover estimated future benefit payments and hedging costs, see “Variable Annuity Risks and Risk Mitigants” below.

Operating Results

The following table sets forth the Individual Annuities segment’s operating results for the periods indicated.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

81
Adjusted Operating Income

2018 to 2017 Annual Comparison. Adjusted operating income decreased $273 million. Excluding the impacts of changes in the estimated profitability of the business, discussed below, adjusted operating income decreased $56 million. The decrease was primarily driven by lower net investment spread results reflecting lower investment income on non-coupon investments, higher capital hedge costs, and higher distribution expenses due to increased sales. Partially offsetting these decreases were lower amortization costs and reserve provisions as well as higher asset-based fee income, net of associated costs. The increase in the net asset-based fee income reflected higher average variable annuity account values due to market appreciation and favorable impacts related to our living benefit guarantees, partially offset by negative net flows and the impact of certain products reaching contractual milestones for fee tier reduction.

The impacts of changes in the estimated profitability of the business include adjustments to the amortization of DAC and other costs as well as to the reserves for certain living and/or death benefit features of our variable annuity products. These adjustments resulted in a net charge of $34 million and a net benefit of $183 million in 2018 and 2017, respectively, reflecting the net impact of hedge effectiveness relative to our assumptions, as well as a net benefit resulting from our annual reviews and update of assumptions and other refinements. Additionally, the net benefit of $183 million also reflected the net impact of equity market performance on contractholder accounts.

2017 to 2016 Annual Comparison. Adjusted operating income increased $433 million. Excluding the impacts of changes in the estimated profitability of the business, discussed below, adjusted operating income increased $388 million. The increase was primarily driven by higher asset-based fee income, net of associated costs, lower amortization costs and reserve provisions, and higher net investment spread results. The increase in asset-based fee income, net of a related increase in asset-based commissions, reflects higher average variable annuity account values due to market appreciation; and the impact of greater efficiencies in managing product risks associated with the Asset Liability Management strategy that was implemented in the third quarter of 2016. The increase in net investment spread results reflects higher investment income on non-coupon investments as well as a higher level of invested assets.

The adjustments to the amortization of DAC and other costs and to the reserves for certain living and/or death benefit features of our variable annuity products resulted in a net benefit of $183 million in 2017, as discussed above, and a net benefit of $138 million in 2016 primarily reflecting the net impact of equity market performance on contractholder accounts, hedge effectiveness relative to our assumptions, and a net benefit resulting from our annual reviews and update of assumptions and other refinements.

Revenues, Benefits and Expenses

2018 to 2017 Annual Comparison. Revenues decreased $144 million. Excluding a $93 million net decrease related to the impacts of certain changes in our estimated profitability of the business, as discussed above, revenues decreased $51 million. The decrease is primarily due to a decrease in net investment spread results reflecting lower investment income on non-coupon investments, as well as a decrease in asset management and services fees and other income attributable to higher capital hedge costs. These decreases were partially offset by an increase in premiums reflecting an increase in annuitizations of our variable annuity contracts, with offsets in policyholders’ benefits, as discussed below. Also contributing to the partial offset was an increase in policy charges and fee income reflecting higher average variable annuity account values due to market appreciation and favorable impacts related to our living benefit guarantees, partially offset by negative net flows and the impact of certain products reaching contractual milestones for fee tier reduction.

Benefits and expenses increased $129 million. Excluding a $124 million net increase related to the impacts of certain changes in our estimated profitability of the business, as discussed above, benefits and expenses increased $5 million. General and administrative expenses, net of capitalization, increased $27 million due to higher distribution expenses driven by higher sales, as well as higher technology costs. Policyholders’ benefits, including changes in reserves, increased $9 million primarily due to higher reserve provisions and annuitizations, as discussed above. These increases were partially offset by a decrease of $17 million in interest credited to policyholders’ account balance, and a decrease of $11 million in amortization of acquisition costs.

2017 to 2016 Annual Comparison. Revenues increased $444 million. Excluding an $85 million net increase related to the impacts of certain changes in our estimated profitability of the business, as discussed above, revenues increased $359 million. Higher average variable annuity account values and the impact from refinements to our risk management strategy drove increases in policy charges and fee income, and asset management and service fees and other income. The increase in net investment income was driven by higher income from non-coupon investments and a higher level of invested assets.

82
Benefits and expenses increased $11 million. Excluding a $40 million net increase related to the impacts of certain changes in our estimated profitability of the business, as discussed above, benefits and expenses decreased $29 million, primarily driven by a decrease in policyholders’ benefits, including changes in reserves. Partially offsetting this decrease were higher general and administrative expenses, net of capitalization, primarily driven by higher asset management costs and higher asset-based commissions due to higher average account values, as well as from higher net operating expenses, including those supporting business growth initiatives. 

Account Values

Account values are a significant driver of our operating results. Since most fees are determined by the level of separate account assets, fee income varies according to the level of account values. Additionally, our fee income generally drives other items such as the pattern of amortization of DAC and other costs. Account values are driven by net flows from new business sales, surrenders, withdrawals and benefit payments, policy charges and the impact of positive or negative market value changes. The annuity industry’s competitive and regulatory landscapes, which have been dynamic over the last few years, may impact our net flows, including new business sales. The following table sets forth account value information for the periods indicated.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

__________[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

2018 to 2017 Annual Comparison. The decrease in account values during 2018 was predominantly driven by unfavorable changes in the market value of contractholder funds. This decrease was slightly offset by an increase in net sales reflecting higher gross sales, partially offset by higher surrenders and withdrawals as well as benefit payments and policy charges that were generally in line with prior periods.

2017 to 2016 Annual Comparison. The increase in account values during 2017 was predominantly driven by favorable changes in the market value of contractholder funds. Net sales for 2017 decreased compared to 2016 reflecting lower gross sales and higher surrenders and withdrawals. The decline in gross sales for 2017 compared to 2016 was largely driven by the continued impact stemming from the evolving U.S. Department of Labor fiduciary rules and an industry shift away from variable annuity products.

 Variable Annuity Risks and Risk Mitigants

The primary risk exposures of our variable annuity contracts relate to actual deviations from, or changes to, the assumptions used in the original pricing of these products, including capital markets assumptions such as equity market returns, interest rates and market volatility, along with actuarial assumptions such as contractholder mortality, the timing and amount of annuitization and withdrawals, and contract lapses. For these risk exposures, achievement of our expected returns and profitability is subject to the risk that actual experience will differ from the assumptions used in the original pricing of these products. We currently manage our exposure to certain risks driven by fluctuations in capital markets primarily through a combination of Product Design Features, an Asset Liability Management Strategy, a Capital Hedge Program and External Reinsurance. 

Product Design Features

83
A portion of the variable annuity contracts that we offer include an automatic rebalancing feature, also referred to as an asset transfer feature. This feature is implemented at the contract level, and transfers assets between certain variable investment sub-accounts selected by the annuity contractholder and, depending on the benefit feature, a fixed-rate account in the general account or a bond fund sub-account within the separate accounts. The automatic rebalancing feature associated with currently-sold highest daily benefit products uses a designated bond fund sub-account within the separate accounts. The transfers are based on a static mathematical formula used with the particular benefit which considers a number of factors, including, but not limited to, the impact of investment performance on the contractholder’s total account value. The objective of the automatic rebalancing feature is to reduce our exposure to equity market risk and market volatility. Other product design features we utilize include, among others, asset allocation restrictions, minimum issuance age requirements and certain limitations on the amount of contractholder deposits, as well as a required minimum allocation to our general account for certain of our products. We continue to introduce products that diversify our risk profile and have incorporated provisions in product design allowing frequent revisions of key pricing elements for certain of our products. In addition, there is diversity in our fee arrangements, as certain fees are primarily based on the benefit guarantee amount, the contractholder account value and/or premiums, which helps preserve certain revenue streams when market fluctuations cause account values to decline.

Asset Liability Management (“ALM”) Strategy (including fixed income instruments and derivatives)

Under our historical hedging program to manage certain capital market risks associated with certain variable annuity living benefit guarantees, we utilized the U.S. GAAP valuation, with certain modifications, to derive a hedge target that was more reflective of our best estimate of future benefit payments, net of fees collected. Derivative positions were entered into that sought to offset the change in value of the hedge target.

During the third quarter of 2016, we implemented a new ALM strategy that utilizes a combination of both traditional fixed income instruments and derivatives to help defray potential claims associated with our variable annuity living benefit guarantees. The economic liability we manage with this ALM strategy consists of expected living benefit claims under less severe market conditions, which are managed through the accumulation of fixed income instruments, and potential living benefit claims resulting from more severe market conditions, which are hedged using derivative instruments. For the portion of our ALM strategy executed with derivatives, we enter into a range of exchange-traded, cleared, and OTC equity and interest rate derivatives, including, but not limited to: equity and treasury futures; total return and interest rate swaps; and options, including equity options, swaptions, and floors and caps. The intent of this strategy is to more efficiently manage the capital and liquidity associated with these products while continuing to mitigate fluctuations in net income due to movements in capital markets.

The change in hedge strategy had no impact on how we value or account for the living benefit guarantees under U.S. GAAP. However, under the ALM strategy that began in the third quarter of 2016, adjusted operating income includes the fees earned that are in excess of the estimated portion of fees required to cover expected claims and hedge costs for the economic liability. The portion of fees required to cover such costs is updated quarterly to reflect updated estimates and actual experience. The effectiveness of our hedging program as measured by comparing the change in value of our hedging assets to the change in value of the liability we are attempting to hedge will ultimately be reflected in adjusted operating income over time through the inclusion of actual hedge costs. Expected costs are updated periodically along with our expectation of claims. For adjusted operating income purposes, DAC and other costs are fully amortized over the life of the contracts proportional to our actual and estimated gross profits under the adjusted operating income framework described above. Overall, we generally expect this strategy to result in a higher portion of fees being recognized in adjusted operating income than under our prior strategy.

The following table provides a reconciliation between the liability reported under U.S. GAAP and the economic liability we manage through our ALM strategy.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

As of December 31, 2018, our fixed income instruments and derivative assets exceed the economic liability within the entities in which the risks reside.

84
Under our ALM strategy, we expect differences in the U.S. GAAP net income impact between the changes in value of the fixed income instruments and derivatives, as compared to the changes in the embedded derivative liability these assets support. These differences can be primarily attributed to three distinct areas:

•Different valuation methodologies in measuring the liability we intend to cover with fixed income instruments and derivatives versus the liability reported under U.S. GAAP—The valuation methodology utilized in estimating the economic liability we intend to defray with fixed income instruments and derivatives is different from that required to be utilized to measure the liability under U.S. GAAP. Additionally, the valuation of the economic liability excludes certain items that are included within the U.S. GAAP liability, such as NPR (in order to maximize protection irrespective of the possibility of our own default), as well as risk margins (required by U.S. GAAP but different from our best estimate).

•Different accounting treatment between liabilities and assets supporting those liabilities—Under U.S. GAAP, changes in value of the embedded derivative liability and derivative instruments used to hedge a portion of the economic liability are immediately reflected in net income. In contrast, changes in fair value of fixed income instruments that support a portion of the economic liability are designated as available-for-sale and are recorded as unrealized gains (losses) in other comprehensive income rather than within net income.

•General hedge results—For the derivative portion of the ALM strategy, the net hedging impact (the extent to which the changes in value of the hedging instruments offset the change in value of the portion of the economic liability we are hedging) may be impacted by a number of factors including: cash flow timing differences between our hedging instruments and the corresponding portion of the economic liability we are hedging, basis differences attributable to actual underlying contractholder funds to be hedged versus hedgeable indices, rebalancing costs related to dynamic rebalancing of hedging instruments as markets move, certain elements of the economic liability that may not be hedged (including certain actuarial assumptions), and implied and realized market volatility on the hedge positions relative to the portion of the economic liability we seek to hedge.

 The following table illustrates the net impact to our Consolidated Statements of Operations from changes in the U.S. GAAP embedded derivative liability and hedge positions under the ALM strategy, and the related amortization of DAC and other costs, that are excluded from adjusted operating income. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

__________

(1)Positive amount represents income; negative amount represents a loss.

(2)Net hedging impact represents the difference between the change in fair value of the risk we seek to hedge using derivatives and the change in fair value of the derivatives utilized with respect to that risk.

(3)Excludes $(1,523) million for 2016 representing the impact of managing interest rate risk through our Capital Protection Framework prior to the introduction of our new ALM strategy in the third quarter of 2016. Because the decision to manage this risk through the Capital Protection Framework was based on the capital considerations of the Company as a whole, the impact was reported in Corporate and Other operations. See “—Corporate and Other.”

(4)Represents risk margins and valuation methodology differences between the economic liability managed by the ALM strategy and the U.S. GAAP liability, as well as the portion of the economic liability managed with fixed income instruments. 

The net loss of $84 million for 2018 primarily reflected the impact of a $173 million charge from our annual review and update of assumptions, driven by modifications to both our actuarial assumptions, including updates to expected withdrawal rates, as well as to economic assumptions. These charges were largely offset by changes in the U.S. GAAP embedded derivative and hedge positions as a result of credit spreads widening, partially offset by declining rates and unfavorable equity markets. 

85
The net loss of $719 million for 2017 primarily reflected the net impact of a $793 million loss from changes in the U.S. GAAP embedded derivative and hedge positions, predominantly driven by a decrease in the NPR adjustment due to tightening of credit spreads used in measuring our living benefits contracts. Partially offsetting this decrease were an increase in the portions of the U.S. GAAP liability before NPR that are excluded from our hedge target and, to a lesser extent, a benefit from net hedging impacts, primarily driven by fund outperformance and favorable liability basis.

The net gain of $1,654 million for 2016 primarily reflected the impact of a $1,455 million benefit from our annual review and update of assumptions, driven by modifications to both our actuarial assumptions, including updates to expected withdrawal rates, as well as economic assumptions. The net gain also reflected the changes in the portions of the U.S. GAAP liability before NPR that are excluded from our hedge target. This impact was partially offset by changes in the NPR adjustment, primarily driven by tightening of credit spreads. To a lesser extent, results also reflected net hedging impacts, primarily driven by unfavorable liability basis. Each of these items had corresponding partial offsets included in the related impacts to amortization of DAC and other costs. Amortization of DAC and other costs also included a benefit of $515 million related to changes in our estimate of total gross profits as a result of the implementation of the new ALM strategy in the third quarter of 2016 described above.

Through March 31, 2016, we reinsured living benefit guarantees issued by our domestic statutory life insurance companies to a captive reinsurance company, Pruco Reinsurance, Ltd. (“Pruco Re”), in order to facilitate the capital markets hedging program for these living benefit guarantees. Effective April 1, 2016, these living benefit guarantees and certain retirement products were recaptured and then reinsured to certain of our domestic statutory life insurance companies. The ALM strategy described above is executed within these domestic insurance companies. After the foregoing transactions, Pruco Re no longer had any material active reinsurance with affiliates. On September 30, 2016, Pruco Re was merged with and into Prudential Annuities Life Assurance Corporation (“PALAC”).

Capital Hedge Program

During 2017, we commenced a capital hedge program within the Individual Annuities segment to further hedge equity market impacts. The program is intended to protect a portion of the overall capital position of the variable annuities business against its exposure to the equity markets. The capital hedge program is conducted using equity derivatives which include equity call and put options, total return swaps and futures contracts. The changes in value of these derivatives are recognized in adjusted operating income over the expected duration of the capital hedge program.

External Reinsurance

As of December 31, 2018, $2.9 billion of Highest Daily Lifetime Income (“HDI”) v.3.0 account values are reinsured to Union Hamilton Reinsurance Ltd., an external counterparty, pursuant to a quota share agreement that covered approximately 50% of new business between April 1, 2015 and December 31, 2016. HDI v.3.0 is the current version of our “highest daily” living benefits guarantee that is available with our Prudential Premier® Retirement Variable Annuity. New sales of HDI v.3.0 subsequent to December 31, 2016 are not covered by this external reinsurance agreement.

Product Specific Risks and Risk Mitigants

For certain living benefits guarantees, claims will primarily represent the funding of contractholder lifetime withdrawals after the cumulative withdrawals have first exhausted the contractholder account value. Due to the age of the in-force block, limited claim payments have occurred to date, and they are not expected to increase significantly within the next five years, based upon current assumptions. The timing and amount of future claims will depend on actual returns on contractholder account value and actual contractholder behavior relative to our assumptions. The majority of our current living benefits guarantees provide for guaranteed lifetime contractholder withdrawal payments inclusive of a “highest daily” contract value guarantee. Our Prudential Defined Income (“PDI”) variable annuity complements our variable annuity products with the highest daily benefit and provides for guaranteed lifetime contractholder withdrawal payments, but restricts contractholder asset allocation to a single bond fund sub-account within the separate accounts.

The majority of our variable annuity contracts with living benefits guarantees, and all new contracts sold with our highest daily living benefits feature, include risk mitigants in the form of an automatic rebalancing feature and/or inclusion in our ALM strategy. We may also utilize external reinsurance as a form of additional risk mitigation. The risks associated with the guaranteed benefits of certain legacy products that were sold prior to our development of the automatic rebalancing feature are also managed through our ALM strategy. Certain legacy GMAB products include the automatic rebalancing feature, but are not included in the ALM strategy. The PDI product and contracts with the GMIB feature have neither risk mitigant. Certain risks associated with PDI are managed through the limitation of contractholder asset allocations to a single bond fund sub-account.

86
For our GMDBs, we provide a benefit payable in the event of death. Our base GMDB is generally equal to a return of cumulative deposits adjusted for any partial withdrawals. Certain products include an optional enhanced GMDB based on the greater of a minimum return on the contract value or an enhanced value. We have retained the risk that the total amount of death benefit payable may be greater than the contractholder account value; however, a substantial portion of the account values associated with GMDBs are subject to an automatic rebalancing feature because the contractholder also selected a living benefit guarantee which includes an automatic rebalancing feature. All of the variable annuity account values with living benefit guarantees also contain GMDBs. The living and death benefit features for these contracts cover the same insured life and, consequently, we have insured both the longevity and mortality risk on these contracts.

The following table sets forth the risk management profile of our living benefit guarantees and GMDB features as of the periods indicated. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

_________

(1)All contracts with living benefit guarantees also contain GMDB features, covering the same insured contract.

(2)Contracts with living benefits that are included in our ALM strategy and that have an automatic rebalancing feature.

(3)Represents contracts subject to reinsurance transaction with external counterparty covering certain new HDI v.3.0 business for the period April 1, 2015 through December 31, 2016. These contracts with living benefits also have an automatic rebalancing feature.

(4)Includes contracts that have a GMDB feature and do not have an automatic rebalancing feature.

Individual Life

Operating Results

The following table sets forth the Individual Life segment’s operating results for the periods indicated.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Adjusted Operating Income

87
2018 to 2017 Annual Comparison. Adjusted operating income increased $414 million, primarily reflecting favorable comparative net impacts from our annual reviews and update of assumptions and other refinements. Results for 2018 included a $65 million net charge from this annual review, mainly driven by unfavorable impacts related to lapse and mortality rate assumptions. Results for 2017 included a $653 million net charge from this annual review mainly driven by a charge related to modeling refinements as a result of a valuation systems conversion, including a change in the method of accounting for reinsurance associated with certain long-duration insurance contracts, and changes in lapse rate assumptions. Excluding these impacts, adjusted operating income decreased $174 million, primarily reflecting lower underwriting results, driven by the unfavorable ongoing impact of our annual reviews and updates of assumptions and other refinements, partially offset by less unfavorable mortality experience, net of reinsurance. The decrease was also driven by a lower contribution from net investment spread results primarily due to lower income on non-coupon investments.

2017 to 2016 Annual Comparison. Adjusted operating income decreased $270 million, primarily reflecting unfavorable comparative net impacts from our annual reviews and update of assumptions and other refinements. Results for 2017 included a $653 million net charge from this annual review, as discussed above. Results for 2016 included a $420 million net charge from this annual review, mainly driven by a charge to accrue a liability to offset the present value of losses expected to be recognized in later years and a charge related to an out of period adjustment, partially offset by a net benefit from the impacts of other refinements. Excluding these impacts, adjusted operating income decreased $37 million, primarily reflecting the unfavorable ongoing impact of our second quarter 2017 annual review and update of assumptions and other refinements, higher general and administrative expenses, including expenses related to business growth initiatives, and an unfavorable impact from mortality experience, net of reinsurance. These decreases were partially offset by a higher contribution from net investment spread results.

Revenues, Benefits and Expenses

2018 to 2017 Annual Comparison. Revenues increased $857 million. Excluding the impact of our annual reviews and update of assumptions and other refinements, as discussed above, revenues increased $80 million. This increase was primarily driven by an increase in net investment income from higher average invested assets, resulting from continued business growth, and higher investment income from unaffiliated reserve financing activity, which resulted in a corresponding increase in interest expense, as discussed below, partially offset by lower income on non-coupon investments. Also contributing to this increase was higher premiums driven by continued business growth. These increases were partially offset by lower revenues reflecting higher ceded net reinsurance premiums, as a result of the unfavorable ongoing impact of the second quarter 2017 change in the method of accounting for reinsurance, which was partially offset by related lower benefits and expenses, as discussed below. 

Benefits and expenses increased $443 million. Excluding the impact of our annual reviews and update of assumptions and other refinements, as discussed above, benefits and expenses increased $254 million. This increase was primarily related to higher general and administrative expenses, net of capitalization, reflecting increased VOBA amortization and higher operating expenses, higher reserve financing costs, as discussed above, higher policyholders’ benefits and interest credited to account balances attributable to continued business growth, and increased DAC amortization. These increases were partially offset by the favorable ongoing impact of the second quarter 2017 change in the method of accounting for reinsurance, which was more than offset by the related unfavorable impact in revenues, as discussed above. 

2017 to 2016 Annual Comparison. Revenues decreased $381 million. Excluding the impact of our annual reviews and update of assumptions and other refinements, as discussed above, revenues increased $152 million. This increase was primarily driven by an increase in net investment income from higher average invested assets, resulting from continued business growth, higher investment income from unaffiliated reserve financing activity, which resulted in a corresponding increase in interest expense, as discussed below, and higher income on non-coupon investments, partially offset by lower prepayment fee income. Also contributing to this increase was higher premiums driven by continued business growth. These increases were partially offset by lower revenues reflecting higher ceded net reinsurance premiums, as a result of the unfavorable ongoing impact of the second quarter 2017 change in the method of accounting for reinsurance, which was partially offset by related lower benefits and expenses, as discussed below. 

Benefits and expenses decreased $111 million. Excluding the impact of our annual reviews and update of assumptions and other refinements, as discussed above, benefits and expenses increased $189 million. This increase was primarily related to higher general and administrative expenses, net of capitalization, reflecting higher operating expenses including business growth initiatives, higher reserve financing costs, as discussed above, and higher policyholders’ benefits and interest credited to account balances attributable to continued business growth and an unfavorable impact from mortality experience, partially offset by the favorable ongoing impact of the second quarter 2017 change in the method of accounting for reinsurance, which was more than offset by the related unfavorable impact in revenues, as discussed above.

Sales Results

88
The following table sets forth individual life insurance annualized new business premiums, as defined under “—Results of Operations—Segment Measures” above, by distribution channel and product, for the periods indicated.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

__________[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

2018 to 2017 Annual Comparison. Total annualized new business premiums were in line with the prior year as lower guaranteed universal life sales were offset by higher sales of variable life and other universal life products, as a result of certain distribution, product design and pricing actions implemented to enhance product mix diversification and in response to the adoption in 2017 of the principle-based reserving method for new guaranteed universal life products.

2017 to 2016 Annual Comparison. Total annualized new business premiums decreased $6 million, primarily driven by lower guaranteed universal life sales, partially offset by higher sales across other products, as a result of certain distribution and product actions implemented to enhance product mix diversification.

International Insurance Division

International Insurance 

Business Update

We regularly review our existing international businesses and may seek to deploy capital in support of our strategy or to exit an operation if it is determined that it no longer aligns with our broader international strategy.

•In June 2018, we entered into a definitive agreement to sell our Pramerica of Italy subsidiary, subject to regulatory approvals and customary closing conditions. In February 2019, the agreement was terminated and we continue to explore strategic alternatives. The results of this business and the impact of an anticipated sale are reflected in our Corporate and Other operations (see “—Results of Operations by Segment—Divested and Run-off Businesses—Divested and Run-off Businesses Included in Corporate and Other” for additional information).

•In January 2018, we entered into a definitive agreement to sell our Pramerica of Poland subsidiary. This transaction closed in October 2018 and resulted in a gain that was reflected in our Corporate and Other operations (see “—Results of Operations by Segment—Divested and Run-off Businesses—Divested and Run-off Businesses Included in Corporate and Other” for additional information).

Operating Results

The results of our International Insurance operations are translated on the basis of weighted average monthly exchange rates, inclusive of the effects of the intercompany arrangement discussed in “—Results of Operations—Impact of Foreign Currency Exchange Rates” above. To provide a better understanding of operating performance within the International Insurance segment, where indicated below, we have analyzed our results of operations excluding the effect of the year over year change in foreign currency exchange rates. Our results of operations, excluding the effect of foreign currency fluctuations, were derived by translating foreign currencies to U.S. dollars at uniform exchange rates for all periods presented, including for constant dollar information discussed below. The exchange rates used were Japanese yen at a rate of 111 yen per U.S. dollar and Korean won at a rate of 1150 won per U.S. dollar, both of which were determined in connection with the foreign currency income hedging program discussed in “—Results of Operations—Impact of Foreign Currency Exchange Rates” above. In addition, for constant dollar information discussed below, activity denominated in U.S. dollars is generally reported based on the amounts as transacted in U.S. dollars. Annualized new business premiums presented on a constant exchange rate basis in the “Sales Results” section below reflect translation based on these same uniform exchange rates.

89
The following table sets forth the International Insurance segment’s operating results for the periods indicated.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Adjusted Operating Income

2018 to 2017 Annual Comparison. Adjusted operating income from our Life Planner operations increased $97 million including a net favorable impact of $4 million from currency fluctuations, inclusive of the currency hedging program discussed above. Both periods also include the impact of our annual reviews and update of assumptions and other refinements, which resulted in a $49 million net charge in 2018 compared to a $67 million net charge in 2017. The net charge in both 2018 and 2017 was primarily driven by the impact from unfavorable economic assumption updates driven by a lower long-term interest rate assumption in Japan.

Excluding the effect of these items, adjusted operating income from our Life Planner operations increased $75 million, primarily reflecting the growth of business in force in our Japan, Korea and Brazil operations, and lower expenses, including lower legal costs. These increases were partially offset by an unfavorable impact from mortality experience and a lower contribution from net investment results, driven by the impact of lower reinvestment rates, lower income on non-coupon investments and lower prepayment fee income, partially offset by higher average invested assets resulting from continued business growth.

Adjusted operating income from our Gibraltar Life and Other operations decreased $29 million including a net favorable impact of $4 million from currency fluctuations, inclusive of the currency hedging program discussed above. Both periods also include the impact of our annual reviews and update of assumptions and other refinements, which resulted in a $32 million net charge in 2018 compared to a $21 million net benefit in 2017.

Excluding the effect of these items, adjusted operating income from our Gibraltar Life and Other operations increased $20 million, primarily reflecting the growth of business in force, driven by sales of U.S. dollar-denominated products, and a favorable impact from mortality experience. These increases were partially offset by a lower contribution from net investment results driven by the impact of lower income on non-coupon investments, lower prepayment fee income and lower reinvestment rates, partially offset by higher average invested assets resulting from continued business growth. These net increases were also partially offset by higher expenses, including expenses related to business growth initiatives.

90
2017 to 2016 Annual Comparison. Adjusted operating income from our Life Planner operations decreased $46 million including a net unfavorable impact of $39 million from currency fluctuations, inclusive of the currency hedging program discussed above. Both periods also include the impact of our annual reviews and update of assumptions and other refinements, which resulted in a $67 million net charge in 2017, including impacts from unfavorable economic assumption updates driven by a lower long-term interest rate assumption in Japan, compared to a $38 million net charge in 2016. 

Excluding the effect of these items, adjusted operating income from our Life Planner operations increased $22 million, primarily reflecting the growth of business in force in our Japan and Brazil operations, improved policyholder experience, and a higher contribution from net investment results, primarily from higher income on non-coupon investments and higher net prepayment fee income, partially offset by lower reinvestment rates. These favorable impacts were partially offset by higher expenses, including legal costs and expenses supporting business growth.

Adjusted operating income from our Gibraltar Life and Other operations increased $127 million including a net favorable impact of $2 million from currency fluctuations, inclusive of the currency hedging program discussed above. Both periods also include the impact of our annual reviews and update of assumptions and other refinements, which resulted in a $21 million net benefit in 2017 compared to a $34 million net charge in 2016.

Excluding the effect of these items, adjusted operating income from our Gibraltar Life and Other operations increased $70 million, primarily reflecting the growth of business in force, including higher earnings from our indirect investment in Administradora de Fondos de Pensiones Habitat S.A. which reflected twelve months of income in 2017 compared to ten months of income in 2016, improved policyholder experience and more favorable comparative mortality experience. These favorable impacts were partially offset by the absence of a gain on the sale of a home office property in Japan in 2016.

Revenues, Benefits and Expenses

2018 to 2017 Annual Comparison. Revenues from our Life Planner operations increased $532 million including a net favorable impact of $6 million from currency fluctuations and a comparatively favorable net impact of $3 million from our annual reviews and update of assumptions and other refinements. Excluding these items, revenues increased $523 million, primarily driven by higher premiums and policy charges and fee income related to the growth of business in force.

Benefits and expenses from our Life Planner operations increased $435 million including a net unfavorable impact of $2 million from currency fluctuations and a comparatively favorable net impact of $15 million from our annual reviews and update of assumptions and other refinements. Excluding these items, benefits and expenses increased $448 million. This increase primarily reflects higher policyholders’ benefits, including changes in reserves, driven by business growth, and an unfavorable impact from mortality experience, partially offset by lower general and administrative expenses, net of capitalization, including lower legal costs.

Revenues from our Gibraltar Life and Other operations increased $142 million, including a net favorable impact of $83 million from currency fluctuations and a comparatively unfavorable net impact of $13 million from our annual reviews and update of assumptions and other refinements. Excluding these items, revenues increased $72 million primarily driven by the growth of business in force.

Benefits and expenses from our Gibraltar Life and Other operations increased $171 million including a net unfavorable impact of $79 million from currency fluctuations and a comparatively unfavorable net impact of $40 million from our annual reviews and update of assumptions and other refinements. Excluding these items, benefits and expenses increased $52 million, primarily driven by higher general and administrative expenses, net of capitalization, including expenses related to business growth initiatives, partially offset by a decrease in policyholders’ benefits, including changes in reserves, related to a favorable impact from mortality experience.

2017 to 2016 Annual Comparison. Revenues from our Life Planner operations increased $658 million including a net unfavorable impact of $60 million from currency fluctuations and a comparatively favorable net impact of $15 million from our annual reviews and update of assumptions and other refinements. Excluding these items, revenues increased $703 million. This increase was primarily driven by higher premiums and policy charges and fee income related to growth of business in force and higher net investment income primarily reflecting higher income on non-coupon investments and higher net prepayment fee income, partially offset by lower reinvestment rates.

91
Benefits and expenses from our Life Planner operations increased $704 million including a net favorable impact of $21 million from currency fluctuations and a comparatively unfavorable net impact of $44 million from our annual reviews and update of assumptions and other refinements. Excluding these items, benefits and expenses increased $681 million. This increase primarily reflects higher policyholder benefits, including changes in reserves, driven by business growth, and higher general and administrative expenses, net of capitalization, driven by higher operating expenses, including legal costs and expenses supporting business growth.

Revenues from our Gibraltar Life and Other operations decreased $107 million, including a net unfavorable impact of $153 million from currency fluctuations and a comparatively favorable net impact of $13 million from our annual reviews and update of assumptions and other refinements. Excluding these items, revenues increased $33 million. This increase was primarily driven by higher premiums and policy charges and fee income related to the growth of business in force and higher net investment income.

Benefits and expenses from our Gibraltar Life and Other operations decreased $234 million including a net favorable impact of $155 million from currency fluctuations and a comparatively favorable net impact of $42 million from our annual reviews and update of assumptions and other refinements. Excluding these items, benefits and expenses decreased $37 million, driven by a decrease in policyholder benefits, including changes in reserves, related to improved policyholder experience and more favorable comparative mortality experience. 

Sales Results

The following table sets forth annualized new business premiums, as defined under “—Results of Operations—Segment Measures” above, on an actual and constant exchange rate basis for the periods indicated.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

__________

(1)Amounts are presented on a consistent basis reflecting the elimination of the one-month reporting lag for Gibraltar Life and Other operations.

The amount of annualized new business premiums and the sales mix in terms of types and currency denomination of products for any given period can be significantly impacted by several factors, including but not limited to: the addition of new products, discontinuation of existing products, changes in credited interest rates for certain products and other product modifications, changes in premium rates, changes in interest rates or fluctuations in currency markets, changes in tax laws, changes in life insurance regulations or changes in the competitive environment. Sales volume may increase or decrease prior to certain of these changes becoming effective, and then fluctuate in the other direction following such changes.

Our diverse product portfolio in Japan, in terms of currency mix and premium payment structure, allows us to adapt to changing market and competitive dynamics, including the extremely low interest rate environment. We regularly examine our product offerings and their related profitability and, as a result, we have repriced or discontinued sales of certain products that do not meet our profit expectations. The impact of these actions, coupled with the introduction of certain new products, has generally resulted in an increase in sales of products denominated in U.S. dollars relative to products denominated in other currencies.

2018 to 2017 Annual Comparison. The table below presents annualized new business premiums on a constant exchange rate basis, by product category and distribution channel, for the periods indicated.

92
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

__________

(1)Includes retirement income, endowment and savings variable universal life.

(2)Amounts are presented on a consistent basis reflecting the elimination of the one-month reporting lag for Gibraltar Life and Other operations.

Annualized new business premiums, on a constant exchange rate basis, from our Life Planner operations decreased $123 million, primarily reflecting sales in our Japan operations in the prior year period in advance of premium rate increases on yen-based products in the second quarter of 2017 and lower sales of these yen-based products post repricing. The decrease was partially offset by higher sales of U.S. dollar-denominated products in our Japan operations.

Annualized new business premiums, on a constant exchange rate basis, from our Gibraltar Life operations decreased $118 million. Life Consultants sales increased $39 million, primarily reflecting higher sales of U.S. dollar-denominated annuity products and U.S. dollar-denominated life products. The increase was partially offset by lower sales of yen-denominated life products after the second quarter of 2017 repricing discussed above. Bank channel sales decreased $135 million, primarily from lower sales of U.S. dollar-denominated life products due to increased competition in recurring pay life products and the discontinuation of a single pay life product in the fourth quarter of 2017. Independent Agency sales decreased $22 million, primarily reflecting lower sales of yen-denominated life products after the second quarter of 2017 repricing discussed above and increased competition, partially offset by higher sales of U.S. dollar-denominated life and annuity products.

2017 to 2016 Annual Comparison. The table below presents annualized new business premiums on a constant exchange rate basis, by product and distribution channel, for the periods indicated.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

__________

(1)Includes retirement income, endowment and savings variable universal life.

(2)Amounts are presented on a consistent basis reflecting the elimination of the one-month reporting lag for Gibraltar Life and Other operations.

Annualized new business premiums, on a constant exchange rate basis, from our Life Planner operations increased $111 million. Growth in Life Planner headcount in our Japan operation resulted in an increase in U.S. dollar-denominated whole life and retirement products and yen-denominated term life and retirement products. The increase also reflected higher sales in our Brazil operations across various product lines as Life Planner count continued to grow.

93
Annualized new business premiums, on a constant exchange rate basis, from our Gibraltar Life operations decreased $111 million. Life Consultant sales increased $7 million primarily from higher sales of U.S. dollar-denominated whole life products resulting from the introduction of a new recurring pay life product in the second quarter of 2017. This increase was partially offset by lower sales of yen-denominated whole life and term life products. Bank channel sales decreased $101 million primarily from lower sales of yen-denominated term life and whole life products following the premium rate increases on yen-based products in April of 2017, the suspension of sales of yen-denominated annuity products in April 2016 in response to the low interest rate environment and lower sales of U.S. dollar- and Australian dollar-denominated annuity products due to increased competition and product actions. This decrease was partially offset by higher sales of U.S. dollar-denominated whole life products. Independent Agency sales decreased $17 million primarily reflecting lower sales of yen-denominated whole life and term life products after the April 2017 repricing and lower sales of Australian dollar-denominated annuity products. The decrease was partially offset by higher sales of U.S. dollar-denominated whole life products.

Sales Force

The following table sets forth the number of Life Planners and Life Consultants for the periods indicated.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

2018 to 2017 Comparison. The number of Life Planners increased by 138, driven by an increase of 242 in Japan as a result of recruiting efforts and fewer terminations. Life Planners decreased by 104 in other operations, primarily as a result of the absence of Life Planners in Italy and Poland (as discussed above under “—Business Update”), partially offset by an increase in Brazil as a result of improved recruiting efforts. The number of Gibraltar Life Consultants decreased by 362, primarily reflecting more selective recruiting efforts and retention standards.

2017 to 2016 Comparison. The number of Life Planners increased by 151, driven by an increase of 117 in Japan as a result of improved recruiting efforts and fewer terminations. Life Planners increased by 34 in other operations, primarily in Brazil as a result of recruiting efforts, partially offset by a decrease in Korea and Taiwan as a result of more selective recruiting efforts and retention standards. The number of Gibraltar Life Consultants decreased by 558, primarily reflecting more selective recruiting efforts and retention standards.

Corporate and Other

Corporate and Other includes corporate operations, after allocations to our business segments, and Divested and Run-off Businesses other than those that qualify for “discontinued operations” accounting treatment under U.S. GAAP.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

94
__________

(1)Includes consolidating adjustments.

2018 to 2017 Annual Comparison. The loss from Corporate and Other operations, on an adjusted operating income basis, decreased $154 million. Net charges from other corporate activities decreased $147 million, primarily reflecting lower costs for employee compensation plans tied to Company stock and equity market performance, partially offset by increased expenses, including expenses related to corporate initiatives. Results for investment income, net of operating debt interest expense, decreased $10 million, including lower net investment income driven by transfers of investments in the second quarter of 2018 to support higher capital requirements in the Long-Term Care Run-off business, partially offset by higher income on non-coupon investments and highly liquid assets, and lower operating debt interest expense. Capital debt interest expense increased $21 million, reflecting higher debt balances from debt issuances in the third quarter of 2017 and the first and third quarters of 2018, partially offset by the extinguishment of junior subordinated debt in the second quarter of 2018 and a senior debt maturity in the fourth quarter of 2017.

Results from pension and employee benefits increased $38 million, primarily reflecting higher income from our qualified pension plan, including higher expected earnings on plan assets and lower interest costs on plan obligations driven by a decline in interest rates in 2017.

For purposes of calculating pension income from our qualified pension plan for the year ended December 31, 2019, we will increase the discount rate from 3.65% to 4.30% as of December 31, 2018. The expected rate of return on plan assets will increase from 6.25% in 2018 to 6.50% in 2019. The assumed rate of increase in compensation will remain unchanged at 4.50%. Giving effect to the foregoing assumptions and other factors, we expect income from our qualified pension plan in 2019 to be approximately $50 million to $55 million lower than 2018 levels. The decrease is driven by lower expected returns on plan assets due to lower than expected plan fixed income asset growth in 2018 as well as higher interest costs on the plan obligation due to the higher discount rate.

For purposes of calculating postretirement benefit expenses for the year ended December 31, 2019, we will increase the discount rate from 3.60% to 4.30% as of December 31, 2018. The expected rate of return on plan assets will remain unchanged at 7.00%. Giving effect to the foregoing assumptions and other factors, we expect postretirement benefit expenses in 2019 to be approximately $30 million to $35 million higher than 2018 levels. The increase in expenses is driven by lower expected returns on plan assets due to lower than expected asset growth in 2018, as well as higher interest costs on the plan obligation due to the higher discount rate.

In 2019, pension and other postretirement benefit service costs related to active employees will continue to be allocated to our business segments. For further information regarding our pension and postretirement plans, see Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

2017 to 2016 Annual Comparison. The loss from Corporate and Other operations, on an adjusted operating income basis, decreased $144 million. Results for investment income, net of operating debt interest expense, improved $95 million, primarily reflecting lower operating debt interest expense, including efforts in 2016 to reduce leverage through senior debt maturities and early extinguishment of debt, and higher investment income, driven by the absence of a non-coupon investment loss incurred in the prior year and higher income on highly liquid assets. Net charges from other corporate activities decreased $14 million, reflecting the absence of costs incurred in the prior year associated with the early extinguishment of certain debt, partially offset by increases in other corporate expenses, including higher costs for employee compensation plans tied to equity market and Company performance, and increased expenses related to corporate initiatives. Capital debt interest expense increased $19 million, primarily resulting from a junior subordinated debt issuance in the third quarter of 2017.

Results from pension and employee benefits increased $54 million, primarily reflecting higher income from our qualified pension plan, including higher expected earnings on plan assets and lower interest costs on plan obligations driven by a decline in interest rates in 2016.

Capital Protection Framework

“Realized investment gains (losses), net and related adjustments,” which are excluded from adjusted operating income, included a net gain of $121 and net losses of $154 million and $1,649 million for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively, primarily related to impacts of interest rate movements, which are considered within our Capital Protection Framework. The favorable changes in 2018 and 2017 results compared to 2016 are primarily attributed to changes in our Individual Annuities risk management strategy implemented in 2016, whereby we terminated the existing intercompany derivative transactions between Corporate and Other operations and the Individual Annuities business segment related to managing interest rate risk and we now manage this risk within the Individual Annuities business segment. The net loss in 2016, while the intercompany 

95
derivative transactions between Corporate and Other operations and the Individual Annuities business segment were in place, primarily resulted from our utilization of capital management strategies to manage a portion of our interest rate risk and reflects changes in interest rates with respect to the exposures outstanding in 2016. For more information on our Individual Annuities risk management strategy, see “—Individual Annuities.” For more information on our Capital Protection Framework, see “—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Capital Protection Framework.”

Divested and Run-off Businesses

Divested and Run-off Businesses Included in Corporate and Other

Income from our Divested and Run-off Businesses includes results from several businesses that have been or will be sold or exited, including businesses that have been placed in wind down status that do not qualify for “discontinued operations” accounting treatment under U.S. GAAP. The results of these Divested and Run-off Businesses are reflected in our Corporate and Other operations, but are excluded from adjusted operating income. A summary of the results of the Divested and Run-off Businesses reflected in our Corporate and Other operations is as follows for the periods indicated:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Long-Term Care. Results for the year ended December 31, 2018 decreased compared to 2017, primarily reflecting unfavorable comparative net impacts from our annual reviews and update of assumptions and other refinements. Results for 2018 include a $1,458 million net charge from these updates including the removal of our assumption of expected future morbidity improvement, reflecting unfavorable morbidity experience relative to prior expectations. Excluding these impacts, results for 2018 decreased compared to 2017, primarily reflecting net realized investment losses in the current period compared to net realized investment gains in the prior year period driven by an unfavorable comparative change in market values of derivatives used for duration management. Also contributing to the decrease was a decline in the market value of investments in equity securities in the current period which, effective January 1, 2018 as a result of ASU 2016-01, are reported in net income as opposed to other comprehensive income. Results for the year ended December 31, 2017 increased compared to 2016 primarily reflecting net realized investment gains in 2017 compared to net realized investment losses in 2016.

Other. Results for the year ended December 31, 2018 decreased in comparison to the prior year period primarily reflecting losses related to an anticipated sale of our Pramerica of Italy subsidiary and the exit of our PGIM Brazil operations, partially offset by a gain related to the sale of our Pramerica of Poland subsidiary (see “—Results of Operations by Segment—International Insurance Division—International Insurance” and “—Results of Operations by Segment—PGIM Division—PGIM” for additional information). 

Closed Block Division

The Closed Block division includes certain in-force traditional domestic participating life insurance and annuity products and assets that are used for the payment of benefits and policyholder dividends on these policies (collectively, the “Closed Block”), as well as certain related assets and liabilities. We no longer offer these traditional domestic participating policies. See Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional details. 

96
Each year, the Board of Directors of Prudential Insurance determines the dividends payable on participating policies for the following year based on the experience of the Closed Block, including investment income, net realized and unrealized investment gains (losses), mortality experience and other factors. Although Closed Block experience for dividend action decisions is based upon statutory results, at the time the Closed Block was established, we developed, as required by U.S. GAAP, an actuarial calculation of the timing of the maximum future earnings from the policies included in the Closed Block. If actual cumulative earnings in any given period are greater than the cumulative earnings we expected, we record this excess as a policyholder dividend obligation. We will subsequently pay this excess to Closed Block policyholders as an additional dividend unless it is otherwise offset by future Closed Block performance that is less favorable than we originally expected. The policyholder dividends we charge to expense within the Closed Block division will include any change in our policyholder dividend obligation that we recognize for the excess of actual cumulative earnings in any given period over the cumulative earnings we expected in addition to the actual policyholder dividends declared by the Board of Directors of Prudential Insurance.

As of December 31, 2018, the excess of actual cumulative earnings over the expected cumulative earnings was $2,252 million, which was recorded as a policyholder dividend obligation. Actual cumulative earnings, as required by U.S. GAAP, reflect the recognition of realized investment gains and losses in the current period, as well as changes in assets and related liabilities that support the Closed Block policies. Additionally, the accumulation of net unrealized investment gains that have arisen subsequent to the establishment of the Closed Block have been reflected as a policyholder dividend obligation of $899 million at December 31, 2018, to be paid to Closed Block policyholders unless offset by future experience, with a corresponding amount reported in AOCI.

Operating Results

The following table sets forth the Closed Block division’s results for the periods indicated.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Income (loss) Before Income Taxes and Equity in Earnings of Operating Joint Ventures

2018 to 2017 Annual Comparison. Income (loss) before income taxes and equity in earnings of operating joint ventures decreased $107 million. Results for 2018 primarily reflected a $554 million decrease in net realized investment gains and related activity, primarily due to a decline in equity investment values and lower gains from sales of fixed maturities, partially offset by favorable changes in the value of derivatives used in risk management activities. Net investment income decreased $365 million, primarily driven by lower income on non-coupon investments, lower reinvestments yields and lower prepayment income. Net insurance activity results increased $144 million, primarily as a result of a decrease in the 2018 dividend scale and runoff of policies in force. As a result of the above and other variances, a $508 million reduction in the policyholder dividend obligation was recorded in 2018, compared to a $143 million increase in 2017. If actual cumulative earnings fall below expected cumulative earnings in future periods, earnings volatility in the Closed Block division, which is primarily due to changes in investment results, may not be offset by changes in the cumulative earnings policyholder dividend obligation. For a discussion of Closed Block division realized investment gains (losses), net, see “—General Account Investments—Realized Investment Gains and Losses.”

2017 to 2016 Annual Comparison. Income (loss) before income taxes and equity in earnings of operating joint ventures increased $177 million. Results for 2017 primarily reflected a $175 million increase in net realized investment gains and related activity, primarily due to higher gains from sales of equity securities and fixed maturities, partially offset by unfavorable changes in the value of derivatives used in risk management activities. Net insurance activity results increased $92 million, primarily as a result of a decrease in the 2018 dividend scale, partially offset by the runoff of policies in force and higher benefit payments. Net investment income increased $75 million, primarily driven by higher income on non-coupon investments and higher prepayment income, partially offset by lower reinvestment rates. As a result of the above and other variances, a $143 million increase in the policyholder dividend obligation was recorded in 2017, compared to $48 million reduction in 2016. 

Revenues, Benefits and Expenses

2018 to 2017 Annual Comparison. Revenues decreased $1,148 million primarily due to decreases of $404 million in net realized investment gains, $365 million in net investment income and $150 million in other revenue, which are discussed above, as well as a decrease of $225 million in premiums due to run-off of policies in force.

97
Benefits and expenses decreased $1,041 million. Dividends to policyholders decreased $771 million reflecting a decrease in the policyholder dividend obligation expense driven by a reduction in the 2018 dividend scale as well as changes in cumulative earnings. Policyholders’ benefits, including changes in reserves, decreased $247 million primarily due to the run-off of policies in force, as discussed above. 

2017 to 2016 Annual Comparison. Revenues increased $157 million, primarily due to increases of $100 million in net realized investment gains, $75 million in other revenue and $75 million in net investment income, as discussed above. Partially offsetting these increases was a decrease in premiums of $94 million, primarily due to run-off of policies in force.

Benefits and expenses decreased $20 million. Policyholders’ benefits, including changes in reserves, decreased $63 million primarily due to the runoff of policies in force, as discussed above. Partially offsetting this decrease was an increase in dividends to policyholders of $66 million, reflecting an increase in the policyholder dividend obligation expense due to changes in cumulative earnings.

Income Taxes

The differences between income taxes expected at the U.S. federal statutory income tax rate of 21% applicable for 2018 and 35% applicable for the periods prior to 2018, and the reported income tax (benefit) expense are provided in the following table: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Effective Tax Rate

The effective tax rate is the ratio of “Total income tax expense (benefit)” divided by “Income before income taxes and equity in earnings of operating joint ventures.” Our effective tax rate for fiscal years 2018, 2017 and 2016 was 17.0%, (22.2)%, and 23.4%, respectively. For a detailed description of the nature of each significant reconciling item, see Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The decrease in the effective tax rate from 23.4% in 2016 to (22.2)% in 2017, and the increase in the effective tax rate from (22.2)% in 2017 to 17.0% in 2018 was primarily driven by the impacts of the Tax Act of 2017.

Unrecognized Tax Benefits

The Company’s liability for income taxes includes the liability for unrecognized tax benefits and interest that relate to tax years still subject to review by the Internal Revenue Service or other taxing authorities. The completion of review or the expiration of the Federal statute of limitations for a given audit period could result in an adjustment to the liability for income taxes. The total unrecognized benefit as of December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 was $20 million, $45 million and $26 million, respectively. We do not anticipate any significant changes within the next twelve months to our total unrecognized tax benefits related to tax years for which the statute of limitations has not expired.

Income Tax Expense vs. Income Tax Paid in Cash

Income tax expense recorded under U.S. GAAP routinely differs from the income taxes paid in cash in any given year. Income tax expense recorded under U.S. GAAP is based on income reported in our Consolidated Statements of Operations for the current period and it includes both current and deferred taxes. Income taxes paid during the year include tax installments made for the current year as well as tax payments and refunds related to prior periods.

98
For additional information on income tax related items, see “Business—Regulation” and Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Experience-Rated Contractholder Liabilities,

Assets Supporting Experience-Rated Contractholder Liabilities and Other Related Investments

Certain products included in the Retirement and International Insurance segments are experience-rated in that investment results associated with these products are expected to ultimately accrue to contractholders. The majority of investments supporting these experience-rated products are carried at fair value. These investments are reflected on the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position as “Assets supporting experience-rated contractholder liabilities, at fair value.” Realized and unrealized gains (losses) for these investments are reported in “Other income (loss).” Interest and dividend income for these investments is reported in “Net investment income.” To a lesser extent, these experience-rated products are also supported by derivatives and commercial mortgage and other loans. The derivatives that support these experience-rated products are reflected on the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position as “Other invested assets” and are carried at fair value, and the realized and unrealized gains (losses) are reported in “Realized investment gains (losses), net.” The commercial mortgage and other loans that support these experience-rated products are carried at unpaid principal, net of unamortized discounts and an allowance for losses, and are reflected on the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position as “Commercial mortgage and other loans.” Gains (losses) on sales and changes in the valuation allowance for commercial mortgage and other loans are reported in “Realized investment gains (losses), net.”

Our Retirement segment has two types of experience-rated products that are supported by assets supporting experience-rated contractholder liabilities and other related investments. Fully participating products are those for which the entire return on underlying investments is passed back to the policyholders through a corresponding adjustment to the related liability, primarily classified in the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position as “Policyholders’ account balances.” The adjustment to the liability is based on changes in the fair value of all of the related assets, including commercial mortgage and other loans, which are carried at amortized cost, less any valuation allowance. Partially participating products are those for which only a portion of the return on underlying investments is passed back to the policyholders over time through changes to the contractual crediting rates. The crediting rates are typically reset semiannually, often subject to a minimum crediting rate, and returns are required to be passed back within ten years.

In our International Insurance segment, the experience-rated products are fully participating. As a result, the entire return on the underlying investments is passed back to policyholders through a corresponding adjustment to the related liability.

Adjusted operating income excludes net investment gains (losses) on assets supporting experience-rated contractholder liabilities, related derivatives and commercial mortgage and other loans. This is consistent with the exclusion of realized investment gains (losses) with respect to other investments supporting insurance liabilities managed on a consistent basis. In addition, to be consistent with the historical treatment of charges related to realized investment gains (losses) on investments, adjusted operating income also excludes the change in contractholder liabilities due to asset value changes in the pool of investments (including changes in the fair value of commercial mortgage and other loans) supporting these experience-rated contracts, which are reflected in “Interest credited to policyholders’ account balances.” The result of this approach is that adjusted operating income for these products includes net fee revenue and interest spread we earn on these experience-rated contracts, and excludes changes in fair value of the pool of investments, both realized and unrealized, that we expect will ultimately accrue to the contractholders.

The following table sets forth the impact on results for the periods indicated of these items that are excluded from adjusted operating income:

99
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

__________[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The net impacts, for the Retirement segment, of changes in experience-rated contractholder liabilities and investment gains (losses) on assets supporting experience-rated contractholder liabilities and other related investments reflect timing differences between the recognition of the mark-to-market adjustments and the recognition of the recovery of these adjustments in future periods through subsequent increases in asset values or reductions in crediting rates on contractholder liabilities for partially participating products. These impacts also reflect the difference between the fair value of the underlying commercial mortgages and other loans and the amortized cost, less any valuation allowance, of these loans, as described above.

Valuation of Assets and Liabilities

Fair Value of Assets and Liabilities

The authoritative guidance related to fair value measurement establishes a framework that includes a three-level hierarchy used to classify the inputs used in measuring fair value. The level in the hierarchy within which the fair value falls is determined based on the lowest level input that is significant to the measurement. The fair values of assets and liabilities classified as Level 3 include at least one significant unobservable input in the measurement. See Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for an additional description of the valuation hierarchy levels as well as for the balances of assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis by hierarchy level presented on a consolidated basis.

The table below presents the balances of assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis, as of the periods indicated, and the portion of such assets and liabilities that are classified in Level 3 of the valuation hierarchy. The table also provides details about these assets and liabilities excluding those held in the Closed Block division. We believe the amounts excluding the Closed Block division are most relevant to an understanding of our operations that are pertinent to investors in Prudential Financial because substantially all Closed Block division assets support obligations and liabilities relating to the Closed Block policies only. See Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on the Closed Block.

100
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

__________[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(2)“All other” represents cash equivalents and short-term investments.

(3)“Other invested assets” and “Other liabilities” primarily include derivatives. The amounts include the impact of netting subject to master netting agreements.

The determination of fair value, which for certain assets and liabilities is dependent on the application of estimates and assumptions, can have a significant impact on our results of operations and may require the application of a greater degree of judgment depending on market conditions, as the ability to value assets and liabilities can be significantly impacted by a decrease in market activity or a lack of transactions executed in an orderly manner. The following sections provide information regarding certain assets and liabilities which are valued using Level 3 inputs and could have a significant impact on our results of operations.

Fixed Maturity and Equity Securities

Fixed maturity securities included in Level 3 in our fair value hierarchy are generally priced based on internally-developed valuations or indicative broker quotes. For certain private fixed maturity and equity securities, the internal valuation models use significant unobservable inputs and, accordingly, such securities are included in Level 3 in our fair value hierarchy. Level 3 fixed maturity securities for PFI excluding the Closed Block division included approximately $1.9 billion of public fixed maturities as of December 31, 2018 with values primarily based on indicative broker quotes, and approximately $2.5 billion of private fixed maturities, with values primarily based on internally-developed models. Significant unobservable inputs used included: issue specific spread adjustments, material non-public financial information, management judgment, estimation of future earnings and cash flows, default rate assumptions, liquidity assumptions and indicative quotes from market makers. These inputs are usually considered unobservable, as not all market participants have access to this data.

101
The Company’s determination to classify assets and liabilities within Level 3 is based on significance of the unobservable inputs in the overall fair value measurement. Periodically, transfers between levels are made to reflect changes in observability of inputs and market activity. During the second quarter of 2018, $5,078 million of investments in CLOs reported as “Asset-backed securities” were transferred from Level 3 to Level 2 as market activity, liquidity and overall observability of valuation inputs of CLOs has increased. All transfers are generally reported at the value as of the beginning of the quarter in which transfers occur for any such assets still held at the end of the quarter.

The impact that fair value changes of fixed maturity securities (and equity securities prior to January 1, 2018) have on the results of operations is dependent on the classification of the security as trading, available-for-sale, or held-to-maturity. For investments classified as trading, changes in fair value are recorded within “Other income (loss).” For investments classified as available-for-sale, changes in fair value are recorded as an unrealized gain or loss in AOCI, a separate component of equity. Investments classified as held-to-maturity are carried at amortized cost and the changes in fair value have no impact on the results of operations. Effective January 1, 2018, as a result of the adoption of ASU 2016-01 (see Note 2), the classifications above no longer apply to equity securities and changes in fair value are recorded within “Other income (loss).”

Separate Account Assets

Separate account assets included in Level 3 primarily include corporate securities and commercial mortgage loans. The valuation of corporate securities is determined as described above for fixed maturity and equity securities. See Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the valuation of commercial mortgage loans. Separate account liabilities are reported at contract value and not at fair value.

Variable Annuity Living Benefit Features

Future policy benefits classified in Level 3 primarily include liabilities related to guarantees associated with the living benefit features of certain variable annuity contracts offered by our Individual Annuities segment, including GMAB, GMWB and GMIWB. These benefits are accounted for as embedded derivatives and carried at fair value with changes in fair value included in “Realized investment gains (losses), net.” The fair values of the GMAB, GMWB and GMIWB liabilities are calculated as the present value of future expected benefit payments to customers less the present value of future rider fees attributable to the embedded derivative feature. This methodology could result in either a liability or contra-liability balance, based on capital market conditions and various policyholder behavior assumptions. Since there is no observable active market for the transfer of these obligations, the valuations are calculated using internally-developed models with option pricing techniques. These models utilize significant assumptions that are primarily unobservable, including assumptions as to lapse rates, NPR, utilization rates, withdrawal rates, mortality rates and equity market volatility. Future policy benefits classified as Level 3 for PFI excluding the Closed Block division were a net liability of $8.9 billion as of December 31, 2018. For additional information, see “—Results of Operations by Segment—U.S. Individual Solutions Division—Individual Annuities.”

Notes Issued by Consolidated VIEs

As discussed in Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, notes issued by consolidated VIEs represent non-recourse notes issued by certain asset-backed investment vehicles, primarily CLOs, which we are required to consolidate. We have elected the fair value option for these notes, which are valued based on corresponding bank loan collateral.

For additional information about the key estimates and assumptions used in our determination of fair value, see Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

General Account Investments

We maintain diversified investment portfolios in our general account to support our liabilities to customers as well as our other general liabilities. Investments and other assets that do not support general account liabilities, and are therefore excluded from our general account, are as follows:

•assets of our derivative operations; 

•assets of our investment management operations, including investments managed for third-parties; and 

•those assets classified as “Separate account assets” on our balance sheet.

The general account portfolios are managed pursuant to the distinct objectives and investment policy statements of PFI excluding the Closed Block division and of the Closed Block division. The primary investment objectives of PFI excluding the Closed Block division include:

102
•hedging and otherwise managing the market risk characteristics of the major product liabilities and other obligations of the Company;

•optimizing investment income yield within risk constraints over time; and

•for certain portfolios, optimizing total return, including both investment income yield and capital appreciation, within risk constraints over time, while managing the market risk exposures associated with the corresponding product liabilities. 

We pursue our objective to optimize investment income yield for PFI excluding the Closed Block division over time through:

•the investment of net operating cash flows, including new product premium inflows, and proceeds from investment sales, repayments and prepayments into investments with attractive risk-adjusted yields; and

•the sale of investments, where appropriate, either to meet various cash flow needs or to manage the portfolio's risk exposure profile with respect to duration, credit, currency and other risk factors, while considering the impact on taxes and capital.

The primary investment objectives of the Closed Block division include:

•providing for the reasonable dividend expectations of the participating policyholders within the Closed Block division; and

•optimizing total return, including both investment income yield and capital appreciation, within risk constraints, while managing the market risk exposures associated with the major products in the Closed Block division.

Our portfolio management approach, while emphasizing our investment income yield and asset/liability risk management objectives, also takes into account the capital and tax implications of portfolio activity and our assertions regarding our ability and intent to hold debt securities to recovery. For a further discussion of our OTTI policies, including our assertions regarding any intention or requirement to sell debt securities before anticipated recovery, see “—Realized Investment Gains and Losses—Impairments” below.

Management of Investments

The Investment Committee of our Board of Directors (“Board”) oversees our proprietary investments, including our general account portfolios, and regularly reviews performance and risk positions. Our Chief Investment Officer Organization (“CIO Organization”) develops investment policies subject to risk limits proposed by our Enterprise Risk Management (“ERM”) group for the general account portfolios of our domestic and international insurance subsidiaries and directs and oversees management of the general account portfolios within risk limits and exposure ranges approved annually by the Investment Committee.

The CIO Organization, including related functions within our insurance subsidiaries, works closely with product actuaries and ERM to understand the characteristics of our products and their associated market risk exposures. This information is incorporated into the development of target asset portfolios that manage market risk exposures associated with the liability characteristics and establish investment risk exposures, within tolerances prescribed by Prudential’s investment risk limits, on which we expect to earn an attractive risk-adjusted return. We develop asset strategies for specific classes of product liabilities and attributed or accumulated surplus, each with distinct risk characteristics. Market risk exposures associated with the liabilities include interest rate risk, which is addressed through the duration characteristics of the target asset mix, and currency risk, which is addressed by the currency profile of the target asset mix. In certain of our smaller markets outside of the U.S. and Japan, capital markets limitations hinder our ability to hedge interest rate exposure to the same extent we do for our U.S. and Japan businesses and lead us to accept a higher degree of interest rate risk in these smaller portfolios. General account portfolios typically include allocations to credit and other investment risks as a means to enhance investment yields and returns over time.

Most of our products can be categorized into the following three classes:

•interest-crediting products for which the rates credited to customers are periodically adjusted to reflect market and competitive forces and actual investment experience, such as fixed annuities and universal life insurance; 

•participating individual and experience-rated group products in which customers participate in actual investment and business results through annual dividends, interest or return of premium; and

•products with fixed or guaranteed terms, such as traditional whole life and endowment products, guaranteed investment contracts (“GICs”), funding agreements and payout annuities.

103
Our total investment portfolio is composed of a number of operating portfolios. Each operating portfolio backs a specific set of liabilities, and the portfolios have a target asset mix that supports the liability characteristics, including duration, cash flow, liquidity needs and other criteria. As of December 31, 2018, the average duration of our domestic general account investment portfolios attributable to PFI excluding the Closed Block division, including the impact of derivatives, was between 6 and 7 years. As of December 31, 2018, the average duration of our international general account portfolios attributable to our Japanese insurance operations, including the impact of derivatives, was between 11 and 12 years and represented a blend of yen-denominated and U.S. dollar and Australian dollar-denominated investments, which have distinct average durations supporting the insurance liabilities we have issued in those currencies. Our asset/liability management process has enabled us to manage our portfolios through several market cycles.

We implement our portfolio strategies primarily through investment in a broad range of fixed income assets, including government and agency securities, public and private corporate bonds and structured securities and commercial mortgage loans. In addition, we hold allocations of non-coupon investments, which include equity securities and other invested assets such as LPs/LLCs, real estate held through direct ownership, derivative instruments, and seed money investments in separate accounts.

We manage our public fixed maturity portfolio to a risk profile directed or overseen by the CIO Organization and ERM groups and to a profile that also reflects the market environments impacting both our domestic and international insurance portfolios. The return that we earn on the portfolio will be reflected in investment income and in realized gains or losses on investments.

We use privately-placed corporate debt securities and commercial mortgage loans, which consist of mortgages on diversified properties in terms of geography, property type and borrowers, to enhance the yield on our portfolio and to improve the overall diversification of the portfolios. Private placements typically offer enhanced yields due to an illiquidity premium and generally offer enhanced credit protection in the form of covenants. Our origination capability offers the opportunity to lead transactions and gives us the opportunity for better terms, including covenants and call protection, and to take advantage of innovative deal structures.

Derivative strategies are employed in the context of our risk management framework to enhance our ability to manage interest rate and currency risk exposures of the asset portfolio relative to the liabilities and to manage credit and equity positions in the investment portfolios. For a discussion of our risk management process, see “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” below.

Our portfolio asset allocation reflects our emphasis on diversification across asset classes, sectors and issuers. The CIO Organization, directly and through related functions within the insurance subsidiaries, implements portfolio strategies primarily through various investment management units within Prudential’s PGIM segment. Activities of the PGIM segment on behalf of the general account portfolios are directed and overseen by the CIO Organization and monitored by ERM for compliance with investment risk limits.

Portfolio Composition

Our investment portfolio consists of public and private fixed maturity securities, commercial mortgage and other loans, policy loans and non-coupon investments as defined above. The composition of our general account reflects, within the discipline provided by our risk management approach, our need for competitive results and the selection of diverse investment alternatives available primarily through our PGIM segment. The size of our portfolio enables us to invest in asset classes that may be unavailable to the typical investor.

Effective January 1, 2018, the Company adopted ASU 2016-01, Financial Instruments—Overall (Subtopic 825-10): Recognition and Measurement of Financial Assets and Liabilities which impacted the Company’s accounting and presentation related to equity investments. For additional details regarding the adoption of ASU 2016-01, see Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

104
The following tables set forth the composition of the investments of our general account apportioned between PFI excluding the Closed Block division and the Closed Block division, as of the dates indicated:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

__________

(1)Other invested assets consist of investments in LPs/LLCs, investment real estate held through direct ownership, derivative instruments and other miscellaneous investments. For additional information regarding these investments, see “—Other Invested Assets” below.

(2)Includes invested assets of our investment management and derivative operations. Excludes assets of our investment management operations that are managed for third-parties and those assets classified as “Separate account assets” on our balance sheet. For additional information regarding these investments, see “—Invested Assets of Other Entities and Operations” below.

(3)Prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform to current period presentation. For additional information, see Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

105
The increase in general account investments attributable to PFI excluding the Closed Block division in 2018 was primarily due to the reinvestment of net investment income and net business inflows, partially offset by an increase in U.S. interest rates and credit spread widening. For information regarding the methodology used in determining the fair value of our fixed maturities, see Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

As of December 31, 2018 and 2017, 43% and 42%, respectively, of our general account investments attributable to PFI excluding the Closed Block division related to our Japanese insurance operations. The following table sets forth the composition of the investments of our Japanese insurance operations’ general account, as of the dates indicated:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

__________

(1)Other invested assets consist of investments in LPs/LLCs, investment real estate held through direct ownership, derivative instruments and other miscellaneous investments.

(2)Prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform to current period presentation. For additional information, see Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

The increase in general account investments related to our Japanese insurance operations in 2018 was primarily attributable to net business inflows, the reinvestment of net investment income, and the translation impact of the yen strengthening against the U.S. dollar, partially offset by an increase in U.S. interest rates.

As of December 31, 2018, our Japanese insurance operations had $64.9 billion, at carrying value, of investments denominated in U.S. dollars, including $2.5 billion that were hedged to yen through third-party derivative contracts and $50.0 billion that support liabilities denominated in U.S. dollars, with the remainder hedging our foreign currency exchange rate exposure on U.S. dollar-equivalent equity. As of December 31, 2017, our Japanese insurance operations had $62.6 billion, at carrying value, of investments denominated in U.S. dollars, including $5.8 billion that were hedged to yen through third-party derivative contracts and $43.8 billion that support liabilities denominated in U.S. dollars, with the remainder hedging our foreign currency exchange rate exposure on U.S. dollar-equivalent equity. The $2.3 billion increase in the carrying value of U.S. dollar-denominated investments from December 31, 2017 was primarily attributable to portfolio growth as a result of net business inflows and the reinvestment of net investment income, partially offset by the reduction of the U.S. dollar investments hedged back to yen through third-party derivatives.

Our Japanese insurance operations had $10.1 billion and $11.4 billion, at carrying value, of investments denominated in Australian dollars that support liabilities denominated in Australian dollars, as of December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. The $1.3 billion decrease in the carrying value of Australian dollar-denominated investments from December 31, 2017, was primarily attributable to the translation impact of the Australian dollar weakening against the U.S. dollar and portfolio reduction as a result of net business outflows. For additional information regarding U.S. and Australian dollar investments held in our Japanese insurance operations and a discussion of our yen hedging strategy, see “—Results of Operations by Segment—Impact of Foreign Currency Exchange Rates” above.

 Investment Results

106
The following tables set forth the investment results of our general account apportioned between PFI excluding the Closed Block division and the Closed Block division, for the periods indicated. The yields are based on net investment income as reported under U.S. GAAP and as such do not include certain interest-related items, such as settlements of duration management swaps which are included in “Realized investment gains (losses), net.”

107
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

108
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

__________

(1)The denominator in the yield percentage is based on quarterly average carrying values for all asset types except for fixed maturities which are based on amortized cost. Amounts for fixed maturities, short-term investments and cash equivalents are also netted for securities lending activity (i.e., income netted for rebate expenses and asset values netted for securities lending liabilities). A yield is not presented for other invested assets as it is not considered a meaningful measure of investment performance. Yields exclude investment income and assets related to other invested assets. Prior period yields have been revised to conform to current period presentation.

(2)Includes fixed maturity securities classified as available-for-sale and held-to-maturity and excludes fixed maturity securities classified as trading, which are included in other invested assets.

(3)Other invested assets consist of investments in LPs/LLCs, investment real estate held through direct ownership, derivative instruments, fixed maturities classified as trading and other miscellaneous investments.

(4)Includes net investment income of our investment management operations.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The increase in investment income after investment expenses yield attributable to our general account investments, excluding both the Closed Block division and the Japanese insurance operations’ portfolio, for 2018 compared to 2017 was primarily the result of higher fixed income reinvestment rates.

The decrease in investment income after investment expenses yield attributable to our general account investments, excluding both the Closed Block division and the Japanese insurance operations’ portfolio, for 2017 compared to 2016 was primarily the result of lower fixed income reinvestment rates.

The decrease in investment income after investment expenses yield on the Japanese insurance operations’ portfolio for 2018 compared to 2017 was primarily attributable to lower fixed income reinvestment rates and lower fixed maturity prepayment fees and call premiums.

The decrease in investment income after investment expenses yield on the Japanese insurance operations’ portfolio for 2017 compared to 2016 was primarily attributable to lower fixed income reinvestment rates, partially offset by higher fixed maturity prepayment fees and call premiums.

Both the U.S. dollar-denominated and Australian dollar-denominated fixed maturities that are not hedged to yen through third-party derivative contracts provide a yield that is substantially higher than the yield on comparable yen-denominated fixed maturities. The average amortized cost of U.S. dollar-denominated fixed maturities that are not hedged to yen through third-party derivative contracts was approximately $44.3 billion and $41.4 billion, for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. The majority of U.S. dollar-denominated fixed maturities support liabilities that are denominated in U.S. dollars. The average amortized cost of Australian dollar-denominated fixed maturities that are not hedged to yen through third-party derivative 

109
contracts was approximately $9.8 billion and $10.2 billion, for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. The Australian dollar-denominated fixed maturities support liabilities that are denominated in Australian dollars. For additional information regarding U.S. and Australian dollar investments held in our Japanese insurance operations, see “—Results of Operations—Impact of Foreign Currency Exchange Rates” above.

Realized Investment Gains and Losses

The following table sets forth “Realized investment gains (losses), net” by investment type of our general account apportioned between PFI excluding Closed Block division and the Closed Block division as well as related charges and adjustments, for the periods indicated: 

110
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

111
__________

(1)Represents circumstances where we believe credit events or other adverse conditions of the respective issuers have caused or will lead to a deficiency in the contractual cash flows related to the investment. The amount of the impairment recorded in earnings is the difference between the amortized cost of the debt security and the net present value of its projected future cash flows discounted at the effective interest rate implicit in the debt security prior to impairment.

(2)Excludes the portion of OTTI recorded in OCI, representing any difference between the fair value of the impaired debt security and the net present value of its projected future cash flows at the time of impairment. 

(3)Includes fixed maturity securities classified as available-for-sale and held-to-maturity and excludes fixed maturity securities classified as trading. 

(4)Effective January 1, 2018, the identification of OTTI for equity securities is no longer needed as all of these investments are now measured at fair value with changes in fair value reported in earnings. 

(5)Effective January 1, 2018, realized gains (losses) on equity securities are recorded within “Other income (loss).” 

(6)During 2016, fixed maturity prepayment fees and call premiums were reclassified to “Net investment income.” Prior periods were not restated. The impact of this change was immaterial. 

(7)Primarily includes OTTI related to investments in LPs/LLCs and real estate held through direct ownership. 

(8)Includes “realized investment gains (losses), net” of our investment management operations.

2018 to 2017 Annual Comparison

Net gains on sales and maturities of fixed maturity securities were $504 million and $577 million for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively, primarily driven by the impact of foreign currency exchange rate movements of U.S. and Australian dollar-denominated securities that matured or were sold within our International Insurance segment.

Net realized gains on derivative instruments of $1,249 million, for the year ended December 31, 2018, primarily included:

•$575 million of gains on foreign currency hedges due to U.S. dollar and Japanese yen appreciation;

•$529 million of gains on product-related embedded derivatives and related hedge positions associated with certain variable annuity contracts;

•$363 million of gains on capital hedges due to decreases in equity indices;

•$150 million of gains for fees earned on fee-based synthetic GICs; and

•$362 million of losses on interest rate derivatives due to increases in swap and U.S. Treasury rates.

Net realized losses on derivative instruments of $1,061 million, for the year ended December 31, 2017, primarily included:

•$869 million of losses on product-related embedded derivatives and related hedge positions associated with certain variable annuity contracts;

•$462 million of losses on foreign currency hedges due to U.S. dollar depreciation;

•$350 million of losses on capital hedges due to increases in equity indices;

•$370 million of gains on interest rate derivatives due to decreases in long-term interest rates;

•$152 million of gains for fees earned on fee-based synthetic GICs; and

•$26 million of gains on foreign currency hedges due to Japanese yen appreciation.

For a discussion of living benefit guarantees and related hedge positions in our Individual Annuities segment, see “—Results of Operations by Segment—U.S. Individual Solutions Division—Individual Annuities” above.

Related adjustments include the portions of “Realized investment gains (losses), net” that are included in adjusted operating income and the portions of “Other income (loss)” and “Net investment income” that are excluded from adjusted operating income. These adjustments are made to arrive at “Realized investment gains (losses), net, and related adjustments” which are excluded from adjusted operating income. Results for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 reflected related adjustments of net negative $1,228 million and $500 million, respectively. Both periods’ results were driven by settlements and changes in values of interest rate and currency derivatives. 2018 results also include the change in fair value of equity securities recorded within “Other income (loss).”

Charges that relate to “Realized investment gains (losses), net” are also excluded from adjusted operating income and may be reflected as net charges or net benefits. Results for the year ended December 31, 2018 reflected a net related charge of $316 million, compared to a net related benefit of $544 million for the year ended December 31, 2017. Both periods’ results were driven by the impact of derivative activity on the amortization of DAC and other costs and certain policyholder reserves.

2017 to 2016 Annual Comparison

Net realized gains on sales and maturities of fixed maturity securities were $577 million and $761 million for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively, primarily driven by sales and maturities of U.S. dollar-denominated securities within International Insurance segment.

Net realized gains on derivative instruments of $1,011 million, for the year ended December 31, 2016, primarily included:

112
•$523 million of gains on product-related embedded derivatives and related hedge positions associated with certain variable annuity contracts;

•$364 million of gains on foreign currency hedges due to U.S. dollar and Japanese yen appreciation; and

•$157 million of gains for fees earned on fee-based synthetic GICs.

For a discussion of living benefit guarantees and related hedge positions in our Individual Annuities segment, see “—Results of Operations by Segment—U.S. Individual Solutions Division—Individual Annuities” above.

Related adjustments for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 included net negative related adjustments of $500 million and $771 million, respectively. Both periods’ results were primarily driven by settlements and changes in values of interest rate and currency derivatives.

Related charges for the year ended December 31, 2017 included a net related benefit of $544 million, compared to net related charge of $466 million for the year ended December 31, 2016. Both periods’ results were driven by the impact of derivative activity on the amortization of DAC and other costs and certain policyholder reserves. 

Impairments

The level of OTTI generally reflects economic conditions and is expected to increase when economic conditions worsen and to decrease when economic conditions improve. Historically, the causes of OTTI have been specific to each individual issuer and have not directly resulted in impairments to other securities within the same industry or geographic region. We may also realize additional credit and interest rate-related losses through sales of investments pursuant to our credit risk and portfolio management objectives.

We maintain separate monitoring processes for public and private fixed maturities and create watch lists to highlight securities that require special scrutiny and management. For private placements, our credit and portfolio management processes help ensure prudent controls over valuation and management. We have separate pricing and authorization processes to establish “checks and balances” for new investments. We apply consistent standards of credit analysis and due diligence for all transactions, whether they originate through our own in-house origination staff or through agents. Our regional offices closely monitor the portfolios in their regions. We set all valuation standards centrally, and we assess the fair value of all investments quarterly. Our public and private fixed maturity investment managers formally review all public and private fixed maturity holdings on a quarterly basis and more frequently when necessary to identify potential credit deterioration whether due to ratings downgrades, unexpected price variances and/or company or industry-specific concerns.

For LPs/LLCs accounted for using the equity method, the carrying value of these investments is written down or impaired

to fair value when a decline in value is considered to be other-than-temporary. For additional information regarding our OTTI

policies, see Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Retail-Related Investments 

As of December 31, 2018, PFI excluding the Closed Block division had retail-related investments of approximately $14 billion consisting primarily of $6 billion of corporate fixed maturities of which 88% were considered investment grade; $7 billion of commercial mortgage loans with a weighted-average loan-to-value ratio of approximately 51% and weighted-average debt service coverage ratio of 2.45 times; and $1 billion of real estate held through direct ownership and real estate-related LPs/LLCs.

In addition, we held approximately $9 billion of commercial mortgage-backed securities, of which approximately 84% and 16% were rated AAA (super-senior) and AA, respectively, and comprised of diversified collateral pools. Approximately 30% of the collateral pools were comprised of retail-related investments, with no pools solely collateralized by retail-related investments. For additional information regarding commercial mortgage-backed securities, see “—Fixed Maturity Securities—Fixed Maturity Securities Credit Quality” below.

General Account Investments of PFI excluding Closed Block Division

In the following sections, we provide details about our investment portfolio, excluding investments held in the Closed Block division. We believe the details of the composition of our investment portfolio excluding the Closed Block division are most relevant to an understanding of our operations that are pertinent to investors in Prudential Financial, Inc. because substantially all Closed Block division assets support obligations and liabilities relating to the Closed Block policies only. See Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on the Closed Block.

Fixed Maturity Securities

113
In the following sections, we provide details about our fixed maturity securities portfolio, which excludes fixed maturity securities classified as assets supporting experienced-rated contractholder liabilities and classified as trading. 

Fixed Maturity Securities by Contractual Maturity Date

The following table sets forth the breakdown of the amortized cost of our fixed maturity securities portfolio by contractual maturity, as of the date indicated:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Fixed Maturity Securities and Unrealized Gains and Losses by Industry Category

The following table sets forth the composition of the portion of our fixed maturity securities portfolio by industry category attributable to PFI excluding the Closed Block division and the associated gross unrealized gains and losses, as of the dates indicated: 

114
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

__________

(1)Investment data has been classified based on standard industry categorizations for domestic public holdings and similar classifications by industry for all other holdings.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(5)Excluded from the table above are securities held outside the general account in other entities and operations. For additional information regarding investments held outside the general account, see “—Invested Assets of Other Entities and Operations” below. 

The decrease in net unrealized gains from December 31, 2017 to December 31, 2018 was primarily due to an increase in U.S. interest rates and credit spread widening.

Fixed Maturity Securities Credit Quality

The Securities Valuation Office (“SVO”) of the National Association of Insurance Commissioners (“NAIC”) evaluates the investments of insurers for statutory reporting purposes and assigns fixed maturity securities to one of six categories called “NAIC Designations.” In general, NAIC Designations of “1” highest quality, or “2” high quality, include fixed maturities considered investment grade, which include securities rated Baa3 or higher by Moody's Investor Service, Inc. (“Moody’s”) or BBB- or higher by Standard & Poor's Rating Services (“S&P”). NAIC Designations of “3” through “6” generally include fixed maturities referred to as below investment grade, which include securities rated Ba1 or lower by Moody’s and BB+ or lower by S&P. The NAIC Designations for commercial mortgage-backed securities and non-agency residential mortgage-backed securities, including our asset-backed securities collateralized by sub-prime mortgages, are based on security level expected losses as modeled by an independent third-party (engaged by the NAIC) and the statutory carrying value of the security, including any purchase discounts or impairment charges previously recognized.

115
As a result of time lags between the funding of investments, the finalization of legal documents, and the completion of the SVO filing process, the fixed maturity portfolio includes certain securities that have not yet been designated by the SVO as of each balance sheet date. Pending receipt of SVO designations, the categorization of these securities by NAIC Designation is based on the expected ratings indicated by internal analysis.

Investments of our international insurance companies are not subject to NAIC guidelines. Investments of our Japanese insurance operations are regulated locally by the Financial Services Agency (“FSA”), an agency of the Japanese government. The FSA has its own investment quality criteria and risk control standards. Our Japanese insurance companies comply with the FSA’s credit quality review and risk monitoring guidelines. The credit quality ratings of the investments of our Japanese insurance companies are based on ratings assigned by nationally recognized credit rating agencies, including Moody’s and S&P, or rating equivalents based on ratings assigned by Japanese credit ratings agencies.

The following table sets forth our fixed maturity portfolio by NAIC Designation or equivalent ratings attributable to PFI excluding the Closed Block division, as of the dates indicated:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

__________

(1)Reflects equivalent ratings for investments of the international insurance operations. [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Asset-Backed and Commercial Mortgage-Backed Securities

116
The following table sets forth information pertaining to asset-backed and commercial mortgage-backed securities within our fixed maturity available-for-sale portfolio attributable to PFI excluding the Closed Block division:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

__________ 

(1)The table above provides ratings as assigned by nationally recognized rating agencies as of December 31, 2018, including S&P, Moody’s, Fitch Ratings Inc. (“Fitch”) and Morningstar.

(2)Includes collateralized loan obligations, credit-tranched securities collateralized by sub-prime mortgages, auto loans, credit cards, education loans and other asset types.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(4)Excludes fixed maturity securities classified as “Assets supporting experience-rated contractholder liabilities” and “Fixed maturities, trading”, as well as securities held outside the general account in other entities and operations.

Included in “Asset-backed securities” above are investments in collateralized loan obligations (“CLOs”). The following table sets forth information pertaining to these investments in CLOs within our fixed maturity available-for-sale portfolio attributable to PFI excluding the Closed Block division:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

__________ 

(1)The table above provides ratings as assigned by nationally recognized rating agencies as of December 31, 2018, including S&P, Moody’s, Fitch and Morningstar.

(2)Excludes fixed maturity securities classified as “Assets supporting experience-rated contractholder liabilities” and “Fixed maturities, trading”, as well as securities held outside the general account in other entities and operations.

Assets Supporting Experience-Rated Contractholder Liabilities

For information regarding the composition of “Assets supporting experience-rated contractholder liabilities,” see Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Commercial Mortgage and Other Loans

Investment Mix

The following table sets forth the composition of our commercial mortgage and other loans portfolio attributable to PFI excluding the Closed Block division, as of the dates indicated:

117
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

__________[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(2)Excluded from the table above are commercial mortgage and other loans held outside the general account in other entities and operations. For additional information regarding commercial mortgage and other loans held outside the general account, see “—Invested Assets of Other Entities and Operations” below.

We originate commercial mortgage and agricultural property loans using a dedicated investment staff through our various regional offices in the U.S. and international offices primarily in London and Tokyo. All loans are underwritten consistently to our standards using a proprietary quality rating system that has been developed from our experience in real estate and mortgage lending.

Uncollateralized loans primarily represent corporate loans which do not meet the definition of a security under authoritative accounting guidance.

Residential property loans primarily include Japanese recourse loans. Upon default of these recourse loans, we can make a claim against the personal assets of the property owner, in addition to the mortgaged property. These loans are also backed by third-party guarantors.

Other collateralized loans include consumer loans.

Composition of Commercial Mortgage and Agricultural Property Loans

Our commercial mortgage and agricultural property loan portfolio strategy emphasizes diversification by property type and geographic location. The following tables set forth the breakdown of the gross carrying values of commercial mortgage and agricultural property loans attributable to PFI excluding the Closed Block division by geographic region and property type, as of the dates indicated:

118
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

__________

(1)Regions as defined by the United States Census Bureau.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Loan-to-value and debt service coverage ratios are measures commonly used to assess the quality of commercial mortgage and agricultural property loans. The loan-to-value ratio compares the amount of the loan to the fair value of the underlying property collateralizing the loan and is commonly expressed as a percentage. A loan-to-value ratio less than 100% indicates an excess of collateral value over the loan amount. Loan-to-value ratios greater than 100% indicate that the loan amount exceeds the collateral value. The debt service coverage ratio compares a property’s net operating income to its debt service payments. Debt service coverage ratios less than 1.0 times indicate that property operations do not generate enough income to cover the loan’s current debt payments. A debt service coverage ratio greater than 1.0 times indicates an excess of net operating income over the debt service payments.

119
As of December 31, 2018, our commercial mortgage and agricultural property loans attributable to PFI excluding the Closed Block division had a weighted-average debt service coverage ratio of 2.42 times and a weighted-average loan-to-value ratio of 56%. As of December 31, 2018, 97% of commercial mortgage and agricultural property loans were fixed rate loans. For those commercial mortgage and agricultural property loans that were originated in 2018, the weighted-average debt service coverage ratio was 2.39 times, and the weighted-average loan-to-value ratio was 64%.

The values utilized in calculating these loan-to-value ratios are developed as part of our periodic review of the commercial mortgage and agricultural property loan portfolio, which includes an internal evaluation of the underlying collateral value. Our periodic review also includes a quality re-rating process, whereby we update the internal quality rating originally assigned at underwriting based on the proprietary quality rating system mentioned above. As discussed below, the internal quality rating is a key input in determining our allowance for credit losses. 

For loans with collateral under construction, renovation or lease-up, a stabilized value and projected net operating income are used in the calculation of the loan-to-value and debt service coverage ratios. Our commercial mortgage and agricultural property loan portfolio included $0.7 billion and approximately $1.0 billion of such loans as of December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. All else being equal, these loans are inherently riskier than those collateralized by properties that have already stabilized. As of December 31, 2018, there were no loan-specific reserves related to these loans. In addition, these unstabilized loans are included in the calculation of our portfolio reserve as discussed below. 

The following table sets forth the gross carrying value of our commercial mortgage and agricultural property loans attributable to PFI excluding the Closed Block division by loan-to-value and debt service coverage ratios, as of the date indicated: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The following table sets forth the breakdown of our commercial mortgage and agricultural property loans attributable to PFI excluding the Closed Block division by year of origination, as of the date indicated:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

120
Commercial Mortgage and Other Loans by Contractual Maturity Date

The following table sets forth the breakdown of our commercial mortgage and other loans portfolio by contractual maturity, as of the date indicated:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Commercial Mortgage and Other Loans Quality

The commercial mortgage and other loans portfolio is reviewed on an ongoing basis. If certain criteria are met, loans are assigned to either of the following “watch list” categories: 

(1) “Closely Monitored,” which includes a variety of considerations, such as when loan metrics fall below acceptable levels, the borrower is not cooperative or has requested a material modification, or the portfolio manager has directed a change in category; or 

(2) “Not in Good Standing,” which includes loans in default or with a high probability of loss of principal, such as when the loan is in the process of foreclosure or the borrower is in bankruptcy. 

Our workout and special servicing professionals manage the loans on the watch list.

We establish an allowance for credit losses to provide for the risk of credit losses inherent in the lending process. The allowance includes loan-specific reserves for loans that are determined to be impaired as a result of our loan review process and a portfolio reserve for probable incurred but not specifically identified losses for loans which are not on the watch list. We define an impaired loan as a loan for which we estimate it is probable that amounts due according to the contractual terms of the loan agreement will not be collected. The loan-specific portion of the allowance for credit losses is based on our assessment as to ultimate collectability of loan principal and interest. Allowances for credit losses for an impaired loan are recorded based on the present value of expected future cash flows discounted at the loan’s effective interest rate, or based on the fair value of the collateral if the loan is collateral dependent. The portfolio reserve for incurred but not specifically identified losses considers the current credit composition of the portfolio based on the internal quality ratings mentioned above. The portfolio reserves are determined using past loan experience, including historical credit migration, loss probability and loss severity factors by property type. These factors are reviewed and updated as appropriate. The allowance for credit losses for commercial mortgage and other loans can increase or decrease from period to period based on these factors.

The following table sets forth the change in allowance for credit losses for our commercial mortgage and other loans portfolio, as of the dates indicated:

121
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The allowance for credit losses as of December 31, 2018 increased compared to December 31, 2017 primarily due to additions to the loan-specific reserve from credit quality deterioration of certain loans in the portfolio. 

Equity Securities

The equity securities attributable to PFI excluding the Closed Block division consist principally of investments in common and preferred stock of publicly-traded companies, as well as mutual fund shares. The following table sets forth the composition of our equity securities portfolio and the associated gross unrealized gains and losses, as of the dates indicated:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]__________

(1)Amounts presented exclude investments in private equity and hedge funds and other investments which are reported in “Other invested assets.”

(2)Prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform to current period presentation. For additional information, see Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

The net change in unrealized gains (losses) from equity securities attributable to PFI excluding Closed Block division still held at period end, recorded within “Other income (loss),” was $(569) million as of December 31, 2018. 

Other Invested Assets

The following table sets forth the composition of “Other invested assets” attributable to PFI excluding the Closed Block division, as of the dates indicated:

122
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

__________[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(3)Primarily includes leveraged leases, and member and activity stock held in the Federal Home Loan Banks of New York and Boston. For additional information regarding our holdings in the Federal Home Loan Banks of New York and Boston, see Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

(4)Prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform to current period presentation. For additional information, see Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Invested Assets of Other Entities and Operations

“Invested Assets of Other Entities and Operations” presented below includes investments held outside the general account and primarily represents investments associated with our investment management operations and derivative operations. Our derivative operations act on behalf of affiliates primarily to manage interest rate, foreign currency, credit and equity exposures. Assets within our investment management operations that are managed for third parties and those assets classified as “Separate account assets” on our balance sheet are not included.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]__________

(1)As of December 31, 2018 and 2017, balances include investments in collateralized loan obligations with fair value of $408 million and $563 million respectively.

(2)Book value is generally based on unpaid principal balance, net of any allowance for credit losses, or at fair value, when the fair value option has been elected.

(3)Prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform to current period presentation. For additional information, see Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

123
Fixed Maturities, Trading 

“Fixed maturities, trading, at fair value” are primarily related to assets associated with consolidated variable interest entities for which the Company is the investment manager. The assets of the consolidated variable interest entities are generally offset by liabilities for which the fair value option has been elected. For further information on these consolidated variable interest entities, see Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Commercial Mortgage and Other Loans

Our investment management operations include our commercial mortgage operations, which provide mortgage origination, investment management and servicing for our general account, institutional clients, the Federal Housing Administration and government-sponsored entities such as Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. 

The mortgage loans of our commercial mortgage operations are included in “Commercial mortgage and other loans.” Derivatives and other hedging instruments related to our commercial mortgage operations are primarily included in “Other invested assets.” 

Other Invested Assets

“Other invested assets” primarily include assets of our derivative operations used to manage interest rate, foreign currency, credit and equity exposures. 

Furthermore, other invested assets include strategic investments made as part of our investment management operations. We make these strategic investments in real estate, as well as fixed income, public equity and real estate securities, including controlling interests. Certain of these investments are made primarily for purposes of co-investment in our managed funds and structured products. Other strategic investments are made with the intention to sell or syndicate to investors, including our general account, or for placement in funds and structured products that we offer and manage (seed investments). As part of our investment management operations, we also make loans to our managed funds that are secured by equity commitments from investors or assets of the funds. “Other invested assets” also includes certain assets in consolidated investment funds where the Company is deemed to exercise control over the funds.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

Overview

Liquidity refers to the ability to generate sufficient cash resources to meet the payment obligations of the Company. Capital refers to the long-term financial resources available to support the operations of our businesses, fund business growth, and provide a cushion to withstand adverse circumstances. Our ability to generate and maintain sufficient liquidity and capital depends on the profitability of our businesses, general economic conditions and our access to the capital markets and the alternate sources of liquidity and capital described herein.

Effective and prudent liquidity and capital management is a priority across the organization. Management monitors the liquidity of Prudential Financial and its subsidiaries on a daily basis and projects borrowing and capital needs over a multi-year time horizon through our periodic planning process. We believe that cash flows from the sources of funds available to us are sufficient to satisfy the current liquidity requirements of Prudential Financial and its subsidiaries, including under reasonably foreseeable stress scenarios. We have a capital management framework in place that governs the allocation of capital and approval of capital uses. We also employ a Capital Protection Framework to ensure the availability of capital resources to maintain adequate capitalization on a consolidated basis for our insurance subsidiaries under various stress scenarios.

Our businesses are subject to comprehensive regulation and supervision by domestic and international regulators. These regulations currently include, or may include in the future requirements and limitations (many of which are the subject of ongoing rule-making) relating to capital, leverage, liquidity, stress-testing, overall risk management, credit exposure reporting and credit concentration. For information on these regulatory initiatives and their potential impact on us, see “Business—Regulation.”

During 2018, we took the following significant actions that impacted our liquidity and capital position:

•We repurchased $1.5 billion of shares of our Common Stock and declared aggregate Common Stock dividends of $1.5 billion;

•We issued $1.6 billion of junior subordinated notes and $1.0 billion of medium-term notes to be utilized for general corporate purposes, which included refinancing portions of our medium-term notes maturing during 2018;

124
•We redeemed our $600 million 8.875% Fixed-to-Floating Rate Junior Subordinated Note due 2068;

•We obtained additional financing for Regulation XXX reserves by entering into a new captive financing facility for $1.6 billion, of which $550 million was outstanding as of December 31, 2018; 

•We obtained additional financing for Guideline AXXX reserves by increasing an existing captive financing facility by $1 billion, for a total of $2 billion, of which $1,466 million was outstanding as of December 31, 2018; and

•We entered into a yearly renewable term reinsurance agreement which resulted in a reduction in risk-based capital required to be held in our Group Insurance segment.

Capital

Our capital management framework is primarily based on statutory Risk-Based Capital (“RBC”) and solvency margin measures. Due to our diverse mix of businesses and applicable regulatory requirements, we apply certain refinements to the framework that are designed to more appropriately reflect risks associated with our businesses on a consistent basis across the Company.

We seek to capitalize all of our subsidiaries and businesses in accordance with their ratings targets, and we believe Prudential Financial’s capitalization and use of financial leverage are consistent with those ratings targets. Our long-term senior debt rating targets for Prudential Financial are “A” for S&P, Moody’s, and Fitch, and “a” for A.M. Best Company (“A.M. Best”). Our financial strength rating targets for our life insurance companies are “AA/Aa/AA” for S&P, Moody’s and Fitch, respectively, and “A+” for A.M. Best. Some entities may currently be rated below these targets, and not all life insurance companies are rated by each of these rating agencies. See “—Ratings” below for a description of the potential impacts of ratings downgrades.

Capital Governance

Our capital management framework is ultimately reviewed and approved by our Board. The Board has adopted a Capital Policy that authorizes our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and Vice Chairman to approve certain capital actions on behalf of the Company and to further delegate authority with respect to capital actions to appropriate officers. Any capital commitment that exceeds the authority granted to senior management under the capital policy is separately authorized by the Board.

In addition, our Capital and Finance Committee (“CFC”) reviews the use and allocation of capital above certain threshold amounts to promote the efficient use of capital, consistent with our strategic objectives, ratings aspirations and other goals and targets. This management committee provides a multi-disciplinary due diligence review of specific initiatives or transactions requiring the use of capital, including mergers and acquisitions. The CFC also reviews our annual capital plan (and updates to this plan), as well as our capital, liquidity and financial position, borrowing plans, and related matters prior to the discussion of these items with the Board.

Capitalization

The primary components of the Company’s capitalization consist of equity and outstanding capital debt, including junior subordinated debt. As shown in the table below, as of December 31, 2018, the Company had $51.1 billion in capital, all of which was available to support the aggregate capital requirements of its divisions and its Corporate and Other operations. Based on our assessment of these businesses and operations, we believe this level of capital is consistent with our ratings targets.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

__________ 

(1)Amounts attributable to Prudential Financial, excluding AOCI.

(2)Prior period amount has been restated to conform to current period presentation. See Note 1 and Note 2 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for details. 

Insurance Regulatory Capital

We manage Prudential Insurance, The Prudential Life Insurance Company, Ltd. (“Prudential of Japan”), Gibraltar Life, and other significant insurance subsidiaries to regulatory capital levels consistent with our “AA” ratings targets. We utilize the RBC ratio as a primary measure of the capital adequacy of our domestic insurance subsidiaries and the solvency margin ratio as a primary measure of the capital adequacy of our Japanese insurance subsidiaries.

125
RBC is calculated based on statutory financial statements and risk formulas consistent with the practices of the NAIC. RBC considers, among other things, risks related to the type and quality of the invested assets, insurance-related risks associated with an insurer’s products and liabilities, interest rate risks and general business risks. RBC ratio calculations are intended to assist insurance regulators in measuring an insurer’s solvency and ability to pay future claims. The reporting of RBC measures is not intended for the purpose of ranking any insurance company or for use in connection with any marketing, advertising or promotional activities, but is available to the public.

The table below presents the RBC ratios of our most significant domestic insurance subsidiaries as of December 31, 2017, the most recent statutory fiscal year-end for these subsidiaries for which RBC information has been filed. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

__________ 

(1)The RBC ratio calculations are intended to assist insurance regulators in measuring an insurer’s solvency and ability to pay future claims. The reporting of RBC measures is not intended for the purpose of ranking any insurance company or for use in connection with any marketing, advertising or promotional activities, but is available to the public.

(2)Includes Prudential Retirement Insurance and Annuity Company (“PRIAC”), Pruco Life Insurance Company (“Pruco Life”), Pruco Life Insurance Company of New Jersey (“PLNJ”), which is a subsidiary of Pruco Life, and Prudential Legacy Insurance Company of New Jersey (“PLIC”).

(3)Includes Prudential Insurance and its subsidiaries, as noted above, and Prudential Annuities Life Assurance Corporation (“PALAC”). Composite RBC is not reported to regulators and is based on the summation of total adjusted capital and risk charges for the included companies as determined under statutory accounting and RBC guidance to calculate a composite numerator and denominator, respectively, for purposes of calculating the composite ratio.

In June 2018, the Capital Adequacy Task Force of the NAIC approved revisions to the NAIC RBC framework as a result of the adoption of the Tax Act of 2017 and the corresponding reduction of the corporate tax rate from 35% to 21%. The revisions apply to the calculation of our domestic insurance life insurance companies’ RBC ratios as of December 31, 2018. While there is no impact on our ability to pay claims, the revisions to the RBC framework for the reduction of the corporate tax rate under the Tax Act of 2017 have the effect of increasing certain RBC factors, resulting in an overall decrease in insurers’ RBC ratios. Also, our statutory capital position has been adversely impacted by the increase in reserves for our Long-Term Care business resulting from our annual reviews and update of assumptions and other refinements (see “—Results of Operations by Segment—Divested and Run-off Businesses” for additional information). Although not yet filed, we expect our RBC ratios as of December 31, 2018 to be above our “AA” financial strength target levels.

Similar to the RBC ratios that are employed by U.S. insurance regulators, regulatory authorities in the international jurisdictions in which we operate generally establish some form of minimum solvency margin requirements for insurance companies based on local statutory accounting practices. These solvency margins are a primary measure of the capital adequacy of our international insurance operations. Maintenance of our solvency margins at certain levels is also important to our competitive positioning, as in certain jurisdictions, such as Japan, these solvency margins are required to be disclosed to the public and therefore impact the public perception of an insurer’s financial strength.

The table below presents the solvency margin ratios of our most significant international insurance subsidiaries as of September 30, 2018, the most recent date for which this information is available. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

__________ 

(1)Includes Prudential Trust Co., Ltd., a subsidiary of Prudential of Japan.

(2)Includes Prudential Gibraltar Financial Life Insurance Co., Ltd. (“PGFL”), a subsidiary of Gibraltar Life.

Although not yet filed, we expect the solvency margin ratio for each of these subsidiaries to be greater than 700% (3.5 times the regulatory required minimums) as of December 31, 2018.

126
All of our domestic and significant international insurance subsidiaries have capital levels that substantially exceed the minimum level required by applicable insurance regulations. Our regulatory capital levels may be affected in the future by changes to the applicable regulations, proposals for which are currently under consideration by both domestic and international insurance regulators. For further information on the calculation of RBC and solvency margin ratios, as well as regulatory minimums, see Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

 Capital Protection Framework

We employ a Capital Protection Framework (the “Framework”) to ensure that sufficient capital resources are available to maintain adequate capitalization on a consolidated basis for our insurance subsidiaries under various stress scenarios. The Framework incorporates the potential impacts from market related stresses, including equity markets, real estate, interest rates, credit losses, and foreign currency exchange rates. In evaluating these potential impacts, we assess risk holistically at the enterprise level, recognizing that our business mix may produce results that partially offset on a net basis. The Framework is integrated with our Risk Management Framework (see “—Risk Management—Risk Measurement and Monitoring” for additional information).

The Framework accommodates periodic volatility within ranges that we deem acceptable, while also providing for additional potential sources of capital, including on-balance sheet capital capacity and contingent sources of capital. We believe we currently have access to sufficient resources to maintain adequate capitalization under a range of potential stress scenarios. 

Captive Reinsurance Companies

We use captive reinsurance companies to more effectively manage our reserves and capital on an economic basis and to enable the aggregation and transfer of risks. Our captive reinsurance companies assume business from affiliates only. To support the risks they assume, our captives are capitalized to a level we believe is consistent with the “AA” financial strength rating targets of our insurance subsidiaries. All of our captives are subject to internal policies governing their activities. In the normal course of business we contribute capital to the captives to support business growth and other needs. Prudential Financial has also entered into support agreements with several of the captives in connection with financing arrangements.

Our domestic life insurance subsidiaries are subject to a regulation entitled “Valuation of Life Insurance Policies Model Regulation,” commonly known as “Regulation XXX,” and a supporting guideline entitled “The Application of the Valuation of Life Insurance Policies Model Regulation,” commonly known as “Guideline AXXX.” The regulation and supporting guideline require insurers to establish statutory reserves for term and universal life insurance policies with long-term premium guarantees at a level that exceeds what our actuarial assumptions for this business would otherwise require. We use captive reinsurance companies to finance the portion of the reserves for this business that we consider to be non-economic as described below under “—Financing Activities—Subsidiary borrowings—Financing of regulatory reserves associated with domestic life insurance products.”

Shareholder Distributions

Share Repurchase Program and Shareholder Dividends

In December 2017, the Board authorized the Company to repurchase at management’s discretion up to $1.5 billion of its outstanding Common Stock during the period from January 1, 2018 through December 31, 2018. In December 2018, the Board authorized the Company to repurchase at management’s discretion up to $2.0 billion of its outstanding Common Stock during the period from January 1, 2019 through December 31, 2019. The timing and amount of share repurchases are determined by management based on market conditions and other considerations, including any increased capital needs of our businesses due to, among other things, changes in regulatory capital requirements and opportunities for growth and acquisitions. Repurchases may be executed in the open market, through derivative, accelerated repurchase and other negotiated transactions and through plans designed to comply with Rule 10b5-1(c) under The Securities Exchange Act of 1934.

The following table sets forth information about declarations of Common Stock dividends, as well as repurchases of shares of Prudential Financial’s Common Stock, for each of the quarterly periods in 2018 and for the prior four years.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

127
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

In addition, on February 6, 2019, the Board declared a cash dividend of $1.00 per share of Common Stock, payable on March 14, 2019 to shareholders of record as of February 20, 2019.

Liquidity

The principles of our liquidity management framework are described in an enterprise-wide Liquidity Management Policy that is reviewed and approved by the Board. Liquidity management and stress testing are performed on a legal entity basis as the ability to transfer funds between subsidiaries is limited due in part to regulatory restrictions. Liquidity needs are determined through daily and quarterly cash flow forecasting at the holding company and within our operating subsidiaries. A minimum balance of highly liquid assets of at least $1.3 billion is targeted to ensure that adequate liquidity is available at Prudential Financial to cover fixed expenses in the event that we experience reduced cash flows from our operating subsidiaries at a time when access to capital markets is also not available. This targeted minimum balance is reviewed and approved annually by the Board.

We seek to mitigate the risk of having limited or no access to financing due to stressed market conditions by generally pre-funding debt in advance of maturity. We mitigate the refinancing risk associated with our debt that is used to fund operating needs by matching the term of debt with the assets financed. To ensure adequate liquidity in stress scenarios, stress testing is performed for our major operating subsidiaries. We seek to further mitigate liquidity risk by maintaining our access to alternative sources of liquidity, as discussed below.

Liquidity of Prudential Financial

The principal sources of funds available to Prudential Financial, the parent holding company, are dividends, returns of capital and loans from subsidiaries, and proceeds from debt issuances and certain stock-based compensation activity. These sources of funds may be supplemented by Prudential Financial’s access to the capital markets as well as the “—Alternative Sources of Liquidity” described below.

The primary uses of funds at Prudential Financial include servicing debt, making capital contributions and loans to subsidiaries, paying declared shareholder dividends and repurchasing outstanding shares of Common Stock executed under authority from the Board.

As of December 31, 2018, Prudential Financial had highly liquid assets with a carrying value totaling $6,199 million. Highly liquid assets predominantly include cash, short-term investments, U.S. Treasury securities, obligations of other U.S. government authorities and agencies, and/or foreign government bonds. We maintain an intercompany liquidity account that is designed to optimize the use of cash by facilitating the lending and borrowing of funds between Prudential Financial and its subsidiaries on a daily basis. Excluding net borrowings from this intercompany liquidity account, Prudential Financial had highly liquid assets of $5,548 million as of December 31, 2018, an increase of $1,172 million from December 31, 2017.

The following table sets forth Prudential Financial’s principal sources and uses of highly liquid assets, excluding net borrowings from our intercompany liquidity account, for the periods indicated.

128
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

__________

(1)See “Item 15—Schedule II—Notes to Condensed Financial Information of Registrant—Dividends and Returns of Capital” for dividends and returns of capital by company. [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(3)Includes cash payments made on dividends declared in prior periods.

(4)2018 includes capital contributions of $590 million to The Prudential Insurance Company of America (“PICA”), $284 million to international insurance subsidiaries. 2017 includes capital contributions of $965 million to international insurance subsidiaries, $149 million to PICA, and $21 million to PGIM Holding Company subsidiaries. 

Restrictions on Dividends and Returns of Capital from Subsidiaries

Our insurance companies are subject to limitations on the payment of dividends and other transfers of funds to Prudential Financial and other affiliates under applicable insurance law and regulation. Also, more generally, the payment of dividends by any of our subsidiaries is subject to declaration by their Board of Directors and can be affected by market conditions and other factors. See Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for details on specific dividend restrictions.

Domestic insurance subsidiaries. Prudential Insurance is permitted to pay ordinary dividends based on calculations specified under New Jersey insurance law, subject to prior notification to the New Jersey Department of Banking and Insurance (“NJDOBI”). Any distributions above this amount in any twelve-month period are considered to be “extraordinary” dividends, and the approval of the NJDOBI is required prior to payment. The laws regulating dividends of the states where our other domestic insurance companies are domiciled are similar, but not identical, to New Jersey’s. During 2018, Prudential Financial received extraordinary dividends of $1,025 million from PALAC. 

International insurance subsidiaries. Capital redeployment from our international insurance subsidiaries is subject to local regulatory requirements in the international jurisdictions in which they operate. Our most significant international insurance subsidiaries, Prudential of Japan and Gibraltar Life, are permitted to pay common stock dividends based on calculations specified by Japanese insurance law, subject to prior notification to the FSA. Dividends in excess of these amounts and other forms of capital distribution require the prior approval of the FSA. In addition to paying common stock dividends, international insurance operations may return capital to Prudential Financial through or facilitated by other means, such as the repayment of subordinated debt or preferred stock obligations held by Prudential Financial or other affiliates, affiliated lending, affiliated derivatives and reinsurance with U.S.-based affiliates and, commencing in 2019, a Bermuda-based affiliate. The regulatory fiscal year end for both Prudential of Japan and Gibraltar Life is March 31, 2019, after which time the common stock dividend amount permitted to be paid without prior approval from the FSA can be determined.

For the year ended December 31, 2018, Prudential Financial received $2,062 million from Prudential International Insurance Holdings, the domestic parent of our international insurance subsidiaries, all of which was received from Prudential Holdings of Japan, Inc. (“PHJ”), the parent of the Company’s Japanese operations. Of this amount, $260 million was sent to PHJ from its 

129
subsidiaries in 2016 and had been retained at PHJ since that time. PHJ received the remaining $1,802 million as a common stock dividend from its subsidiaries in 2018.

Other subsidiaries. The ability of our investment management subsidiaries and the majority of our other operating subsidiaries to pay dividends is largely unrestricted from a regulatory standpoint. 

Liquidity of Insurance Subsidiaries

We manage the liquidity of our insurance operations to ensure stable, reliable and cost-effective sources of cash flows to meet all of our obligations. Liquidity within each of our insurance subsidiaries is provided by a variety of sources, including portfolios of liquid assets. The investment portfolios of our subsidiaries are integral to the overall liquidity of our insurance operations. We segment our investment portfolios and employ an asset/liability management approach specific to the requirements of each of our product lines. This enhances the discipline applied in managing the liquidity, as well as the interest rate and credit risk profiles, of each portfolio in a manner consistent with the unique characteristics of the product liabilities.

Liquidity is measured against internally-developed benchmarks that take into account the characteristics of both the asset portfolio and the liabilities that they support. We consider attributes of the various categories of liquid assets (for example, type of asset and credit quality) in calculating internal liquidity measures to evaluate our insurance operations’ liquidity under various stress scenarios, including company-specific and market-wide events. We continue to believe that cash generated by ongoing operations and the liquidity profile of our assets provide sufficient liquidity under reasonably foreseeable stress scenarios for each of our insurance subsidiaries.

Cash Flow

The principal sources of liquidity for our insurance subsidiaries are premiums, investment and fee income, and investment maturities and sales associated with our insurance and annuity operations, as well as internal and external borrowings. The principal uses of that liquidity include benefits, claims and dividends paid to policyholders, and payments to policyholders and contractholders in connection with surrenders, withdrawals and net policy loan activity. Other uses of liquidity may include commissions, general and administrative expenses, purchases of investments, the payment of dividends to the parent holding company, hedging and reinsurance activity and payments in connection with financing activities.

In each of our major insurance subsidiaries, we believe that the cash flows from operations are adequate to satisfy current liquidity requirements. The continued adequacy of this liquidity will depend upon factors such as future securities market conditions, changes in interest rate levels, policyholder perceptions of our financial strength, policyholder behavior, catastrophic events and the relative safety and attractiveness of competing products, each of which could lead to reduced cash inflows or increased cash outflows. Our insurance operations’ cash flows from investment activities result from repayments of principal, proceeds from maturities and sales of invested assets and investment income, net of amounts reinvested. The primary liquidity risks with respect to these cash flows are the risk of default by debtors or bond insurers, our counterparties’ willingness to extend repurchase and/or securities lending arrangements, commitments to invest and market volatility. We closely manage these risks through our credit risk management process and regular monitoring of our liquidity position.

Domestic insurance operations. In managing the liquidity of our domestic insurance operations, we consider the risk of policyholder and contractholder withdrawals of funds earlier than our assumptions when selecting assets to support these contractual obligations. We use surrender charges and other contract provisions to mitigate the extent, timing and profitability impact of withdrawals of funds by customers. The following table sets forth the liabilities for future policy benefits and policyholders’ account balances of certain of our domestic insurance subsidiaries as of the dates indicated.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

__________

(1)Includes the impact of intercompany eliminations.

(2)Amounts are reflected gross of affiliated reinsurance recoverables. 

130
The liabilities presented above are primarily supported by invested assets in our general account. As noted above, when selecting assets to support these contractual obligations, we consider the risk of policyholder and contractholder withdrawals of funds earlier than our assumptions. As a result, assets will include both liquid assets, as discussed below, and other assets that we believe adequately support our liabilities.

For Prudential Insurance and other subsidiaries, the liabilities presented above primarily include annuity reserves and deposit liabilities and individual life insurance policy reserves. Individual life insurance policies may impose surrender charges and policyholders may be subject to a new underwriting process in order to obtain a new insurance policy. Prudential Insurance’s reserves for group annuity contracts primarily relate to pension risk transfer contracts, which are generally not subject to early withdrawal. For our individual annuity contracts, to encourage persistency, most of our variable and fixed annuities have surrender or withdrawal charges for a specified number of years. In addition, certain fixed annuities impose a market value adjustment if the invested amount is not held to maturity. The living benefit features of our variable annuities also encourage persistency because the potential value of the living benefit is fully realized only if the contract persists.

For PRIAC, the liabilities presented above primarily include reserves for stable value contracts. Although many of these contracts are subject to discretionary withdrawal, withdrawals are typically at the market value of the underlying assets. Risk is further reduced by the high persistency of clients driven in part by our competitive position in our target markets and contractual provisions such as deferred payouts.

Gross account withdrawals for our domestic insurance operations’ products in 2018 were generally consistent with our assumptions in asset/liability management, and the associated cash outflows did not have a material adverse impact on our overall liquidity.

International insurance operations. As with our domestic operations, in managing the liquidity of our international insurance operations, we consider the risk of policyholder and contractholder withdrawals of funds earlier than our assumptions in selecting assets to support these contractual obligations. The following table sets forth the liabilities for future policy benefits and policyholders’ account balances of certain of our international insurance subsidiaries as of the dates indicated.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

__________[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(2)Includes PGFL.

(3)Represents our international insurance operations, excluding Japan.

(4)Amounts are reflected gross of affiliated reinsurance recoverables. 

The liabilities presented above are primarily supported by invested assets in our general account. When selecting assets to support these contractual obligations, we consider the risk of policyholder and contractholder withdrawals of funds earlier than our assumptions. As a result, assets will include both liquid assets, as discussed below, and other assets that we believe adequately support our liabilities.

We believe most of the longer-term recurring pay individual life insurance policies sold by our Japanese operations do not have significant withdrawal risk because policyholders may incur surrender charges and must undergo a new underwriting process to obtain a new insurance policy.

Gibraltar Life sells fixed annuities, denominated in U.S. and Australian dollars, that may be subject to increased surrenders should the yen depreciate in relation to these currencies or if interest rates in Australia and the U.S. decline relative to Japan. A significant portion of the liabilities associated with these contracts include a market value adjustment feature, which mitigates the profitability impact from surrenders. As of December 31, 2018, products with a market value adjustment feature represented $25.9 billion of our Japan operations’ insurance-related liabilities, which included $22.2 billion attributable to non-yen denominated fixed annuities.

Liquid Assets

131
Liquid assets include cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments, U.S. Treasury securities, fixed maturities that are not designated as held-to-maturity and public equity securities. In addition to access to substantial investment portfolios, our insurance companies’ liquidity is managed through access to a variety of instruments available for funding and/or managing cash flow mismatches, including from time to time those arising from claim levels in excess of projections. Our ability to utilize assets and liquidity between our subsidiaries is limited by regulatory and other constraints. We believe that ongoing operations and the liquidity profile of our assets provide sufficient liquidity under reasonably foreseeable stress scenarios for each of our insurance subsidiaries.

The following table sets forth the fair value of certain of our domestic insurance operations’ portfolio of liquid assets, as of the dates indicated.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

__________

(1)Excludes fixed maturities designated as held-to-maturity. Classified by NAIC or equivalent rating.

The following table sets forth the fair value of our international insurance operations’ portfolio of liquid assets, as of the dates indicated.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

__________

(1)Includes PGFL.

(2)Represents our international insurance operations, excluding Japan.

(3)Excludes fixed maturities designated as held-to-maturity. Classified by NAIC or equivalent rating. 

(4)As of December 31, 2018, $112.3 billion, or 75%, were invested in government or government agency bonds.

Given the size and liquidity profile of our investment portfolios, we believe that claim experience, including policyholder withdrawals and surrenders, varying from our projections does not constitute a significant liquidity risk. Our asset/liability management process takes into account the expected maturity of investments and expected claim payments as well as the specific nature and risk profile of the liabilities. To the extent we need to pay claims in excess of projections, we may borrow temporarily or sell investments sooner than anticipated to pay these claims, which may result in increased borrowing costs or realized investment gains or losses, including from changes in interest rates or credit spreads. The payment of claims and sale of investments earlier than anticipated would have an impact on the reported level of cash flow from operating, investing, and financing activities, in our financial statements. Historically, there has been no significant variation between the expected maturities of our investments and the payment of claims.

Liquidity associated with other activities

132
Hedging activities associated with Individual Annuities

For the portion of our Individual Annuities’ ALM strategy executed through hedging, as well as the capital hedge program, we enter into a range of exchange-traded, cleared and other OTC equity and interest rate derivatives in order to hedge certain capital market risks related to more severe market conditions. For a full discussion of our Individual Annuities’ risk management strategy, see “—Results of Operations by Segment—U.S. Individual Solutions Division—Individual Annuities.” This portion of our Individual Annuities’ ALM strategy and capital hedge program requires access to liquidity to meet payment obligations relating to these derivatives, such as payments for periodic settlements, purchases, maturities and terminations. These liquidity needs can vary materially due to, among other items, changes in interest rates, equity markets, mortality and policyholder behavior. 

The hedging portion of our Individual Annuities’ ALM strategy and capital hedge program may also result in derivative related collateral postings to (when we are in a net pay position) or from (when we are in a net receive position) counterparties. The net collateral position depends on changes in interest rates and equity markets related to the amount of the exposures hedged. Depending on market conditions, the collateral posting requirements can result in material liquidity needs when we are in a net pay position. As of December 31, 2018, the derivatives comprising the hedging portion of our ALM strategy and capital hedge program were in a net receive position of $2.9 billion compared to a net receive position of $3.3 billion as of December 31, 2017. The change in collateral position was primarily driven by an increase in interest rates.

Foreign exchange hedging activities

We employ various hedging strategies to manage potential exposure to foreign currency exchange rate movements, particularly those associated with the yen. Our overall yen hedging strategy calibrates the hedge level to preserve the relative contribution of our yen-based business to the Company’s overall return on equity on a leverage neutral basis. The hedging strategy includes two primary components:

Income Hedges—We hedge a portion of our prospective yen-based earnings streams by entering into external forward currency derivative contracts that effectively fix the currency exchange rates for that portion of earnings, thereby reducing volatility from foreign currency exchange rate movements. As of December 31, 2018, we have hedged 100%, 72% and 28% of expected yen-based earnings for 2019, 2020 and 2021, respectively.

Equity Hedges—We hold both internal and external hedges primarily to hedge our U.S. dollar-equivalent equity. These hedges also mitigate volatility in the solvency margins of yen-based subsidiaries resulting from changes in the market value of their U.S. dollar-denominated investments hedging our U.S. dollar-equivalent equity attributable to changes in the yen-U.S. dollar exchange rate.

For additional information on our hedging strategy, see “—Results of Operations—Impact of Foreign Currency Exchange Rates.”

Cash settlements from these hedging activities result in cash flows between subsidiaries of Prudential Financial and either international-based subsidiaries or external parties. The cash flows are dependent on changes in foreign currency exchange rates and the notional amount of the exposures hedged. For example, a significant yen depreciation over an extended period of time could result in net cash inflows, while a significant yen appreciation could result in net cash outflows. The following tables set forth information about net cash settlements and the net asset or liability resulting from these hedging activities related to the yen and other currencies.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

133
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

__________[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(2)Represents internal transactions between international-based and U.S.-based entities. Amounts noted are from the U.S.-based entities’ perspectives.

(3)Includes non-yen related cash settlements of $2 million, in Korean won for the year ended December 31, 2018[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(5)Includes non-yen related liabilities of $(2) million, denominated in Korean won as of December 31, 2018.

(6)As of December 31, 2018, approximately $524 million, $262 million and $(272) million of the net market value is scheduled to settle in 2019, 2020 and thereafter, respectively. The net market value of the assets (liabilities) will vary with changing market conditions to the extent there are no corresponding offsetting positions.

PGIM operations

The principal sources of liquidity for our fee-based PGIM businesses include asset management fees and commercial mortgage origination and servicing fees. The principal uses of liquidity include general and administrative expenses and distributions of dividends and returns of capital to Prudential Financial. The primary liquidity risks for our fee-based PGIM businesses relate to their profitability, which is impacted by market conditions and our investment management performance. We believe the cash flows from our fee-based PGIM businesses are adequate to satisfy the current liquidity requirements of these operations, as well as requirements that could arise under reasonably foreseeable stress scenarios, which are monitored through the use of internal measures.

The principal sources of liquidity for our strategic investments held in our PGIM businesses are cash flows from investments, the ability to liquidate investments, and available borrowing lines from internal sources, including Prudential Financial and Prudential Funding, LLC (“Prudential Funding”), a wholly-owned subsidiary of Prudential Insurance. The primary liquidity risks include the inability to sell assets in a timely manner, declines in the value of assets and credit defaults. There were no material changes to the liquidity position of our PGIM operations during 2018.

Alternative Sources of Liquidity

In addition to the sources of liquidity discussed above, and asset-based financing as discussed below, Prudential Financial and certain subsidiaries have access to other sources of liquidity, including syndicated, unsecured committed credit facilities, membership in the Federal Home Loan Banks, commercial paper programs, and a put option agreement. See Note 16 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on these sources of liquidity.

Asset-based Financing

We conduct asset-based or secured financing within our insurance and other subsidiaries, including transactions such as securities lending, repurchase agreements and mortgage dollar rolls, to earn spread income, to borrow funds, or to facilitate trading activity. These programs are primarily driven by portfolio holdings of securities that are lendable based on counterparty demand for these securities in the marketplace. The collateral received in connection with these programs is primarily used to purchase securities in the short-term spread portfolios of our insurance entities. Investments held in the short-term spread portfolios include cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments (primarily corporate bonds), mortgage loans and fixed maturities (primarily CLOs and other structured securities), with a weighted average life at time of purchase by the short-term portfolios of four years or less. Floating rate assets comprise the majority of our short-term spread portfolio. These short-term portfolios are subject to specific investment policy statements, which among other things, do not allow for significant asset/liability interest rate duration mismatch.

The following table sets forth our liabilities under asset-based or secured financing programs as of the dates indicated.

134
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

__________[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(2)Excludes securities that may be returned to the Company overnight.

As of December 31, 2018, our domestic insurance entities had assets eligible for the asset-based or secured financing programs of $111.6 billion, of which $14.5 billion were on loan. Taking into account market conditions and outstanding loan balances as of December 31, 2018, we believe approximately $14.2 billion of the remaining eligible assets are readily lendable, including approximately $9.9 billion relating to PFI excluding the Closed Block division, of which $2.3 billion relates to certain separate accounts and may only be used for financing activities related to those accounts, and the remaining $4.3 billion relating to the Closed Block division.

Financing Activities

As of December 31, 2018 and 2017, total short-term and long-term debt of the Company on a consolidated basis was $19.8 billion and $18.6 billion, respectively. We may, from time to time, seek to redeem or repurchase our outstanding debt securities through open market purchases, individually negotiated transactions or otherwise. Any such actions will depend on prevailing market conditions, our liquidity position and other factors. The following table sets forth total consolidated borrowings of the Company as of the dates indicated.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

__________

(1)Amounts are net of assets under set-off arrangements of $9,095 million and $7,287 million as of December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.

135
(2)Limited and non-recourse borrowing represents mortgage debt of our subsidiaries that has recourse only to real estate investment property.

As of December 31, 2018 and 2017, we were in compliance with all debt covenants related to the borrowings in the table above. For further information on our short- and long-term debt obligations, see Note 16 to our Consolidated Financial Statements.

Based on the use of proceeds, we classify our borrowings as capital debt, investment-related debt, and debt related to specified businesses. Capital debt, which is debt utilized to meet the capital requirements of our businesses, was $13.4 billion and $12.0 billion as of December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. Investment-related debt of $3.9 billion and $4.0 billion as of December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively, consists of debt issued to finance specific investment assets or portfolios of investment assets, the proceeds from which will service the debt. Specifically, this includes institutional spread lending investment portfolios, assets supporting reserve requirements under Regulation XXX and Guideline AXXX as described below, as well as funding for institutional and insurance company portfolio cash flow timing differences. Our remaining borrowings are utilized for business funding to meet specific purposes, which may include funding new business acquisition costs associated with our individual annuities business, operating needs associated with hedging our individual annuities products as discussed above and activities associated with our investment management business.

Prudential Financial Borrowings

Long-term borrowings are conducted primarily by Prudential Financial. It borrows these funds to meet its capital and other funding needs, as well as the capital and funding needs of its subsidiaries. Prudential Financial maintains a shelf registration statement with the SEC that permits the issuance of public debt, equity and hybrid securities. As a “Well-Known Seasoned Issuer” under SEC rules, Prudential Financial’s shelf registration statement provides for automatic effectiveness upon filing and has no stated issuance capacity.

Prudential Financial’s borrowings increased $1.1 billion from December 31, 2017, driven by the issuance of $1.5 billion of junior subordinated debt and $1 billion of senior debt, partially offset by senior debt maturities of $0.7 billion, redemption of $0.6 billion of junior subordinated debt, and $0.1 billion of retail note maturities. For more information on long-term debt, see Note 16 to our Consolidated Financial Statements.

Subsidiary Borrowings

Subsidiary borrowings principally consist of commercial paper borrowings by Prudential Funding, asset-based financing and real estate investment financing. Borrowings of our subsidiaries increased $0.2 billion from December 31, 2017 due to an increase in commercial paper outstanding.

Term and Universal Life Reserve Financing

Regulation XXX and Guideline AXXX require domestic life insurers to establish statutory reserves for term and universal life insurance policies with long-term premium guarantees that are consistent with the statutory reserves required for other individual life policies with similar guarantees. Many market participants believe that these levels of reserves are excessive relative to the levels reasonably required to maintain solvency for moderately adverse experience. The difference between the statutory reserve and the amount necessary to maintain solvency for moderately adverse experience is considered to be the non-economic portion of the statutory reserve.

We use captive reinsurance subsidiaries to finance the portion of the statutory reserves required to be held by our domestic life insurance companies under Regulation XXX and Guideline AXXX that we consider to be non-economic. The financing arrangements involve the reinsurance of term and universal life business to our captive reinsurers and the issuance of surplus notes by those captives that are treated as capital for statutory purposes. These surplus notes are subordinated to policyholder obligations, and the payment of principal and interest on the surplus notes can only be made with prior insurance regulatory approval.

136
We have entered into agreements with external counterparties providing for the issuance of surplus notes by our captive reinsurers in return for the receipt of credit-linked notes (“Credit-Linked Note Structures”). As of December 31, 2018, we had Credit-Linked Note Structures with an aggregate issuance capacity of $13,750 million, of which $11,445 million was outstanding, as compared to an aggregate issuance capacity of $11,100 million, of which $9,487 million was outstanding, as of December 31, 2017. Under the agreements, the captive receives in exchange for the surplus notes one or more credit-linked notes issued by a special-purpose affiliate of the Company with an aggregate principal amount equal to the surplus notes outstanding. The captive holds the credit-linked notes as assets supporting Regulation XXX or Guideline AXXX non-economic reserves, as applicable. The captive can redeem the principal amount of the outstanding credit-linked notes for cash upon the occurrence of, and in an amount necessary to remedy, a specified liquidity stress event affecting the captive. Under the agreements, the external counterparties have agreed to fund any such payments under the credit-linked notes in return for the receipt of fees. Under certain of the transactions, Prudential Financial has agreed to make capital contributions to the captive to reimburse it for investment losses in excess of specified amounts and/or has agreed to reimburse the external counterparties for any payments made under the credit-linked notes. To date, no such payments under the credit-linked notes have been required. Under these transactions, because valid rights of set-off exist, interest and principal payments on the surplus notes and on the credit-linked notes are settled on a net basis, and the surplus notes are reflected in the Company’s total consolidated borrowings on a net basis.

The following table summarizes our Credit-Linked Note Structures, which are reported on a net basis, as of December 31, 2018.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

 __________

(1)Prudential Financial has agreed to reimburse any amounts paid under the credit-linked notes issued in this structure.

(2)The $2.35 billion of surplus notes represents an intercompany transaction that eliminates upon consolidation. Prudential Financial has agreed to reimburse amounts paid under credit-linked notes issued in this structure up to $1.0 billion.

As of December 31, 2018, we also had outstanding an aggregate of $2.3 billion of debt issued for the purpose of financing Regulation XXX and Guideline AXXX non-economic reserves, of which approximately $0.6 billion relates to Regulation XXX reserves and approximately $1.7 billion relates to Guideline AXXX reserves. In addition, as of December 31, 2018, for purposes of financing Guideline AXXX reserves, one of our captives had approximately $4.0 billion of surplus notes outstanding that were issued to affiliates.

The Company has introduced updated versions of several products in its individual life product portfolio in conjunction with the requirement to adopt principle-based reserving by January 1, 2020. Notably, the Company adopted principle-based reserving for its guaranteed universal life products and introduced updated versions of these products in 2017. The guaranteed universal life updated products support the principle-based statutory reserve level without the need for financing through captive reinsurance. The Company is continuing to assess the impact of principle-based reserving on projected statutory reserve levels and product pricing for its remaining portfolio of individual life product offerings.

Ratings

Financial strength ratings (which are sometimes referred to as “claims-paying” ratings) and credit ratings are important factors affecting public confidence in an insurer and its competitive position in marketing products. Our credit ratings are also important for our ability to raise capital through the issuance of debt and for the cost of such financing. Nationally Recognized Statistical Ratings Organizations continually review the financial performance and financial condition of the entities they rate, including Prudential Financial and its rated subsidiaries.

137
A downgrade in the credit or financial strength ratings of Prudential Financial or its rated subsidiaries could potentially, among other things, limit our ability to market products, reduce our competitiveness, increase the number or value of policy surrenders and withdrawals, increase our borrowing costs and potentially make it more difficult to borrow funds, adversely affect the availability of financial guarantees, such as letters of credit, cause additional collateral requirements or other required payments under certain agreements, allow counterparties to terminate derivative agreements and/or hurt our relationships with creditors, distributors, or trading counterparties thereby potentially negatively affecting our profitability, liquidity, and/or capital. In addition, we consider our own risk of non-performance in determining the fair value of our liabilities. Therefore, changes in our credit or financial strength ratings may affect the fair value of our liabilities.

Financial strength ratings represent the opinions of rating agencies regarding the financial ability of an insurance company to meet its obligations under an insurance policy. Credit ratings represent the opinions of rating agencies regarding an entity’s ability to repay its indebtedness. The following table summarizes the ratings for Prudential Financial and certain of its subsidiaries as of the date of this filing.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

__________

 * The Current ‘Stable’ Outlook on Prudential’s ratings corresponds to all S&P rated Prudential entities except for Prudential’s Japanese Subsidiaries (The Prudential Life Insurance Company Ltd., Gibraltar Life Insurance Company, Ltd., and The Prudential Gibraltar Financial Life Insurance Co. Ltd.), which have ‘Positive’ Outlooks.

 ** “NR” indicates not rated.

(1)A.M. Best Company, which we refer to as A.M. Best, financial strength ratings for insurance companies range from “A++ (superior)” to “D (Poor)”. A rating of A+ is the second highest of thirteen rating categories. A.M. Best long-term credit ratings range from “aaa (exceptional)” to “c (Poor)”. A.M. Best short-term credit ratings range from “AMB-1+”, which represents the strongest ability to repay short-term debt obligations, to “AMB-4 (Questionable)”. 

(2)Standard & Poor’s Rating Services, which we refer to as S&P, financial strength ratings for insurance companies range from “AAA (extremely strong)” to “D (default)”. A rating of AA- is the fourth highest of twenty-three rating categories. S&P’s long-term issue credit ratings range from “AAA (extremely strong)” to “D (default)”. S&P short-term ratings range from “A-1 (highest category)” to “D (default)”.

(3)Moody’s Investors Service, Inc., which we refer to as Moody’s, insurance financial strength ratings range from “Aaa (exceptional)” to “C (lowest)”. A rating of A1 is the fifth highest of twenty-one rating categories. Numeric modifiers are used to refer to the ranking within the group—with 1 being the highest and 3 being the lowest. These modifiers are used to indicate relative strength within a category. Moody’s long-term credit ratings range from “Aaa (highest)” to “C (default)”. Moody’s short-term ratings range from “Prime-1 (P-1)”, which represents a superior ability for repayment of short-term debt obligations, to “Prime-3 (P-3)”, which represents an acceptable ability for repayment of such obligations. Issuers rated “Not Prime” do not fall within any of the Prime rating categories.

(4)Fitch Ratings Inc., which we refer to as Fitch, financial strength ratings range from “AAA (exceptionally strong)” to “C (distressed)”. A rating of AA- is the fourth highest of twenty-one rating categories. Fitch long-term credit ratings range from “AAA (highest credit quality)”, which denotes exceptionally strong capacity for timely payment of financial commitments, to “D (default)”. Short-term ratings range from “F1+ (highest credit quality)” to “D (default)”.

(5)This rating for Prudential Life Insurance Company of Taiwan, Inc. was upgraded to “twAAA” from “twAA+” in November of 2018 by Taiwan Ratings Corporation, an S&P Global Company.

138
The ratings set forth above reflect current opinions of each rating agency. Each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. These ratings are not directed toward shareholders and do not in any way reflect evaluations of the safety and security of the Common Stock. These ratings are reviewed periodically and may be changed at any time by the rating agencies. As a result, we cannot assure stakeholders that we will maintain our current ratings in the future.

Rating agencies use an “outlook” statement for both industry sectors and individual companies. For an industry sector, a stable outlook generally implies that over the next 12 to 18 months the rating agency expects ratings to remain unchanged among companies in the sector. In 2018, A.M. Best revised the Rating Outlook on the U.S. life insurance industry from Negative to Stable. Fitch, Moody’s, and S&P maintained their outlook for the U.S. life insurance sector at Stable. For a particular company, an outlook generally indicates a medium- or long-term trend (generally six months to two years) in credit fundamentals, which if continued, may lead to a rating change. These indicators are not necessarily a precursor of a rating change nor do they preclude a rating agency from changing a rating at any time without notice. A.M. Best, Fitch, and S&P have the Company’s ratings on Stable outlook. Moody’s has the ratings of Prudential Financial and its insurance subsidiaries on Positive outlook.

The following is a summary of the significant changes or actions in ratings and rating outlooks for our Company, as well as for the life insurance industry and sector, that have occurred from January 1, 2018 through the date of this filing:

In April 2018, S&P revised the company outlook for Prudential of Japan, Gibraltar Life and PGFL from Stable to Positive, which resulted from S&P’s revised outlook on the Japan sovereign credit rating from Stable to Positive. 

In November 2018, Prudential Life Insurance Co. of Taiwan’s Issuer Credit Rating and Financial Strength Rating was upgraded from “twAA+” to “twAAA” by Taiwan Rating Corp., an S&P Global Company. This upgrade reflects the revised assessment of Prudential Taiwan’s increased importance to Prudential Financial, from “strategically important” to “highly strategic”.

Requirements to post collateral or make other payments because of ratings downgrades under certain agreements, including derivative agreements, can be satisfied in cash or by posting permissible securities held by the subsidiaries subject to the agreements. In addition, a ratings downgrade by A.M. Best to “A-” for our domestic life insurance companies would require Prudential Insurance to either post collateral or a letter of credit in the amount of approximately $1.4 billion, based on the level of statutory reserves related to the variable annuity business acquired from Allstate. We believe that the posting of such collateral would not be a material liquidity event for Prudential Insurance.

Contractual Obligations

The table below summarizes the future estimated cash payments related to certain contractual obligations as of December 31, 2018. The estimated payments reflected in this table are based on management’s estimates and assumptions about these obligations. Because these estimates and assumptions are necessarily subjective, the actual cash outflows in future periods will vary, possibly materially, from those reflected in the table. In addition, we do not believe that our cash flow requirements can be adequately assessed based solely upon an analysis of these obligations, as the table below does not contemplate all aspects of our cash inflows, such as the level of cash flow generated by certain of our investments, nor all aspects of our cash outflows.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

__________

(1)The estimated payments due by period for long-term debt reflects the contractual maturities of principal, as disclosed in Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, as well as estimated future interest payments. The payment of principal and estimated future interest for short-term debt are reflected in estimated payments due in 2019. The estimate for future interest payments includes the effect of derivatives that qualify for hedge accounting treatment. See Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information concerning our short-term and long-term debt.

139
(2)The estimated payments due by period for operating and capital leases reflect the future minimum lease payments under non-cancelable operating and capital leases, as disclosed in Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

(3)As discussed in Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, we have commitments to purchase or fund investments, some of which are contingent upon events or circumstances not under our control, including those at the discretion of our counterparties. The timing of the fulfillment of certain of these commitments cannot be estimated, therefore the settlements of these obligations are reflected in estimated payments due in less than one year. Commitments to purchase or fund investments include $147 million that we anticipate will ultimately be funded from our separate accounts.

(4)As discussed in Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, loan commitments of our commercial mortgage operations, which are legally binding commitments to extend credit to a counterparty, have been reflected in the contractual obligations table above principally based on the expiration date of the commitment; however, it is possible these loan commitments could be funded prior to their expiration date. In certain circumstances the counterparty may also extend the date of the expiration in exchange for a fee.

(5)The estimated cash flows due by period for insurance liabilities reflect future estimated cash payments to be made to policyholders and others for future policy benefits, policyholders’ account balances, policyholder’s dividends, reinsurance payables and separate account liabilities, net of premium receipts and reinsurance recoverables. These future estimated cash flows for current policies in force generally reflect our best estimate economic and actuarial assumptions. These cash flows are undiscounted with respect to interest. The sum of the cash flows shown for all years in the table of $1,142 billion exceeds the corresponding liability amounts of approximately $711 billion included in the Consolidated Financial Statements as of December 31, 2018. Separate account liabilities are legally insulated from general account obligations, and it is generally expected these liabilities will be fully funded by separate account assets and their related cash flows. We have made significant assumptions to determine the future estimated cash flows related to the underlying policies and contracts. Due to the significance of the assumptions used, actual cash flows will differ, possibly materially, from these estimates.

(6)The estimated payments due by period for other liabilities includes securities sold under agreements to repurchase, cash collateral for loaned securities, liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits, bank customer liabilities, and other miscellaneous liabilities. Amounts presented in the table also exclude $955 million of notes issued by consolidated VIE’s which recourse for these obligations is limited to the assets of the respective VIE and do not have recourse to the general credit of the company.

We also enter into agreements to purchase goods and services in the normal course of business; however, these purchase obligations are not material to our consolidated results of operations or financial position as of December 31, 2018.

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

Guarantees and Other Contingencies

In the course of our business, we provide certain guarantees and indemnities to third parties pursuant to which we may be contingently required to make payments in the future. See Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.

Other Contingent Commitments

We also have other commitments, some of which are contingent upon events or circumstances not under our control, including those at the discretion of our counterparties. See Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding these commitments. For further discussion of certain of these commitments that relate to our separate accounts, also see “—Liquidity associated with other activities—PGIM operations.”

Other Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

In 2013, we entered into a put option agreement with a Delaware trust that gives Prudential Financial the right, at any time over a ten-year period, to issue up to $1.5 billion of senior notes to the trust in return for principal and interest strips of U.S. Treasury securities that are held by the trust. See Note 16 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on this put option agreement. In 2014, Prudential Financial entered into financing transactions, pursuant to which it issued $500 million of limited recourse notes and, in return, obtained $500 million of asset-backed notes from a Delaware master trust and ultimately contributed the asset-backed notes to its subsidiary, PRIAC. As of December 31, 2018, no principal payments have been received or are currently due on the asset-backed notes and, as a result, there was no payment obligation under the limited recourse notes. Accordingly, none of the notes are reflected in the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements as of that date. 

Other than as described above, we do not have retained or contingent interests in assets transferred to unconsolidated entities, or variable interests in unconsolidated entities or other similar transactions, arrangements or relationships that serve as credit, liquidity or market risk support, that we believe are reasonably likely to have a material effect on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or our access to or requirements for capital resources. In addition, other than the agreements referred to above, we do not have relationships with any unconsolidated entities that are contractually limited to narrow activities that facilitate our transfer of or access to associated assets.

140
Risk Management

Overview

We employ a risk governance structure, overseen by senior management and our Board and managed by Enterprise Risk Management (“ERM”), to provide a common framework for evaluating the risks embedded in and across our businesses and corporate centers, developing risk appetites, managing these risks and identifying current and future risk challenges and opportunities. For a discussion of the risks of our businesses, see “Risk Factors”.

Risk Governance Framework

Each of our businesses has a risk governance structure that is supported by a framework at the corporate level. Generally, our businesses are authorized to make day-to-day risk decisions that are consistent with enterprise risk policies and limits, and subject to enterprise oversight. Our governance structure is comprised of the Board and its committees, management committees and ERM and is designed to support this framework.

Board of Directors Oversight

Our Board oversees our risk profile and management’s processes for assessing and managing risk. The Board also reviews strategic risks and opportunities facing the Company. Certain specific categories of risk are assigned to Board committees that report back to the full Board, as summarized below:

•Audit Committee: oversees insurance risk and operational risks, including model risk, as well as risks related to financial controls, legal, regulatory and compliance risks, and the overall risk management governance structure and risk management function.

•Compensation Committee: oversees our compensation programs so that incentives are aligned with appropriate risk taking.

•Corporate Governance and Business Ethics Committee: oversees our corporate governance procedures and practices, ethics and conflict of interest policies, political contributions, lobbying expenses and overall political strategy, as well as our strategy and reputation regarding environmental stewardship, sustainability and corporate social responsibility.

•Finance Committee: oversees liquidity risk, including risks involving our capital and liquidity management, the incurrence and repayment of borrowings, the capital structure, the funding of benefit plans and statutory insurance reserves. The Finance Committee reviews and recommends for approval to the Board our capital plan. The Finance Committee also receives regular updates on the sources and uses of capital relative to plan, as well as on our Capital Protection Framework.

•Investment Committee: oversees investment risk and market risk and the strength of the investment function. The Investment Committee approves investment and market risk limits based on asset class, issuer, credit quality and geography.

•Risk Committee: oversees the governance of significant risks throughout the Company and the establishment and ongoing monitoring of our risk profile, risk capacity and risk appetite. The Risk Committee also serves to coordinate the risk oversight functions of the other committees of the Board.

Management Oversight

Our primary risk management committee is the Enterprise Risk Committee (“ERC”). Currently, the ERC is chaired by our Chief Risk Officer and otherwise comprised of the Vice Chairman, Chief Operating Officers for the U.S. and International Businesses, General Counsel, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Investment Officer and Chief Actuary. Our Chief Auditor also attends meetings of the ERC. The ERC’s mandate is to review significant risks that impact us and approve, or recommend to the Board for approval, our risk management policies and limits to keep our risk profile consistent with our strategy.

The ERC is supported by six Risk Oversight Committees aligned with our tactical risks, each of which is comprised of subject matter experts and dedicated to one of the following risk types: investment, market, insurance, operational, model and liquidity. These Risk Oversight Committees report their activities to the ERC, and significant matters or matters where there are unresolved points of view are reviewed and brought to the ERC. The Risk Oversight Committees provide an opportunity to evaluate complex issues by subject matter experts within the various risk areas. They evaluate the adequacy and effectiveness of risk mitigation options, identify stakeholders of risks and issues, review material assumptions for reasonability and consistency across the Company and, working with the different risk areas, develop recommendations for risk limits, among other responsibilities. 

141
Each of our businesses and significant corporate centers maintains its own risk committee. The business risk committees serve as a forum for leaders within each business to identify, assess and resolve risk and exposure issues and to review new products and initiatives, prior to such issues being reviewed by the Risk Oversight Committees and/or the ERC as appropriate. Corporate center risk committees assess and monitor risks associated with the relevant corporate centers, set standards and exercise oversight over specific risks.

Enterprise Risk Management Oversight

ERM manages a comprehensive framework for assessing the risks embedded in and across our businesses so that the Company can manage these risks effectively, evaluate current and future risk challenges and opportunities, and enhance shareholder value. ERM operates independently and is responsible for recommending policies, limits and standards for all risks. It oversees these risks under the guidance of the ERC and Risk Oversight Committees. Additionally, ERM works with our businesses and corporate centers with an objective of comprehensive identification, monitoring and management of risks that we may face. The ERM infrastructure is generally aligned by risk type, with certain groups within ERM working across risk types.

Risk Identification

We rely on a combination of activities and processes to provide analysis and seek assurance that all material risks have been identified and managed as appropriate. There are three levels of activities that seek to ensure that changes in risk levels or new risks to the Company are identified and escalated as appropriate: (1) business activities, (2) corporate center activities, and (3) processes involving senior management and the Board.

•Businesses: Each business area has a risk committee that meets periodically to allow senior leaders to discuss and evaluate current, new, and anticipatory risks in their own operations. Businesses are required to develop and maintain documented operational risk inventories which facilitate the identification of current operational risk exposures. Anticipatory risks are identified, assessed and monitored for potential future risks which could significantly impact the businesses or the overall Company. 

•Corporate Centers: The corporate centers review the results of the business activities and examine risks from an enterprise view across businesses under normal and stressed conditions. As a result, the corporate centers, particularly ERM, use several processes and activities to identify and assess the risks of the Company.

•Senior Management and the Board: Senior management plays a critical role in reviewing the risk profile of the Company, including by identifying impacts to the business strategy of new or changed risks, and risks in any new strategies under consideration. These risks are discussed with the ERC as appropriate, and with the Board, if significant. As discussed above, the Board oversees the Company’s risk profile and management’s processes for assessing and managing risk, both as a full Board and through its committees.

Risk Measurement and Monitoring

Our Risk Appetite Framework (“RAF”) is a comprehensive process designed to reasonably ensure that all risks taken across the Company align with the Company’s capacity and willingness to take those risks. Using common metrics allows for a cohesive assessment of risk, resources and strategy, and supports management and the Board in making well-informed business decisions. The Company has a comprehensive stress testing framework, which serves as the foundation for the RAF. The RAF evaluates the Company’s exposure under various stress metrics and stress severities. The RAF provides a dynamic assessment of stress impacts and resources available to absorb these impacts under comprehensive stress scenarios. The Company’s capital management framework is integrated with the RAF to determine the amount of capital the Company needs to hold given the risks taken.

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK