Item 7.Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  

 The following information should be read in conjunction with the information contained in “Part I. Item 1. Business,” “Part I. Item 1A. Risk Factors” and the audited consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto included under “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” elsewhere in this annual report.  

 Business  

 Transocean Ltd. (together with its subsidiaries and predecessors, unless the context requires otherwise, “Transocean,” the “Company,” “we,” “us” or “our”) is a leading international provider of offshore contract drilling services for oil and gas wells. As of February 11, 2019, we owned or had partial ownership interests in and operated a fleet of 49 mobile offshore drilling units, including 31 ultra‑deepwater floaters, 14 harsh environment floaters and four midwater floaters. As of February 11, 2019, we were constructing (i) four additional ultra‑deepwater drillships and (ii) one additional harsh environment semisubmersible, in which we hold a partial ownership interest.  

 We provide contract drilling services in a single, global operating segment, which involves contracting our mobile offshore drilling fleet, related equipment and work crews primarily on a dayrate basis to drill oil and gas wells. We specialize in technically demanding regions of the offshore drilling business with a particular focus on ultra‑deepwater and harsh environment drilling services. Our drilling fleet is one of the most versatile fleets in the world, consisting of drillships and semisubmersible floaters used in support of offshore drilling activities and offshore support services on a worldwide basis.  

 Our contract drilling services operations are geographically dispersed in oil and gas exploration and development areas throughout the world. Although rigs can be moved from one region to another, the cost of moving rigs and the availability of rig‑moving vessels may cause the supply and demand balance to fluctuate somewhat between regions. Still, significant variations between regions do not tend to persist long term because of rig mobility. Our fleet operates in a single, global market for the provision of contract drilling services. The location of our rigs and the allocation of resources to operate, build or upgrade our rigs are determined by the activities and needs of our customers.  

 Significant Events  

 Business combinations—On January 30, 2018, we acquired an approximate 97.7 percent ownership interest in Songa Offshore SE (“Songa”). On March 28, 2018, we acquired the remaining shares not owned by us through a compulsory acquisition under Cyprus law, and as a result Songa became our wholly owned subsidiary. To complete these transactions, we issued 68.0 million shares and $863 million aggregate principal amount of 0.50% exchangeable senior bonds due January 30, 2023 (the “Exchangeable Bonds”). As a result of the acquisition, we acquired seven mobile offshore drilling units, including five harsh environment floaters and two midwater floaters. See “—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Sources and uses of liquidity.”  

 On December 5, 2018, we acquired Ocean Rig UDW Inc. (“Ocean Rig”) in a merger transaction, and as a result, Ocean Rig became our wholly owned subsidiary. To complete the acquisition, we issued 147.7 million shares and made an aggregate cash payment of $1.2 billion. As a result of the acquisition, we acquired (i) 11 mobile offshore drilling units, including nine ultra‑deepwater floaters and two harsh environment floaters, and (ii) the contracts relating to the construction of two ultra‑deepwater drillships. In February 2019, we committed to plans to sell one ultra‑deepwater floater and one harsh environment floater acquired in the Ocean Rig acquisition. See “—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Sources and uses of liquidity.”  

 Impairments—In the year ended December 31, 2018, we recognized an aggregate loss of $999 million, which had no tax effect, associated with the impairment of four ultra‑deepwater floaters, two deepwater floaters and two midwater floaters, along with related assets, which we determined were impaired at the time we classified the assets as held for sale, and we recognized a loss of $462 million, which had no tax effect, associated with the impairment of our goodwill. See “—Operating Results.”  

 Secured Credit Facility—In June 2018, we entered into a bank credit agreement, which established a $1.0 billion secured revolving credit facility (the “Secured Credit Facility”), and we terminated the former bank credit agreement. See “—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Sources and uses of liquidity.”  

 Debt issuances—In July 2018, we issued $750 million aggregate principal amount of 5.875% senior secured notes due January 2024 (the “5.875% Senior Secured Notes”), and $600 million aggregate principal amount of 6.125% senior secured notes due August 2025 (the “6.125% Senior Secured Notes”), together the “2018 Senior Secured Notes”, and we received approximately $733 million and $586 million, respectively, of aggregate cash proceeds, net of discount and issue costs. On October 25, 2018, we issued $750 million aggregate principal amount of 7.25% senior unsecured notes due November 2025 (the “7.25% Senior Notes”), and we received aggregate cash proceeds of $735 million, net of issue costs. On February 1, 2019, we issued $550 million aggregate principal amount of 6.875% senior secured notes due February 2027 (the “6.875% Senior Secured Notes”), and we received aggregate cash proceeds of $538 million, net of discount and issue costs. See “—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Sources and uses of liquidity.”  

 Debt retirement—In the year ended December 31, 2018, we made an aggregate cash payment of $1.6 billion to repay debt assumed in the Songa acquisition. In the year ended December 31, 2018, we repurchased in the open market $95 million aggregate 

 - 27 -  

 Table of Contents  

principal amount of our debt securities for an aggregate cash payment of $95 million. See “—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Sources and uses of liquidity.”  

 Debt tender offers—On February 5, 2019, we completed tender offers (the “2019 Tender Offers”) to purchase for cash up to $700 million aggregate purchase price of certain outstanding senior notes (the “2019 Tendered Notes”). In January and February 2019, as a result of the 2019 Tender Offers, we made an aggregate cash payment of $521 million to settle the validly tendered 2019 Tendered Notes. In the three months ending March 31, 2019, we expect to recognize an aggregate net loss of approximately $18 million associated with the retirement of debt. See “—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Sources and uses of liquidity.”  

 Investment in unconsolidated affiliates—In May 2018 and January 2019, we made an aggregate cash investment of $91 million and $59 million, respectively, representing a 33.0 percent ownership interest in Orion Holdings (Cayman) Limited, a Cayman Islands company formed to construct and own the newbuild harsh environment semisubmersible Transocean Norge. We expect to operate the rig, through one of our wholly owned subsidiaries, under a six‑well drilling contract that is expected to commence in July 2019. See “—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Sources and uses of liquidity.”  

 Fleet expansion—In February 2018, we completed the construction of and placed into service the ultra‑deepwater floater Deepwater Poseidon. See “—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Drilling fleet.”  

 Dispositions—During the year ended December 31, 2018, we completed the sale of six ultra‑deepwater floaters, one deepwater floater and one midwater floater, along with related assets, for which we received aggregate net cash proceeds of $36 million. See “—Operating Results” and “—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Drilling fleet.”  

 Outlook  

 Drilling market—Our long‑term view of the part of the offshore drilling market in which we participate is positive, especially for the highest specification floaters. Brent oil prices, although somewhat volatile, remained above $60 per barrel for most of 2018, improving our customers’ economics for drilling oil and gas wells and providing positive support for our customers’ budget cycles for 2019. Structural efficiency gains across the industry, which resulted in improved economics for offshore development, and some favorable trends in the hydrocarbon supply‑demand balance whereby oil supply has declined relative to demand, resulted in an increase in our customers’ investment decisions in 2018. We expect this trend of additional investment by our customers to continue in 2019.  

 Over the past year, opportunities have increased for our drilling services. In markets requiring harsh environment floating drilling rigs, such as the Norwegian North Sea and eastern Canada, the limited supply of these specialized rigs has improved fleet utilization, which has resulted in increased dayrates on high‑specification rigs being tendered for new work. Outside of harsh environment markets, the excess supply of ultra‑deepwater floaters relative to demand has delayed improvement of dayrates despite the increase in contract activity. However, as the hydrocarbon supply‑demand balance improves, we expect that stability and sustained improvement of oil prices will ultimately result in greater demand for ultra‑deepwater drilling rigs and improvement of dayrates as utilization tightens.  

 As of February 11, 2019, our contract backlog was $12.2 billion compared to $11.5 billion as of October 22, 2018. We believe the risks of drilling project delays, contract renegotiations and contract terminations and cancellations have diminished as oil prices have improved and our customers’ cash positions have improved.  

 Fleet status—We refer to the availability of our rigs in terms of the uncommitted fleet rate. The uncommitted fleet rate is defined as the number of uncommitted days divided by the total number of rig calendar days in the measurement period, expressed as a percentage. An uncommitted day is defined as a calendar day during which a rig is idle or stacked, is not contracted to a customer and is not committed to a shipyard. The uncommitted fleet rates exclude the effect of priced options.  

 As of February 11, 2019, the uncommitted fleet rates for each of the five years in the period ending December 31, 2023 were as follows:  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Performance and Other Key Indicators  

 Contract backlog—Contract backlog is defined as the maximum contractual operating dayrate multiplied by the number of days remaining in the firm contract period, excluding revenues for mobilization, demobilization, contract preparation, other incentive provisions or reimbursement revenues, which are not expected to be significant to our contract drilling revenues. Average contractual dayrate relative to our contract backlog is defined as the average maximum contractual operating dayrate to be earned per operating day in the measurement period. An operating day is defined as a day for which a rig is contracted to earn a dayrate during the firm contract period after commencement of operations.  

 - 28 -  

 Table of Contents  

 The contract backlog represents the maximum contract drilling revenues that can be earned considering the contractual operating dayrate in effect during the firm contract period and represents the basis for the maximum revenues in our revenue efficiency measurement. To determine maximum revenues for purposes of calculating revenue efficiency, however, we include the revenues earned for mobilization, demobilization and contract preparation, other incentive provisions or cost escalation provisions which are excluded from the amounts presented for contract backlog.  

 The contract backlog for our fleet was as follows:  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Our contract backlog includes only firm commitments, which are represented by signed drilling contracts or, in some cases, by other definitive agreements awaiting contract execution. Our contract backlog includes amounts associated with our newbuild units that are currently under construction. The contractual operating dayrate may be higher than the actual dayrate we ultimately receive or an alternative contractual dayrate, such as a waiting‑on‑weather rate, repair rate, standby rate or force majeure rate, may apply under certain circumstances. The contractual operating dayrate may also be higher than the actual dayrate we ultimately receive because of a number of factors, including rig downtime or suspension of operations. In certain contracts, the dayrate may be reduced to zero if, for example, repairs extend beyond a stated period of time.  

 In connection with our Ocean Rig acquisition, we acquired contract backlog of approximately $650 million, included in the contract backlog for our ultra‑deepwater and harsh environment floaters presented above, measured as of the acquisition date, December 5, 2018. In connection with our Songa acquisition, we acquired contract backlog of $3.7 billion, included in the contract backlog for our harsh environment floaters presented above, measured as of the acquisition date, January 30, 2018.  

 In December 2018, we and a subsidiary of Chevron Corporation (together with its affiliates, “Chevron”) entered into a rig design and construction contract and a five‑year drilling contract for one of our ultra‑deepwater drillships under construction at the Jurong Shipyard Pte Ltd. in Singapore. The drilling contract added $830 million of estimated contract backlog. The drilling contract is subject to design, construction and delivery requirements set forth in the construction contract. In the event of termination for convenience by the customer, we will be compensated for our incremental 20,000 pounds per square inch (“psi”) subsea investment in the rig, and termination for convenience after April 2020 will result in a substantial termination fee.  

 At February 11, 2019, the contract backlog and average contractual dayrates for our fleet were as follows:  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 The actual amounts of revenues earned and the actual periods during which revenues are earned will differ from the amounts and periods shown in the tables above due to various factors, including shipyard and maintenance projects, unplanned downtime and other factors that result in lower applicable dayrates than the full contractual operating dayrate. Additional factors that could affect the amount and timing of actual revenue to be recognized include customer liquidity issues and contract terminations, which are available to our customers under certain circumstances.  

 - 29 -  

 Table of Contents  

 Average daily revenue—Average daily revenue is defined as contract drilling revenues, excluding revenues for contract terminations and reimbursements, earned per operating day. An operating day is defined as a calendar day during which a rig is contracted to earn a dayrate during the firm contract period after commencement of operations. The average daily revenue for our fleet was as follows:  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Our average daily revenue fluctuates relative to market conditions and our revenue efficiency. The average daily revenue may also be affected by revenues for lump sum bonuses or demobilization fees received from our customers and is reduced by the amortization of the contract intangible assets acquired in the Songa acquisition and, to a lesser extent, the Ocean Rig acquisition. Our total fleet average daily revenue is also affected by the mix of rig classes being operated, as deepwater floaters, midwater floaters and high‑specification jackups are typically contracted at lower dayrates compared to ultra‑deepwater floaters and harsh environment floaters. We include newbuilds in the calculation when the rigs commence operations upon acceptance by the customer. We remove rigs from the calculation upon disposal or classification as held for sale, unless we continue to operate rigs subsequent to sale, as we did with three of the high‑specification jackups sold in May 2017, in which case we remove the rigs at the time of completion or novation of the contract.  

 Revenue efficiency—Revenue efficiency is defined as actual contract drilling revenues, excluding revenues for contract terminations and reimbursements, for the measurement period divided by the maximum revenue calculated for the measurement period, expressed as a percentage. Maximum revenue is defined as the greatest amount of contract drilling revenues, excluding revenues from contract terminations and reimbursements, the drilling unit could earn for the measurement period, excluding amounts related to incentive provisions. The revenue efficiency rates for our fleet were as follows:  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Our revenue efficiency rate varies due to revenues earned under alternative contractual dayrates, such as a waiting‑on‑weather rate, repair rate, standby rate, force majeure rate or zero rate, that may apply under certain circumstances. We include newbuilds in the calculation when the rigs commence operations upon acceptance by the customer. We exclude rigs that are not operating under contract, such as those that are stacked.  

 Rig utilization—Rig utilization is defined as the total number of operating days divided by the total number of rig calendar days in the measurement period, expressed as a percentage. The rig utilization rates for our fleet were as follows:  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Our rig utilization rate declines as a result of idle and stacked rigs and during shipyard and mobilization periods to the extent these rigs are not earning revenues. We include newbuilds in the calculation when the rigs commence operations upon acceptance by the customer. We remove rigs from the calculation upon disposal, classification as held for sale or classification as discontinued operations. Accordingly, our rig utilization can increase when idle or stacked units are removed from our drilling fleet.  

 - 30 -  

 Table of Contents  

 Operating Results  

 Year ended December 31, 2018 compared to the year ended December 31, 2017  

 The following is an analysis of our operating results. See “—Performance and Other Key Indicators” for definitions of operating days, average daily revenue, revenue efficiency and rig utilization.  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 “nm” means not meaningful.  

 Contract drilling revenues—Contract drilling revenues increased for the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to the year ended December 31, 2017 primarily due to the following: (a) approximately $515 million resulting from operations acquired in the acquisitions of Songa and Ocean Rig, (b) approximately $335 million resulting from our two newbuild ultra‑deepwater drillships that commenced operations in the two‑year period ended December 31, 2018, (c) approximately $125 million resulting from contract early terminations and cancellations, (d) approximately $110 million resulting from the reactivation of two rigs and (e) approximately $90 million of reimbursement revenues. These increases were partially offset by the following decreases: (a) approximately $375 million resulting from lower dayrates, (b) approximately $345 million resulting from a greater number of rigs idle or stacked, (c) approximately $135 million resulting from rigs sold or classified as held for sale and (d) approximately $40 million resulting from lower revenue efficiency.  

 Other revenues for the year ended December 31, 2017, included revenues of $201 million resulting from contract early terminations and cancellations and $41 million of reimbursement revenues. For the year ended December 31, 2018, these activities are presented in contract drilling revenues as part of our single performance obligation.  

 Costs and expenses—Operating and maintenance expense increased for the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to the year ended December 31, 2017, primarily due to the following: (a) approximately $290 million resulting from operations acquired in the acquisitions of Songa and Ocean Rig, (b) approximately $80 million resulting from our two newbuild ultra‑deepwater drillships that commenced operations in the two‑year period ended December 31, 2018, (c) approximately $65 million resulting from increased costs primarily associated with changes to our country of operations and maintenance programs, (d) approximately $55 million resulting from the reactivation of three rigs and (e) approximately $45 million resulting from increased reimbursable costs. These increases were partially offset by the following decreases: (a) approximately $80 million resulting from a greater number of rigs sold or classified as held for sale and (b) approximately $50 million resulting from a greater number of rigs idle or stacked.  

 Depreciation expense decreased for the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to the year ended December 31, 2017 primarily due to the following: (a) approximately $120 million resulting from rigs sold or classified as held for sale, (b) approximately $20 million resulting from the retirement or full depreciation of certain assets and (c) approximately $5 million resulting from the impairment of our midwater floater asset group in the year ended to December 31, 2017. These decreases were partially offset by the following increases: (a) approximately $82 million resulting from the rigs acquired in the acquisitions of Songa and Ocean Rig and (b) approximately $49 million resulting from our two newbuild ultra‑deepwater drillships placed into service in the two‑year period ended December 31, 2018.  

 - 31 -  

 Table of Contents  

 General and administrative expense increased for the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to the year ended December 31, 2017, primarily due to the following: (a) approximately $18 million of increased acquisition costs related to the acquisitions of Songa and Ocean Rig, (b) approximately $7 million of increased professional fees related to developing technology for improving fleet performance and reducing costs and (c) approximately $4 million of increased personnel costs, primarily resulting from costs associated with the early retirement of certain personnel.  

 Loss on impairment or disposal of assets—In the year ended December 31, 2018, we recognized losses related to the following: (a) $999 million associated with the impairment of certain assets classified as held for sale and (b) $462 million associated with the impairment of goodwill. In the year ended December 31, 2017, we recognized losses related to the following: (a) a loss of $1.4 billion associated with the impairment of certain assets classified as held for sale and (b) a loss of $94 million associated with the impairment of our midwater floater asset group.  

 In the year ended December 31, 2018, we recognized an aggregate gain of $7 million associated with the sale of six ultra‑deepwater floaters, one deepwater floater and one midwater floater, along with related assets. In the year ended December 31, 2018, we recognized an aggregate loss of $7 million associated with the disposal of assets unrelated to rig sales. In the year ended December 31, 2017, loss on disposal of assets was primarily due to the sale of 10 high‑specification jackups and novation of the contracts relating to the construction of five high‑specification jackups, together with related assets.  

 Other income and expense—Interest expense, net of amounts capitalized, increased in the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to the year ended December 31, 2017, primarily due to the following: (a) approximately $98 million reduced interest costs capitalized for our newbuild ultra‑deepwater drillships placed into service in the two‑year period ended December 31, 2018, (b) approximately $78 million resulting from debt issued in the two‑year period ended December 31, 2018 and (c) approximately $32 million resulting from the debt and related undesignated derivative instruments issued or assumed in connection with the Songa acquisition. These increases were partially offset by a decrease of approximately $83 million resulting from the retirement of debt.  

 Loss on retirement of debt in the year ended December 31, 2017 resulted primarily from the following: (a) an aggregate loss of $48 million resulting from the retirement of notes validly tendered in the cash tender offers completed July 11, 2017 (the “2017 Tender Offers”) and (b) an aggregate loss of $7 million resulting from debt redemptions and repurchases.  

 Other income, net, increased in the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to the year ended December 31, 2017, primarily due to the following: (a) an increase of $45 million associated with receipt of payments related to our dual‑activity patent, (b) an increase of $15 million associated with the non‑service component of net periodic benefit costs, (c) $10 million associated with the bargain purchase gain resulting from the Ocean Rig acquisition with no comparable activity in the prior year and (d) $4 million associated with undesignated interest rate swaps acquired in the Songa acquisition and subsequently terminated in the year ended December 31, 2018 with no comparable activity in the prior year. These increases were partially offset by a decrease of $33 million associated with currency exchange, $21 million of which resulted from undesignated currency derivative instruments in the current year.  

 Income tax expense—In the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, our effective tax rate was (12.8) percent and (3.1) percent, respectively, based on loss before income tax expense. In the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, the effect of the various discrete period tax items represented a net tax expense of $143 million and a net tax benefit of $37 million, respectively. In the year ended December 31, 2018, such discrete items were primarily related to the United States (“U.S.”) transition tax on non‑U.S. earnings. In the year ended December 31, 2017, such discrete items were primarily related to the tax benefit of changes in unrecognized tax benefits associated with tax positions taken in prior years, valuation allowances on deferred tax assets and foreign tax credits not expected to be realized, remeasurement of the U.S. deferred tax assets for a tax rate change as a result of the enactment of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the “2017 Tax Act”) and deductions related to resolution of certain litigation matters related to Macondo well incident. In the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, our effective tax rate, excluding discrete items, was (29.2) percent and 95.2 percent, respectively, based on loss before income tax expense. Our effective tax rate decreased in the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to the year ended December 31, 2017, primarily due to changes in the relative blend of income from operations in certain jurisdictions and a loss before income taxes and the increased tax expense as a result of the U.S. base erosion and anti‑abuse tax (“BEAT”).  

 The 2017 Tax Act amended existing U.S. tax laws that had an impact on our income tax provision, such as a reduction of the U.S. corporate income tax rate and the creation of a quasi‑territorial tax system with a one‑time mandatory tax on certain unremitted earnings and profits of the non‑U.S. subsidiaries of our U.S. subsidiaries. The 2017 Tax Act also made prospective changes, effective in 2018, including BEAT, a global intangible low‑taxed income tax, additional limitations on the deductibility of executive compensation and interest and the repeal of the domestic manufacturing deduction. In the year ended December 31, 2018, we recognized income tax expense of $33 million related to the bareboat charter structure of our U.S. operations because we concluded it was subject to BEAT. A significant portion of our BEAT liability is contractually reimbursable by our customers due to a change‑in‑law provision in certain drilling contracts. In the year ended December 31, 2017, we recognized income tax expense of $66 million with a corresponding decrease to our net deferred tax assets to reflect the reduction in the U.S. corporate income tax rate from 35 percent to 21 percent.  

 As of December 31, 2018, our consolidated cumulative loss recognized over the recent three‑year period, primarily due to losses on impairment and disposal of assets, represented significant objective negative evidence for our evaluation of our deferred tax assets. Although such evidence has limited our ability to consider other subjective evidence, we analyze each jurisdiction separately. We consider objective evidence, such as contract backlog activity in jurisdictions in which we have profitable contracts. If estimated future taxable 

 - 32 -  

 Table of Contents  

income changes during the carryforward periods or if the cumulative loss is no longer present, we may adjust the amount of deferred tax assets that we expect to realize.  

 Due to factors related to our operating activities and organizational structure, our income tax expense does not change proportionally with our income before income taxes. Significant decreases in our income before income taxes typically lead to higher effective tax rates, while significant increases in income before income taxes can lead to lower effective tax rates, subject to the other factors impacting income tax expense noted above. With respect to the effective tax rate calculation for the year ended December 31, 2018, a significant portion of our income tax expense was generated in countries in which income taxes are imposed on gross revenues, with the most significant of these countries being India. Conversely, the countries in which we incurred the most significant income taxes during this period that were based on income before income tax include Brazil, Switzerland, Norway, the United Kingdom (“U.K.”) and the U.S. Our rig operating structures further complicate our tax calculations, especially in instances where we have more than one operating structure for the particular taxing jurisdiction and, thus, more than one method of calculating taxes depending on the operating structure utilized by the rig under the contract. For example, two rigs operating in the same country could generate significantly different provisions for income taxes if they are owned by two different subsidiaries that are subject to differing tax laws and regulations in the respective country of incorporation. See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 10—Income Taxes.  

 Year ended December 31, 2017 compared to the year ended December 31, 2016  

 The following is an analysis of our operating results. See “—Performance and Other Key Indicators” for definitions of operating days, average daily revenue, revenue efficiency and rig utilization.  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 “nm” means not meaningful.  

 Contract drilling revenues—Contract drilling revenues decreased for the year ended December 31, 2017 compared to the year ended December 31, 2016 primarily due to the following: (a) approximately $600 million resulting from a greater number of rigs idle or stacked, (b) approximately $450 million resulting from rigs sold or classified as held for sale, (c) approximately $255 million resulting from lower dayrates and (d) approximately $45 million resulting from decreased revenue efficiency. These decreases were partially offset by the following increases: (a) approximately $325 million resulting from our four newbuild ultra‑deepwater drillships that commenced operations in the two‑year period ended December 31, 2017 and (b) approximately $65 million resulting from the reactivation of two rigs.  

 Other revenues decreased for the year ended December 31, 2017 compared to the year ended December 31, 2016, due to the following: (a) $196 million resulting from drilling contracts early terminated or cancelled by our customers, and (b) $18 million resulting from reimbursable items.  

 Costs and expenses—Operating and maintenance expense decreased for the year ended December 31, 2017 compared to the year ended December 31, 2016, primarily due to the following: (a) approximately $250 million resulting from rigs sold or classified as held for sale, (b) approximately $170 million resulting from a greater number of rigs idle or stacked, (c) approximately $90 million resulting from 

 - 33 -  

 Table of Contents  

reduced onshore costs and (d) approximately $75 million resulting from reduced offshore costs. These decreases were partially offset by the following increases: (a) approximately $75 million resulting from our four newbuild ultra‑deepwater drillships that commenced operations in the two‑year period ended December 31, 2017 and (b) approximately $30 million resulting from cost recoveries from insurance associated with the Macondo well incident in the year ended December 31, 2016 with no comparable activity in the year ended December 31, 2017.  

 Depreciation expense decreased for the year ended December 31, 2017 compared to the year ended December 31, 2016 primarily due to the following: (a) approximately $82 million resulting from rigs sold or classified as held for sale and (b) approximately $22 million primarily resulting from the retirement or full depreciation of certain assets. These decreases were partially offset by an increase of approximately $50 million primarily resulting from our newbuild ultra‑deepwater drillships placed into service in the two‑year period ended December 31, 2017.  

 General and administrative expense decreased for the year ended December 31, 2017 compared to the year ended December 31, 2016 primarily due to the following: (a) approximately $10 million of reduced personnel costs and (b) approximately $4 million of reduced professional fees.  

 Loss on impairment or disposal of assets—In the year ended December 31, 2017, we recognized losses related to the following: (a) $1.4 billion associated with the impairment of certain assets classified as held for sale and (b) $94 million associated with the impairment of our midwater floater asset group. In the year ended December 31, 2016, we recognized losses related to the following: (a) $52 million associated with the impairment of our deepwater floater asset group and (b) $41 million associated with the impairment of certain assets classified as held for sale.  

 In the year ended December 31, 2017, loss on disposal of assets was primarily due to the sale of 10 high‑specification jackups and novation of the contracts relating to the construction of five high‑specification jackups, together with related assets.  

 Other income and expense—Interest expense, net of amounts capitalized, increased in the year ended December 31, 2017 compared to the year ended December 31, 2016, primarily due to the following: (a) approximately $168 million resulting from new debt issued in the two‑year period ended December 31, 2017, (b) approximately $63 million resulting from reduced interest costs capitalized for our newbuild ultra‑deepwater drillships that commenced operations during the two‑year period ended December 31, 2017 and (c) approximately $13 million resulting from downgrades to the credit rating for our senior unsecured long-term debt. Partially offsetting these increases was a decrease of approximately $160 million resulting from debt retired during the two‑year period ended December 31, 2017.  

 Loss on retirement of debt in the year ended December 31, 2017 resulted primarily from the following: (a) an aggregate loss of $48 million resulting from the retirement of notes validly tendered in the 2017 Tender Offers and (b) an aggregate loss of $7 million resulting from debt redemptions and repurchases. Gain on retirement of debt in the year ended December 31, 2016 resulted primarily from the following: (a) an aggregate net gain of $104 million resulting from the retirement of notes validly tendered in cash tender offers completed August 1, 2016 (the “2016 Tender Offers”) and (b) an aggregate net gain of $44 million resulting from the retirement of notes repurchased in the open market.  

 Other income, net, decreased in the year ended December 31, 2017 compared to the year ended December 31, 2016, primarily due to (a) $33 million of reduced income associated with our dual‑activity patent and (b) $25 million of reduced income associated with the non‑service component of net periodic benefit costs.  

 Income tax expense—In the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, our effective tax rate was (3.1) percent and 11.5 percent, respectively, based on income before income tax expense. Our effective tax rate decreased primarily due to losses on impairment and disposal of assets with no tax benefit. In the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, the effect of the various discrete period tax items represented a net tax benefit of $37 million and $50 million, respectively. In the year ended December 31, 2017, such discrete items were primarily related to the tax benefit of changes in unrecognized tax benefits associated with tax positions taken in prior years, valuation allowances on deferred tax assets not expected to be realized, remeasurement of the U.S. deferred tax assets for a tax rate change as a result of the enactment of the 2017 Tax Act and deductions related to resolution of certain litigation matters related to Macondo well incident. In the year ended December 31, 2016, such discrete items were primarily related to the tax benefit of changes in unrecognized tax benefits associated with tax positions taken in prior years and valuation allowances on deferred tax assets for losses not expected to be realized. In the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, our effective tax rate, excluding discrete items, was 95.2 percent and 18.5 percent, respectively, based on income before income tax expense. Our effective tax rate increased in the year ended December 31, 2017 compared to the year ended December 31, 2016, primarily due to the following: (a) changes in the relative blend of income from operations in certain jurisdictions and (b) valuation allowances on deferred tax assets for losses not expected to be realized.  

 As of December 31, 2017, our consolidated cumulative loss incurred over the recent three‑year period, primarily due to losses on impairment and disposal of assets, represented significant objective negative evidence for our evaluation. Such evidence, together with potential organizational changes that could alter our ability to realize certain deferred tax assets, has limited our ability to consider other subjective evidence, such as projected future contract activity. As a result, we recorded an incremental valuation allowance of $110 million to recognize only a portion of our U.S. deferred tax assets that are more likely than not to be recognized. If estimated future taxable 

 - 34 -  

 Table of Contents  

income changes during the carryforward periods or if the cumulative loss is no longer present, we may adjust the amount of deferred tax assets that we expect to realize.  

 Due to factors related to our operating activities and organizational structure, our income tax expense does not change proportionally with our income before income taxes. Significant decreases in our income before income taxes typically lead to higher effective tax rates, while significant increases in income before income taxes can lead to lower effective tax rates, subject to the other factors impacting income tax expense noted above. With respect to the effective tax rate calculation for the year ended December 31, 2017, a significant portion of our income tax expense was generated in countries in which income taxes are imposed on gross revenues, with the most significant of these countries being Angola and India. Conversely, the countries in which we incurred the most significant income taxes during this period that were based on income before income tax include Brazil, Switzerland, Norway, the U.K. and the U.S. Our rig operating structures further complicate our tax calculations, especially in instances where we have more than one operating structure for the particular taxing jurisdiction and, thus, more than one method of calculating taxes depending on the operating structure utilized by the rig under the contract. For example, two rigs operating in the same country could generate significantly different provisions for income taxes if they are owned by two different subsidiaries that are subject to differing tax laws and regulations in the respective country of incorporation. See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 10—Income Taxes.  

 Liquidity and Capital Resources  

 Sources and uses of cash  

 At December 31, 2018, we had $2.2 billion in unrestricted cash and cash equivalents and $429 million in restricted cash and cash equivalents. In the year ended December 31, 2018, our primary sources of cash were as follows: (1) net cash proceeds from the issuance of debt, (2) net cash provided by operating activities and (3) proceeds from maturities of unrestricted and restricted short‑term investments. Our primary uses of cash were as follows: (a) repayments of debt, (b) cash paid in business combinations, net of cash acquired, (c) capital expenditures, primarily associated with our newbuild construction projects, (d) deposits into restricted short‑term investments, (e) investments in unconsolidated affiliates, and (e) payments to terminate certain derivative instruments assumed in the Songa acquisition.  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Net cash provided by operating activities decreased primarily due to the following: (i) proceeds of $408 million received from customers for early terminations or cancellations of drilling contracts in the year ended December 31, 2017 with no comparable activity in the current year and (ii) increased cash used in our operations, including for increased cash interest payments and three rig reactivations.  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Net cash used in investing activities increased primarily due to the following: (i) cash used in business combinations, net of cash acquired, with no comparable activity in the year ended December 31, 2017, (ii) reduced net proceeds from disposal of assets and (iii) cash used to invest in unconsolidated joint venture companies, including one that was established to construct and own the harsh environment semisubmersible Transocean Norge with no comparable activity in the year ended December 31, 2017, partially offset by (iv) increased proceeds from maturities of unrestricted and restricted short‑term investments, net of deposits, and (v) reduced capital expenditures, primarily associated with our major construction projects.  

 - 35 -  

 Table of Contents  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Net cash used in financing activities decreased primarily due to the following: (i) increased net cash proceeds from the issuance of the 7.25% Senior Notes and the 2018 Senior Secured Notes in the current year compared to net cash proceeds from the issuance of the 5.52% senior secured notes due May 2022 (the “5.52%Senior Secured Notes”) and the 7.50% senior unsecured notes due January 2026 (the “7.50% Senior Notes”) in the prior year and (ii) decreased cash used to repay debt, primarily associated with the 2017 Tender Offers in the year ended December 31, 2017 compared to cash used to repay debt, primarily associated with debt assumed in the Songa acquisition, in the year ended December 31, 2018, partially offset by (iii) cash used to settle and terminate certain derivative instruments acquired in the Songa acquisition in the year ended December 31, 2018 with no comparable activity in the prior year and (iv) decreased cash proceeds from investments restricted for financing activities.  

 Sources and uses of liquidity  

 Overview—We expect to use existing unrestricted cash balances, internally generated cash flows, borrowings under the Secured Credit Facility, proceeds from the disposal of assets or proceeds from the issuance of additional debt to fulfill anticipated obligations, which may include capital expenditures, working capital and other operational requirements, scheduled debt maturities or other payments. We may also consider establishing additional financing arrangements with banks or other capital providers. Subject to market conditions and other factors, we may also be required to provide collateral for future financing arrangements. In each case subject to then existing market conditions and to our then expected liquidity needs, among other factors, we may continue to use a portion of our internally generated cash flows and proceeds from asset sales to reduce debt prior to scheduled maturities through debt repurchases, either in the open market or in privately negotiated transactions, or through debt redemptions or tender offers.  

 Our access to debt and equity markets may be limited due to a variety of events, including, among others, credit rating agency downgrades of our debt ratings, industry conditions, general economic conditions, market conditions and market perceptions of us and our industry. The rating of our non‑credit enhanced senior unsecured long‑term debt (“Debt Rating”) is below investment grade. Such Debt Rating has caused us to experience increased fees and interest rates under agreements governing certain of our senior notes. Further downgrades may affect or limit our ability to access debt markets in the future. Our ability to access such markets may be severely restricted at a time when we would like, or need, to access such markets, which could have an impact on our flexibility to react to changing economic and business conditions. An economic downturn could have an impact on the lenders participating in our credit facilities or on our customers, causing them to fail to meet their obligations to us.  

 Our internally generated cash flows are directly related to our business and the market sectors in which we operate. If the drilling market were to deteriorate, or if we were to experience poor results in our operations, cash flows from operations may be reduced. We have, however, continued to generate positive cash flows from operating activities over recent years and expect that such cash flows will continue to be positive over the next year.  

 Business combinations—On December 5, 2018, we acquired Ocean Rig in a merger transaction, and as a result, Ocean Rig became our wholly owned subsidiary. To complete the acquisition, we issued 147.7 million shares and made an aggregate cash payment of $1.2 billion.  

 On January 30, 2018, we acquired an approximate 97.7 percent ownership interest in Songa. On March 28, 2018, we acquired the remaining shares not owned by us through a compulsory acquisition under Cyprus law, and as a result, Songa became our wholly owned subsidiary. To complete these transactions, we issued 68.0 million shares and issued $863 million aggregate principal amount of Exchangeable Bonds as further described below.  

 Secured Credit Facility—In June 2018, we entered into a bank credit agreement, which established a $1.0 billion Secured Credit Facility, which is scheduled to expire on the earlier of (i) June 22, 2023 and (ii) if greater than $300 million aggregate principal amount of our 9.00% Senior Notes due July 2023 remain outstanding in April 2023, such date. The Secured Credit Facility is guaranteed by Transocean Ltd. and certain subsidiaries. The Secured Credit Facility is initially secured by, among other things, a lien on the ultra‑deepwater floaters Deepwater Asgard, Deepwater Invictus and Discoverer Inspiration and the harsh environment floaters Transocean Barents and Transocean Spitsbergen. The Secured Credit Facility contains covenants that, among other things, include maintenance of certain guarantee and collateral coverage ratios, a maximum debt to capitalization ratio of 0.60 to 1.00 and minimum liquidity of $500 million. The Secured Credit Facility also restricts the ability of Transocean Ltd. and certain of our subsidiaries to, among other things, merge, consolidate or otherwise make changes to the corporate structure, incur liens, incur additional indebtedness, enter into transactions with affiliates and pay dividends and other distributions. In order to borrow under the Secured Credit Facility, we must, at 

 - 36 -  

 Table of Contents  

the time of the borrowing request, not be in default under the bank credit agreement and make certain representations and warranties, including with respect to compliance with laws and solvency, to the lenders. Repayment of borrowings under the Secured Credit Facility are subject to acceleration upon the occurrence of an event of default. We are also subject to various covenants under the indentures pursuant to which our public debt was issued, including restrictions on creating liens, engaging in sale/leaseback transactions and engaging in certain merger, consolidation or reorganization transactions. A default under our public debt indentures, our capital lease contract or any other debt owed to unaffiliated entities that exceeds $125 million could trigger a default under the Secured Credit Facility and, if not waived by the lenders, could cause us to lose access to the Secured Credit Facility. At February 11, 2019, we had no borrowings outstanding, $27 million of letters of credit issued, and we had $1.0 billion of available borrowing capacity under the Secured Credit Facility. See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 8—Debt and Note 13—Commitments and Contingencies—Global Marine litigation.  

 Investments in unconsolidated affiliates—In the year ended December 31, 2018, we made an aggregate cash investment of $107 million in unconsolidated affiliates, including an initial investment of $91 million, representing a 33.0 percent interest, in Orion Holdings (Cayman) Limited (“Orion”), a Cayman Islands company formed to construct and own the newbuild harsh environment semisubmersible Transocean Norge. In January 2019, we made an additional $59 million contribution to Orion, and we agreed to contribute $33 million in January 2020. The total purchase price for the rig, under construction at the Jurong Shipyard Pte Ltd. in Singapore, is $500 million. Additionally, we invested $16 million in other companies involved in researching and developing technology to improve automation in drilling and other activities.  

 Debt issuances—On February 1, 2019, we issued $550 million aggregate principal amount of 6.875% senior secured notes due February 2027 (the “6.875 Senior Secured Notes”), and we received aggregate cash proceeds of $538 million, net of issue costs. The indenture that governs the 6.875% Senior Secured Notes contains covenants that, among other things, limit the ability of our subsidiaries that own or operate the collateral rig Deepwater Poseidon to declare or pay dividends to their affiliates. We may redeem all or a portion of the 6.875 Senior Secured Notes at any time prior to February 1, 2022 at a price equal to 100 percent of the aggregate principal amount plus a make‑whole provision, and on or after February 1, 2022, at specified redemption prices.  

 On October 25, 2018, we issued $750 million aggregate principal amount of 7.25% Senior Notes, and we received aggregate cash proceeds of $735 million, net of issue costs. We may redeem all or a portion of the 7.25% Senior Notes at any time prior to November 1, 2021 at a price equal to 100 percent of the aggregate principal amount plus a make‑whole provision, and on or after November 1, 2021, at specified redemption prices.  

 In July 2018, we issued $750 million aggregate principal amount of the 5.875% Senior Secured Notes and $600 million aggregate principal amount of the 6.125% Senior Secured Notes, and we received aggregate cash proceeds of $733 million and $586 million, respectively, net of discount and issue costs. The indentures that govern the 2018 Senior Secured Notes contain covenants that, among other things, limit the ability of our subsidiaries that own or operate the collateral rigs Transocean Enabler, Transocean Encourage and Deepwater Pontus to declare or pay dividends to their affiliates. We may redeem all or a portion of the 2018 Senior Secured Notes at a price equal to 100 percent of the aggregate principal amount plus a make‑whole provision. We will be required to redeem the notes at a price equal to 100 percent of the aggregate principal amount without a make‑whole provision, upon the occurrence of certain events related to the collateral rigs and the related drilling contracts.  

 In connection with the Songa acquisition transactions, we issued $863 million aggregate principal amount of the 0.50% exchangeable senior bonds due January 2023 as partial consideration for the acquisition of the acquired Songa shares and partial settlement of certain Songa indebtedness. Holders of the Exchangeable Bonds may convert the notes into shares of Transocean Ltd. under certain circumstances at a rate of 97.29756 shares per $1,000 note, equivalent to a conversion price of $10.28 per share, subject to adjustment due to the occurrence of certain events.  

 On October 17, 2017, we issued $750 million aggregate principal amount of 7.50% Senior Notes, and we received aggregate cash proceeds of $742 million, net of issue costs. We may redeem all or a portion of the 7.50% Senior Notes at any time prior to January 15, 2021 at a price equal to 100 percent of the aggregate principal amount plus a make‑whole provision, and on or after January 15, 2021, at specified redemption prices.  

 On May 5, 2017, we issued $410 million aggregate principal amount of the 5.52% Senior Secured Notes, and we received aggregate cash proceeds of $403 million, net of issue costs. The note purchase agreement that governs the 5.52% Senior Secured Notes contains covenants that limit the ability of our subsidiaries that own or operate Deepwater Conqueror to declare or pay dividends to affiliates. We will be required to redeem or to offer to redeem the notes at a price equal to 100 percent of the aggregate principal amount, and, under certain circumstances, the payment of a make‑whole amount, upon the occurrence of certain events related to Deepwater Conqueror and the related drilling contract.  

 Debt assumptions and repayments—In connection with the Songa acquisition, we assumed rights and obligations under credit agreements establishing two senior secured term loan facilities (the “Senior Secured Term Loans”) and a subscription agreement establishing a junior secured bond facility (the “Junior Secured Bonds”). The credit agreements and subscription agreement for the assumed debt contained change of control clauses, for which we received waivers from the lenders that were scheduled to expire on August 31, 2018. On February 12, 2018, we served notice of our intent to call the Junior Secured Bonds. In the year ended December 31, 

 - 37 -  

 Table of Contents  

2018, we made an aggregate cash payment of $1.4 billion and $171 million to repay the borrowings under the Senior Secured Term Loans and the Junior Secured Bonds, respectively, and terminated the underlying agreements.  

 In connection with the Songa acquisition, we assumed the indebtedness related to two bond loans (together, the “Bond Loans”), previously publicly traded on the Oslo stock exchange, and on March 14, 2018, we made a cash payment of NOK 345 million, equivalent to $44 million, to repay the Bond Loans. We also assumed the rights and obligations under a credit agreement, which was due to expire on March 31, 2018, for a secured borrowing facility. On February 2, 2018, we made a cash payment of $23 million to repay the borrowings outstanding under the secured borrowing facility and terminated the underlying credit agreement.  

 Debt tender offers—On February 5, 2019, we completed the 2019 Tender Offers to purchase for cash up to $700 million aggregate purchase price of the 2019 Tendered Notes, subject to the terms and conditions specified in the related offer to purchase. In January and February 2019, as a result of the 2019 Tender Offers, we made an aggregate cash payment of $521 million to settle the validly tendered 2019 Tendered Notes.  

 On July 11, 2017, we completed the 2017 Tender Offers to purchase for cash up to $1.5 billion aggregate principal amount of certain notes (the “2017 Tendered Notes”). We received valid tenders from holders of $1.2 billion aggregate principal amount of the 2017 Tendered Notes, and we made an aggregate cash payment of $1.3 billion to settle the 2017 Tendered Notes.  

 Debt redemptions, repurchases and other repayments—In the year ended December 31, 2018, we repurchased in the open market $95 million aggregate principal amount of our debt securities for an aggregate cash payment of $95 million. In the year ended December 31, 2017, we repurchased in the open market $156 million aggregate principal amount of our debt securities for an aggregate cash payment of $157 million.  

 In November 2017, we redeemed the outstanding 6.00% Senior Notes due March 2018 and the 7.375% Senior Notes due April 2018 with aggregate principal amounts of $319 million and $82 million, respectively, and we made an aggregate cash payment of $407 million.  

 Debt scheduled maturities—On the scheduled maturity date of October 16, 2017, we made a cash payment of $152 million to repay the outstanding 2.50% Senior Notes due October 2017, at a price equal to 100 percent of the aggregate principal amount.  

 Derivative instruments—In connection with the Songa acquisition, we acquired certain currency swaps that were denominated in Norwegian kroner. In February 2018, we made an aggregate cash payment of $92 million in connection with the settlement and termination of the currency swaps.  

 Litigation settlements—On May 29, 2015, together with the Plaintiff Steering Committee (the “PSC”), we filed a settlement agreement (the “PSC Settlement Agreement”) in which we agreed to pay a total of $212 million, plus up to $25 million for partial reimbursement of attorneys’ fees. In exchange for these payments, the two classes of plaintiffs agreed to release all respective claims against us. On February 15, 2017, the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Louisiana (the “MDL Court”) entered a final order and judgement approving the PSC Settlement Agreement, which is no longer subject to appeal. In June 2016 and August 2015, we made a cash deposit of $25 million and $212 million, respectively, into an escrow account established by the MDL Court for the settlement. In November 2017, the MDL Court released $25 million from the escrow account for payment of attorneys’ fees. In November 2018, the MDL Court released $58 million from the escrow account as the first installment to the plaintiffs. As of February 11, 2019, the aggregate balance of our escrow account was $156 million. We expect the remaining funds to be released in March 2019.  

 Pursuant to a cooperation guilty plea agreement by and among the U.S. Department of Justice (“DOJ”) and certain of our affiliates, which was accepted by the court on February 14, 2013, we agreed to pay a criminal fine of $100 million and to consent to the entry of an order requiring us to pay $150 million each to the National Fish & Wildlife Foundation and the National Academy of Sciences. In the year ended December 31, 2017, we made the final scheduled cash payment of $60 million.  

 Share repurchase program—In May 2009, at our annual general meeting, our shareholders approved and authorized our board of directors, at its discretion, to repurchase an amount of our shares for cancellation with an aggregate purchase price of up to CHF 3.5 billion. On February 12, 2010, our board of directors authorized our management to implement the share repurchase program. At February 11, 2019, the authorization remaining under the share repurchase program was for the repurchase of up to CHF 3.2 billion, equivalent to approximately $3.3 billion, of our outstanding shares. We intend to fund any repurchases using available cash balances and cash from operating activities. The share repurchase program could be suspended or discontinued by our board of directors or company management, as applicable, at any time. We may decide, based on our ongoing capital requirements, the price of our shares, regulatory and tax considerations, cash flow generation, the amount and duration of our contract backlog, general market conditions, debt rating considerations and other factors, that we should retain cash, reduce debt, make capital investments or acquisitions or otherwise use cash for general corporate purposes. Decisions regarding the amount, if any, and timing of any share repurchases will be made from time to time based on these factors. Any repurchased shares under the share repurchase program would be held by us for cancellation by the shareholders at a future general meeting of shareholders. See “Item 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Shareholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities—Shareholder Matters.”  

 - 38 -  

 Table of Contents  

 Contractual obligations—At December 31, 2018, our contractual obligations stated at face value, were as follows:  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

   (a)    Includes scheduled installments of principal and imputed interest on our capital lease obligation. 

   (b)    We have long‑term service agreements with certain original equipment manufacturers to provide services and parts related to our pressure control systems, thrusters, top drives and other equipment. The future payments required under our service agreements were estimated based on our projected operating activity and may vary based on actual operating activity. 

   (c)    As of December 31, 2018, our defined benefit pension and other postemployment plans represented an aggregate liability of $362 million, representing the aggregate projected benefit obligation, net of the aggregate fair value of plan assets. The carrying amount of this liability is affected by net periodic benefit costs, funding contributions, participant demographics, plan amendments, significant current and future assumptions, and returns on plan assets. Due to the uncertainties resulting from these factors and since the carrying amount is not representative of future liquidity requirements, we have excluded this amount from the contractual obligations presented in the table above. See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 12—Postemployment Benefit Plans. 

 As of December 31, 2018, our unrecognized tax benefits related to uncertain tax positions, net of prepayments, represented a liability of $514 million. Although a portion of these might settle or reverse in the coming year, there is a high degree of uncertainty regarding the timing of future cash outflows associated with the liabilities recognized in this balance, we are unable to make reasonably reliable estimates of the period of cash settlement with the respective taxing authorities, and we excluded this amount from the contractual obligations presented in the table above. See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 10—Income Taxes.  

 Other commercial commitments—We have other commercial commitments that we are contractually obligated to fulfill with cash under certain circumstances. These commercial commitments include standby letters of credit and surety bonds that guarantee our performance as it relates to our drilling contracts, insurance, customs, tax and other obligations in various jurisdictions. Standby letters of credit are issued under various committed and uncommitted credit lines, some of which require cash collateral. At December 31, 2018, the aggregate cash collateral held by banks for letters of credit was $5 million. The obligations that are the subject of these standby letters of credit and surety bonds are primarily geographically concentrated in Brazil and India. Obligations under these standby letters of credit and surety bonds are not normally called, as we typically comply with the underlying performance requirement.  

 At December 31, 2018, these obligations stated in U.S. dollar equivalents and their time to expiration were as follows:  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 We have established a wholly owned captive insurance company to insure various risks of our operating subsidiaries. Access to the cash and cash equivalents of the captive insurance company may be limited due to local regulatory restrictions. At December 31, 2018, the captive insurance company held cash and cash equivalents of $241 million, and such balance is expected to range from $50 million to $265 million through December 31, 2019. The balance of actual cash and cash equivalents held by the captive insurance company varies, depending on the premiums paid to the captive insurance company and the timing and number of claims or dividends paid by the captive insurance company.  

 Drilling fleet  

 Expansion—From time to time, we review possible acquisitions of businesses and drilling rigs and may make significant future capital commitments for such purposes. We may also consider investments related to major rig upgrades, new rig construction, or the acquisition of a rig under construction. We may commit to such investment without first obtaining customer contracts. Any acquisition, upgrade or new rig construction could involve the payment by us of a substantial amount of cash or the issuance of a substantial number of additional shares or other securities. Our failure to secure drilling contracts for rigs under construction could have an adverse effect on our results of operations or cash flows.  

 - 39 -  

 Table of Contents  

 On December 5, 2018, we completed our acquisition of Ocean Rig in a merger transaction. In connection with the Ocean Rig acquisition, we acquired (i) 11 mobile offshore drilling units, including nine ultra‑deepwater floaters and two harsh environment floaters, and (ii) the contracts relating to the construction of two ultra‑deepwater drillships. On January 30, 2018, we completed our acquisition of an approximate 97.7 percent ownership interest in Songa, and on March 28, 2018, we acquired the remaining shares not owned by us, and as a result, Songa became our wholly owned subsidiary. In connection with the Songa acquisition, we acquired seven mobile offshore drilling units, including five harsh environment floaters and two midwater floaters. See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 4—Business Combinations.  

 We hold a 33.0 percent interest in Orion Holdings (Cayman) Limited, a Cayman Islands company formed to construct and own the newbuild harsh environment semisubmersible Transocean Norge. In May 2018 and January 2019, we made an aggregate cash investment of $91 million and $59 million, respectively. The total purchase price for the rig, under construction at the Jurong Shipyard Pte Ltd. in Singapore, is $500 million. The Moss Maritime CS60 design is considered among the most capable newbuild semisubmersibles in the world. We expect to operate the rig, through one of our wholly owned subsidiaries, under a six-well drilling contract that is expected to commence in July 2019. See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 1—Business.  

 In the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, we made capital expenditures of $184 million and $497 million, respectively, including $75 million and $397 million, respectively, for our major construction projects. As of December 31, 2018, the historical and projected capital expenditures, capitalized interest and other cash or non‑cash capital additions for our ongoing major construction projects were as follows:  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

   (b)    Our unnamed ultra‑deepwater drillship under construction at the Jurong Shipyard Pte Ltd. in Singapore does not yet have a drilling contract and is expected to be delivered in the second quarter of 2020. 

   (c)    Our unnamed ultra‑deepwater drillship under construction at the Jurong Shipyard Pte Ltd. in Singapore is expected to commence operations in the fourth quarter of 2021. The projected capital additions include estimates for an upgrade for two 20,000 pounds per square inch blowout preventers and other equipment required by our customer, Chevron. 

 The ultimate amount of our capital expenditures is partly dependent upon financial market conditions, the actual level of operational and contracting activity, the costs associated with the current regulatory environment and customer requested capital improvements and equipment for which the customer agrees to reimburse us. As with any major shipyard project that takes place over an extended period of time, the actual costs, the timing of expenditures and the project completion date may vary from estimates based on numerous factors, including actual contract terms, weather, exchange rates, shipyard labor conditions, availability of suppliers to recertify equipment and the market demand for components and resources required for drilling unit construction. We intend to fund the cash requirements relating to our capital expenditures through available cash balances, cash generated from operations and asset sales and financing arrangements with banks or other capital providers. We also have available credit under our Secured Credit Facility (see “—Sources and uses of liquidity”). Economic conditions could impact the availability of these sources of funding.  

 Dispositions—From time to time, we may review the possible disposition of non‑strategic drilling units. Considering recent market conditions, we have committed to plans to sell certain lower‑specification drilling units for scrap value. During the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, we identified eight, seven and seven such drilling units, respectively, that we have sold or intend to sell for scrap value. In February 2019, we committed to plans to sell two additional drilling units for scrap value. We continue to evaluate the drilling units in our fleet and may identify additional lower-specification drilling units to be sold for scrap value.  

 During the year ended December 31, 2018, we completed the sale of six ultra‑deepwater floaters, one deepwater floater and one midwater floater, along with related assets, and we received net cash proceeds of $36 million. On May 31, 2017, we completed the sale of 10 high‑specification jackups and novated the contracts relating to the construction of five high‑specification jackups, together with related assets. In the year ended December 31, 2017, as a result of this transaction, we received aggregate net cash proceeds of 

 - 40 -  

 Table of Contents  

$319 million. During the year ended December 31, 2017, we completed the sale of one ultra‑deepwater floater and three midwater floaters, along with related assets, and we received net cash proceeds of $22 million.  

 Off‑Balance Sheet Arrangements  

 Orion Holdings (Cayman) Limited is an unconsolidated affiliate formed to construct and own the newbuild harsh environment semisubmersible Transocean Norge. The total purchase price for the rig, under construction at the Jurong Shipyard Pte Ltd. in Singapore, is $500 million. In January 2019, we made an additional $59 million contribution and we agreed to make another $33 million contribution in January 2020. Orion Holdings (Cayman) Limited may enter into financing arrangements to fund its capital requirements for the construction of the newbuild unit.  

 Related Party Transactions  

 As of December 31, 2018, we did not have any material related party transactions that were not in the ordinary course of business.  

 Other Matters  

 Regulatory matters  

 Consent Decree—Under the civil consent decree (the “Consent Decree”), which resolved the claim by the U.S. for civil penalties under the Clean Water Act, we agreed to undertake certain actions, including enhanced safety and compliance actions when operating in U.S. waters. We also agreed to pay, and have satisfied our obligations to pay, civil penalties of $1.0 billion plus interest. The Consent Decree requires us to submit and make publicly available certain plans, reports and other submissions. One such plan is a performance plan approved on January 2, 2014, that contains, among other things, interim milestones for actions in specified areas and schedules for reports required under the Consent Decree. Additionally, as required, we retained an independent auditor to review and report to the DOJ our compliance with the Consent Decree and an independent process safety consultant to review, report and assist with the process safety requirements of the Consent Decree. On January 2, 2019, as permitted under the Consent Decree, we submitted an official termination request to the U.S. On February 6, 2019, the U.S. submitted a joint stipulation and proposed order (the “Order”) to terminate the Consent Decree to the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Louisiana (the “Court”), and on February 13, 2019, the Court entered the Order. Accordingly, the Consent Decree is terminated and has no further force or effect on the Company.  

 Other regulatory matters—In addition, we occasionally receive inquiries from governmental regulatory agencies regarding our operations around the world, including inquiries with respect to various tax, environmental, regulatory and compliance matters. To the extent appropriate under the circumstances, we investigate such matters, respond to such inquiries and cooperate with the regulatory agencies.  

 See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 13—Commitments and Contingencies.  

 Tax matters  

 We conduct operations through our various subsidiaries in countries throughout the world. Each country has its own tax regimes with varying nominal rates, deductions and tax attributes. From time to time, we may identify changes to previously evaluated tax positions that could result in adjustments to our recorded assets and liabilities. Although we are unable to predict the outcome of these changes, we do not expect the effect, if any, resulting from these adjustments to have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. We file federal and local tax returns in several jurisdictions throughout the world. Tax authorities in certain jurisdictions are examining our tax returns and in some cases have issued assessments. We are defending our tax positions in those jurisdictions. While we cannot predict or provide assurance as to the final outcome of these proceedings, we do not expect the ultimate liability to have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position or results of operations, although it may have a material adverse effect on our consolidated cash flows. See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 10—Income Taxes.  

 Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates  

 Overview—We consider the following to be our critical accounting policies and estimates since they are very important to the portrayal of our financial condition and results and require our most subjective and complex judgments. We have discussed the development, selection and disclosure of such policies and estimates with the audit committee of our board of directors. For a discussion of our significant accounting policies, refer to our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 2—Significant Accounting Policies.  

 We prepare our consolidated financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S., which require us to make estimates that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses and related disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities. These estimates require significant judgments and assumptions. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates, including those related to our income taxes, property and equipment, assets held for sale, goodwill, contingencies, postemployment benefit plans, materials and supplies obsolescence, share‑based compensation and allowance for doubtful accounts. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances, 

 - 41 -  

 Table of Contents  

the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates.  

 Income taxes—We are a Swiss corporation, operating through our various subsidiaries in a number of countries throughout the world. We provide for income taxes based on the tax laws and rates in the countries in which we operate and earn income. The relationship between the provision for or benefit from income taxes and our income or loss before income taxes can vary significantly from period to period because the countries in which we operate have taxation regimes that vary with respect to the nominal tax rate and the availability of deductions, credits and other benefits. Consequently, our income tax expense does not change proportionally with our income before income taxes. Variations also arise when income earned and taxed in a particular country or countries fluctuates from year to year.  

 Our annual tax provision is based on expected taxable income, statutory rates and tax planning opportunities available to us in the various jurisdictions in which we operate. The determination of our annual tax provision and evaluation of our tax positions involves interpretation of tax laws in the various jurisdictions and requires significant judgment and the use of estimates and assumptions regarding significant future events, such as the amount, timing and character of income, deductions and tax credits. Our tax liability in any given year could be affected by changes in tax laws, regulations, agreements, and treaties, currency exchange restrictions or our level of operations or profitability in each jurisdiction. Additionally, we operate in many jurisdictions where the tax laws relating to the offshore drilling industry are not well developed. Although our annual tax provision is based on the best information available at the time, a number of years may elapse before the tax liabilities in the various jurisdictions are ultimately determined.  

 We establish liabilities for estimated tax exposures in our jurisdictions of operation, and the provisions and benefits resulting from changes to those liabilities are included in our annual tax provision along with related interest. Such tax exposures include potential challenges to permanent establishment positions, intercompany pricing, disposition transactions, and withholding tax rates and their applicability. These exposures may be affected by changes in applicable tax law or other factors, which could cause us to revise our prior estimates, and are generally resolved through the settlement of audits within these tax jurisdictions or by judicial means. At December 31, 2018 and 2017, the liability for estimated tax exposures in our jurisdictions of operation was approximately $514 million and $309 million, respectively.  

 We are currently undergoing examinations in a number of taxing jurisdictions for various fiscal years. We review our liabilities on an ongoing basis and, to the extent audits or other events cause us to adjust the liabilities accrued in prior periods, we recognize those adjustments in the period of the event. We do not believe it is possible to reasonably estimate the future impact of changes to the assumptions and estimates related to our annual tax provision because changes to our tax liabilities are dependent on numerous factors that cannot be reasonably projected. These factors include, among others, the amount and nature of additional taxes potentially asserted by local tax authorities; the willingness of local tax authorities to negotiate a fair settlement through an administrative process; the impartiality of the local courts; and the potential for changes in the taxes paid to one country that either produce, or fail to produce, offsetting tax changes in other countries.  

 We do not provide for taxes on unremitted earnings of subsidiaries when we consider such earnings to be indefinitely reinvested. We recognize deferred taxes related to the earnings of certain subsidiaries that we do not consider to be indefinitely reinvested or that will not be indefinitely reinvested in the future. If we were to make a distribution from the unremitted earnings of these subsidiaries, we could be subject to taxes payable to various jurisdictions. If facts and circumstances cause us to change our expectations regarding future tax consequences, the resulting adjustments to our deferred tax balances could have a material effect on our consolidated statement of financial position, results of operations or cash flows. If we were to distribute from the unremitted earnings of these subsidiaries, we could be subject to taxes payable to various jurisdictions.  

 Estimates, judgments and assumptions are required in determining whether deferred tax assets will be fully or partially realized. In evaluating our ability to realize deferred tax assets, we consider all available positive and negative evidence, including projected future taxable income and the existence of cumulative losses in recent years. When it is estimated to be more likely than not that all or some portion of certain deferred tax assets, such as foreign tax credit carryovers or net operating loss carryforwards, will not be realized, we establish a valuation allowance for the amount of the deferred tax assets that is considered to be unrealizable.  

 The 2017 Tax Act imposes a one‑time transition tax on certain unremitted earnings and profits of our non‑U.S. subsidiaries that are owned by U.S. subsidiaries. At December 31, 2017, we did not have the necessary information available, prepared and analyzed to develop a reasonable estimate of the transition tax. In the year ended December 31, 2018, we completed our evaluation of the post‑1986 earnings and profits for the non-U.S. subsidiaries of our U.S. subsidiaries and determined the amount of those earnings held in cash and other assets necessary to determine the transition tax, and we recorded income tax expense of $103 million for estimated transition taxes and an income tax benefit of $16 million for the estimated effect on the utilization of foreign tax credits. The transition tax had an effect on the utilization of our foreign tax credits and net operating losses generated in the U.S., which had an effect on our valuation allowance analysis related to those deferred tax assets. Although we have completed our analysis and recorded the resulting impact of the 2017 Tax Act, the U.S. Congress or Treasury may introduce clarifications, modification or amendments that could cause us to make further adjustments in future periods.  

 We continually evaluate strategies that could allow for the future utilization of our deferred tax assets. During the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, in evaluating our projected realizability of deferred tax assets, we considered our consolidated cumulative 

 - 42 -  

 Table of Contents  

loss incurred over the recent three‑year period, which is primarily due to losses on impairment and disposal of assets, which has limited our ability to consider other subjective evidence, such as projected contract activity rather than contract backlog. See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 10—Income Taxes.  

 Business combinations—In connection with our acquisition of Songa and Ocean Rig, we applied the acquisition method of accounting. Accordingly, we recorded the acquired assets and assumed liabilities at fair value and recognized goodwill to the extent the consideration transferred exceeded the fair value of the net assets acquired. To the extent the fair value of the net assets acquired exceeded the consideration transferred, we recognize a bargain purchase gain. We estimate the fair values of the acquired assets and assumed liabilities as of the acquisition date, and our estimates continue to be subject to adjustment based on our final assessments of the fair values of property and equipment, intangible assets, liabilities and our evaluation of tax positions and contingencies. We will complete our final assessments of the fair values of the acquired assets and assumed liabilities and our final evaluations of uncertain tax positions and contingencies within one year of the acquisition date.  

 Our estimates of fair value of property and equipment and contract intangibles require us to use significant unobservable inputs, representative of a Level 3 fair value measurement, such as future commodity prices, projected demand for our services, rig utilization, dayrates, remaining useful lives of the rigs and discount rates. We also consider a sales comparison approach from the perspective of potential buyers and sellers of comparable assets. The valuation of a rig and our estimate of the remaining useful life can also vary based on the rig design, condition and particular equipment configuration. We estimate the fair value of drilling contracts by comparing the contractual dayrates over the remaining firm contract term and option periods relative to the projected market dayrates as of the acquisition date. We estimate the fair value of construction contracts by comparing the contractual future payments and terms relative to the market payments and terms as of the acquisition date. It can be difficult to determine the fair value based on the cyclicality of our business, demand for offshore drilling rigs in different markets and changes in economic conditions. See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 4—Business Combinations.  

 Property and equipment—The carrying amount of property and equipment is subject to various estimates, assumptions, and judgments related to capitalized costs, useful lives and salvage values and impairments. At December 31, 2018 and 2017, the carrying amount of our property and equipment was $20.4 billion and $17.4 billion, respectively, representing 80 percent and 78 percent, respectively, of our total assets.  

 Capitalized costs—We capitalize costs incurred to enhance, improve and extend the useful lives of our property and equipment and expense costs incurred to repair and maintain the existing condition of our rigs. For newbuild construction projects, we also capitalize the initial preparation, mobilization and commissioning costs incurred until the drilling unit is placed into service. Capitalized costs increase the carrying amounts and depreciation expense of the related assets, which also impact our results of operations.  

 Useful lives and salvage values—We depreciate our assets using the straight‑line method over their estimated useful lives after allowing for salvage values. We estimate useful lives and salvage values by applying judgments and assumptions that reflect both historical experience and expectations regarding future operations, rig utilization and asset performance. Useful lives and salvage values of rigs are difficult to estimate due to a variety of factors, including (a) technological advances that impact the methods or cost of oil and gas exploration and development, (b) changes in market or economic conditions, and (c) changes in laws or regulations affecting the drilling industry. Applying different judgments and assumptions in establishing the useful lives and salvage values would likely result in materially different net carrying amounts and depreciation expense for our assets. We reevaluate the remaining useful lives and salvage values of our rigs when certain events occur that directly impact the useful lives and salvage values of the rigs, including changes in operating condition, functional capability and market and economic factors. When evaluating the remaining useful lives of rigs, we also consider major capital upgrades required to perform certain contracts and the long‑term impact of those upgrades on future marketability. At December 31, 2018, a hypothetical one‑year increase in the useful lives of all of our rigs would cause a decrease in our annual depreciation expense of approximately $40 million and a hypothetical one‑year decrease would cause an increase in our annual depreciation expense of approximately $64 million.  

 Long‑lived asset impairment—We review our property and equipment for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amounts of our assets held and used may not be recoverable or when carrying amounts of assets held for sale exceed fair value less cost to sell. Potential impairment indicators include rapid declines in commodity prices and related market conditions, declines in dayrates or utilization, cancellations of contracts or credit concerns of multiple customers. During periods of oversupply, we may idle or stack rigs for extended periods of time or we may elect to sell certain rigs for scrap, which could be an indication that an asset group may be impaired since supply and demand are the key drivers of rig utilization and our ability to contract our rigs at economical rates. Our rigs are mobile units, equipped to operate in geographic regions throughout the world and, consequently, we may move rigs from an oversupplied market sector to a more lucrative and undersupplied market sector when it is economical to do so. Many of our contracts generally allow our customers to relocate our rigs from one geographic region to another, subject to certain conditions, and our customers utilize this capability to meet their worldwide drilling requirements. Accordingly, our rigs are considered to be interchangeable within classes or asset groups, and we evaluate impairment by asset group. We consider our asset groups to be ultra‑deepwater floaters, harsh environment floaters and midwater floaters.  

 We assess recoverability of assets held and used by projecting undiscounted cash flows for the asset group being evaluated. When the carrying amount of the asset group is determined to be unrecoverable, we recognize an impairment loss, measured as the 

 - 43 -  

 Table of Contents  

amount by which the carrying amount of the asset group exceeds its estimated fair value. To estimate the fair value of each asset group, we apply a variety of valuation methods, incorporating income, market and cost approaches. We may weigh the approaches, under certain circumstances, when relevant data is limited, when results are inconclusive or when results deviate significantly. Our estimate of fair value generally requires us to use significant unobservable inputs, representative of a Level 3 fair value measurement, including assumptions related to the long-term future performance of our asset groups, such as projected revenues and costs, dayrates, rig utilization and revenue efficiency. These projections involve uncertainties that rely on assumptions about demand for our services, future market conditions and technological developments. Because our business is cyclical in nature, the results of our impairment testing are expected to vary significantly depending on the timing of the assessment relative to the business cycle. Altering either the timing of or the assumptions used to estimate fair value and significant unanticipated changes to the assumptions could materially alter an outcome that could otherwise result in an impairment loss. Given the nature of these evaluations and their application to specific asset groups and specific time periods, it is not possible to reasonably quantify the impact of changes in these assumptions.  

 In the year ended December 31, 2017, we recognized a loss of $94 million ($93 million, net of tax) associated with the impairment of the midwater floater asset group. In the year ended December 31, 2016, we recognized a loss of $52 million, which had no tax effect, associated with the impairment of the deepwater floater asset group. In the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, we recognized a loss of $999 million, $1.4 billion and $41 million, respectively, associated with the impairment of assets that we determined were impaired at the time we classified such assets as assets held for sale. See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 6—Drilling Fleet.  

 Contingencies—We perform assessments of our contingencies on an ongoing basis to evaluate the appropriateness of our liabilities and disclosures for such contingencies. We establish liabilities for estimated loss contingencies when we believe a loss is probable and the amount of the probable loss can be reasonably estimated. We recognize corresponding assets for loss contingencies that we believe are probable of being recovered through insurance. Once established, we adjust the carrying amount of a contingent liability upon the occurrence of a recognizable event when facts and circumstances change, altering our previous assumptions with respect to the likelihood or amount of loss. We recognize liabilities for legal costs as they are incurred, and we recognize a corresponding asset for those legal costs only if we expect such legal costs to be recovered through insurance. Our estimates involve a significant amount of judgement. Actual results may differ from our estimates.  

 We have recognized a liability for estimated loss contingencies associated with litigation and investigations resulting from the Macondo well incident that we believe are probable and for which a reasonable estimate can be made. As of December 31, 2018 and 2017, the liability for estimated loss contingencies that we believe are probable and for which a reasonable estimate can be made was $158 million and $219 million, respectively, recorded in other current liabilities, the majority of which is related to our settlement with the PSC. See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 13—Commitments and Contingencies.  

 Goodwill impairment—We conduct impairment testing for our goodwill annually as of October 1 and more frequently, on an interim basis, when an event occurs or circumstances change that may indicate a reduction in the fair value of a reporting unit is below its carrying amount. Before testing goodwill, we consider whether or not to first assess qualitative factors to determine whether the existence of events or circumstances leads to a determination that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount and whether an impairment test is required. If, as the result of our qualitative assessment, we determine that an impairment test is required, or, alternatively, if we elect to forgo the qualitative assessment, we test goodwill for impairment by comparing the carrying amount of the reporting unit, including goodwill, to the fair value of the reporting unit. We test goodwill at the reporting unit level, which is defined as an operating segment or a component of an operating segment that constitutes a business for which financial information is available and is regularly reviewed by management. We have determined that contract drilling services is our single reporting unit for this purpose.  

 To estimate the fair value of our reporting unit, we apply a variety of valuation methods, incorporating the income, market and cost approaches. We estimate fair value using discounted cash flows, publicly traded company multiples and acquisition multiples. To develop the projected cash flows associated with our contract drilling services reporting unit, which are based on estimated future dayrates and rig utilization, we consider key factors, including assumptions regarding future commodity prices, credit market conditions and the effect these factors may have on our contract drilling operations and the capital expenditure budgets of our customers. We discount projected cash flows using a long‑term weighted‑average cost of capital, which is based on our estimate of the investment returns that market participants would require for our reporting unit. To develop the publicly traded company multiples, we gather available market data for companies with operations similar to our reporting unit and publicly available information for recent acquisitions in the marketplace. We may weigh the approaches, under certain circumstances, when a single approach produces inconclusive results or when results from multiple approaches deviate significantly.  

 Our estimates of fair value require us to use significant unobservable inputs, representative of a Level 3 fair value measurement, including assumptions related to the future performance of our contract drilling services reporting unit, such as future commodity prices, projected demand for our services, rig utilization and dayrates. Because our business is cyclical in nature, the results of our impairment testing are expected to vary significantly depending on the timing of the assessment relative to the business cycle. Altering either the timing of or the assumptions used in a reporting unit’s fair value calculations could result in an estimate that is significantly below its carrying amount, which may indicate its goodwill is impaired. In the year ended December 31, 2018, as a result of an interim goodwill test, we recognized an aggregate loss of $462 million, which had no tax effect, associated with the impairment of the full balance of our 

 - 44 -  

 Table of Contents  

goodwill. See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 3—Accounting Standards Updates, Note 4—Business Combinations and Note 7—Goodwill and Other Intangibles.  

 Accounting Standards Updates  

 For a discussion of the new accounting standards updates that have had or are expected to have an effect on our consolidated financial statements, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 3—Accounting Standards Updates.  

 Item 7A.Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk