ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains statements which are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements, based upon management’s beliefs and expectations as well as on assumptions made by and data currently available to management, appear in a number of places throughout this document and include statements regarding, among other things, Signet’s results of operation, financial condition, liquidity, prospects, growth, strategies and the industry in which Signet operates. The use of the words “expects,” “intends,” “anticipates,” “estimates,” “predicts,” “believes,” “should,” “potential,” “may,” “forecast,” “objective,” “plan,” or “target,” and other similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to: our ability to implement Signet's transformation initiative; the effect of US federal tax reform and adjustments relating to such impact on the completion of our quarterly and year-end financial statements; changes in interpretation or assumptions, and/or updated regulatory guidance regarding the US federal tax reform; the benefits and outsourcing of the credit portfolio sale including technology disruptions, future financial results and operating results; deterioration in the performance of individual businesses or of the company's market value relative to its book value, resulting in impairments of fixed assets or intangible assets or other adverse financial consequences, including tax consequences related thereto, especially in view of the Company’s recent market valuation; our ability to successfully integrate Zale Corporation and R2Net’s operations and to realize synergies from the Zale and R2Net transactions; general economic conditions; potential regulatory changes, global economic conditions or other developments related to the United Kingdom’s announced intention to negotiate a formal exit from the European Union; a decline in consumer spending or deterioration in consumer financial position; the merchandising, pricing and inventory policies followed by Signet; Signet’s relationships with suppliers and ability to obtain merchandise that customers wish to purchase; the reputation of Signet and its banners; the level of competition and promotional activity in the jewelry sector; the cost and availability of diamonds, gold and other precious metals; changes in the supply and consumer acceptance of gem quality lab created diamonds; regulations relating to customer credit; seasonality of Signet’s business; the success of recent changes in Signet’s executive management team; the performance of and ability to recruit, train, motivate and retain qualified sales associates; the impact of weather-related incidents on Signet’s business; financial market risks; exchange rate fluctuations; changes in Signet’s credit rating; changes in consumer attitudes regarding jewelry; management of social, ethical and environmental risks; the development and maintenance of Signet’s omni-channel retailing; the ability to optimize Signet’s real estate footprint; security breaches and other disruptions to Signet’s information technology infrastructure and databases, inadequacy in and disruptions to internal controls and systems; changes in assumptions used in making accounting estimates relating to items such as credit outsourcing fees, extended service plans and pensions; risks related to Signet being a Bermuda corporation; the impact of the acquisition of Zale Corporation on relationships, including with employees, suppliers, customers and competitors; Signet’s ability to protect its intellectual property; changes in taxation benefits, rules or practices in the US and jurisdictions in which Signet’s subsidiaries are incorporated, including developments related to the tax treatment of companies engaged in Internet commerce; and an adverse development in legal or regulatory proceedings or tax matters, any new regulatory initiatives or investigations, and ongoing compliance with regulations and any consent orders or other legal or regulatory decisions. 

For a discussion of these and other risks and uncertainties which could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statement, see Item 1A and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Signet undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances, except as required by law. 

GAAP AND NON-GAAP MEASURES

The following discussion and analysis of the results of operations, financial condition and liquidity is based upon the consolidated financial statements of Signet which are prepared in accordance with US GAAP. The following information should be read in conjunction with Signet’s financial statements and the related notes included in Item 8. 

A number of non-GAAP measures are used by management to analyze and manage the performance of the business. See Item 6 for the required disclosures related to these measures. Signet provides such non-GAAP information in reporting its financial results to give investors additional data to evaluate its operations. The Company’s management does not, nor does it suggest investors should, consider such non-GAAP measures in isolation from, or in substitution for, financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP.

Exchange Translation Impact

The monthly average exchange rates are used to prepare the income statement and are calculated each month from the weekly average exchange rates weighted by sales. In Fiscal 2020, it is anticipated a five percent movement in the British pound to US dollar exchange rate would impact income before income taxes by approximately $1.1 million, while a five percent movement in the Canadian dollar to US dollar exchange rate would impact income before income taxes by approximately $0.3 million.

36
Market and Operating Conditions

We face a highly competitive and dynamic retail landscape throughout the geographies where we do business, as well as an uncertain macro-economic and political environment in our UK market. Fiscal 2019 holiday sales results did not meet our expectations, and as a result, we ended the year in an elevated inventory position and do expect inventory to be up year over year in the first quarter. As we continue to work through legacy product and engage in incremental clearance activity, we do expect to reduce our inventory position by year end Fiscal 2020. A key learning from Fiscal 2019 is the need to have a broader price focused assortment for the value-oriented gifting shopper in key weeks around major holidays, which could negatively impact profit. Additionally, a timing shift related to revenue recognition for extended service plan revenues, which have a higher margin rate, are expected to have a negative impact on profit in the first half of Fiscal 2020. This timing shift of service plan revenue is the result of the historical claims experience shifting away from the earlier years of the service plans to later years of the coverage period.

Fiscal 2019 Overview 

Similar to many other retailers, Signet follows the retail 4-4-5 reporting calendar, which included an extra week in the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2018 (the “53rd week”). The 53rd week added $84.3 million in net sales and increased diluted earnings per share by approximately $0.12 for both the quarter and Fiscal 2018. 

Drivers of Operating Profitability

The key measures and drivers of operating profitability are:

•total sales - driven by the change in same store sales, net store selling space and mix of product and services;

•gross margin - including the mix of results by store banner including brick-and-mortar locations and online; and

•level of selling, general and administrative expenses.

Same Store Sales

Same store sales growth is calculated by comparison of sales in stores that were open in both the current and the prior fiscal year. Sales from stores that have been open for less than 12 months are excluded from the comparison until their 12-month anniversary. Sales after the 12-month anniversary are compared against the equivalent prior period sales within the comparable store sales comparison. Stores closed in the current financial period are included up to the date of closure and the comparative period is correspondingly adjusted. Stores that have been relocated or expanded, but remain within the same local geographic area, are included within the comparison with no adjustment to either the current or comparative period. Stores that have been refurbished are also included within the comparison except for the period when the refurbishment was taking place, when those stores are excluded from the comparison both for the current year and for the comparative period. Sales to employees are also excluded. Comparisons at divisional level are made in local currency and consolidated comparisons are made at constant exchange rates and exclude the effect of exchange rate movements by recalculating the prior period results as if they had been generated at the weighted average exchange rate for the current period. eCommerce sales are included in the calculation of same store sales for the period and the comparative figures from the anniversary of the launch of the relevant website. Same store sales exclude the 53rd week in the fiscal year in which it occurs. Management considers same store sales useful as it is a major benchmark used by investors to judge performance within the retail industry.

Net Store Selling Space

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

37
Cost of Sales and Gross Margin

Cost of sales is mostly composed of merchandise costs (net of discounts and allowances). Cost of sales also contains:

•Occupancy costs such as rent, common area maintenance, depreciation and real estate tax.

•Net bad debt expense and customers’ late payments prior to Signet outsourcing credit.(1) 

•Store operating expenses such as utilities, displays and merchant credit costs.

•Distribution and warehousing costs including freight, processing, inventory shrinkage and related payroll.

(1)  Signet recognized two months of net bad debt expense, customer late payment and finance interest income (presented within other operating income) in the first quarter of Fiscal 2019 prior to the non-prime receivables being reclassified as receivables held for sale.

As the classification of cost of sales or selling, general and administrative expenses varies from retailer to retailer, Signet’s gross margin percentage may not be directly comparable to other retailers.

Factors that influence gross margin include pricing, promotional environment, changes in merchandise costs (principally diamonds), changes in non-merchandise components of cost of sales (as described above), changes in sales mix, foreign exchange, gold and currency hedges and the economics of services such as repairs and extended service plans. The price of diamonds varies depending on their size, cut, color and clarity. At times, Signet uses gold and currency hedges to reduce its exposure to market volatility in the cost of gold and the pound sterling to the US dollar exchange rate, but it is not able to do so for diamonds. For gold and currencies, the hedging period can extend to 24 months, although the majority of hedge contracts will normally be for a maximum of 12 months.

The percentage mix of the merchandise cost component of cost of sales, based on US dollars, is as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)  Decrease in North America reflects the Company strategy to exit low-priced owned branded beads and increase investments in bridal and certain fashion collections.

Signet uses an average cost inventory methodology and, as jewelry inventory turns slowly, the impact of movements in the cost of diamonds and gold takes time to be fully reflected in the gross margin. Signet’s inventory turns faster in the fourth quarter than in the other three quarters, therefore, changes in the cost of merchandise is more impactful on the gross margin in that quarter. Furthermore, Signet’s hedging activities result in movements in the purchase cost of merchandise taking some time before being reflected in the gross margin. An increase in inventory turn would accelerate the rate at which commodity costs impact gross margin.

Selling, General and Administrative Expense (“SGA”)

SGA expense primarily includes store staff and store administrative costs as well as advertising and promotional costs. It also includes field support center expenses such as information technology, in-house credit operations prior to the Company’s outsourcing initiatives in the third quarter of Fiscal 2018 and third-party outsourcing fees and credit sales subsequent to the outsourcing initiative, finance, eCommerce and other operating expenses not specifically categorized elsewhere in the consolidated income statements.

The primary drivers of staffing costs are the number of full time equivalent employees and the level of compensation, taxes and other benefits paid. Management varies, on a store by store basis, the hours worked based on the expected level of selling activity, subject to minimum staffing levels required to operate the store. Non-store staffing levels are less variable. A significant element of compensation is performance based and is primarily dependent on sales and operating profit.

The level of advertising expenditure can vary. The largest element of advertising expenditure has historically been national television advertising and is determined by management’s judgment of the appropriate level of advertising impressions and the cost of purchasing media.

38
Other Operating Income

Prior to the third quarter of Fiscal 2018, other operating income was predominantly comprised of interest income arising from in-house customer finance provided to the customers of the North America segment. In the third quarter of Fiscal 2018, the Company completed the sale of the prime portion of the in-house finance receivables. In the second quarter of Fiscal 2019, the Company completed the sale of the non-prime in-house accounts receivable. Subsequent to these transactions, the Company experienced a material reduction in the amount of interest income it recognized. See Note 4 in Item 8 for further detail on the Company’s credit transactions.

Operating Income

To maintain current levels of operating income, Signet needs to achieve same store sales growth sufficient to offset any adverse movement in gross margin, any increase in operating costs, and any adverse changes in other operating income. Same store sales growth above the level required to offset the factors outlined above allows the business to achieve leverage of its cost base and improve operating income. Slower sales growth or a sales decline would normally result in reduced operating income. When foreseen, Signet may be able to reduce costs to help offset the impact of slow or negative sales growth. A key factor in driving operating income is the level of average sales per store, with higher productivity allowing leverage of expenses. 

Results of Operations

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

COMPARISON OF FISCAL 2019 TO FISCAL 2018 

•Same store sales: down 0.1%.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

In Fiscal 2019, Signet’s same store sales decreased by 0.1%, compared to a decrease of 5.3% in Fiscal 2018, which excluded the impact of the 53rd week from its calculation. Total sales were $6.25 billion, down $5.9 million or 0.1%, compared to $6.25 billion in Fiscal 2018. The total sales decline was positively impacted by $111.2 million attributable to the new US GAAP revenue recognition accounting standard and $135.6 million from the addition of James Allen (acquired in September 2017). These factors were offset by net store closures of $160.4 million and the negative impact of comparison against a 53rd week in the prior year of $84.3 million. eCommerce sales were $682.4 million and 10.9% of sales compared to $497.7 million and 8.0% of sales in Fiscal 2018. 

39
The breakdown of Signet’s sales performance is set out in the table below:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)  The 53rd week in Fiscal 2018 has resulted in a shift in Fiscal 2019, as the fiscal year began a week later than the previous fiscal year. As such, same store sales for Fiscal 2019 are being calculated by aligning the weeks of the quarter to the same weeks in the prior year. Total reported sales continue to be calculated based on the reported fiscal periods.

(2)  Same store sales presented for James Allen to provide comparative performance measure.

(3) Includes sales from Signet’s diamond sourcing initiative. 

40
Average merchandise transaction value (“ATV”) is defined as net merchandise sales on a same store basis divided by the total number of customer transactions. As such, changes from the prior year do not recompute within the table below.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)  Net merchandise sales within the North America segment include all merchandise product sales, net of discounts and returns. In addition, excluded from net merchandise sales are sales tax in the US, repair, extended service plan, insurance, employee and other miscellaneous sales. As a result, the sum of the changes will not agree to change in same store sales.

(2) Net merchandise sales within the International segment include all merchandise product sales, including value added tax (“VAT”), net of discounts and returns. In addition, excluded from net merchandise sales are repairs, warranty, insurance, employee and other miscellaneous sales. As a result, the sum of the changes will not agree to change in same store sales.

(3) ATV presented for James Allen to provide comparative performance measure.

(4) Amounts for Peoples stores are denominated in Canadian dollars.

(5) Amounts for the International segment, including H.Samuel and Ernest Jones, are denominated in British pounds.

North America sales

The North America segment’s total sales were $5.64 billion compared to $5.62 billion in the prior year, up 0.5%. Same store sales increased 0.5% compared to a decrease of 5.2% in the prior year. North America’s ATV increased 4.3%, while the number of transactions decreased 3.0%. 

Same store sales results were positively impacted by approximately 175 bps of incremental clearance sales partially offset by 20 bps of unfavorable impact related to the shift of service plan revenue. eCommerce sales increased 43.1% on a reported basis (inclusive of James Allen which was acquired in September 2017) and brick and mortar sales declined 1.1% on a same store sales basis.

The percentage of sales from new merchandise increased during the year, but this performance was broadly offset by declines in legacy collections. Bridal and fashion sales each increased on a same store sales basis. Within bridal, The Enchanted Disney Fine Jewelry® collection, Vera Wang Love® collection, Neil Lane® collection, and solitaires performed well, while the Ever Us® collection declined. In fashion, gold fashion jewelry performed well, offset by declines in LeVian® and other legacy collections. The Other product category declined driven by a strategic reduction of owned brand beads, as well as declines in Pandora®. 

International sales

In Fiscal 2019, the International segment’s total sales were $576.5 million, down 6.5%, compared to $616.7 million in Fiscal 2018. The same store sales decline was driven by lower sales in bridal jewelry, fashion jewelry and fashion watches, partially offset by higher sales in prestige watches. Same store sales decreased by 5.2% compared to a decrease of 6.0% in Fiscal 2018. ATV decreased 4.2% while the number of transaction decreased 0.9%. eCommerce sales increased 8.0% and brick and mortar sales declined 6.6% on a same store sales basis.

Fourth Quarter Sales

In the fourth quarter, Signet’s total sales were $2.15 billion, down $138.4 million or 6.0%, compared to an increase of 1.0% in the prior year fourth quarter. Same store sales were down 2.0% compared to a decrease of 5.2% in the prior year fourth quarter. The total sales decrease was positively impacted by $35.2 million attributable to the new US GAAP revenue recognition accounting standard offset by the comparison against a 14th week in Fiscal 2018 which contributed $84.3 million in sales in Fiscal 2018, $60.9 million from net store closures and $16.5 million of unfavorable foreign exchange translation. eCommerce sales in the fourth quarter were $260.6 million or 12.1% of total sales, compared to $253.8 million or 11.2% of total sales in the prior year fourth quarter. The breakdown of the sales performance is set out in the table below.

41
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)  The 14th week in Fiscal 2018 has resulted in a shift in Fiscal 2019, as the fiscal year began a week later than the previous fiscal year. As such, same store sales for Fiscal 2019 are being calculated by aligning the weeks of the quarter to the same weeks in the prior year. Total reported sales continue to be calculated based on the reported fiscal periods.

(2) Includes sales from Signet’s diamond sourcing initiative. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)  Net merchandise sales within the North America segment include all merchandise product sales, net of discounts and returns. In addition, excluded from net merchandise sales are sales tax in the US, repair, extended service plan, insurance, employee and other miscellaneous sales. As a result, the sum of the changes will not agree to change in same store sales.

(2) Net merchandise sales within the International segment include all merchandise product sales, including value added tax (“VAT”), net of discounts and returns. In addition, excluded from net merchandise sales are repairs, warranty, insurance, employee and other miscellaneous sales. As a result, the sum of the changes will not agree to change in same store sales.

(3) Amounts for Peoples stores are denominated in Canadian dollars.

(4) Amounts for the International segment, including H.Samuel and Ernest Jones, are denominated in British pounds.

North America sales

The North America segment’s total sales were $1.94 billion compared to $2.06 billion in the prior year, down 5.5%. Same store sales decreased 1.4% compared to a decrease of 4.7% in the prior year. The North America segment’s ATV increased 2.2%, while the number of transactions decreased 4.0%.

Same store sales results include a favorable impact of 65 bps of incremental clearance, a favorable impact of 40 bps due to a planned shift in timing of promotions at Zales and Peoples and a 25 bps unfavorable impact related to a timing shift of service plan revenue recognized as discussed above. eCommerce sales increased 6.9% and brick and mortar sales declined 2.5% on a same store sales basis.

42
The percentage of sales from new merchandise increased during the quarter, but this performance was more than offset by declines in legacy collections. Bridal sales were flat on a same store sales basis. Within bridal, engagement sales increased while anniversary sales declined. Anniversary sales were unfavorably impacted by declines in the Ever Us® collection. The Enchanted Disney Fine Jewelry® collection, Vera Wang Love® collection, Neil Lane® collection, and solitaires performed well. Fashion category sales decreased, with gold fashion jewelry, Disney fashion jewelry, and the Love + Be LovedTM collection performing well, offset by declines in the LeVian® and other legacy collections. The Other product category declined, driven by a strategic reduction of owned brand beads, as well as declines in Pandora®. 

International sales

The International segment’s total sales decreased 16.6% to $195.0 million compared to $233.9 million in the prior year and decreased 12.0% at constant exchange rates. Same store sales decreased 7.3% compared to a decrease of 9.2% in the prior year. The same store sales decline was driven by lower sales in bridal jewelry, fashion jewelry and fashion watches, partially offset by higher sales in prestige watches. In the International segment’s ATV decreased 5.4%, while the number of transactions decreased 2.3%. eCommerce sales declined 6.9% and brick and mortar sales declined 7.3% on a same store sales basis.

Cost of Sales and Gross Margin 

In Fiscal 2019, gross margin was $2.16 billion or 34.6% of sales compared to $2.19 billion or 35.0% of sales in Fiscal 2018. Gross margin was negatively impacted by $62.2 million, or 100 bps, in restructuring charges related to net inventory write-downs taken during the year. The write-downs relate to brands and collections that the Company is discontinuing as part of its transformation plan to increase newness across merchandise categories. Transformation cost savings related to direct sourcing and distribution were offset by sales deleverage and higher mix of clearance inventory sales and impact of promotional environment. In addition, lower store occupancy due to store closures also favorably impacted gross margin. Additional factors impacting gross margin rate include: 1) a positive 220 basis point impact related to discontinuing the recognition of bad debt expense and late charge income; 2) a negative 40 basis point impact related to James Allen, which carries a lower gross margin rate; and 3) a negative 40 basis point impact from the discontinuation of credit insurance. 

In the fourth quarter, the consolidated gross margin was $877.8 million or 40.7% of sales compared to $919.8 million or 40.1% of sales in the prior year fourth quarter. Factors impacting gross margin rate include: 1) a positive 250 bps impact related to no longer recognizing bad debt expense and late charge income; 2) a negative 40 bps impact related to an inventory write-down; 3) a negative 30 bps impact related to adopting the new US GAAP revenue recognition accounting standard, including higher revenue share payments associated with the prime credit outsourcing arrangement; and 4) a negative 10 bps impact related to a timing shift of revenue recognized on service plans. The residual factors impacting gross margin rate include deleverage from lower sales and the impact of promotional and incremental clearance sales partially offset by transformation cost savings. See Note 7 of Item 8 for additional information regarding the Company’s restructuring activities.

Selling, General and Administrative Expenses (“SGA”)

Selling, general and administrative expenses for Fiscal 2019 were $1.99 billion or 31.8% of sales compared to $1.87 billion or 29.9% of sales in Fiscal 2018, up $112.9 million. SGA increased primarily due to: 1) a $100 million increase in credit costs related to the transition to an outsourced credit model; 2) a $30 million increase in advertising expense; 3) a $20 million increase in incentive compensation expense, which included $6 million of one-time cash awards to non-managerial hourly team members; and an $11 million charge related to the resolution of a previously disclosed regulatory matter. Increases in SGA were partially offset by a $15 million decrease in store staff costs and transformation cost savings, net of investments. Prior year SGA included $30.5 million in expense related to the 53rd week.

In the fourth quarter, SGA expense was $647.2 million or 30.0% of sales compared to $634.5 million or 27.7% of sales in the prior year fourth quarter. Factors impacting SGA include: 1) a $42 million, or 200 bps, increase in credit costs related to the transition to an outsourced credit model; 2) an $11 million, or 50 bps, charge related to the resolution of a previously disclosed regulatory matter; and 3) a $3 million, or 10 bps, decrease in incentive compensation. Increases in SGA were partially offset by transformation net cost savings and lower store staff costs primarily due to closed stores. Prior year SGA included $30.5 million in expense related to the 14th week.

Credit transaction, net

In June 2018, the Company completed the sale of all eligible non-prime in-house accounts receivable. During Fiscal 2019, the Company recognized charges of $167.4 million as a result of the sale of the non-prime in-house accounts receivable. This included total valuation losses of $160.4 million representing adjustments to the asset fair value and other transaction-related costs of $7.0 million. See Note 4 of Item 8 for additional information.

43
Restructuring charges

During the first quarter of Fiscal 2019, Signet launched a three-year comprehensive transformation plan, the “Signet Path to Brilliance” plan (the “Plan”), to reposition the Company to be a share gaining, OmniChannel jewelry category leader. During Fiscal 2019, restructuring charges of $63.7 million were recognized, $22.7 million of which were non-cash charges, primarily related to professional fees for legal and consulting services, severance and impairment of information technology assets related to the Plan. Additionally, during Fiscal 2019, the Company recorded charges of $62.2 million in non-cash restructuring charges related to inventory write-offs within cost of sales.

In the fourth quarter, restructuring charges of $28.1 million, of which $11.7 million were non-cash charges, were recognized primarily related to store closure costs, professional fees for legal and consulting services, and severance related to the Plan. Additionally, during the fourth quarter, the Company recorded a net non-cash adjustment of $(1.0) million to charges related to prior period inventory write-offs within cost of sales. See Note 7 of Item 8 for additional information.

Goodwill and intangible impairments

In Fiscal 2019, the Company recorded non-cash goodwill and intangible asset impairment pre-tax charges of $735.4 million, of which $448.7 million were recorded in the first quarter of Fiscal 2019 and $286.7 million were recorded in the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2019.

The first quarter charge was related to the write down of goodwill and intangible assets recognized in the North America segment as part of the Zale Corporation acquisition, as well as goodwill associated with the acquisition of Ultra Stores, Inc. The decline in the Company’s market capitalization during the first quarter created a triggering event for impairment assessment purposes. Revised long-term projections associated with finalizing certain initial aspects of our Path to Brilliance transformation plan in the first quarter combined with a higher discount rate driven by risk premium utilized in the valuation, resulted in lower than previously projected long-term future cash flows for these businesses, which required an adjustment to the goodwill and intangible asset balances.

The fourth quarter charge was related to the write down of goodwill and intangible assets recognized in the North America segment as part of the R2Net acquisition (James Allen) and intangible assets recognized as part of the Zale Corporation acquisition. The decline in the Company’s market capitalization during the fourth quarter created a triggering event for impairment assessment purposes. Revised long-term projections and a higher discount rate driven by risk premium utilized in the valuation associated with James Allen resulted in lower than previously projected long-term future cash flows for this business, which required a $261.4 million adjustment to the goodwill and intangible asset balances. The revised outlook for James Allen is a result of a higher than expected unfavorable impact related to sales tax implementation as well as a more competitive online jewelry marketplace. The remaining impairment charge of $25.3 million is attributable to intangibles associated with the Zale acquisition and goodwill recognized as part of the acquisition of the Company's diamond polishing factory in Botswana.

The impairment charges above did not have an impact on the Company’s day to day operations or liquidity. See Note 17 of Item 8 for additional information on the impairments.

Other Operating Income, Net

In Fiscal 2019, other operating income, net was $26.2 million or 0.4% of sales compared to $260.8 million or 4.2% of sales in Fiscal 2018. In the fourth quarter, other operating income, net was $0.7 million or 0.0% of sales compared to $39.5 million or 1.7% of sales in the prior year fourth quarter. The year-over-year decrease was primarily driven by $28.0 million in other expense related to the sale of the prime-only credit quality portion of Sterling’s in-house finance receivable portfolio during the third quarter of Fiscal 2018, partially offset by the 53rd week which added $1.3 million of other income in Fiscal 2018. See Note 4 of Item 8 for additional information regarding the Company’s credit transaction.

Operating Income (Loss)

In Fiscal 2019, operating income (loss) was $(764.6) million or (12.2)% of sales compared to $579.9 million or 9.3% of sales in Fiscal 2018. The prior year operating income includes a favorable impact from the 53rd week of $9.3 million. Excluding the 53rd week impact, the decline was driven by the following: 1) the $735.4 million goodwill and intangible impairment charge; 2) $125.9 million in restructuring charges related to inventory write-downs, severance, professional fees and impairment of certain IT assets related to the three year transformation plan; 3) $167.4 million loss related to marking the non-prime receivables to fair value that were sold in the second quarter; 4) $11.0 million charge related to the resolution of a previously disclosed regulatory matter; 6) the discontinuation of credit insurance; 7) $167.0 million net unfavorable impact related to the outsourcing of credit; and 8) impact of higher promotions and incremental clearance sales on gross margin and lastly higher SGA due primarily to advertising and higher incentive compensation. These declines were partially offset by transformation net cost savings of $85.0 million. 

44
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

nmNot meaningful.

In the fourth quarter, operating income (loss) was $(83.5) million or (3.9)% of sales compared to $323.5 million or 14.1% of sales in prior year fourth quarter. The prior year operating income includes a favorable impact from the 14th week of $9.3 million. Excluding the 14th week impact, the decline was driven by the following: 1) $286.7 million goodwill and intangible impairment charge; 2) $27.1 million in restructuring charges related to store closures costs, severance and professional fees related to the three year transformation plan; 3) $11 million charge related to the resolution of a previously disclosed regulatory matter; 4) $13 million net unfavorable impact related to the outsourcing of credit; and 5) an $8.8 million inventory write-down. The residual factors impacting operating income include the impact of lower sales and higher promotions and clearance sales partially offset by transformation net cost savings. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(2) Fiscal 2019 includes a $28.1 million and $11.0 million related to charges recorded in conjunction with the Company’s restructuring activities and the resolution of a previously disclosed regulatory matter, respectively. See Note 7 of Item 8 for additional information.

nmNot meaningful.

Interest Expense, Net

In Fiscal 2019, net interest expense was $39.7 million compared to $52.7 million in Fiscal 2018 driven primarily by the repayment of the $600 million asset-backed securitization facility in the third quarter of Fiscal 2018. The weighted average interest rate for the Company’s debt outstanding was 4.0% compared to 3.2% in the prior year. 

In the fourth quarter, net interest expense was $10.8 million compared to $10.0 million in the prior year fourth quarter. The weighted average interest rate for the Company’s debt outstanding was 4.1% compared to 3.6% in the prior year fourth quarter.

Income (Loss) Before Income Taxes

In Fiscal 2019, income (loss) before income taxes decreased $1.33 billion to $(802.6) million or (12.8)% of sales compared to $527.2 million or 8.4% of sales in Fiscal 2018. 

In the fourth quarter, income (loss) before income taxes decreased $(407.5) million to $(94.0) million or (4.4)% of sales compared to $313.5 million or 13.7% of sales in the prior year fourth quarter. 

45
Income Taxes 

Income tax benefit for Fiscal 2019 was $145.2 million compared to expense of $7.9 million in Fiscal 2018, with an effective tax rate of 18.1% for Fiscal 2019 compared to 1.5% in Fiscal 2018. In the fourth quarter, income tax benefit was $13.9 million compared to expense of $37.8 million in the prior year fourth quarter. The higher effective tax rates were driven primarily by 1) the impact of the non-deductible goodwill impairment charge; 2) pre-tax earnings mix by jurisdiction; and 3) an out of period correction related to a deferred tax liability associated with the Zale acquisition. The prior year fourth quarter tax benefit was driven by the favorable impact of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 together with pre-tax earnings mix by jurisdiction.

On December 22, 2017, the U.S. government enacted “An Act to Provide for Reconciliation Pursuant to Titles II and V of the Concurrent Resolution on the Budget for Fiscal Year 2018,” which is commonly referred to as “The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act” (the “TCJ Act”). The TCJ Act provides for comprehensive tax legislation which significantly modifies the U.S. corporate income tax system. Due to the timing of the enactment and the complexity involved in applying the provisions of the TCJ Act, we made reasonable estimates of its effects and recorded provisional amounts in the consolidated financial statements for the year ended February 3, 2018, consistent with applicable SEC guidance. We have completed these analyses during the year ended February 2, 2019, and no material adjustment to the provisional estimate recorded in the prior year was required.

We anticipate that the effective tax rate in future years will be favorably impacted by the lower federal statutory corporate tax rate of 21.0 percent offset by limitations of certain deductions and the base broadening changes. See Note 12 of Item 8 for additional information regarding the Company’s income taxes and the impact of the TCJ Act. 

Net Income (Loss)

Net income (loss) for Fiscal 2019 was down 226.6% to $(657.4) million or (10.5)% of sales compared to $519.3 million or 8.3% of sales in Fiscal 2018. 

For the fourth quarter, net income (loss) was down 130.7% to $(107.9) million or (5.0)% of sales compared to $351.3 million or 15.3% of sales in the prior year fourth quarter. 

Earnings (Loss) per Share (“EPS”) 

For Fiscal 2019, diluted earnings (loss) per share were $(12.62) compared to $7.44 in Fiscal 2018. The weighted average diluted number of common shares outstanding was 54.7 million compared to 69.8 million in Fiscal 2018. Signet repurchased 8.8 million shares in Fiscal 2019 compared to 8.1 million shares in Fiscal 2018. Diluted EPS for Fiscal 2019 includes a loss of $12.26 related to the goodwill and intangible impairments, a loss of $2.11 related to the sale of non-prime receivables, a loss of $1.77 related to the Path to Brilliance transformation plan and a loss of $0.20 related to the resolution of a previously disclosed regulatory matter.

For the fourth quarter, diluted earnings (loss) per share were $(2.25) compared to $5.24 in the prior year fourth quarter, down 143.0%. The weighted average diluted number of common shares outstanding was 51.6 million compared to 67.0 million in the prior year fourth quarter. Diluted EPS in the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2019 includes a loss of $4.78 related to the goodwill and intangible impairments, a loss of $0.37 related to the Path to Brilliance transformation plan and a loss of $0.20 related to the resolution of a previously disclosed regulatory matter.

The Company issued preferred shares on October 5, 2016, which include a cumulative dividend right and may be converted into common shares. The Company’s computation of diluted earnings per share includes the effect of potential common shares for outstanding awards issued under the Company’s share-based compensation plans and preferred shares upon conversion, if dilutive. In computing diluted EPS, the Company also adjusts the numerator used in the basic EPS computation, subject to anti-dilution requirements, to add back the dividends (declared or cumulative undeclared) applicable to the preferred shares. For the fourth quarter and year to date Fiscal 2019 periods, the dilutive effect related to preferred shares was excluded from the earnings per share computation as the preferred shares were anti-dilutive. For the fourth quarter and year to date Fiscal 2018 periods, the preferred shares were more dilutive if conversion was assumed. See Item 8 for additional information related to the preferred shares (Note 8) or the calculation of earnings per share (Note 10).

Dividends per Common Share

In Fiscal 2019, total dividends of $1.48 were declared by the Board of Directors compared to $1.24 in Fiscal 2018.

46
COMPARISON OF FISCAL 2018 TO FISCAL 2017 

•Same store sales: down 5.3%.

•Diluted earnings per share: up 5.1% to $7.44. 

In Fiscal 2018, Signet’s same store sales, which excluded the impact of the 53rd week from its calculation, decreased by 5.3%, compared to a decrease of 1.9% in Fiscal 2017. Total sales were $6.25 billion compared to $6.41 billion in Fiscal 2017, down $155.4 million or 2.4% compared to a decrease of 2.2% in Fiscal 2017. Merchandise categories and collections were broadly lower, partially offset by eCommerce, Piercing Pagoda total sales increase, the benefit of the 53rd week which contributed $84.3 million of sales and the addition of R2Net (acquired in September 2017) which contributed $88.1 million in sales for the year. eCommerce sales were $497.7 million and 8.0% of sales compared to $363.1 million and 5.7% of sales in Fiscal 2017. 

The breakdown of Signet’s sales performance is set out in the table below.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)  Based on stores open for at least 12 months. eCommerce sales are included in the calculation of same store sales for the period and comparative figures from the anniversary of the launch of the relevant website. The North America segment includes James Allen sales for the 145 days since the date of acquisition.

(2) Includes sales from Signet’s diamond sourcing initiative. 

47
ATV is defined as net merchandise sales on a same store basis divided by the total number of customer transactions. As such, changes from the prior year do not recompute within the table below.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)  Net merchandise sales within the North America segment include all merchandise product sales, net of discounts and returns. In addition, excluded from net merchandise sales are sales tax in the US, repair, extended service plan, insurance, employee and other miscellaneous sales. As a result, the sum of the changes will not agree to change in same store sales.

(2) Net merchandise sales within the International segment include all merchandise product sales, including value added tax (“VAT”), net of discounts and returns. In addition, excluded from net merchandise sales are repairs, warranty, insurance, employee and other miscellaneous sales. As a result, the sum of the changes will not agree to change in same store sales.

(3) Amounts for Peoples stores are denominated in Canadian dollars.

(4) Amounts for the International segment, including H.Samuel and Ernest Jones, are denominated in British pounds.

North America sales

In Fiscal 2018, the North America segment’s total sales were $5.62 billion, down 2.2%, compared to $5.74 billion in Fiscal 2017, and same store sales decreased 5.2% compared to a decrease of 1.0% in Fiscal 2017. North America’s ATV increased 2.5%, while the number of transactions decreased 7.8%. Sales declines were driven by weakness in bridal in Kay and Jared, including lower year over year sales of the Ever Us collection. The decrease in bridal was disproportionately affected by systems and process disruptions associated with the outsourcing of credit services. These declines were partially offset by strength in diamond fashion jewelry, most notably in the Disney Enchanted and Vera Wang Love collections in Zales and improved performance of gold fashion jewelery in Piercing Pagoda.

International sales

In Fiscal 2018, the International segment’s total sales were $616.7 million, down 4.7%, compared to $647.1 million in Fiscal 2017. Sales declines were due principally to bridal and diamond fashion jewelry partially offset by higher sales in select prestige watch brands and strength in eCommerce. Same store sales decreased by 6.0% compared to an increase of 0.1% in Fiscal 2017. ATV increased 9.7%, offset by a 14.7% decrease in the number of transactions.

Fourth Quarter Sales

In the fourth quarter, Signet’s total sales were $2.29 billion, down $23.2 million or 1.0%, compared to a decrease of 5.1% in the prior year fourth quarter. Same store sales were down 5.2% compared to a decrease of 4.5% in the prior year fourth quarter. The total sales increase was driven by the 14th week in sales, which contributed $84.3 million of sales, as well as the addition of R2Net which contributed $64.4 million in sales in the quarter, offset by the year-over-year decline in base same store sales. eCommerce sales in the fourth quarter were $253.8 million or 11.1% of total sales, compared to $161.8 million or 7.1% of total sales in the prior year fourth quarter. The breakdown of the sales performance is set out in the table below.

48
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)  Based on stores open for at least 12 months. eCommerce sales are included in the calculation of same store sales for the period and comparative figures from the anniversary of the launch of the relevant website.

(2) Same store sales presented for James Allen, acquired September 12, 2017, to provide comparative performance measure.

(3) Includes sales from Signet’s diamond sourcing initiative. 

ATV is defined as net merchandise sales on a same store basis divided by the total number of customer transactions. As such, changes from the prior year do not recompute within the table below.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)  Net merchandise sales within the North America segment include all merchandise product sales, net of discounts and returns. In addition, excluded from net merchandise sales are sales tax in the US, repair, extended service plan, insurance, employee and other miscellaneous sales. As a result, the sum of the changes will not agree to change in same store sales.

(2) Net merchandise sales within the International segment include all merchandise product sales, including value added tax (“VAT”), net of discounts and returns. In addition, excluded from net merchandise sales are repairs, warranty, insurance, employee and other miscellaneous sales. As a result, the sum of the changes will not agree to change in same store sales.

(3) Amounts for Peoples stores are denominated in Canadian dollars.

(4) Amounts for the International segment, including H.Samuel and Ernest Jones, are denominated in British pounds.

49
North America sales

In the fourth quarter, the North America segment’s total sales were $2.06 billion, up 1%, compared to $2.04 billion in the prior year, due primarily to the current year quarter including 14 weeks whereas the prior year quarter included 13 weeks. Same store sales decreased 4.7% compared to a decrease of 4.6% in the prior year. The North America segment’s ATV increased 1.9%, while the number of transactions decreased 7.1%. Across banners, same store sales were driven by weakness in bridal and beads, including year over year lower sales of Ever Us collection. The decrease in bridal in Kay and Jared was disproportionately affected by systems and process disruptions associated with the outsourcing of credit services that occurred at the end of the third quarter in the Fiscal 2018. In Zales, diamond fashion jewelry, most notably Disney Enchanted and Vera Wang Love collections outperformed but more than offset by weakness across bridal and beads. Gold fashion was the primary driver in same store sales of Pagoda. 

International sales

In the fourth quarter, the International segment’s total sales were up by 2.8% to $233.9 million compared to $227.6 million in the prior year fourth quarter. Same store sales decreased 9.2% compared to a decrease of 3.8% in the prior year fourth quarter due principally to diamond and fashion jewelry, partially offset by higher sales in select prestige watch brands and strength in eCommerce. Average merchandise transaction value increased 6.6% and the number of transactions decreased 15.2%.

Cost of Sales and Gross Margin 

Fiscal 2018, gross margin was $2.19 billion or 35.0% of sales compared to $2.36 billion or 36.8% of sales in Fiscal 2017. The decrease in gross margin was attributable to a 1) decline in the gross merchandise margin rate in part due the inclusion of R2Net which carries a lower gross margin rate and in addition to higher promotions and unfavorable merchandise mix, 2) de-leverage on store occupancy and fixed costs as a result of lower sales and 3) higher costs associated with the disposition of inventory in part due to the distribution center consolidation in North America. 

In the fourth quarter, gross margin was $919.8 million or 40.1% of sales compared to $945.5 million or 41.7% of sales in the prior year. The decrease in gross margin was attributable to 1) inclusion of R2Net which carries a lower gross margin rate which negatively impacted the rate by 70 bps, 2) unfavorable merchandise mix and 3) de-leverage on store occupancy and fixed costs as a result of lower sales.

Selling, General and Administrative Expenses

Selling, general and administrative expenses for Fiscal 2018 were $1.87 billion or 29.9% of sales compared to $1.88 billion or 29.3% of sales in Fiscal 2017, down $8.0 million. The decrease was attributable to decreased store staff costs and advertising expense partially offset by increased central costs. The increase in central costs was primarily driven by the inclusion of the 53rd week which added $30.5 million of expense, an additional $16.2 million of selling, general and administrative expense related to R2Net and other one-time costs of $12.0 million related to CEO separation and the R2Net acquisition. 

In the fourth quarter, SGA expense was $634.5 million or 27.7% of sales compared to $615.3 million or 27.1% of sales in the prior year fourth quarter. The increase in expense was primarily driven by the inclusion of the 14th week in the quarter which added $30.5 million of expense and credit outsourcing costs of $21.0 million partially offset by savings of $25.0 million related to in-house credit operations, as well as lower advertising expense and store labor costs.

Other Operating Income, Net

In Fiscal 2018, other operating income, net was $260.8 million or 4.2% of sales compared to $282.6 million or 4.4% of sales in Fiscal 2017. In the fourth quarter, other operating income, net was $39.5 million or 1.7% of sales compared to $69.0 million or 3.0% of sales in the prior year fourth quarter. The year-over-year decrease was primarily attributable to the 53rd week which added $1.3 million of other income offset by $28.0 million in other expense related to the sale of the prime-only credit quality portion of the Company’s in-house finance receivable portfolio during the third quarter of Fiscal 2018.

Operating Income

In Fiscal 2018, operating income was $579.9 million or 9.3% of sales compared to $763.2 million or 11.9% of sales in Fiscal 2017. The year-over-year decrease was primarily attributable to a decrease in sales volumes and the impact of the credit outsourcing transaction during the third quarter of Fiscal 2018.

50
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) In Fiscal 2018, Other includes $29.6 million of transaction costs related to the credit transaction, $8.6 million of R2Net acquisition costs, and $3.4 million of CEO transition costs. 

nmNot meaningful.

In the fourth quarter, operating income was $323.5 million or 14.1% of sales compared to $399.2 million or 17.6% of sales in prior year fourth quarter. The decline was driven by de-leverage of fixed costs due to sales declines, the impact of the credit outsourcing transaction and de-leverage related to R2Net, which carries a lower operating margin rate. The credit outsourcing transaction (excluding the sales impact of credit transition) reduced operating income by $21.0 million in the quarter primarily due to the loss of interest income. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

nmNot meaningful.

Interest Expense, Net

In Fiscal 2018, net interest expense was $52.7 million compared to $49.4 million in Fiscal 2017. The weighted average interest rate for the Company’s debt outstanding was 3.2% compared to 2.8% in the prior year. The increase in expense relates to additional interest incurred under the unsecured term loan entered into by Signet to finance the R2Net acquisition transaction (the “bridge loan”), partially offset by a reduction in interest related to the settlement of the Company’s asset-backed securitization facility, which was terminated in the third quarter of Fiscal 2018. See Item 8 for additional information related to the loans and long-term debt (Note 22).

In the fourth quarter, net interest expense was $10.0 million compared to $13.0 million in the prior year fourth quarter. The weighted average interest rate for the Company’s debt outstanding was 3.6% compared to 2.9% in the prior year fourth quarter. The decrease in expense relates to a reduction in interest related to the settlement of the Company’s asset-backed securitization facility, which was terminated in the third quarter of Fiscal 2018.

Income Before Income Taxes

In Fiscal 2018, income before income taxes decreased $186.6 million to $527.2 million or 8.4% of sales compared to $713.8 million or 11.1% of sales in Fiscal 2017. 

In the fourth quarter, income before income taxes decreased $72.7 million to $313.5 million or 13.7% of sales compared to $386.2 million or 17.0% of sales in the prior year fourth quarter. 

Income Taxes 

Income tax expense for Fiscal 2018 was $7.9 million compared to $170.6 million in Fiscal 2017, with an effective tax rate of 1.5% for Fiscal 2018 compared to 23.9% in Fiscal 2017. In the fourth quarter, income tax benefit was $37.8 million compared to expense of $88.7 million in the prior year fourth quarter. The lower effective tax rate in Fiscal 2018 was driven principally by the favorable impact of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act in the United States and the pre-tax earnings mix by jurisdiction. Revaluation of net deferred tax liabilities due to the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act resulted in a one-time non-cash benefit of $64.7 million in the quarter.

On December 22, 2017, the U.S. government enacted “An Act to Provide for Reconciliation Pursuant to Titles II and V of the Concurrent Resolution on the Budget for Fiscal Year 2018,” which is commonly referred to as “The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act” (the “TCJ Act”). The TCJ Act provides for comprehensive tax legislation which significantly modifies the U.S. corporate income tax system. Due to the timing of the enactment and the complexity involved in applying the provisions of the TCJ Act, we have made reasonable estimates of its effects and recorded provisional amounts for the year ended February 3, 2018, consistent with applicable SEC guidance.

51
The results for the fourth quarter and full year Fiscal 2018 include a net benefit of $86.2 million related to provisional estimates resulting directly from the TCJ Act. Within our calculations of the income tax effects of the TCJ Act, we used assumptions and estimates that may change as a result of future guidance and interpretation from the Internal Revenue Service, the SEC, the Financial Accounting Standards Board and/or various other taxing jurisdictions. In particular, we anticipate that the U.S. state jurisdictions will continue to determine and announce their conformity or decoupling from the Act, either in its entirety or with respect to specific provisions. All of these potential legislative and interpretive actions could result in adjustments to any of the provisional estimates when the accounting for the income tax effects of the TCJ Act is completed.

We anticipate that the effective tax rate in 2019 and in future years will be favorably impacted by the lower federal statutory corporate tax rate of 21.0 percent offset by limitations of certain deductions and the base broadening changes. See Note 12 of Item 8 for additional information regarding the Company’s income taxes and the impact of the TCJ Act. 

Net Income

Net income for Fiscal 2018 was down 4.4% to $519.3 million or 8.3% of sales compared to $543.2 million or 8.5% of sales in Fiscal 2017. 

For the fourth quarter, net income was up 18.1% to $351.3 million or 15.3% of sales compared to $297.5 million or 13.1% of sales in the prior year fourth quarter. 

Earnings per Share 

For Fiscal 2018, diluted EPS were $7.44 compared to $7.08 in Fiscal 2017, an increase of 5.1%. Earnings per share in Fiscal 2018 includes $0.93 related to the impact of revaluation on deferred taxes under the TCJ Act. The weighted average diluted number of common shares outstanding was 69.8 million compared to 76.7 million in Fiscal 2017. Signet repurchased 8.1 million shares in Fiscal 2018 compared to 11.2 million shares in Fiscal 2017.

For the fourth quarter, diluted earnings per share were $5.24 compared to $3.92 in the prior year fourth quarter, up 33.7%. Earnings per share in the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2018 includes $0.96 related to the impact of revaluation on deferred taxes under the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. The weighted average diluted number of common shares outstanding was 67.0 million compared to 75.8 million in the prior year fourth quarter.

The Company issued preferred shares on October 5, 2016, which include a cumulative dividend right and may be converted into common shares. The Company’s computation of diluted earnings per share includes the effect of potential common shares for outstanding awards issued under the Company’s share-based compensation plans and preferred shares upon conversion, if dilutive. In computing diluted EPS, the Company also adjusts the numerator used in the basic EPS computation, subject to anti-dilution requirements, to add back the dividends (declared or cumulative undeclared) applicable to the preferred shares. For the fourth quarter and year to date periods, the preferred shares were more dilutive if conversion was assumed. See Item 8 for additional information related to the preferred shares (Note 8) or the calculation of earnings per share (Note 10).

Dividends per Common Share

In Fiscal 2018, total dividends of $1.24 were declared by the Board of Directors compared to $1.04 in Fiscal 2017.

52
LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

Summary Cash Flow

The following table provides a summary of Signet’s cash flow activity for Fiscal 2019, Fiscal 2018 and Fiscal 2017:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Non-GAAP measure. See Item 6 for additional information.

OVERVIEW

Operating activities provide the primary source of cash and are influenced by a number of factors, such as:

•net income;

•changes in the level of inventory as a result of sales and new store growth;

•changes to accrued expenses including variable compensation; and

•deferred revenue, reflective of the performance of extended service plan sales.

Other sources of cash include borrowings and issuance of common and preferred shares for cash.

Net Cash Provided By Operating Activities 

Signet derives most of its operating cash from net income through the sale of jewelry and extended service plans. As a retail business, Signet receives cash when it makes a sale to a customer or when the payment has been processed by Signet or the relevant bank if the payment is made by third-party credit or debit card. Partially offsetting cash receipts via sales are payments of operating expenses. Signet’s largest operating expenses are cost of inventory, store occupancy costs, and payroll and payroll-related benefits. 

Working Capital

Accounts receivable

Prior to the outsourcing of credit, changes to accounts receivable were driven by the North America segment’s in-house credit program. If a customer elected financing provided by the legacy Sterling Jewelers division, the cash was received over time based on terms of the agreement. In October 2017, Signet, through its subsidiary Sterling Jewelers Inc., completed the sale of the prime-only credit quality portion of Sterling’s in-house finance receivable portfolio to Comenity. In addition, during June 2018, the Company completed the sale of all eligible non-prime in-house accounts receivable to Carval and the appointed minority party, Castlelake. 

For a five-year term ending in 2023, Signet will remain the issuer of non-prime credit with investment funds managed by CarVal and Castlelake (collectively, the “Investors”) purchasing forward receivables at a discount rate determined in accordance with their respective agreements. Signet will hold the newly issued non-prime credit receivables on its balance sheet for two business days prior to selling the receivables to the respective counter-party in accordance with the agreements. Servicing of the non-prime receivables, including operational interfaces and customer servicing, will continue to be provided by Genesis for the Investors.

53
Inventory

The change in inventory is primarily driven by the sales performance of the existing stores, the net change in store space and the seasonal pattern of sales. Other factors which drive changes to inventory include changes in new product launches, sourcing practices, commodity costs, foreign exchange and merchandise mix. To further enhance product selection, test new jewelry designs and working capital levels, Signet enters into consignment arrangements for merchandise. The majority of inventory held on consignment is in the US, which at February 2, 2019 amounted to $726.8 million as compared to $606.4 million at February 3, 2018. The principal terms of the consignment agreements, which can generally be terminated by either party, are such that Signet can return any or all of the inventory to the relevant supplier without financial or commercial penalties. When Signet sells consignment inventory, it becomes liable to the supplier for the cost of the item. The sale of any such inventory is accounted for on a gross basis (see principal accounting policies, Item 8). 

Accounts payable

Changes to accounts payable are primarily driven by the timing and amount of merchandise purchased, the mix of merchandise purchased and the relevant payment terms. Signet typically pays for merchandise within 30 days of receipt. Due to the nature of specialty retail jewelry, it is usual for inventory to turnover on average once approximately every 12 months. 

Deferred revenue

Signet’s working capital is also impacted by movements in deferred revenue associated with the sales of extended service plans sold in the North America segment. Movements in deferred revenue reflect the level of segment sales and the attachment rate of service plan sales. Therefore if sales increase, working capital would be expected to increase. Similarly, a decrease in sales would be expected to result in a reduction in working capital.

Payroll and benefits

Signet’s largest class of operating expense relates to store and central payroll and benefits. These are typically paid on a weekly, biweekly or monthly basis, with annual bonus payments also being made. Operating lease payments in respect of stores occupied are normally paid on a monthly basis by the North America segment and on a quarterly basis by the International segment. Payment for advertising on television, radio or in print is usually made between 30 and 60 days after the advertisement appears. Other expenses, none of which are material, have various payment terms.

Signet’s working capital requirements fluctuate during the year as a result of the seasonal nature of sales. The working capital needs of the business normally decline from January to August, as inventory decreases from seasonal peaks. As inventory is purchased for the fourth quarter, there is a working capital outflow which reaches its highest levels in mid- to late-November. The peak level of working capital is approximately $300 million above the typical January to August level, and can be accentuated by new store openings. The working capital position then reverses over the balance of the Holiday Season and fourth quarter.

Investment in new space requires significant investment in working capital, as well as fixed capital investment, due to the inventory turn. Of the total investment required to open a new store in the US, between 50% and 60% is typically accounted for by working capital. New stores are usually opened in the third quarter or early in the fourth quarter of a fiscal year. A reduction in the number of store openings results in the difference between the level of funding required in the first half of a fiscal year and the peak level being lower, while an increase in the number of store openings would have the opposite impact. 

Fiscal 2019 Cash Flow Results

In Fiscal 2019, net cash provided by operating activities was $697.7 million as compared to $1.94 billion in Fiscal 2018, a decrease of $1.24 billion.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•Non-cash goodwill and intangible impairment charges of $735.4 million were recorded related to interim impairment assessments performed during Fiscal 2019.

•Non-cash restructuring charges of $84.9 million related to the Plan primarily related to inventory charges and impairment of information technology assets. [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

54
During Fiscal 2019, the payment plans participation rate in the North America segment, excluding James Allen, was 51.7% compared to 52.3% in the prior year comparable period. The decline in participation rate was driven primarily by a continued trend of lower credit applications. The Company completed its transition to an outsourced credit structure during the second quarter of Fiscal 2019. See Note 4 of Item 8 for additional information regarding the credit transactions.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(2) In third quarter of Fiscal 2018, the Company completed the sale of the prime-only credit quality portion of its in-house finance receivable portfolio.

(3) In second quarter of Fiscal 2019, completed the sale of the non-prime in-house accounts receivable, thereby completing its credit outsourcing initiative.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Net Cash Used in Investing Activities

Net cash used in investing activities primarily reflects the purchases of property, plant and equipment related to the:

•new store openings;

•investment in existing stores, reflecting the level of investment in sales-enhancing technology, and the number of store remodels and relocations carried out; and

•investments in IT modernization and digital ecosystem.

When evaluating new store investment, management uses an investment hurdle rate of a 20% internal rate of return on a pre-tax basis over a five year period, assuming the release of working capital at the end of the five years. Capital expenditure accounts for about 45% of the investment in a new store in the North America segment. The balance is accounted for by investment in inventory and the funding of customer financing. Signet typically carries out a remodel of its stores every 10 years but does have some discretion as to the timing of such expenditure. A remodel is evaluated using the same investment procedures as for a new store. Minor store refurbishments are typically carried out every five years. In addition to store remodels, Signet carries out minor store refurbishments where stores are profitable but do not satisfy the investment hurdle rate required for a full remodel; this is usually associated with a short term lease renewal. Where possible, the investment appraisal approach is also used to evaluate other investment opportunities.

In Fiscal 2019, net cash used in investing activities was $119.0 million, compared to $569.4 million in Fiscal 2018 and $278.4 million in Fiscal 2017. The overall decrease in capital additions was primarily due to the acquisition of R2Net, as discussed in Note 5 of Item 8, in Fiscal 2018. Excluding the acquisition of R2Net in Fiscal 2018, cash used in each period was primarily for capital additions associated with remodels of existing stores, as well as capital investments in IT. See table below for additional information regarding capital additions.

55
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Free Cash Flow

Free cash flow (non-GAAP measure, see Item 6) is defined as net cash provided by operating activities less purchases of property, plant and equipment. Free cash flow in Fiscal 2019 was $564.2 million compared to $1.70 billion and $400.3 million in Fiscal 2018 and Fiscal 2017, respectively. Free cash flow in Fiscal 2018 included $952.5 million in proceeds received from the sale of prime receivables. In Fiscal 2019, $445.5 million in proceeds were received from the sale of non-prime receivables. Excluding these proceeds, the decrease in free cash flow over Fiscal 2018 was primarily due to lower net income and higher inventory levels due primarily to investment in new merchandise (see Note 4 of item 8 and ‘Working Capital’ section above). 

Net Cash Used in Financing Activities

The major items within financing activities are discussed below:

Proceeds from issuance of equity shares

On October 5, 2016, the Company issued 625,000 preferred shares to Green Equity Investors VI, L.P., Green Equity Investors Side VI, L.P., LGP Associates VI-A LLC and LGP Associates VI-B LLC, all affiliates of Leonard Green & Partners, L.P., (together, the “Investors”) for an aggregate purchase price of $625.0 million, or $1,000 per share (the “Stated Value”) pursuant to the investment agreement dated August 24, 2016. In connection with the issuance of the preferred shares, the Company incurred direct and incremental expenses of $13.7 million, including financial advisory fees, closing costs, legal expenses and other offering-related expenses. The preferred shares rank senior to the Company’s common shares, with respect to dividend rights and rights on the distribution of assets on any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Company. Preferred shareholders are entitled to a cumulative dividend at the rate of 5% per annum, payable quarterly in arrears, commencing on February 15, 2017. See Note 8 of Item 8 for additional information related to preferred shareholder rights.

Dividends

Dividends on common shares

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

In addition, on February 28, 2019, Signet’s Board of Directors declared a quarterly dividend of $0.37 per share on its common shares. This dividend will be payable on May 31, 2019 to shareholders of record on May 3, 2019, with an ex-dividend date of May 2, 2019.

56
Dividends on preferred shares

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

There were no cumulative undeclared dividends on the preferred shares as of February 2, 2019. In addition, deemed dividends of $1.7 million and $1.7 million related to accretion of issuance costs associated with the preferred shares were recognized in Fiscal 2019 and Fiscal 2018, respectively.

Restrictions on dividend payments

Signet has a senior unsecured multi-currency, multi-year revolving credit facility agreement (the “Credit Facility”) which provides the Company with a $700.0 million revolving credit facility and a $357.5 million term loan facility. This credit facility agreement permits the making of dividend payments and stock repurchases so long as the Parent Company (i) is not in default under the agreement, or (ii) if in default at the time of making such dividend repayment or stock repurchase, has no loans outstanding under the agreement or more than $10.0 million in letters of credit issued under the agreement.

Under Bermuda law, a company may not declare or pay dividends if there are reasonable grounds for believing that the company is, or would after the payment be, unable to pay its liabilities as they become due or that the realizable value of its assets would thereby be less than its liabilities.

Share repurchases

The Company’s share repurchase activity was as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(2) The 2016 Program was completed in March 2018.

(3) The 2013 Program was completed in May 2016.

n/aNot applicable.

In June 2017, the Board of Directors authorized a new program to repurchase $600.0 million of Signet’s common shares (the “2017 Program”). The 2017 Program may be suspended or discontinued at any time without notice.

In February 2016, the Board authorized the repurchase of Signet’s common shares up to $750.0 million (the “2016 Program”). In August 2016, the Board increased its authorized share repurchase program by $625.0 million, bringing the total authorization for the 2016 Program to $1.38 billion. The 2016 Program was completed in March 2018.

On October 5, 2016, the Company entered into an accelerated share repurchase agreement (“ASR”) with a large financial institution to repurchase $525.0 million of the Company’s common shares. At inception, the Company paid $525.0 million to the financial institution and took delivery of 4.7 million shares with an initial estimated cost of $367.5 million. In December 2016, the ASR was finalized and the Company received an additional 1.3 million shares. Total shares repurchased under the ASR were 6.0 million shares at an average purchase price of $87.01 per share based on the volume-weighted average price of the Company’s common shares traded during the pricing period, less an agreed discount. 

57
Movement in Cash and Indebtedness

Cash and cash equivalents at February 2, 2019 were $195.4 million compared to $225.1 million as of February 3, 2018. Signet has significant amounts of cash and cash equivalents invested in various ‘AAA’ rated liquidity funds and at a number of financial institutions. The amount invested in each liquidity fund or at each financial institution takes into account the credit rating and size of the liquidity fund or financial institution and is invested for short-term durations.

At February 2, 2019, Signet had $734.0 million of outstanding debt, comprised of $399.0 million of senior unsecured notes, a $294.9 million term loan facility, and bank overdrafts totaling $40.1 million. The term loan requires the Company to make scheduled quarterly principal payments over the five-year term. During Fiscal 2019, $31.3 million in principal payments were made. 

At February 3, 2018, Signet had $739.3 million of outstanding debt, comprised of $398.9 million of senior unsecured notes, a $326.2 million term loan facility, and bank overdrafts totaling $14.2 million. During Fiscal 2018, the Company utilized the gross proceeds from the sale of the prime portion of the in-house receivables to repay the $600 million asset-backed securitization facility. The term loan requires the Company to make scheduled quarterly principal payments over the five-year term. During Fiscal 2018, $22.3 million in principal payments were made. 

The Company’s Credit Facility contains a $700.0 million senior unsecured multi-currency multi-year revolving credit facility and a $357.5 million senior unsecured term loan facility. The maturity date for the Credit Facility, including both individual facilities disclosed above, is July 2021.

The Company had stand-by letters of credit on the revolving credit facility of $14.6 million and $15.7 million as of February 2, 2019 and February 3, 2018, respectively, that reduce remaining availability under the revolving credit facility.

Net debt (non-GAAP measure, see Item 6) was $533.0 million as of February 2, 2019 compared to net debt of $507.1 million as of February 3, 2018.

Capital availability

Signet’s level of borrowings and cash balances fluctuates during the year reflecting the seasonality of its cash flow requirements and business performance. Management believes that cash balances and the committed borrowing facilities (including the Credit Facility described more fully in Note 22 of Item 8) currently available to the business are sufficient for both its present and near term requirements. The following table provides a summary of these items as of February 2, 2019, February 3, 2018 and January 28, 2017:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

In addition to cash generated from operating activities, during Fiscal 2019, Fiscal 2018 and Fiscal 2017, Signet also had funds available from the credit facilities described above.

Signet’s Credit Facility contains various customary representations and warranties, financial reporting requirements and other affirmative and negative covenants. The Credit Facility requires that Signet maintain at all times a “Leverage Ratio” (as defined in the agreement) to be no greater than 2.50 to 1.00 and a “Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio” (as defined in the agreement) to be no less than 1.40 to 1.00, both determined as of the end of each fiscal quarter of Signet for the trailing twelve months. 

Credit Rating

The following table provides Signet’s credit ratings as of February 2, 2019:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

58
OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS

Merchandise held on consignment

Signet held $726.8 million of consignment inventory which is not recorded on the balance sheet at February 2, 2019, as compared to $606.4 million at February 3, 2018. The principal terms of the consignment agreements, which can generally be terminated by either party, are such that Signet can return any, or all of, the inventory to the relevant supplier without financial or commercial penalty.

Contingent property liabilities

At February 2, 2019, approximately 18 property leases had been assigned by Signet to third parties (and remained unexpired and occupied by assignees at that date) and approximately 5 additional properties were sub-let at that date. Should the assignees or sub-tenants fail to fulfill any obligations in respect of those leases or any other leases which have at any other time been assigned or sub-let, Signet or one of its UK subsidiaries may be liable for those defaults. The number of such claims arising to date has been small, and the liability, which is charged to the income statement as it arises, has not been material.

CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS

A summary of operating lease obligations is set out below. These primarily relate to minimum payments due under store lease arrangements. The majority of the store operating leases provide for the payment of base rentals plus real estate taxes, insurance, common area maintenance fees and merchant association dues. Additional information regarding Signet’s operating leases is available in Item 2 and Note 26 included in Item 8.

Long-term debt obligations comprise borrowings with an original maturity of greater than one year. It is expected that operating commitments will be funded from future operating cash flows and no additional facilities will be required to meet these obligations.

Contractual obligations as of February 2, 2019 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Includes principal payments on all long-term debt obligations.

(2) Includes future interest payments on all long-term debt obligations, inclusive of both fixed- and variable-rate debt. Projected interest costs on variable rate debt were calculated using rates in effect at February 2, 2019. Amounts exclude the amortization of debt discounts, the amortization of loan fees and fees for lines of credit that would be included in interest expense in the consolidated income statements.

(3) Operating lease obligations relate to minimum payments due under store lease arrangements. Most store operating leases require payment of real estate taxes, insurance and common area maintenance fees. Real estate taxes, insurance and common area maintenance fees were approximately 30% of base rentals for Fiscal 2019. These are not included in the table above. Some operating leases also require additional payments based on a percentage of sales.

(4) Other long-term liabilities reflect loss reserves related to credit insurance services provided by insurance subsidiaries. We have reflected these payments under “Other,” as the timing of the future payments is dependent on the actual processing of the claims.

Not included in the table above are obligations under employment agreements and ordinary course purchase orders for merchandise.

IMPACT OF INFLATION

The impact of inflation on Signet’s results for the past three years has not been significant apart from the impact of the commodity costs changes, and in the UK, the impact on merchandise costs due to the currency translation of the British pound against the US dollar.

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES

Critical accounting policies covering areas of greater complexity that are subject to the exercise of judgment due to the reliance on key estimates are listed below. A comprehensive listing of Signet’s significant accounting policies is set forth in Note 1 of the consolidated financial statements in Item 8. 

59
Revenue recognition for extended service plans and lifetime warranty agreements (“ESP”)

The Company recognizes revenue related to ESP sales in proportion to when the expected costs will be incurred over the life of the warranty agreement.

The North America segment sells ESP, subject to certain conditions, to perform repair work over the life of the product. Revenue from the sale of the lifetime ESP is recognized consistent with the estimated pattern of claim costs expected to be incurred by the Company in connection with performing under the ESP obligations. The deferral period for lifetime warranty sales in each banner is determined from patterns of claims costs, including estimates of future claims costs expected to be incurred. Management reviews the trends in claims to assess whether changes are required to the revenue and cost recognition rates utilized. A significant change in estimates related to the time period or pattern in which warranty-related costs are expected to be incurred could materially impact revenues. The deferral period and recognition rates of deferred revenue related to lifetime warranty sales is determined based on multi-year patterns of claims costs; therefore, a shift in historical experience of claims cost and frequency over several periods would be required to alter the revenue recognition pattern materially. All direct costs associated with the sale of these plans are deferred and amortized in proportion to the revenue recognized. Based on an evaluation of historical claims data, management currently estimates that substantially all claims will be incurred within 17 years of the sale of the warranty contract. Although claims experience varies between our national banners, thereby resulting in different recognition rates, approximately 55% of revenue is recognized within the first two years on a weighted average basis (February 3, 2018: 58%).

The North America segment sells a Jewelry Replacement Plan (“JRP”). The JRP is designed to protect customers from damage or defects of purchased merchandise for a period of three years. If the purchased merchandise is defective or becomes damaged under normal use in that time period, the item will be replaced. JRP revenue is deferred and recognized on a straight-line basis over the period of expected claims costs. 

Signet also sells warranty agreements in the capacity of an agent on behalf of a third-party. The commission that Signet receives from the third-party is recognized at the time of sale less an estimate of cancellations based on historical experience.  

Goodwill and intangibles 

Goodwill is evaluated for impairment annually and more frequently if indicators of impairment arise. In evaluating goodwill for impairment, the Company first assesses qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value (including goodwill). If the Company concludes that it is not more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value, then no further testing is required. However, if the Company concludes that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value, then a goodwill impairment test is performed to identify a potential goodwill impairment and measure the amount of impairment to be recognized, if any. The impairment test involves estimating the fair value of all assets and liabilities of the reporting unit, including the implied fair value of goodwill, through either estimated discounted future cash flows or market-based methodologies. 

Goodwill allocated to reporting units in the North America segment are reviewed for impairment annually and may be reviewed more frequently if certain events occur or circumstances change. Due to a sustained decline in the Company’s market capitalization during Fiscal 2019, the Company determined triggering events had occurred that required interim impairment assessments for all of its reporting units. As a result of the interim impairment assessments, the Company recognized pre-tax goodwill impairment charges totaling $521.2 million during Fiscal 2019. If future economic conditions are different than those projected by management, future impairment charges may be required. Goodwill totaled $296.6 million as of February 2, 2019 and $821.7 million as of February 3, 2018. 

Intangible assets with indefinite lives are reviewed for impairment annually and may be reviewed more frequently if certain events occur or circumstances change. The Company first performs a qualitative assessment to determine whether it is more likely than not that the indefinite-lived intangible asset is impaired. If the Company determines that it is more likely than not that the fair value of the asset is less than its carrying amount, the Company estimates the fair value, usually determined by the estimated discounted future cash flows of the asset, compares that value with its carrying amount and records an impairment charge, if any. In conjunction with the interim goodwill impairment tests, the Company reviewed its indefinite-lived intangible assets for potential impairment by calculating the fair values of the assets using the relief from royalty method and comparing the fair value to their respective carrying amounts. The fair values were estimated using an income-based approach based on management's estimates of forecasted cash flows, with those cash flows discounted to present value using rates commensurate with the risks associated with those cash flows. The valuations include assumptions related to sales trends, discount rates, royalty rates and other assumptions that are judgmental in nature. If future economic conditions are different than those projected by management, future impairment charges may be required.

As a result of the interim impairment assessments, the Company recognized pre-tax intangible impairment charges totaling $214.2 million during Fiscal 2019. If future economic conditions are different than those projected by management, future impairment charges may be required. Intangible assets with indefinite lives totaled $261.8 million as of February 2, 2019 and $478.4 million as of February 3, 2018.

60
 Income taxes

Income taxes are accounted for using the asset and liability method, which requires the recognition of deferred tax assets and liabilities for the expected future tax consequences of events that have been included in the consolidated financial statements. Under this method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized by applying statutory tax rates in effect in the years in which the differences between the financial reporting and tax filing bases of existing assets and liabilities are expected to reverse. The effect of a change in tax rates on deferred tax assets and liabilities is recognized in income in the period that includes the enactment date. A valuation allowance is established against deferred tax assets when it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized, based on management’s evaluation of all available evidence, both positive and negative, including reversals of deferred tax liabilities, projected future taxable income and results of recent operations.  The Company recorded a valuation allowance of $38.9 million and $37.0 million, as of February 2, 2019 and February 3, 2018, respectively, due to uncertainties related to the Company’s ability to utilize some of the deferred tax assets, primarily consisting of net operating losses, foreign tax credits and capital losses carried forward.

The annual effective tax rate is based on annual income, statutory tax rates and tax planning strategies available in the various jurisdictions in which the Company operates. The Company does not recognize tax benefits related to positions taken on certain tax matters unless the position is more likely than not to be sustained upon examination by tax authorities. At any point in time, various tax years are subject to or are in the process of being audited by various taxing authorities. The Company records a reserve for uncertain tax positions, including interest and penalties. To the extent that management’s estimates of settlements change, or the final tax outcome of these matters is different than the amounts recorded, such differences will impact the income tax provision in the period in which such determinations are made. See Note 12 in Item 8 for additional information regarding deferred tax assets and unrecognized tax benefits.

Accounting changes and recent accounting standards

For a description of accounting changes and recent accounting standards, including the expected dates of adoption and estimated effects, if any, on our consolidated financial statements, see Note 2 in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK