Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 

In the normal course of business, we are exposed to market risks, including changes in interest rates, certain commodity prices and foreign currency rates. 

We are subject to market risks arising from changes in interest rates which relate primarily to our financing activities. We performed a sensitivity analysis to determine how market rate changes might affect the fair value of our market risk-sensitive debt instruments. Our potential additional interest expense over one year that would result from a hypothetical, instantaneous and unfavorable change of 100 basis points in the interest rate on all of our variable rate obligations would be approximately $15.6 million on a pre-tax basis. 

We have exposure to foreign currency fluctuations. We have subsidiaries in 20 foreign countries whose revenues and expenses are denominated in local currency and who use local currency denominated lines of credit for their funding needs. We translate results of operations of our international operations using an average exchange rate. We have quantified and described the impact of foreign currency translation on our revenues. We estimate, that based upon the amounts reported by individual countries during the year ended December 31, 2018 and prevailing exchange rates at that date a 1% devaluation of all the functional currencies of each of our foreign businesses would result in a reduction of approximately $0.5 million in the Net (loss) income attributable to Stericycle, Inc. reported in our Consolidated Statements of (Loss) Income. 

In addition, Argentina is classified as a highly inflationary economy, resulting in foreign exchange gains and losses arising from the translation of our Argentinian peso denominated net monetary assets being recognized in net income. The foreign exchange loss recognized for the year ended December 31, 2018, was $3.8 million. On an ongoing basis, we estimate that, based on our Argentinian Peso denominated net monetary asset position as of December 31, 2018, we will record additional exchange losses of approximately $0.1 million for each 1% devaluation from the December 31, 2018 Argentinian Peso rate of exchange versus the U.S. dollar. 

2018 10-K Annual Report   

Stericycle, Inc. • 65   

PART II 

Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data