Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk

We are exposed to various market risks related to fluctuations in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. We may use derivative financial instruments to mitigate certain risks in accordance with our investment and foreign exchange policies. We do not use derivatives or other financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes.

Interest rate risk

Our short-term investments primarily consist of corporate bonds. An increase in interest could have an adverse impact on its market value. As of March 29, 2019, the fair value of our short-term investments was $252 million. A hypothetical increase in the corporate bonds’ yield curve of 50 basis points would not result in a significant reduction in fair value.

As of March 29, 2019, we had $4.0 billion in aggregate principal amount of fixed-rate Senior Notes and Convertible Senior Notes outstanding, with a carrying amount and a fair value of $4.0 billion, based on Level 2 inputs. Since these notes bear interest at fixed rates, they do not result in any financial statement risk associated with changes in interest rates. However, the fair value of these notes fluctuates when interest rates change.

As of March 29, 2019, we also had $500 million outstanding debt with variable interest rates based on the London InterBank Offered Rate (LIBOR). A reasonably possible hypothetical adverse change of 50 basis points in LIBOR would not result in a significant increase in interest expense on an annualized basis.

In addition, we have a $1.0 billion revolving credit facility that if drawn bears interest at a variable rate based on LIBOR and would be subject to the same risks associated with adverse changes in LIBOR.

35
Foreign currency exchange rate risk

We conduct business in numerous currencies through our worldwide operations, and our entities hold monetary assets or liabilities, earn revenues, or incur costs in currencies other than the entity’s functional currency primarily in Euro, Japanese Yen, and British Pound. In addition, we charge our international subsidiaries for their use of intellectual property and technology and for certain corporate services we provide. Our cash flow, results of operations and certain of our intercompany balances that are exposed to foreign exchange rate fluctuations may differ materially from expectations, and we may record significant gains or losses due to foreign currency fluctuations and related hedging activities. As a result, we are exposed to foreign exchange gains or losses which impacts our operating results. 

We have a foreign exchange exposure management program designed to identify material foreign currency exposures, manage these exposures, and reduce the potential effects of currency fluctuations on our reported consolidated cash flows and results of operations through which we enter into foreign exchange forward contracts on our assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of our subsidiaries with up to twelve months in duration. We do not use derivative financial instruments for speculative trading purposes, nor do we hedge our foreign currency exposure in a manner that entirely offsets the effects of the changes in foreign exchange rates. The gains and losses on these foreign exchange contracts are recorded in interest and other, net in our statement of operations.

As of March 29, 2019, we had open foreign currency forward contracts with notional amounts of $1.1 billion to hedge foreign currency balance sheet exposure, with an insignificant fair value. A hypothetical ten percent depreciation of foreign currency would result in a reduction in fair value of our forward contracts of $84 million for fiscal 2019. This analysis disregards the possibilities that the rates can move in opposite directions and that losses from one geographic area may be offset by gains from another geographic area. 

In addition, to help protect the net investment in a foreign operation from adverse changes in foreign currency exchange rates, during fiscal 2019, we initiated a program under which we may enter into foreign currency forward and option contracts to offset the changes in the carrying amounts of these investments due to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. As of March 29, 2019, the notional amount of the related outstanding forward contracts was $116 million, and their fair value was not significant. These contracts reduce, but do not entirely eliminate, the impact of currency exchange rate movements on investments in foreign operations. The foreign currency gains and losses on these contracts are recorded in other comprehensive income.

For additional details related to our derivative instruments, please see “Note 9 - Derivatives” to our Consolidated Financial Statements included in this report. 

36
Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data