Item 7.MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS ("MD&A")

You should read the following discussion in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and the notes to those statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K (“Annual Report”). This Annual Report contains certain statements that are forward-looking within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Certain statements contained in the MD&A are forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. The forward-looking statements are not historical facts, but rather are based on current expectations, estimates, assumptions and projections about our industry, business and future financial results. Our actual results could differ materially from the results contemplated by these forward-looking statements due to several factors, including those discussed in other sections of this Annual Report. See “Risk Factors” and “Forward-looking Statements.” 

OVERVIEW

Teradata Corporation ("we," "us," "Teradata," or the "Company") is a leading hybrid cloud analytics software provider focusing on delivering pervasive data intelligence to our customers, which we define as the ability to leverage 100% of a company’s data to uncover real-time intelligence, at scale. We help customers integrate and simplify their analytics ecosystem, access and manage data, and use analytics to extract answers and derive business value from data. Our solutions and services comprise software, hardware, and related business consulting and support services to deliver analytics across a company’s entire analytical ecosystem. 

Teradata’s strategy is based on our mission of transforming how businesses work and people live through the power of data. Our target market is what we call "megadata" companies - those companies that we believe are the world's most demanding, large-scale, users of data. These megadata companies face significant challenges including siloed data and conflicting and duplicative solutions that typically results in considerable expense to maintain and to manage the complexity. Our strategy is to provide a differentiated set of offerings to the megadata target market through a portfolio of integrated data and analytic solutions. Teradata Vantage is a highly-scalable, secure, highly-

26
concurrent, and resilient analytics platform that addresses the challenges that megadata companies face by offering full integration of their datasets, tools, analytics languages, functions, and engines in one analytical platform, which enables them to reduce complexity, risk, and costs. Teradata Vantage embraces leading commercial and open source technologies including our market-leading integrated data warehouse engine, and it is available on-premises or in the cloud. All subscription-based Teradata software licenses enable portability of the software license between cloud and on-premises deployment options, which can reduce risk associated with customers’ buying decisions. Customer buying behavior continues to shift from predominantly capital-intensive purchases to these subscription-based purchasing options.

In the near term, the movement to subscription-based transactions is negatively impacting the timing of our reported revenue and our cash flows because revenue and cash related to subscription-based transactions are recognized and received over time versus upfront as was the case with the capital purchase model. However, the transition to a subscription-based model is expected to increase our recurring revenue, which should create more predictable operating results and cash flow generation. Near term impacts, however, can fluctuate based on the pace of customer adoption, which can be difficult to predict. In the longer term, we expect our reported operating results and cash flow to normalize and increase as more customers transition to these new purchasing and deployment options.

We are continuing to invest for Teradata’s future, including investments to support our cloud-based initiatives, analytical consulting and solutions, realignment of our go-to-market approach, and modernizing our infrastructure.

Teradata has introduced additional financial and performance metrics to allow for greater transparency regarding the progress we are making toward achieving our strategic objectives. These metrics include the following:

•Annual Recurring Revenue ("ARR") - is the annual contract value for all active and contractually binding term-based contracts at the end of a period. It includes maintenance, software upgrade rights, subscription-based transactions and managed services. 

•Bookings Mix - subscription bookings divided by the sum of subscription bookings plus perpetual bookings.

2018 FINANCIAL OVERVIEW

As more fully discussed in later sections of this MD&A, the following are the financial highlights for 2018:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•Operating expenses in 2018 increased by 3% as compared to 2017, primarily due to the investments that we made in 2018 related to our strategic initiatives including increasing sales and sales support headcount and investments in managed and public cloud and our new Vantage platform. Teradata also transitioned its corporate headquarters to San Diego, California from Dayton, Ohio, which increased operating expenses.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

27
RESULTS FROM OPERATIONS FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2018, 2017 AND 2016 

Revenue

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

2018 compared to 2017 - Total revenue was up $8 million in 2018. Recurring revenue grew 10%, driven by our movement to subscription-based transactions from perpetual software licenses and hardware transactions, which is consistent with our strategy. Under subscription models, we recognize revenue over time as opposed to the upfront recognition under the perpetual model. We expect to continue to have a significant percent of bookings be subscription-based, consistent with our overall strategy and to continue to grow recurring revenue and ARR year-over-year. 

Revenues from perpetual software licenses and hardware decreased 21%, including a 1% favorable impact from foreign currency fluctuations. We expect perpetual revenues to continue to decline as customers switch to our subscription-based offerings. However, some customers continue to purchase on a perpetual basis. Perpetual revenue is primarily hardware-related, as software is generally being sold on subscription. We expect that perpetual revenue will continue to decline in 2019 and will continue to be predominantly hardware-related.

Consulting services revenue decreased 2% as we are shifting our strategy relating to our consulting business to focus on megadata companies and, within that target market, to prioritize higher value, higher margin, business-related consulting, which is intended to increase consumption of Vantage, our software-based analytics platform. 

We expect consulting revenue to continue to decline as the Company implements this strategic change and focus. 

As a portion of the Company’s operations and revenue occur outside the United States, and in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, the Company is exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Based on currency rates as of January 31, 2019, Teradata is expecting one percentage point negative impact from currency translation on our 2019 full year projected revenue growth rate.

Included below are financial and performance growth metrics for 2018:

•At the end of 2018, ARR was $1.308 billion, a 10% increase from $1.184 billion at the end of 2017. The growth in ARR in 2018 was unfavorably impacted by 2% from foreign currency fluctuations. Beginning in 2018, recurring revenue and ARR now includes recurring revenue from our managed services business. The prior-period amounts have been updated to reflect the current period presentation. 

•79% of our bookings mix in 2018 were subscription-based and we expect a substantial majority of our total bookings mix in 2019 to continue to be subscription-based. 

2017 compared to 2016 - Total revenue decreased 7%, primarily due to the sale of the marketing applications business in 2016, which generated $69 million in revenue in 2016, and due to customers increasingly opting for subscription-based transactions over perpetual, which is consistent with our strategy and impacts our prior period revenue comparisons as some revenue that we would normally have recognized in 2017 was spread over future periods. 

Recurring revenue increased 1%, due to the shift to subscription-based transactions offset by a reduction in recurring revenue from the sale of the marketing applications business, which generated $64 million in recurring revenue in 2016. Revenues from perpetual software licenses and hardware decreased 29% due to customers increasingly opting for our subscription-based purchasing options. Consulting services revenue decreased 1%. 

28
Gross Profit

The Company often uses specific terms/definitions to describe variances in gross profit. The terms and definitions most often used are as follows:

•Revenue Mix - The proportion of recurring, consulting, and perpetual software licenses and hardware that generates the total revenue of the Company. Changes in revenue mix can have an impact on gross profit even if total revenue remains unchanged.

•Recurring Revenue Mix - The proportion of various recurring revenue offerings that comprise the total of recurring revenue. For example, a higher mix of subscriptions including hardware rental would have a negative impact on total recurring gross profit. 

•Deal Mix - Refers to the type of transactions closed within the period that generate the total perpetual software license and hardware revenue. For example, a higher mix of hardware versus software or the mix of Teradata versus third-party products.

Gross profit for the following years ended December 31 was as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

2018 compared to 2017 - The decrease in recurring revenue gross profit as a percent of revenue was driven by a higher mix of subscription-based revenue as compared to the prior-year period. Subscription-based transactions are typically lower margin as compared to the recurring revenue from legacy maintenance and software upgrade rights.

The decrease in perpetual software licenses and hardware gross profit as a percent of revenue was driven by a higher mix of hardware revenue as some customers continue to purchase their hardware upfront while buying the software on a subscription basis, which is recorded in recurring revenue.

Consulting services gross profit as a percentage of revenue improved as compared to the prior-year period as the Company continues to focus on making operational improvements within its consulting business.

2017 compared to 2016 - The decrease in recurring revenue gross profit as a percent of revenue was driven by a higher mix of subscription-based revenue in 2017 including hardware as compared to 2016 when recurring revenue was primarily legacy maintenance and software upgrade rights and term licenses for software from the marketing applications business.

The decrease in perpetual software licenses and hardware gross profit as a percent of revenue was driven by deal mix and higher capitalized software amortization in 2017 as compared to 2016. 

Consulting service gross profit as a percentage of revenue decreased as compared to the prior year largely due to investments we made in our consulting organization, particularly headcount, to facilitate our new strategy.

29
Operating Expenses

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

2018 compared to 2017 - Selling, general and administrative ("SG&A") expense increased by $15 million or 2%. The increase was driven by investments that we are making in 2018 related to our strategic initiatives including transitioning our corporate headquarters to San Diego, California from the prior location in Dayton, Ohio, as well as increased sales and sales support headcount.

Research and development ("R&D") expenses increased $12 million or 4% due to strategic investments in the new Teradata Vantage analytics platform, our cloud offerings, as well as increased variable expense related to the annual incentive plan.

2017 compared to 2016 - SG&A expense decreased by $11 million or 2%. The decrease was driven by the exiting of the marketing applications business. This was partially offset by an increase in marketing spend and regional selling expense due to investments in demand creation, primarily in the Americas region.

R&D expenses increased $93 million or 44% due to the Company no longer capitalizing certain software development costs resulting from the transition to agile development methodologies. The Company did not capitalize any R&D costs in 2017 compared to $59 million in 2016. These development costs are now expensed as incurred as R&D expense. The increase in R&D expense was also due to new strategic initiatives relating to our cloud offerings.

In 2016, the Company recognized an impairment of goodwill of $57 million and acquired intangibles of $19 million to adjust the marketing applications business, which was sold on July 1, 2016, to its fair value less cost to sell. In addition, the Company recorded a $4 million impairment charge related to the sale of its corporate airplane.

Other Expense, net

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

In 2018, other expense, net is comprised primarily of interest expense on long-term debt, partially offset by interest income earned on our cash and cash equivalents. Interest income and interest expense increased due to increases in interest rates.

In 2017, the increase in interest expense and interest income compared to 2016 was due to an increase in interest rates. Interest expense also increased due to the use of our revolving credit facility.

30
Income Taxes

The effective income tax rate for the following years ended December 31 was as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The 2018 and 2017 effective tax rates were impacted by the passage of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (the “Tax Act”), which was signed into law on December 22, 2017, making significant changes to the United States Internal Revenue Code. Changes include, but are not limited to, a corporate tax rate decrease from 35% to 21% effective for tax years beginning after December 31, 2017, the transition of U.S international taxation from a worldwide tax system to a modified territorial tax system, and a one-time transition tax on the mandatory deemed repatriation of cumulative foreign earnings as of December 31, 2017. On December 22, 2017, Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 118 ("SAB 118") was issued to address the application of U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") in situations when a registrant does not have the necessary information available, prepared, or analyzed (including computations) in reasonable detail to complete the accounting for certain income tax effects of the Tax Act.

For the year ended December 31, 2018, the Company recorded $6 million of tax benefit in accordance with SAB 118 as an adjustment to the provisional estimates resulting from additional regulatory guidance available as of the date of this filing and changes in interpretations and assumptions the Company initially made because of the Tax Act. This resulted in an overall income tax benefit for the period.

The 2017 effective tax rate was impacted by a net $126 million of additional provisional income tax expense recorded in the fourth quarter of 2017 related to the Tax Act. The provisional amount related to the one-time transition tax expense of $145 million on the mandatory deemed repatriation of cumulative foreign earnings of $1.3 billion, which the Company will pay over an 8-year period through 2025. The Company also recorded a provisional benefit of $19 million, a majority of which related to the re-measurement of certain deferred tax assets and liabilities based on the rates at which they are expected to reverse in the future.

The 2016 effective tax rate was impacted by the $57 million of goodwill impairment charge recorded in the first quarter of 2016, all of which was treated as a permanent non-deductible tax item. In addition, a discrete tax charge of $22 million was recorded in the third quarter of 2016 for the tax impact on the sale of the marketing applications business, which occurred on July 1, 2016. In the fourth quarter of 2016, the Company recorded $8 million of tax expense associated with the issuance of new United States Treasury Regulations under Internal Revenue Code Section 987 on December 7, 2016, which clarified how companies calculate foreign currency translation gains and losses for income tax purposes for branches whose accounting records are kept in a currency other than the currency of the Company. Also, in the fourth quarter of 2016, the Company elected to early adopt Accounting Standards Update 2016-09, Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting. As a result, the Company incurred a $5 million discrete tax expense associated with the net shortfall arising from 2016 equity compensation vesting and exercises. 

Revenue and Gross Profit by Operating Segment

Effective July 1, 2016, following the sale of the marketing applications business, Teradata is managing its business in two operating segments: (1) Americas region (North America and Latin America); and (2) International region (Europe, Middle East, Africa, Asia Pacific and Japan). For purposes of discussing results by segment, management excludes the impact of certain items, consistent with how management evaluates the performance of each segment. This format is useful to investors because it allows analysis and comparability of operating trends. It also includes the same information that is used by Teradata management to make decisions regarding the segments and to assess financial performance. The chief operating decision maker, who is our President and Chief Executive Officer, evaluates the performance of the segments based on revenue and multiple profit measures, including segment gross profit. For management reporting purposes, assets are not allocated to the segments. Our segment results are reconciled to total Company results reported under GAAP in Note 13 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Prior period segment information has been reclassified to conform to the current period presentation. 

The following table presents revenue and operating performance by segment for the years ended December 31: 

31
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Americas: 

2018 compared to 2017 - Revenue decreased 6%. An increase in recurring revenue of 8% was offset by a decrease in perpetual software licenses and hardware. Both were driven by the shift to subscription-based transactions. Segment gross profit as a percentage of revenues was lower primarily due to lower perpetual revenue margin from a higher perpetual revenue mix of hardware as some customers continued to purchase hardware upfront while buying software on a subscription basis. 

2017 compared to 2016 - Revenue decreased 11%. The revenue decline was driven by our customers' movement to subscription-based contract options, which results in revenue being recognized over time instead of upfront. Americas had a higher percent of subscription-based transactions in 2017 than International. Segment gross profit as a percentage of revenues was lower, driven by lower perpetual revenue margin from a higher perpetual revenue mix of hardware versus software revenue due to customers moving to subscription-based options. Consulting margins were also lower and impacted by investments that we made in our consulting business to drive increased consumption of Teradata's offerings. 

International: 

2018 compared to 2017 - Revenue increased by 8%, which included a 1% favorable impact from foreign currency fluctuations. The increase was driven by both recurring revenue as well as perpetual software and hardware. The increase in recurring revenue is consistent with our strategy to shift to subscriptions. Segment gross profit as a percentage of revenues was higher primarily due to growth in higher margin recurring revenue and an increase in consulting services gross margin as the Company continues to focus on making operational improvements in its consulting business. 

2017 compared to 2016 - Revenue increased 5%. The revenue increase was driven by improved perpetual revenues in Europe, Middle East and Africa ("EMEA") as well as the Asia Pacific and Japan ("Asia Pacific") regions. Segment gross profit as a percentage of revenues was down in 2017 driven by lower consulting margins from investments that we made in our consulting business to drive increased consumption of Teradata's offerings.

Marketing Applications: The marketing applications business was sold on July 1, 2016. 

Change in segment reporting: Effective January 1, 2019, the Company implemented an organizational change to its operating segments and will report future results under three separate segments: (1) the Americas region, (2) the EMEA region, and (3) the Asia Pacific region, to align with the way the Company's management operates and reviews the results of these businesses.

32
FINANCIAL CONDITION, LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

Teradata ended 2018 with $715 million in cash and cash equivalents, a $374 million decrease from the December 31, 2017 balance, after using approximately $300 million for repurchases of Company common stock during the year. Cash provided by operating activities increased by $40 million to $364 million in 2018. The increase in cash provided by operating activities was primarily due to differences in timing of various components of working capital. 

Teradata’s management uses a non-GAAP measure called “free cash flow,” which is not a measure defined under GAAP. We define free cash flow as net cash provided by operating activities less capital expenditures for property and equipment and additions to capitalized software. Free cash flow is one measure of assessing the financial performance of the Company, and this may differ from the definition used by other companies. The components that are used to calculate free cash flow are GAAP measures taken directly from the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. We believe that free cash flow information is useful for investors because it relates the operating cash flow of the Company to the capital that is spent to continue and improve business operations. In particular, free cash flow indicates the amount of cash available after capital expenditures for, among other things, investments in the Company’s existing businesses, strategic acquisitions and repurchase of Teradata common stock. Free cash flow does not represent the residual cash flow available for discretionary expenditures since there may be other non-discretionary expenditures that are not deducted from the measure. This non-GAAP measure should not be considered a substitute for, or superior to, cash flows from operating activities under GAAP.

The table below shows net cash provided by operating activities and capital expenditures for the following periods: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Financing activities and certain other investing activities are not included in our calculation of free cash flow. Other investing activities for 2018 include release of a hold-back payment from a previous year's acquisition. In 2017 and 2016, these other investing activities primarily consisted of immaterial complementary business acquisitions and equity investment activities that were closed during these years along with the sale of the marketing applications business on July 1, 2016. 

Teradata’s financing activities for the years ended December 31, 2018 primarily consisted of cash outflows of $300 million for share repurchases, repayments of credit facility borrowings of $240 million, repayment of existing term loan of $40 million, $5 million of payments on capital leases, and $31 million from other financing activities. 

Teradata’s financing activities for the years ended December 31, 2017 primarily consisted of cash outflows of $351 million for share repurchases, net proceeds of credit facility borrowings of $240 million, repayment of existing term loan of $30 million and $32 million from other financing activities. 

Teradata's financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2016 primarily consisted of cash outflows of $82 million for share repurchases, repayments of credit facility borrowings of $180 million, repayment of existing term loan of $30 million and $30 million from other financing activities.

The Company purchased 7.9 million shares of its common stock at an average price per share of $37.89 in 2018, 11.5 million shares of its common stock at an average price per share of $30.59 in 2017 and 3.4 million shares at an average price per share of $24.25 in 2016.

Share repurchases were made under two share repurchase programs initially authorized by our Board of Directors in 2008. The first of these programs (the “dilution offset program”) authorizes the Company to repurchase Teradata common stock to the extent of cash received from the exercise of stock options and the Teradata Employee Stock Purchase Plan (“ESPP”) to offset dilution from shares issued pursuant to these plans. As of December 31, 2018, under the Company’s second share repurchase program (the “general share repurchase program”), the Company 

33
had approximately $253 million of authorization remaining to repurchase outstanding shares of Teradata common stock. Share repurchases made by the Company are reported on a trade date basis. 

Proceeds from the ESPP and the exercise of stock options, net of tax paid for shares withheld upon equity award settlement, were $33 million in 2018, $32 million in 2017 and $31 million in 2016. These proceeds are included in other financing activities, net in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. 

Our total cash and cash equivalents held outside the United States in various foreign subsidiaries was $364 million as of December 31, 2018 and $1,044 million as of December 31, 2017. The remaining balance held in the United States was $351 million as of December 31, 2018 and $45 million as of December 31, 2017. Prior to the enactment of the Tax Act, the Company either reinvested or intended to reinvest its earnings outside of the United States. Because of the Tax Act, the Company has changed its indefinite reinvestment assertion related to foreign earnings that have been taxed in the United States and now considers a majority of these earnings no longer indefinitely reinvested. In 2018, the Company repatriated $800 million of its offshore cash and utilized $280 million to pay down its credit facilities, used $300 million for share repurchases that occurred during the period, and the remainder for general corporate purposes. Effective January 1, 2018, the United States has moved to a modified territorial system of international taxation, and as such will not subject future foreign earnings to United States taxation upon repatriation in future years.

On June 11, 2018, Teradata replaced its existing five-year, $400 million revolving credit facility with a new $400 million revolving credit facility (the “Credit Facility”). The Credit Facility ends on June 11, 2023 at which point any remaining outstanding borrowings would be due for repayment unless extended by agreement of the parties for up to two additional one-year periods. In addition, under the terms of the Revolving Credit Agreement, Teradata from time to time and subject to certain conditions may increase the lending commitments under the Revolving Credit Agreement in an aggregate principal amount up to an additional $200 million to the extent that existing or new lenders agree to provide such additional commitments. The outstanding principal amount of the Revolving Credit Agreement bears interest at a floating rate based upon, at Teradata’s option, a negotiated base rate or a Eurodollar rate plus, in each case, a margin based on Teradata’s leverage ratio. In the near term, Teradata would anticipate choosing a floating rate based on London Interbank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”). The Credit Facility is unsecured but is guaranteed by certain of Teradata’s material domestic subsidiaries and contains certain representations and warranties, conditions, affirmative, negative and financial covenants, and events of default customary for such facilities. As of December 31, 2018, the Company had no borrowings outstanding under the Credit Facility, leaving $400 million in additional borrowing capacity available under the Credit Facility. The Company was in compliance with all covenants under the Credit Facility as of December 31, 2018. Unamortized deferred costs on the original credit facility and new lender fees of approximately $1 million were being amortized over the five-year term of the credit facility. The Company was in compliance with all covenants as of December 31, 2018.

Also, on June 11, 2018, Teradata closed on a new senior unsecured $500 million five-year term loan, the proceeds of which, plus additional cash-on-hand, were used to pay off the remaining $525 million of principal on its existing term loan. The $500 million term loan is payable in quarterly installments, which will commence on June 30, 2019, with 1.25% of the initial principal amount due on each of the first eight payment dates; 2.50% of the initial principal amount due on each of the next four payment dates; 5.0% of the initial principal amount due on each of the next three payment dates; and all remaining principal due on June 11, 2023. The outstanding principal amount under the term loan agreement bears interest at a floating rate based upon a negotiated base rate or a Eurodollar rate plus a margin based on the leverage ratio of the Company. As of December 31, 2018, the term loan principal outstanding was $500 million. The Company was in compliance with all covenants under the term loan as of December 31, 2018. Unamortized deferred issuance costs of approximately $2 million were being amortized over the five-year term of the loan. The Company was in compliance with all covenants as of December 31, 2018.

In addition, in June 2018, Teradata executed a five-year interest rate swap with a $500 million initial notional amount to hedge the floating rate interest on the above-described term loan. The notional amount of the hedge will step-down according to the amortization schedule of the term loan. Because of the swap, Teradata’s fixed rate on the term loan equals 2.86% plus the applicable leverage-based margin as defined in the Term Loan agreement. As of December 31, 2018, the all-in fixed rate was 4.36%. 

34
During 2018, the Company entered into capital leases to finance certain of its equipment purchases. Assets acquired by capital leases during 2018 were $52 million. The lease term for all capital leases entered into during the year was 3 years and the average interest rate was 5.01%. The lease obligation as of December 31, 2018 was approximately $47 million.

Management believes current cash, cash flows from operations and the $400 million available under the Credit Facility will be sufficient to satisfy future working capital requirements, research and development activities, capital expenditures, pension contributions, severance benefits and other financing requirements for at least the next twelve months. The Company principally holds its cash and cash equivalents in bank deposits and highly-rated money market funds. 

The Company’s ability to generate positive cash flows from operations is dependent on general economic conditions, competitive pressures, and other business and risk factors described elsewhere in this Annual Report. If the Company is unable to generate sufficient cash flows from operations, or otherwise to comply with the terms of the credit facility and term loan agreement, the Company may be required to seek additional financing alternatives.

Contractual and Other Commercial Commitments. In the normal course of business, we enter into various contractual obligations that impact, or could impact, our liquidity. The following table and discussion outline our material obligations at December 31, 2018, with projected cash payments in the periods shown:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Our principal payments on long-term debt represent the expected cash payments on our $500 million term loan and do not include any fair value adjustments or discounts and premiums. Our interest payments on long-term debt represent the estimated cash interest payments based on the prevailing interest rate as of December 31, 2018. Our principal payments on capital leases represent the expected cash payment on our capital leases obligation, which is $47 million as of December 31, 2018. Our interest payments on capital leases represent the estimated cash interest payments based on the interest rates per capital lease agreements as of December 31, 2018. Transition tax is the remaining payable balance as of December 31, 2018 of the one-time tax on accumulated foreign earnings resulting from the Tax Act. The payments associated with this deemed repatriation will be paid over seven years ending in 2025. Our lease obligations in the above table includes Company facilities in various domestic and international locations. Purchase obligations are committed purchase orders and other contractual commitments for goods and services and include non-cancelable contractual payments for fixed or minimum amounts to be purchased in relation to service agreements with various vendors for ongoing telecommunications, information technology, hosting and other services. 

Additionally, the Company has $34 million in total uncertain tax positions recorded on its balance sheet as of December 31, 2018, of which $17 million is recorded in non-current liabilities and $17 million is reflected as an offset to deferred tax assets related to certain tax attribute carryforwards. These items are not included in the table of obligations shown above. The settlement period for the non-current income tax liabilities cannot be reasonably estimated as the timing and the amount of the payments, if any, will depend on possible future tax examinations with the various tax authorities. However, it is not expected that any payments will be due within the next 12 months.

We also have product warranties and guarantees to third parties, as well as postemployment and international pension obligations that may affect future cash flow. These items are not included in the table of obligations shown 

35
above. The Company is also potentially subject to concentration of supplier risk. Our hardware components are assembled exclusively by Flex Ltd. (“Flex”). Flex procures a wide variety of components used in the manufacturing process on our behalf. Although many of these components are available from multiple sources, Teradata utilizes preferred supplier relationships to better ensure more consistent quality, cost, and delivery. Typically, these preferred suppliers maintain alternative processes and/or facilities to ensure continuity of supply. Given the Company’s strategy to outsource its manufacturing activities to Flex and to source certain components from single suppliers, a disruption in production at Flex or at a supplier could impact the timing of customer shipments and/or Teradata’s operating results. In addition, a significant change in the forecasts to any of these preferred suppliers could result in purchase obligations or components that may be in excess of demand. Product warranties and third-party guarantees are described in detail in “Note 10—Commitments and Contingencies” in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Postemployment and pension obligations are described in detail in “Note 8—Employee Benefit Plans” in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements. We do not participate in transactions that generate relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, such as entities often referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities, which would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or for other contractually narrow or limited purposes. 

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES

Our financial statements are prepared in accordance with GAAP. In connection with the preparation of these financial statements, we are required to make assumptions, estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses and the related disclosure of contingent liabilities. These assumptions, estimates and judgments are based on historical experience and assumptions that are believed to be reasonable at the time. However, because future events and their effects cannot be determined with certainty, the determination of estimates requires the exercise of judgment. Our critical accounting policies are those that require assumptions to be made about matters that are highly uncertain. Different estimates could have a material impact on our financial results. Judgments and uncertainties affecting the application of these policies and estimates may result in materially different amounts being reported under different conditions or circumstances. Our management periodically reviews these estimates and assumptions to ensure that our financial statements are presented fairly and are materially correct.

In many cases, the accounting treatment of a particular transaction is specifically dictated by GAAP and does not require significant management judgment in its application. There are also areas in which management’s judgment in selecting among available alternatives would not produce a materially different result. The significant accounting policies and estimates that we believe are the most critical to aid in fully understanding and evaluating our reported financial results are discussed in the paragraphs below. Teradata’s senior management has reviewed these critical accounting policies and related disclosures with the Audit Committee of Teradata’s Board of Directors. For additional information regarding our accounting policies and other disclosures required by GAAP, see “Note 1—Description of Business, Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies” in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

Revenue Recognition

On January 1, 2018, we adopted ASC Topic 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers ("ASC 606"). This standard replaces existing revenue recognition rules with a comprehensive revenue measurement and recognition standard and expanded disclosure requirements. Refer to Note 1, of our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for discussion of recently issued accounting standards.

Revenue recognition for complex contractual arrangements requires judgment, including a review of specific contracts, past experience, creditworthiness of customers, international laws and other factors. Specifically, complex arrangements with nonstandard terms and conditions may require significant contract interpretation to determine the appropriate accounting. We must also apply judgment in determining all performance obligations in the contract and in determining the standalone selling price of each performance obligation, considering the price charged for each product when sold on a standalone basis and applicable renewal rates for services and 

36
subscriptions. Changes in judgments about these factors could impact the timing and amount of revenue recognized between periods.

The Company reviews the standalone selling price on a periodic basis and updates it, when appropriate, to ensure that the practices employed reflect the Company’s recent pricing experience. The Company maintains internal controls over the establishment and updates of these estimates, which includes review and approval by the Company’s management. For the year ended December 31, 2018 there was no material impact to revenue resulting from changes in the standalone selling price, nor does the Company expect a material impact from such changes in the near term.

Capitalized Software

Costs incurred in researching and developing a computer software product that will be sold, leased or otherwise marketed are charged to expense until technological feasibility has been established. Technological feasibility is established when planning, designing and initial coding activities that are necessary to establish that the product can be produced to meet its design specifications are complete. In the absence of a detailed program design or for agile development activities, a working model is used to establish technological feasibility. Once technological feasibility is established, all development costs are capitalized until the product is available for general release to customers. Judgment is required in determining when technological feasibility of a product is established. The timing of when various research and development projects become technologically feasible or ready for release can cause fluctuations in the amount of research and development costs that are expensed or capitalized in any given period, thus impacting our reported profitability for that period.

In 2016, the Company began moving towards more frequent releases of its offerings, which significantly shortens the opportunity to capitalize software development costs. Our research and development efforts have become more driven by market requirements and rapidly changing customers' needs. In addition, the Company started applying agile development methodologies to help respond to new technologies and trends. Agile development methodologies are characterized by a more dynamic development process with more frequent and iterative revisions to a product releases' features and functions as the software is being developed. Because of the shorter development cycle and focus on rapid production associated with agile development, the Company did not capitalize any external use software development costs in 2018 and 2017 due to the relatively short duration between the completion of the working model and the point at which a product was ready for general release. Prior capitalized costs will continue to be amortized under the greater of revenue-based or straight-line method over the estimated useful life. 

Income Taxes

In accounting for income taxes, we recognize deferred tax assets and liabilities based on the differences between the financial statement carrying amounts and the tax basis of assets and liabilities. The deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on the enacted tax rates expected to apply in the periods in which the deferred tax assets or liabilities are expected to be settled or realized. The Company has made a new accounting policy election in 2018 related to the Tax Act to provide for the tax expense related to global intangible low-taxed income (“GILTI”) in the year the tax is incurred.

Prior to the enactment of the Tax Act in December 2017, the Company had not provided for taxes on the undistributed earnings of its foreign subsidiaries as the Company either reinvested or intended to reinvest those earnings outside of the United States. Because of the Tax Act, the Company has changed its indefinite reinvestment assertion related to foreign earnings that have been taxed in the United States and now considers a majority of these earnings no longer indefinitely reinvested. The Company has recorded $1 million of deferred foreign and state tax expense with respect to certain earnings that are not considered permanently reinvested. Deferred taxes have not been provided on earnings considered indefinitely reinvested as it is not expected that distribution of these earnings would give rise to material income tax liabilities.

We account for uncertainty in income taxes by prescribing thresholds and attributes for the financial statement recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. We may recognize the tax benefit from an uncertain tax position only if it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained on examination by the taxing authorities, based on the technical merits of the position. We record any interest and/or penalties related to uncertain tax positions in the income tax expense line on our Consolidated Statements of Income. As of December 31, 2018, the Company has a total of $34 million of unrecognized tax benefits, of which 

37
$17 million is included in the other liabilities section of the Company’s consolidated balance sheet as a non-current liability. The remaining balance of $17 million of uncertain tax positions relates to certain tax attributes generated by the Company which are netted against the underlying deferred tax assets recorded on the balance sheet.

We regularly review our deferred tax assets for recoverability and establish a valuation allowance if it is more likely than not that some portion or all of a deferred tax asset will not be realized. We have recorded $39 million in 2018 and $32 million in 2017 for valuation allowances, a majority of which offset our California R&D tax credit carryfoward, as the Company expects to continue to generate excess California R&D tax credits into the foreseeable future. 

Stock-based Compensation

We measure compensation cost for stock awards at fair value and recognize compensation expense over the service period. We utilize pricing models, including the Black-Scholes option pricing model and Monte Carlo simulation model, to estimate the fair value of stock-based compensation at the date of grant. These valuation models require the input of subjective assumptions, including expected volatility and expected term. In addition, we issue performance-based awards that vest only if specific performance conditions are satisfied. The number of shares that will be earned can vary based on actual performance. No shares will vest if the threshold objectives are not met. In the event the objectives are exceeded, additional shares will vest up to a maximum payout. The cost of these awards is expensed over the performance period based upon management’s estimate and analysis of the probability of meeting the performance criteria. Because the actual number of shares to be awarded is not known until the end of the performance period, the actual compensation expense related to these awards could differ from our current expectations. Since the adoption of the FASB Accounting Standards Update - Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting, effective January 1, 2016, we account for forfeitures as they occur instead of estimating forfeitures at the time of grant and revising those estimates in subsequent periods if actual forfeitures differ from our estimates.

Goodwill and Acquired Intangible Assets

The Company reviews goodwill for impairment annually and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value of goodwill may not be recoverable. The Company tests goodwill by first performing a qualitative analysis to determine if it is more likely than not that the fair value of the reporting unit is below its carrying value. Qualitative factors may include, but are not limited to, economic, market and industry conditions, and overall financial performance of the reporting unit. If the Company determines that it is more likely than not that the fair value of the reporting unit is below its carrying value after assessing these qualitative factors, then the guidance on goodwill impairment requires the company to perform a quantitative impairment test. In this test, the Company compares the fair value of each reporting unit to its carrying value. The Company typically determines the fair value of its reporting units using a weighting of fair values derived from the income and market approaches. Under the income approach, the Company calculates the fair value of a reporting unit based on the present value of estimated future cash flows. The market approach estimates fair value based on market multiples of revenue and earnings derived from comparable companies with similar operating and investment characteristics as the reporting unit. If the fair value of the reporting unit exceeds the carrying value of the net assets assigned to that unit, goodwill is not impaired. If the carrying value of the net assets assigned to the reporting unit exceeds the fair value of the reporting unit, then the company records an impairment loss equal to the difference. Teradata reviewed two reporting units in its 2018 goodwill impairment assessment, as each operating segment was deemed as a reporting unit for purposes of testing. Based on the Company's evaluation and weighting of the events and circumstances that have occurred since the most recent quantitative test, the Company concluded that it was not more likely than not that each reporting unit's fair value was below its carrying value. Therefore, the Company determined that it was not necessary to perform a quantitative goodwill impairment test for the reporting units in 2018. See "Note 5—Goodwill and Acquired Intangible Assets" for additional information.

Determining the fair value of goodwill and acquired intangibles is judgmental in nature and involves the use of significant estimates and assumptions. These estimates and assumptions include revenue growth rates and operating margins used to calculate projected future cash flows, discount rates and future economic and market conditions. The company’s estimates are based upon assumptions believed to be reasonable, but which are inherently uncertain and unpredictable. These valuations require the use of management’s assumptions, which may not reflect unanticipated events and circumstances that may occur.

38
Pension and Postemployment Benefits

We measure pension and postemployment benefit costs and credits using actuarial valuations. Actuarial assumptions attempt to anticipate future events and are used in calculating the expense and liability relating to these plans. These factors include assumptions we make about interest rates, expected investment return on plan assets, total and involuntary turnover rates, and rates of future compensation increases. In addition, our actuarial consultants also use subjective factors such as withdrawal rates and mortality rates to develop our valuations. We review and update these assumptions on an annual basis at the beginning of each fiscal year. We are required to consider current market conditions, including changes in interest rates, in making these assumptions. The actuarial assumptions that we use may differ materially from actual results due to changing market and economic conditions, higher or lower withdrawal rates, or longer or shorter life spans of participants. These differences may result in a significant impact to the measurement of our pension and postemployment benefit obligations and to the amount of pension and postemployment benefits expense we have recorded or may record. For example, as of December 31, 2018, a one-half percent increase/decrease in the discount rate would change the projected benefit obligation of our pension plans by approximately $7 million, and a one-half percent increase/decrease in our involuntary turnover assumption would change our postemployment benefit obligation by approximately $10 million. 

RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS

A discussion of recently issued accounting pronouncements is described in “Note 1—Description of Business, Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies” in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements elsewhere in this Annual Report, and we incorporate such discussion by reference.

Item 7A.QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK