Item 7A.QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

The Company employs a foreign currency hedging strategy to limit potential losses in earnings or cash flows from adverse foreign currency exchange rate movements. Foreign currency exposures arise from transactions denominated in a currency other than the Company’s functional currency and from foreign denominated revenue and profit translated into U.S. dollars. The primary currencies to which the Company is exposed include the euro, the British pound, the Japanese yen, the Australian dollar, the Canadian dollar and other Asian and South American currencies. Exposures are hedged with foreign currency forward contracts with maturity dates of twelve months or less. The potential loss in fair value at December 31, 2018, for such contracts resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in all foreign currency exchange rates is approximately $4 million. This loss would be mitigated by corresponding gains on the underlying exposures. 

In June 2018, Teradata executed a five-year interest rate swap with a $500 million initial notional amount to hedge the floating interest rate of its Term Loan, as more fully described in "Note 12 - Debt and Capital Leases" in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements elsewhere in this Annual Report. The Company uses interest rate swaps to manage interest rate risks on future interest payments caused by interest rate changes on its variable rate term loan facility. The notional amount of the hedge will step-down according to the amortization schedule of the term loan. The fair value of these contracts and swaps are measured at the end of each reporting period using observable inputs other than quoted prices, specifically market spot and forward exchange rates. The fair value of interest rate swaps recorded in other liabilities at December 31, 2018 was $7 million. A hypothetical 50 basis point increase/decrease in interest rates would result in a increase/decrease to the fair value of the hedge of approximately $9 million. 

For additional information regarding the Company’s foreign currency hedging strategy and interest rate swaps, see "Note 9 - Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities" in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements elsewhere in this Annual Report.

Item 8.FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA