ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Executive Summary

We are an innovative media company that serves the greater good of our communities. Our business includes 49 television stations operating in 41 markets, offering high-quality television programming and digital content. Each television station also has a robust digital presence across online, mobile and social platforms. Beyond integrated broadcast advertising products and services, we deliver results for advertisers through extensive solutions including our Over the Top (OTT) local advertising network, Premion; and our digital marketing services (DMS) business, a one-stop shop for local businesses to connect with consumers through digital marketing.

On May 31, 2017, we completed the spin-off of our digital automotive marketplace business, Cars.com. In addition, on July 31, 2017, we completed the sale of our majority ownership stake in CareerBuilder. Our digital marketing services (DMS) business is now reported within our Media business. As a result of these strategic actions, we have disposed of substantially all of our Digital Segment business and have therefore classified substantially all of its historical financial results as discontinued operations for all periods presented. We now operate one operating and reportable segment “Media.” 

Our operating results are subject to seasonal fluctuations. Generally, the second and fourth quarters operating results are stronger than the first and third quarter. This is driven by the second quarter usually reflecting increased spring seasonal advertising, while the fourth quarter typically includes increased advertising related to the holiday season. In addition, our operating results are subject to significant fluctuations from political advertising. In even numbered years, political spending is usually significantly higher than in odd numbered years due to advertising for the local and national elections. Additionally, every four years, we typically experience even further increases in political advertising in connection with the presidential election.

Consolidated Results from Operations

A consolidated summary of our results is presented below (in thousands).

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

**** Not meaningful

17

Revenues

Our Advertising and Marketing Services (AMS) category includes all sources of our traditional television advertising and digital revenues including Premion and other digital advertising and marketing revenues across our platforms. Our Subscription revenue category includes revenue earned from cable and satellite providers for the right to carry our signals and the distribution of TEGNA stations on OTT streaming services. The following table summarizes the year-over-year changes in our revenue categories (in thousands):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

**** Not meaningful

Revenue increased $304.3 million, or 16%, in 2018 as compared to 2017. This net increase was primarily due to an increase in 2018 political revenue of $210.4 million, driven by the mid-term elections cycle. Also contributing to the net increase was subscription revenue which increased $122.1 million, or 17%, primarily due to annual rate increases under existing retransmission agreements and increases from OTT streaming service providers. These increases were partially offset by a decrease in AMS revenue of $32.9 million, or 3%, in 2018. Increases in AMS from Winter Olympic and Super Bowl advertising, the KFMB station acquisition, and digital advertising (primarily Premion) were offset by declines in digital marketing services (DMS) revenue (primarily due to conclusion of a transition service agreement with Gannett in June 2017) and a softening of demand and the impact of election year political displacement of traditional television advertising.

Revenue decreased $101.1 million, or 5%, in 2017 as compared to 2016. This net decrease was primarily driven by lower political revenue of $131.6 million, due to an expected decrease from 2016 politically related advertising spending. In addition, the decrease reflected a decline in AMS revenue of $98.1 million, or 8%, in 2017. This decline was primarily due to the absence of Olympic revenue in 2017 as compared to $57.3 million in 2016 and lower DMS revenue due to the conclusion of a transition services agreement with Gannett. Partially offsetting the overall AMS decline was an increase in digital revenue, including Premion revenue. Partially offsetting the overall decrease was an increase in subscription revenue of $137.0 million, or 24%, due to the renewal of certain retransmission agreements as well as annual rate increases under other existing retransmission agreements.

Costs of revenues, exclusive of depreciation 

Cost of revenue increased $132.2 million, or 14%, in 2018 as compared to 2017. The increase was primarily due to a $63.3 million increase in programming costs (due to the growth in subscription revenues), a $43.5 million increase in digital expenses (primarily due to OTT inventory costs and investments made in the Premion business), and a $13.3 million increase from our KFMB station acquisition, production of original content (Daily Blast LIVE!, local news, and Sister Circle), and variable editorial costs tied to increased revenues (event coverage costs of Olympics and Super Bowl). These increases were partially offset by a decline in DMS costs of $9.3 million due to the conclusion of the transition services agreement with Gannett.

Cost of revenue increased $138.3 million, or 17%, in 2017 as compared to 2016. This increase was primarily due to an $175.9 million increase in reverse compensation related programming costs (primarily driven by 11 of our stations paying NBC reverse compensation payments for the first time in 2017). This increase was partially offset by a decline in DMS costs of $18.7 million driven by the termination of the transition service agreement with Gannett, the absence of $11.4 million of expense related to our 2016 voluntary early retirement program, and a $7.4 million decrease in Cofactor expenses due to its disposition in 2016.

Business units - Selling, general and administrative expenses, exclusive of depreciation

Business unit selling, general, and administrative expenses increased $27.9 million, or 10%, in 2018 as compared to 2017. The increase was primarily driven by a $10.8 million increase due to higher selling costs related to incremental revenue from the mid-term elections, Olympics and Super Bowl. The remaining net $17.1 million increase was primarily due to the acquisition of KFMB and higher legal costs associated with the ongoing Department of Justice investigation - see Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements for further information.

Business unit selling, general, and administrative expenses decreased $43.6 million, or 13%, in 2017 as compared to 2016. The decrease was primarily the result of a $19.3 million decline in DMS selling and advertising expense related to the termination of the transition service agreement with Gannett and a reduction of $2.2 million in severance expense. Also contributing to the decline was the absence of $8.6 million of Cofactor expenses, due to its disposition in December 2016, and the absence of $4.0 million of expense related to our 2016 voluntary early retirement program. 

18

Corporate - General and administrative expenses, exclusive of depreciation

Our corporate costs are separated from our business expenses and are recorded as general and administrative expenses in our Consolidated Statements of Income. These costs include activities that are not directly attributable or allocable to our media business operations. This category primarily consists of broad corporate management functions including legal, human resources, and finance, as well as activities and costs not directly attributable to the operations of our media business.

Corporate general and administrative expenses decreased $2.5 million, or 5%, in 2018 as compared to 2017. The decrease was primarily due to lower corporate expenses associated with operational efficiencies associated with right-sizing and stream-lining of the corporate function following the spin-off of Cars.com and the sale of our majority interest in CareerBuilder in 2017. These reductions were partially offset by $5.5 million in severance expense incurred in the third quarter of 2018 due to a reduction in force.

Corporate general and administrative expenses decreased $3.7 million, or 6%, in 2017 as compared to 2016. The decrease was primarily due to a reduction in severance expenses of $0.9 million incurred in 2017. The remaining difference is attributable to the right-sizing and stream-lining of the corporate function in connection with the strategic actions impacting our former Digital Segment.

Depreciation expense

Depreciation expense increased $0.9 million, or 2%, in 2018 as compared to 2017. The increase was due primarily to the assets acquired in the KFMB acquisition, partially offset by assets becoming fully depreciated.

Depreciation expense decreased $0.3 million, or 1%, in 2017 as compared to 2016. The decrease was primarily due to declines in the purchase of property and equipment, partially offset by additional depreciation related to a change in useful lives of certain broadcasting assets, including accelerated depreciation expense of $1.5 million in connection with the FCC channel repack process.

Amortization of intangible assets

Intangible asset amortization expense increased $9.3 million, or 43%, in 2018 as compared to 2017. The increase was primarily due to incremental amortization expense resulting from our acquisition of KFMB.

Intangible asset amortization expense decreased $1.7 million, or 7%, in 2017 as compared to 2016. The decrease was a result of certain intangible assets associated with previous acquisitions reaching the end of their useful lives.

Asset impairment and other (gains) charges

We had other net gains of $11.7 million in 2018 compared to charges of $4.4 million in 2017. The 2018 net gains primarily consist of $7.4 million of reimbursements received from the Federal Communications Commission related to the spectrum repack initiative. Also contributing was a $6.0 million gain recognized on the sale of real estate in Houston. The 2017 charges primarily consisted of $0.9 million in net expenses related to Hurricane Harvey (expenses of $26.9 million, net of insurance proceeds of $26.0 million), $1.4 million related to the consolidation of office space at our DMS business unit and corporate headquarters, and $2.2 million of non-cash impairment charges incurred by our broadcast station related to a building sale. 

Asset impairment charges declined $27.7 million from charges of $32.1 million in 2016 to charges of $4.4 million in 2017. The 2017 charges primarily due to the factors discussed in the paragraph above. The 2016 charges were comprised of a goodwill impairment charge of $15.2 million (for our former Cofactor business), a $6.3 million impairment related to an internally produced programming asset, a $4.7 million impairment charge related to a long-lived-asset, and a $4.6 million lease related charge (for our former Cofactor business). 

Operating income

Operating income increased $152.6 million, or 28%, in 2018 as compared to 2017. The increase was driven by the changes in revenue and operating expenses described above. Our operating margins were 31.6% in 2018 compared to 28.7% in 2017, primarily driven by increases in political and subscription revenue in 2018.

Operating income decreased $162.3 million, or 23%, in 2017 as compared to 2016, primarily driven by the changes in revenue and operating expenses discussed above. Our operating margins were lower at 28.7% in 2017, compared to 35.3% in 2016, primarily driven by the increase in programming expenses and absence of $131.6 million of political revenue compared to 2016.

19

Programming and payroll expense trends 

Programming and payroll expenses are the two largest elements of our operating expenses, and are summarized below, expressed as a percentage of total operating expenses. Programming expenses as a percentage of total operating expenses have increased due to an increase in reverse compensation payments to our network affiliation partners associated with higher subscription revenues. Payroll expenses have increased during 2018 primarily due to the acquisition of KFMB, but as a percentage of total operating expenses have decreased in 2018 primarily due to increases in programming expenses, which now make up a larger percentage of operating costs. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Non-operating income and expense

Equity income (loss): This income statement category reflects earnings or losses from our equity method investments. Equity income increased $3.4 million, or 33%, from $10.4 million in 2017 to $13.8 million in 2018. The 2018 income was primarily due to $14.2 million of equity earnings from our CareerBuilder investment, resulting from a one-time $17.9 million gain recorded in connection with our share of the gain on sale of its subsidiary, Economic Modeling, LLC (EMSI). The 2017 income was primarily due to a $17.5 million gain we recorded as a result of the sale of our Livestream investment. This income was partially offset by a $2.6 million impairment of an equity method investment.

Equity income (loss) fluctuated $13.8 million, from a loss of $3.4 million in 2016 to an income of $10.4 million in 2017. The fluctuation was primarily due to the $17.5 million gain we recorded as a result of the sale of our Livestream investment, partially offset by the $2.6 million impairment of an equity method investment recorded in 2017.

Interest expense: Interest expense decreased $18.2 million, or 9%, in 2018 as compared to 2017, primarily due to lower average outstanding total debt balance, partially offset by higher interest rates. The total average outstanding debt was $3.09 billion in 2018 compared to $3.59 billion in 2017. The decline in outstanding debt was partially offset by an increase in the weighted average interest rate on total outstanding debt which was 5.90% in 2018, compared to 5.57% in 2017.

Interest expense decreased $21.7 million, or 9%, in 2017 as compared to 2016, primarily due to lower average outstanding total debt balance, due to the $609.9 million mid-year paydown of our revolving credit facility and the accelerated repayment of $280.0 million of principal on unsecured notes due in October 2019. The total average outstanding debt was $3.59 billion in 2017 compared to $4.25 billion in 2016. The decline in outstanding debt was partially offset by an increase in the weighted average interest rate on total outstanding debt which was 5.57% in 2017, compared to 5.29% in 2016.

A further discussion of our borrowing and related interest cost is presented in the “Liquidity and capital resources” section of this report beginning on page 25 and in Note 6 to the consolidated financial statements.

Other non-operating expenses: Other non-operating expenses decreased $23.8 million, or 67%, from $35.3 million in 2017 to $11.5 million in 2018. The decrease is driven by lower business acquisition/disposition related transaction costs of $5.7 million and lower pension expense of $4.3 million (see Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements). In addition, in 2017 we incurred the following expenses that did not repeat in 2018; $6.6 million of costs incurred in connection with the early extinguishment of debt, a $5.8 million loss associated with the write-off of a note receivable from one of our former equity method investments, and a $3.9 million impairment of our stock investment in Gannett. 

Other non-operating expenses increased $11.8 million from $23.5 million in 2016 to $35.3 million in 2017. The 2017 non-operating expenses primarily consisted of the components described above. The 2016 non-operating expenses primarily consisted of $21.0 million in costs associated with the spin-off of our Cars.com business unit.

Provision (benefit) for income taxes

We reported pre-tax income from continuing operations attributable to TEGNA of $508.7 million for 2018. The effective tax rate on pre-tax income was 21.1%. The 2018 effective tax rate reflects the 21.0% U.S. federal statutory that was effective January 1, 2018 as a result of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (Tax Act) enacted in December 2017. The tax expense for state taxes was partially offset by a tax benefit from finalizing provisional amounts recorded in 2017 from the Tax Act. The 2018 effective tax rate increased compared to 2017 primarily due to the one-time deferred benefit recorded in 2017 in conjunction with the Tax Act.

We reported pre-tax income from continuing operations attributable to TEGNA of $310.7 million for 2017. The effective

tax rate on pre-tax income was -44.2% including a 71.2% or $221.1 million one-time deferred tax benefit recorded in conjunction with the Tax Act. We reported pre-tax income from continuing operations attributable to TEGNA of $449.3 million for 2016. The 

20

effective tax rate on pre-tax income was 31.2%. The 2017 effective tax rate decreased as compared to 2016 primarily due to the recognition of the one-time deferred tax benefit recorded in conjunction with the Tax Act.

Further information concerning income tax matters is contained in Note 5 of the consolidated financial statements.

Net income from continuing operations

Net income from continuing operations and related per share amounts are presented in the table below (in thousands, except per share amounts).

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

We reported net income from continuing operations of $401.3 million or $1.85 per diluted share for 2018 compared to $448.0 million or $2.06 per diluted share for 2017. Our 2017 earnings per share was benefited by approximately $1.02 as a result of one-time deferred tax benefit recorded in connection with the Tax Act (as discussed above). 

Earnings per share also benefited from net decreases in diluted shares of approximately 0.9 million and 2.2 million in 2018 and 2017, respectively. The decreases in both years were due to share repurchases, which were partially offset by share issuances under our stock-based award programs.

 Operating results non-GAAP information

Presentation of non-GAAP information: We use non-GAAP financial performance and liquidity measures to supplement the financial information presented on a GAAP basis. These non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered in isolation from, or as a substitute for, the related GAAP measures, nor should they be considered superior to the related GAAP measures, and should be read together with financial information presented on a GAAP basis. Also, our non-GAAP measures may not be comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies.

Management and our Board of Directors use the non-GAAP financial measures for purposes of evaluating business unit and consolidated company performance. Furthermore, the Leadership Development and Compensation Committee of our Board of Directors uses non-GAAP measures such as Adjusted EBITDA, non-GAAP net income, non-GAAP EPS, Adjusted revenues and free cash flow to evaluate management’s performance. Therefore, we believe that each of the non-GAAP measures presented provides useful information to investors and other stakeholders by allowing them to view our business through the eyes of management and our Board of Directors, facilitating comparisons of results across historical periods and focus on the underlying ongoing operating performance of our business. We discuss in this Form 10-K non-GAAP financial performance measures that exclude from our reported GAAP results the impact of “special items” consisting of severance expense, charges related to asset impairment and other (gains) charges, net gain on sale of equity method investments, gains/losses related to business disposals, costs associated with debt repayment, TEGNA Foundation donations, certain non-operating expenses (business acquisition, pension payment timing related charges, and transaction costs), and costs associated with the Cars.com spin-off transaction. In addition, we have income tax special items associated with tax impacts associated with the acquisition of KFMB; and deferred tax benefit adjustments related to adjusting provisional tax impacts of the Tax Act and a partial capital loss valuation allowance release, both resulting from completion of our 2017 federal income tax return in the third quarter.

We believe that such expenses, charges and gains are not indicative of normal, ongoing operations. Such items vary from period to period and are significantly impacted by the timing and nature of these events. Therefore, while we may incur or recognize these types of expenses, charges and gains in the future, we believe that removing these items for purposes of calculating the non-GAAP financial measures provides investors with a more focused presentation of our ongoing operating performance.

We discuss Adjusted EBITDA (with and without corporate expenses), a non-GAAP financial performance measure that we believe offers a useful view of the overall operation of its businesses. We define Adjusted EBITDA as net income from continuing operations before (1) interest expense, (2) income taxes, (3) equity income (losses) in unconsolidated investments, net, (4) other non-operating expenses (income), (5) severance expense, (6) asset impairment and other (gains) charges, (7) impairment charges, (8) depreciation and (9) amortization. The most directly comparable GAAP financial measure to Adjusted EBITDA is Net income from continuing operations. Users should consider the limitations of using Adjusted EBITDA, including the fact that this measure does not provide a complete measure of our operating performance. Adjusted EBITDA is not intended to purport to be an alternate to net income as a measure of operating performance or to cash flows from operating activities as a measure of liquidity. In particular, Adjusted EBITDA is not intended to be a measure of free cash flow available for management’s discretionary expenditures, as this measure does not consider certain cash requirements, such as working capital needs, capital expenditures, contractual commitments, interest payments, tax payments and other debt service requirements.

21

We also consider adjusted revenues to be an important non-GAAP financial measure. Our adjusted revenue is calculated by taking total company revenues on a GAAP basis and adjusting it to exclude (1) estimated incremental Olympic and Super Bowl revenue, (2) political revenues, and (3) revenues associated with a discontinued portion of our DMS business. These adjustments are made to our reported revenue on a GAAP basis in order to evaluate and assess our core operations on a comparable basis, and it represents the ongoing operations of our media business. 

We also discuss free cash flow, a non-GAAP liquidity measure. Free cash flow is defined as “net cash flow from operating activities” as reported on the statement of cash flows reduced by “purchase of property and equipment” and increased by “reimbursement from spectrum repacking”. We believe that free cash flow is a useful measure for management and investors to evaluate the level of cash generated by operations and the ability of its operations to fund investments in new and existing businesses, return cash to shareholders under the company’s capital program, repay indebtedness, add to our cash balance, or use in other discretionary activities. We use free cash flow to monitor cash available for repayment of indebtedness and in discussions with the investment community. Like Adjusted EBITDA, free cash flow is not intended to be a measure of cash flow available for management’s discretionary use.

Discussion of special charges and credits affecting reported results: Our results for the year ended December 31, 2018, included the following items we consider “special items” and are not indicative of our normal ongoing operations:

•Operating asset impairment and other net gains primarily consists of a gain recognized on the sale of real estate in Houston and gains due to reimbursements from the FCC for required spectrum repacking. These gains are partially offset by an early lease termination payment;

•Severance charges which included payroll and related benefit costs due to restructuring at our DMS business and at our corporate headquarters;

•Other non-operating items associated with business acquisition and integration costs, a charitable donation made to the TEGNA Foundation, and an impairment of a debt investment;

•Pension payment timing related charges related to the acceleration of previously deferred pension costs as a result of lump sum SERP payments made to certain former executives;

•A gain recognized in our equity income in unconsolidated investments, related to our share of CareerBuilder’s gain on the sale of its EMSI business;

•Tax provision impacts related to our acquisition of KFMB; and

•Deferred tax benefits related to adjusting the provisional tax impacts of the Tax Act and a partial capital loss valuation allowance release, both resulting from the completion of our 2017 federal income tax return in the third quarter of 2018.

Results for the year ended December 31, 2017, included the following special items:

•Severance charges which included payroll and related benefit costs; 

•Operating asset impairment related to damage caused by Hurricane Harvey and the consolidation of office space at our DMS business unit and corporate headquarters;

•Gain on sale and an impairment of equity method investments;

•Other non-operating expenses associated with costs of the spin-off of our Cars.com business unit, charitable donations made to the TEGNA Foundation, non-cash asset impairment charges associated with write off of a note receivable from an equity method investment; costs incurred in connection with the early extinguishment of debt; and

•Special deferred tax benefits related to the Tax Act, deferred tax remeasurement attributable to the spin-off of our Cars.com business unit and a deferred tax adjustment related to a previously-disposed business.

22

Below are reconciliations of certain line items impacted by special items to the most directly comparable financial measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP on our Consolidated Statements of Income (in thousands, except per share amounts):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

23

Non-GAAP consolidated results

The following is a comparison of our as adjusted non-GAAP financial results between 2018 and 2017. Changes between the periods are driven by the same factors summarized above in the “Results of Operations” section within Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (in thousands, except per share amounts).

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

**** Not meaningful

Adjusted Revenues

Reconciliations of adjusted revenues to our revenues presented in accordance with GAAP on our Consolidated Statements of Income are presented below (in thousands):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Excluding the impacts of incremental Olympic and Super Bowl revenue, Political advertising revenue, and the discontinued digital marketing transition services agreement, total company adjusted revenues on a comparable basis increased 5% in 2018. This is primarily attributable to increases in subscription revenue, partially offset by declines in AMS revenue as described in the Results from Operations section above. 

24

Adjusted EBITDA - Non-GAAP

Reconciliations of Adjusted EBITDA (inclusive and exclusive of Corporate expenses) to net income from continuing operations presented in accordance with GAAP on our Consolidated Statements of Income is presented below (in thousands):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

**** Not meaningful

Adjusted EBITDA margin was 38% (without corporate expense) and 35% including corporate. Our total Adjusted EBITDA increased $149.4 million or 24% in 2018 compared to 2017. The increase was driven by an increase in political, Olympic, and Super Bowl advertising and increases in subscription revenue, partially offset by higher programming costs and investments in Premion associated with its revenue growth.

Free cash flow reconciliation

Our free cash flow, a non-GAAP liquidity measure, was $469.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2018, compared to $312.5 million for the same period in 2017. Cash flows include the operations of our former publishing businesses (through its spin-off date of June 29, 2015), Cars.com (through its spin-off date of May 31, 2017), and CareerBuilder (through its date of sale on July 31, 2017). Our 2018 free cash flow was higher than 2017 due to the same factors affecting cash flow from operating activities summarized within “Liquidity and capital resources” discussed below. 

We also present our free cash flow information in our “Selected Financial Data” table on page 70. Reconciliations from “Net cash flow from operating activities” to “Free cash flow” are presented below (in thousands):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

FINANCIAL POSITION

Liquidity and capital resources

Our cash generation capability and financial condition, together with our significant borrowing capacity under our revolving credit agreement, are sufficient to fund our capital expenditures, interest expense, dividends, share repurchases, investments in strategic initiatives and other operating requirements. Over the longer term, we expect to continue to fund debt maturities, acquisitions and investments through a combination of cash flows from operations, borrowings under our revolving credit agreement and funds raised in the capital markets. 

 Our operations have historically generated strong positive cash flow which, along with availability under our existing revolving credit facility, has provided adequate liquidity to meet our internal investment requirements, as well as acquisitions. On February 15, 2018, we acquired San Diego television and radio stations (KFMB) for $328.4 million which was financed with a 

25

borrowing of $220.0 million under our revolving credit facility and cash on hand. In addition, on January 2, 2019, we acquired, for approximately $108.9 million in cash, television stations in Toledo, OH and Midland-Odessa, TX, which was funded using available cash and borrowings under our revolving credit facility.

Following the Cars.com spin-off on May 31, 2017, we announced that we would begin paying a regular quarterly cash dividend of $0.07 per share. We paid dividends totaling $60.3 million in 2018 and $90.2 million in 2017. We expect to continue paying comparable regular cash dividends in the future. The rate and frequency of future dividends will depend on future earnings, capital requirements and financial condition and other factors considered relevant by our Board of Directors. Further on June 21, 2018, we extended the term and our permitted total leverage ratio under our Amended and Restated Competitive Advance and Revolving Credit Agreement (see details of the amendment discussed in ‘Long-term debt’ section on page 27). 

 We have completed several strategic actions that have positioned us to continue to pursue strategic acquisition opportunities that may develop in our sector, and invest in new content and revenue initiatives. Our financial and operating performance, as well as our ability to generate sufficient cash flow to maintain compliance with credit facility covenants, are subject to certain risk factors; see Item 1A - Risk Factors for further discussion.

Our cash flows include the operations of Cars.com (through its spin-off date of May 31, 2017) and CareerBuilder (through its date of sale on July 31, 2017). The following table provides a summary of our cash flow information followed by a discussion of the key elements of our cash flows (in thousands):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Operating Activities

2018 compared to 2017: Cash flow from operating activities was $527.2 million in 2018, compared to $389.4 million in 2017. The increase in net cash flow from operating activities was primarily due to the $210.4 million increase in political revenue in 2018. As political advertisements are paid upfront, they provide an immediate benefit to operating cash flow as compared to non-political advertising which is billed and collected in arrears after the advertisement has been delivered. Also contributing to the increase was higher subscription revenue of approximately $122.1 million, and a decline in tax payments of $91.8 million, resulting primarily from lower tax rates following the enactment of the Tax Act. 

These increases were partially offset by the absence of approximately $107.8 million of operating cash flow related to Cars.com and CareerBuilder which were spun-off and sold, respectively, during 2017, higher programming costs of approximately $63.3 million, a decline in AMS revenue of approximately $32.9 million, an increase of $24.4 million in pension payments and contributions in 2018, and the absence of spectrum channel share proceeds in 2018 as compared to an inflow of proceeds of $32.6 million in 2017.

2017 compared to 2016: Our net cash flow from operating activities was $389.4 million in 2017, compared to $678.7 million in 2016. The decrease was primarily due to higher programming costs of $175.9 million (primarily due to the NBC affiliation agreement), the decline in political revenue of $131.6 million, and the decline of approximately $230.9 million of operating cash flow from Cars.com and CareerBuilder. These decreases were partially offset by an increase in subscription revenue of $137.0 million and declines in tax payments of $51.6 million and interest payments of $25.0 million. Also partially offsetting the net operating cash flow decrease was a cash inflow received in 2017 of $32.6 million from a spectrum channel sharing agreement.

Investing Activities

2018 compared to 2017: Cash flow used for investing activities was $374.4 million in 2018, compared to cash provided by investing activities of $176.2 million in 2017. The cash used for investing activities in 2018 was primarily due to our acquisition of 

26

KFMB for $328.4 million and purchases of property and equipment of $65.2 million. The cash provided by investing activities in 2017 was primarily a result of the sale of the majority of our ownership in CareerBuilder, which provided $198.3 million of proceeds, net of cash transferred. Additionally, we had cash inflow of $37.9 million from the sale of assets, primarily comprised of proceeds of $14.6 million from the sale of Gannett Co., Inc., common stock and $21.3 million from the sale of our investment in Livestream. Lastly, we received insurance proceeds of $16.5 million as reimbursement for damaged caused by hurricanes. These inflows were partially offset by purchases of property and equipment of $76.9 million in 2017.

2017 compared to 2016: Net cash provided by investing activities was $176.2 million in 2017 compared to cash used for investing activities of $272.8 million in 2016. The 2017 net cash inflow was caused by the factors described above. The 2016 net cash used for investing activities of $272.8 million was primarily comprised of $206.1 million paid for the acquisitions of businesses (net of cash acquired), including DealerRater, Aurico, and Workterra. DealerRater was part of the Cars.com spin-off and Aurico and Workterra were included in the sale of our majority ownership in CareerBuilder, both occurring in 2017. Also contributing to the net outflow was the purchase of property and equipment in the amount of $94.8 million. Partially offsetting these outflows was $40.0 million of inflow from the sale of investments, primarily consisting of non-operating investments.

Financing Activities 

2018 compared to 2017: Cash flow used by financing activities was $145.0 million in 2018, compared to $542.7 million for the same period in 2017. The change was primarily due to debt activity and dividend payments. Activity on our revolving credit facility in 2018 resulted in a net inflow of $50.0 million, which includes an inflow of $220.0 million to partially fund our acquisition of KFMB, offset by repayments made subsequent to completion of the acquisition. With regards to 2017 debt activity, prior to the completion of the spin-off, Cars.com borrowed approximately $675.0 million under a revolving credit facility agreement, while incurring $6.2 million of debt issuance costs. The proceeds were used to make a one time tax-free cash distribution of $650.0 million from Cars.com to TEGNA. We used most of the cash received to pay down our then outstanding revolving credit balance of $609.9 million. Total net payments on the revolving credit facility in 2017 were $635.0 million. Additionally, in the fourth quarter of 2017 we early retired $280.0 million of outstanding debt that matures in October 2019. 

Also contributing to the fluctuation were dividend payments which resulted in cash outflows of $60.3 million in 2018 as compared to $90.2 million in 2017 (due to reduced dividend per share amount following the Cars.com spin-off on May 31, 2017).

2017 compared to 2016: Net cash used for financing activities was $542.7 million in 2017 compared to $462.4 million 2016. The 2017 net outflow of cash for financing activities was primarily due to debt activity and dividends as discussed above. The 2016 net financing outflow of $462.4 million was primarily a result of stock repurchases of $161.9 million and dividend payments of $121.6 million. Additionally, we had a net debt outflow of $137.6 million primarily comprised of $310.0 million of borrowings which were partially offset by debt repayments of $447.6 million.

Long-term debt

As of December 31, 2018, our outstanding debt, net of unamortized discounts and deferred financing costs, was $2.94 billion and mainly is in the form of fixed rate notes. See “Note 6 Long-term debt” to our consolidated financial statements for a table summarizing the components of our long-term debt. Approximately $2.69 billion of our debt has a fixed interest rate (which represents approximately 90% of our total principal debt obligation) which minimizes our impact to potential future rising interest rates. 

Our primary source of long-term debt is our revolving credit facility (the Amended and Restated Competitive Advance and Revolving Credit Agreement). Under the terms of the credit facility our permitted total leverage ratio is at 5.0x through June 30, 2019, reducing to 4.75x for the fiscal quarter ending September 30, 2019 through the end of the fiscal quarter ending June 30, 2020, and then reducing to 4.50x for the fiscal quarter ending September 30, 2020 and thereafter. Commitment fees on the revolving credit agreement are equal to 0.25% - 0.40% of the undrawn commitments, depending upon our leverage ratio, and are computed on the average daily undrawn balance under the revolving credit agreement and paid each quarter. Under the Amended and Restated Competitive Advance and Revolving Credit Agreement, we may borrow at an applicable margin above the Eurodollar base rate (LIBOR loan) or the higher of the Prime Rate, the Federal Funds Effective Rate plus 0.50%, or the one month LIBOR rate plus 1.00% (ABR loan). The applicable margin is determined based on our leverage ratio but differs between LIBOR loans and ABR loans. For LIBOR-based borrowing, the margin varies from 1.75% to 2.50%. For ABR-based borrowing, the margin will vary from 0.75% to 1.50%. Total commitments under the Amended and Restated Competitive Advance and Revolving Credit Agreement are $1.51 billion. As of December 31, 2018, we were in compliance with all covenants contained in our debt and credit agreements.

Below is a summary of our 2018 debt activity:

•On February 15, 2018 we acquired the assets of KFMB-TV, the CBS affiliate in San Diego, KFMB-D2 (the CW station in San Diego), and radio stations KFMB-AM and KFMB-FM in San Diego. The transaction price was approximately $328.4 million in cash, $220.0 million of which we funded through borrowings under our revolving credit facility and the remainder through the use of available cash.

27

•On June 21, 2018, we entered into an amendment of our Amended and Restated Competitive Advance and Revolving Credit Agreement. Under the amended terms, the $1.51 billion of revolving credit commitments and letter of credit commitments have been extended until June 21, 2023. The amendment also extended our permitted total leverage ratio to remain at 5.0x through June 30, 2019, reducing to 4.75x for the first quarter ending September 30, 2019 through the end of the fiscal quarter ending June 30, 2020, and then reducing to 4.5x for the fiscal quarter ending September 30, 2020 and thereafter.

•As of December 31, 2018, we had unused borrowing capacity of $1.44 billion under our revolving credit facility. On January 2, 2019 we completed our acquisition of WTOL, the CBS affiliate in Toledo, OH, and KWES, the NBC affiliate in Midland-Odessa, TX from Gray Television, Inc. for $108.9 million in cash. The acquisition was funded through the use of available cash and borrowings under our revolving credit facility.

We also have an effective shelf registration statement on Form S-3 on file with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission under which an unspecified amount of securities may be issued, subject to a $7.0 billion limit established by the Board of Directors. Proceeds from the sale of such securities may be used for general corporate purposes, including capital expenditures, working capital, securities repurchase programs, repayment of debt and financing of acquisitions. We may also invest borrowed funds that are not required for other purposes in short-term marketable securities.

Our debt maturities may be repaid with cash flow from operating activities, accessing capital markets or a combination of both. The following schedule of annual maturities of the principal amount of total debt assumes we use available capacity under our revolving credit agreement to refinance unsecured floating rate term loans and fixed rate notes due in 2019, 2020, and 2021. Based on this refinancing assumption, all of the obligations due in 2019 and 2020, and a portion of those due in 2021, are reflected as maturities for 2023 (in thousands).

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Debt payments due in 2019, 2020 and 2021 are assumed to be repaid with funds from the revolving credit agreement, up to our maximum borrowing capacity. The revolving credit agreement expires in 2023. Excluding our ability to repay funds with the revolving credit agreement, contractual debt maturities are $420 million for 2019, $725 million in 2020, and $350 million in 2021.

(2) Assumes current revolving credit agreement borrowings comes due in 2023 and credit facility is not extended. 

28

Contractual obligations and commitments

The following table summarizes the expected cash outflows resulting from financial contracts and commitments as of the end of 2018 (in thousands).

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Long-term debt includes scheduled principal payments only. We have contractual debt maturities of $420 million in 2019. See Note 6 to the consolidated financial statements for further information. 

(2)We have $50 million of outstanding borrowings under our revolving credit facility as of December 31, 2018. Interest on the senior notes is based on the stated cash coupon rate and excludes the amortization of debt issuance discount. The floating rate term loan interest rates are based on the actual rates as of December 31, 2018.

(3)See Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements.

(4)Our talent and employment contracts primarily secure our on-air talent and other personnel for our television stations through multi-year talent and employment agreements. We expect our contracts will be renewed or replaced with similar agreements upon their expiration. Amounts due under the contracts, assuming the contracts are not terminated prior to their expiration, are included in the contractual commitments table.

(5)Includes purchase obligations pertaining to technology related capital projects, news and market data services, and other legally binding commitments. Amounts which we are liable for under purchase orders outstanding as of December 31, 2018 are reflected in the Consolidated Balance Sheets as accounts payable and accrued liabilities and are excluded from the table above.

(6)Programming contracts include television station commitments to purchase programming to be produced in future years. This also includes amounts related to our network affiliation agreements. Network affiliation agreements may include variable fee components such as subscriber levels, which in have been estimated and reflected in the table above.

(7)Other noncurrent liabilities consist of both unfunded and under-funded postretirement benefit plans. Unfunded plans include the TEGNA Supplemental Retirement Plan and the TEGNA Retiree Welfare Plan. Employer contributions, which equal the expected benefit payments, are reflected in the table above over the next ten-year period. Our under-funded pension plan is the TEGNA Retirement Plan (TRP). In 2019, we expect contributions to the TEGNA Retirement Plan and SERP of $3.8 million and $7.8 million, respectively. TRP contributions beyond the next fiscal year are excluded due to uncertainties regarding significant assumptions involved in estimating these contributions, such as interest rate levels as well as the amount and timing of invested asset returns. 

Due to uncertainty with respect to the timing of future cash flows associated with unrecognized tax benefits at December 31, 2018, we are unable to make reasonably reliable estimates of the period of cash settlement. Therefore, approximately $12.8 million of unrecognized tax benefits have been excluded from the contractual obligations table above. See Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements for a further discussion of income taxes.

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

Off-balance sheet arrangements as defined by the Securities and Exchange Commission include the following four categories: obligations under certain guarantee contracts; retained or contingent interests in assets transferred to an unconsolidated entity or similar arrangements that serve as credit, liquidity or market risk support; obligations under certain derivative arrangements classified as equity; and obligations under material variable interests. As of December 31, 2018, we had no material off-balance sheet arrangements that have, or are reasonably likely to have, a current or future material effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources.

Capital stock

On September 19, 2017, our Board of Directors authorized a new share repurchase program for up to $300.0 million over the next three years. As of December 31, 2018, we have $279.1 million remaining under this authorization. The table below summarizes our share repurchases during the past three years (in thousands).

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

29

The shares may be repurchased at management’s discretion, either in the open market or in privately negotiated block transactions. Management’s decision to repurchase shares will depend on price and other corporate developments. Purchases may occur from time to time and no maximum purchase price has been set. Certain of the shares we previously acquired have been reissued in settlement of employee stock awards.

Our common stock outstanding at December 31, 2018, totaled 215,758,630 shares, compared with 214,930,653 shares at December 31, 2017.

Effects of inflation and changing prices and other matters

Our results of operations and financial condition have not been significantly affected by inflation. The effects of inflation and changing prices on our property and equipment and related depreciation expense have been reduced as a result of an ongoing capital expenditure program and the availability of replacement assets with improved technology and efficiency.

Critical accounting policies and the use of estimates 

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions about future events that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and accompanying notes. Actual results could differ significantly from those estimates. We believe the following discussion addresses our most critical accounting policies, which are those that are important to the presentation of our financial condition and results of operations and require management’s most subjective and complex judgments. This commentary should be read in conjunction with our financial statements, selected financial data and the remainder of this Form 10-K.

Revenue Recognition: Revenue is recognized upon the transfer of control of promised services to our customers in an amount that reflects the consideration we expect to receive in exchange for those services. Revenue is recognized net of any taxes collected from customers, which are subsequently remitted to governmental authorities. Amounts received from customers in advance of providing services to our customers are recorded as deferred revenue.

Our primary source of revenue is earned through the sale of advertising and marketing services (AMS). This revenue stream includes all sources of our traditional television and radio advertising, as well as digital revenues including Premion, our digital marketing services (DMS) business unit and other digital advertising across our platforms. Contracts within this revenue stream are short-term in nature (most often three months or less). Contracts generally consist of multiple deliverables, such as television commercials, or digital advertising solutions, that we have identified as individual performance obligations. Before performing under the contract we establish the transaction price with our customer based on the agreed upon rates for each performance obligation. There is no material variability in the transaction price during the term of the contract. 

Revenue is recognized as we fulfill our performance obligations to our customers. For our AMS revenue stream, we measure the fulfillment of our performance obligations based on the airing of the individual television commercials or display of digital advertisements. This measure is most appropriate as it aligns our revenue recognition with the value we are providing to our customers. The price of each individual commercial and digital advertisement is negotiated with our customer and is determined based on multiple factors, including, but not limited to, the programming and day-part selected, supply of available inventory, our station’s viewership ratings and overall market conditions (e.g., timing of the year and strength of U.S. economy). Customers are billed monthly and payment is generally due 30 days after the date of invoice. Commission costs related to these contracts are expensed as incurred due to the short-term nature of the contracts.

We also earn subscription revenue from retransmission consent contracts with multichannel video programming distributors (e.g., cable and satellite providers) and over the top providers (companies that deliver video content to consumers over the Internet). Under these multi-year contracts, we have performance obligations to provide our customers with our stations’ signals, as well as our consent to retransmit those signals to their customers. Subscription revenue is recognized in accordance with the guidance for licensing intellectual property utilizing a usage based method. The amount of revenue earned is based on the number of subscribers to which our customers retransmit our signal, and the negotiated fee per subscriber included in our contract agreement. Our customers submit payments monthly, generally within 60-90 days after the month that service was provided. Our performance obligations are satisfied, and revenue is recognized, as we provide our consent for our customers to retransmit our signal. This measure toward satisfaction of our performance obligations and recognition of revenue is the most appropriate as it aligns our revenue recognition with the value that we are delivering to our customers through our retransmission consent. 

We also generate revenue from the sale of political advertising. Contracts within this revenue stream are short-term in nature (typically weekly or monthly buys during political campaigns). Customers pre-pay these contracts and we therefore defer the associated revenue until the advertising has been delivered, at which time we have satisfied our performance obligations and recognize revenue. Commission costs related to these contracts are expensed as incurred due to the short-term nature of the contracts.

Our remaining revenue is comprised of various other services, primarily production services (for news content and commercials) and sublease rental income. Revenue is recognized as these various services are provided to our customers. 

30

In instances where we sell services from more than one revenue stream to the same customer at the same time, we recognize one contract and allocate the transaction price to each deliverable element (e.g. performance obligation) based on the relative fair value of each element.

 Goodwill: As of December 31, 2018, our goodwill balance was $2.6 billion and represented approximately 49% of our total assets. Goodwill represents the excess of acquisition cost over the fair value of assets acquired, including identifiable intangible assets, net of liabilities assumed. Goodwill is tested for impairment on an annual basis (first day of our fourth quarter) or between annual tests if events or changes in circumstances occurred that indicate the fair value of a reporting unit may be below its carrying amount.

Goodwill is tested for impairment at a level referred to as the reporting unit. A reporting unit is a business for which discrete financial information is available and segment management regularly reviews the operating results. The level at which we test goodwill for impairment requires us to determine whether the operations below the operating segment level constitute a reporting unit. We have determined that our one segment, Media, consists of a single reporting unit.

Before performing the annual goodwill impairment test quantitatively, we first have the option to perform a qualitative assessment to determine if the quantitative test must be completed. The qualitative assessment considers events and circumstances such as macroeconomic conditions, industry and market conditions, cost factors and overall financial performance, as well as company and specific reporting unit specifications. If after performing this assessment, we conclude it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, then we are required to perform the quantitative test. Otherwise, the quantitative test is not required. In 2018, we elected not to perform the optional qualitative assessment of goodwill and instead performed the quantitative impairment test.

When performing the quantitative test, we determine the fair value of the reporting unit and compare it to the carrying amount, including goodwill. If the carrying amount of the reporting unit exceeds the fair value of the reporting unit, the reporting unit’s goodwill is impaired and we recognize an impairment loss equal to the difference between the reporting unit’s carrying amount and fair value. 

We estimate the fair value of our one reporting unit based on a market-based valuation methodology, which is primarily based on our consolidated market capitalization plus a control premium. In the fourth quarter of 2018, we completed our annual goodwill impairment test for our reporting unit. The results of the test indicated that the estimated fair value of our reporting unit significantly exceeded the carrying value. For our reporting unit, the estimated value would need to decline by over 50% to fail the quantitative goodwill impairment test. We do not believe that the reporting unit is currently at risk of incurring a goodwill impairment in the foreseeable future.

Impairment assessment inherently involves management judgments regarding a number of assumptions described above. Fair value of the reporting unit also depends on the future strength of the economy in our principal media markets. New and developing competition as well as technological change could also adversely affect future fair value estimates. Due to the many variables inherent in the estimation of the reporting unit’s fair value and the relative size of our recorded goodwill, differences in assumptions could have a material effect on the estimated fair value of our reporting unit and could result in a goodwill impairment charge in a future period. 

Indefinite Lived Intangibles: This asset grouping consists of FCC broadcast licenses related to our acquisitions of television stations. As of December 31, 2018, indefinite lived intangible assets were $1.38 billion and represented approximately 26% of our total assets. 

Indefinite lived assets are not subject to amortization and, as a result, they are tested for impairment annually (on the first day of our fourth quarter), or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances suggest that the asset might be impaired. We have the option to first perform a qualitative assessment to determine if it is more likely than not that the fair value of the indefinite lived asset is more than its carrying amount. If that is the case, then we would not have to perform the quantitative analysis. The qualitative assessment considers events and circumstances such as macroeconomic conditions, industry and market conditions, cost factors and overall financial performance of the indefinite lived asset. In 2018, we elected not to perform the optional qualitative assessment; and instead, we performed the quantitative impairment test.

The fair value of each FCC broadcast license was determined using an income approach referred to as the Greenfield method. This method requires multiple assumptions relating to the future prospects of each individual television station including, but not limited to: (i) expected long-term market growth characteristics, (ii) station revenue shares within a market for a new entrant, (iii) future expected operating expenses, (iv) costs of capital and (v) appropriate discount rates. We performed a quantitative analysis on all of our FCC licenses on the impairment testing date and each fair value exceeded the carrying value by more than 40% with the exception of our recently acquired KFMB television and radio stations, which had clearances of 3% and 4%, respectively. Clearances for our KFMB stations are lower to due to recently recording the intangible assets at fair value upon our acquisition of KFMB in February 2018. Since their acquisition, the FCC licenses for the KFMB television and radio stations have increased in value, due to operating performance and market factors that have improved since acquisition. Based on our quantitative analysis performed, we concluded that no impairment existed. Future increases in discount rate assumptions could cause a decline in the fair value of our FCC licenses which may result in a future impairment charge. For example, a 50 

31

basis point increase in the discount rate would cause the fair value of our FCC licenses (excluding the KFMB licenses) to exceed its carrying value by 30%. KFMB FCC licenses would be impaired by less than $10.0 million as a result of a 50 basis point increase in the discount rate.

Pension Liabilities: Certain employees participate in qualified and non-qualified defined benefit pension plans (see Note 7 to consolidated financial statements). Our principal defined benefit pension plan is the TEGNA Retirement Plan (TRP). We also sponsor the TEGNA Supplemental Retirement Plan (SERP) for certain employees. Substantially all participants in the TRP and SERP had their benefits frozen before 2009, and in December 2017, we froze all remaining accruing benefits for certain grandfathered SERP participants. 

We recognize the net funded status of these postretirement benefit plans under GAAP as a liability on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. There is a corresponding non-cash adjustment to accumulated other comprehensive loss, net of tax benefits recorded as deferred tax assets, in stockholders’ equity. The GAAP funded status represents the difference between the fair value of each plan’s assets and the benefit obligation of the plan. The GAAP benefit obligation represents the present value of the estimated future benefits we currently expect to pay to plan participants based on past service.

The plan assets and benefit obligations are measured at December 31 of each year, or more frequently, upon the occurrence of certain events such as a plan amendment, settlement, or curtailment. The amounts we record are measured using actuarial valuations, which are dependent upon key assumptions such as discount rates, participant mortality rates and the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets. The assumptions we make affect both the calculation of the benefit obligations as of the measurement date and the calculation of net periodic pension expense in subsequent periods. When reassessing these assumptions we consider past and current market conditions and make judgments about future market trends. We also consider factors such as the timing and amounts of expected contributions to the plans and benefit payments to plan participants.

The most important assumptions include the discount rate applied to pension plan obligations and the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets related for the TRP (the SERP is an unfunded plan). The discount rate assumption is based on investment yields available at year-end on corporate bonds rated AA and above with a maturity to match the expected benefit payment stream. A decrease in discount rates would increase pension obligations.

We establish the expected long-term rate of return by developing a forward-looking, long-term return assumption for each pension fund asset class, taking into account factors such as the expected real return for the specific asset class and inflation. A single, long-term rate of return is then calculated as the weighted average of the target asset allocation percentages and the long-term return assumption for each asset class. We apply the expected long-term rate of return to the fair value of its pension assets in determining the dollar amount of its expected return. Changes in the expected long-term return on plan assets would increase or decrease pension plan expense. For 2018 we assumed a rate of 7.0% for our long-term expected return on pension assets used for our TRP plan. As an indication of the sensitivity of pension expense to the long-term rate of return assumption, a plus or minus 50 basis points change in the expected rate of return on pension assets (with all other assumptions held constant) would have decreased or increased estimated pension plan expense for 2018 by approximately $1.9 million. The effects of actual results differing from these assumptions are accumulated as unamortized gains and losses. 

For the December 31, 2018 measurement, the assumption used for the discount rate was 4.35% for our principal retirement plan. As an indication of the sensitivity of pension liabilities to the discount rate assumption, a plus or minus 50 basis points change in the discount rate at the end of 2018 (with all other assumptions held constant) would have decreased or increased plan obligations by approximately $24.0 million. A 50 basis points change in the discount rate used to calculate 2018 expense would have changed total pension plan expense for 2018 by approximately $0.4 million. 

Income Taxes: Our annual tax rate is based on our income, statutory tax rates, and tax planning opportunities available in the various jurisdictions in which we operate. Significant judgment is required in determining our annual tax expense and in evaluating our tax positions.

Tax law requires certain items to be included in our tax returns at different times than when the items are reflected in the financial statements. The annual tax expense reflected in the Consolidated Statements of Income is different than what is reported in our tax returns. Some of these differences are permanent (for example, expenses recorded for accounting purposes that are not deductible in the returns such as non-deductible goodwill) and some differences are temporary and reverse over time, such as depreciation expense. Temporary differences create deferred tax assets and liabilities. Deferred tax liabilities generally represent tax expense recognized in the financial statements for which payment has been deferred, or expense for which a deduction has been taken already in the tax return but the expense has not yet been recognized in the financial statements. Deferred tax assets generally represent items that can be used as a tax deduction or credit in tax returns in future years for which a benefit has already been recorded in the financial statements, as well as tax losses that can be carried over and used in future years. Valuation allowances are established when necessary to reduce deferred income tax assets to the amounts we believe are more likely than not to be recovered. In evaluating the amount of any such valuation allowance, we consider the existence of cumulative income or losses in recent years, the reversal of existing temporary differences, the existence of taxable income in prior carry back years, available tax planning strategies and estimates of future taxable income for each of our taxable jurisdictions. The latter two factors involve the exercise of significant judgment. As of December 31, 2018, deferred tax asset valuation allowances totaled $125.9 million, primarily related to federal and state capital losses, and state net 

32

operating losses available for carry forward to future years. Although realization is not assured, we believe it is more likely than not that all other deferred tax assets for which no valuation allowances have been established will be realized. This conclusion is based on our history of cumulative income in recent years and review of historical and projected future taxable income.

We determine whether it is more likely than not that a tax position will be sustained upon examination by the appropriate taxing authorities before any part of the benefit is recorded in our financial statements. A tax position is measured as the portion of the tax benefit that is greater than 50% likely to be realized upon settlement with a taxing authority (that has full knowledge of all relevant information). We may be required to change our provision for income taxes when the ultimate treatment of certain items is challenged or agreed to by taxing authorities, when estimates used in determining valuation allowances on deferred tax assets significantly change, or when receipt of new information indicates the need for adjustment in valuation allowances. Future events, such as changes in tax laws, tax regulations, or interpretations of such laws or regulations, could have an impact on the provision for income tax and the effective tax rate. Any such changes could significantly affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements in the year these changes occur.

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK