ITEM 7A.QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURE ABOUT MARKET RISK

Foreign Currency Risk

We currently generate a majority of our consolidated net revenues in the United States, and the reporting currency for our consolidated financial statements is the U.S. dollar. As our net revenues and expenses generated outside of the United States increase, our results of operations could be adversely impacted by changes in foreign currency exchange rates. For example, as we recognize foreign revenues in local foreign currencies and if the U.S. dollar strengthens, it could have a negative impact on our foreign revenues upon translation of those results into the U.S. dollar upon consolidation of our financial statements. In addition, we are exposed to gains and losses resulting from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates on transactions generated by our foreign subsidiaries in currencies other than their local currencies. These gains and losses are primarily driven by intercompany transactions and inventory purchases denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the purchasing entity. These exposures are included in other expense, net on the consolidated statements of operations.

From time to time, we may elect to use foreign currency contracts to reduce the risk from exchange rate fluctuations primarily on intercompany transactions and projected inventory purchases for our international subsidiaries. As we expand our international business, we anticipate expanding our current hedging program to include additional currency pairs and instruments. We do not enter into derivative financial instruments for speculative or trading purposes.

As of December 31, 2018, the aggregate notional value of our outstanding foreign currency contracts was $671.2 million, which was primarily comprised of Canadian Dollar/U.S. Dollar, Pound Sterling/U.S. Dollar, Euro/U.S. Dollar, Mexican Peso/U.S. Dollar and Chinese Renminbi/U.S. Dollar currency pairs with contract maturities of one to fourteen months. The majority of our foreign currency contracts are not designated as cash flow hedges, and accordingly, changes in their fair value are recorded in earnings. We enter into foreign currency contracts designated as cash flow hedges. For foreign currency contracts designated as cash flow hedges, changes in fair value, excluding any ineffective portion, is recorded in other comprehensive income until net income is affected by the variability in cash flows of the hedged transaction. The effective portion is generally released to net income after the maturity of the related derivative and is classified in the same manner as the underlying exposure. During the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, we reclassified $1.3 million and $0.4 million from other comprehensive income to cost of goods sold related to foreign currency contracts designated as cash flow hedges, respectively. The fair value of our foreign currency contracts was an asset of $19.5 million as of December 31, 2018 and was included in other current assets on the consolidated balance sheet. The fair value of our foreign currency contracts was a liability of $6.8 million as of December 31, 2017 and was included in other current liabilities on the consolidated balance sheet. Refer to Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of the fair value measurements. Included in other expense, net were the following amounts related to changes in foreign currency exchange rates and derivative foreign currency contracts:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

We enter into foreign currency contracts with major financial institutions with investment grade credit ratings and are exposed to credit losses in the event of non-performance by these financial institutions. This credit risk is generally limited to the unrealized gains in the foreign currency contracts. However, we monitor the credit quality of these financial institutions and consider the risk of counterparty default to be minimal. Although we have entered into foreign currency contracts to minimize some of the impact of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations on future cash flows, we cannot be assured that foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations will not have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations.

Interest Rate Risk 

In order to maintain liquidity and fund business operations, we enter into long term debt arrangements with various lenders which bear a range of fixed and variable rates of interest. The nature and amount of our long-term debt can be expected to vary as a result of future business requirements, market conditions and other factors. We may elect to enter into interest rate swap contracts to reduce the impact associated with interest rate fluctuations.

45

Table of Contents 

 We utilize interest rate swap contracts to convert a portion of variable rate debt to fixed rate debt. The contracts pay fixed and receive variable rates of interest. The interest rate swap contracts are accounted for as cash flow hedges and accordingly, the effective portion of the changes in fair value are recorded in other comprehensive income and reclassified into interest expense over the life of the underlying debt obligation. 

As of December 31, 2018, the notional value of our outstanding interest rate swap contracts was $118.1 million. During the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, we recorded a $0.4 million decrease and $0.9 million increase in interest expense, respectively, representing the effective portion of the contracts reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income. The fair value of the interest rate swap contracts was an asset of $1.6 million and $1.1 million as of December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively, and were included in other long term assets on the consolidated balance sheet. In January 2019, we settled our interest rate swap contract in connection with the prepayment of our term loan. 

Credit Risk 

We are exposed to credit risk primarily on our accounts receivable. We provide credit to customers in the ordinary course of business and perform ongoing credit evaluations. We believe that our exposure to concentrations of credit risk with respect to trade receivables is largely mitigated by our customer base. We believe that our allowance for doubtful accounts is sufficient to cover customer credit risks as of December 31, 2018. Refer to "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates - Allowance for Doubtful Accounts" for further discussion on our policies. 

Inflation

Inflationary factors such as increases in the cost of our product and overhead costs may adversely affect our operating results. Although we do not believe that inflation has had a material impact on our financial position or results of operations in recent periods, a high rate of inflation in the future may have an adverse effect on our ability to maintain current levels of gross margin and selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of net revenues if the selling prices of our products do not increase with these increased costs.

46

Table of Contents 

ITEM 8.FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA