ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK  

 We are exposed to market risks arising from changes in market rates and prices, including changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates and credit risk related to our agents and customers. A risk management program is in place to manage these risks.  

 Foreign Currency Exchange Rates  

 We provide our services primarily through a network of agent locations in more than 200 countries and territories. We manage foreign exchange risk through the structure of the business and an active risk management process. We currently settle with the substantial majority of our agents in United States dollars, euros, or Mexican pesos, requiring those agents to obtain local currency to pay recipients, and we generally do not rely on international currency markets to obtain and pay illiquid currencies. However, in certain circumstances, we settle in other currencies. The foreign currency exposure that does exist is limited by the fact that the majority of transactions are paid by the next day after they are initiated. To mitigate this risk further, we enter into short duration foreign currency forward contracts, generally with maturities from a few days up to one month, to offset foreign exchange rate fluctuations between transaction initiation and settlement. We also have exposure to certain foreign currency denominated cash and other asset and liability positions and may utilize foreign currency forward contracts, typically with maturities of less than one year at inception, to offset foreign exchange rate fluctuations on these positions. In certain consumer money transfer, bill payment and Business Solutions transactions involving different send and receive currencies, we generate revenue based on the difference between the exchange rate set by us to the consumer or business and the rate available in the wholesale foreign exchange market, helping to provide protection against currency fluctuations. We attempt to promptly buy and sell foreign currencies as necessary to cover our net payables and receivables which are denominated in foreign currencies.  

 We use longer-term foreign currency forward contracts to help mitigate risks associated with changes in foreign currency exchange rates on revenues denominated primarily in the euro, and to a lesser degree the British pound, Canadian dollar, Australian dollar, Japanese yen, and other currencies. We use contracts with maturities of up to 36 months at inception to mitigate some of the impact that changes in foreign currency exchange rates could have on forecasted revenues, with a targeted weighted-average maturity of approximately one year. We believe the use of longer-term foreign currency forward contracts provides predictability of future cash flows from our international operations.  

 We have bill payment, money transfer, and other operations in Argentina, which together represented less than 5% of our total consolidated revenues for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016. The strengthening of the United States dollar against the Argentine peso has had adverse impacts on our historical results of operations and cash flows, as our Argentine peso-denominated revenue and operating income have been reduced when translated into United States dollars for inclusion in our financial statements. Additionally, beginning in the third quarter of 2018, we reflected the impact of all changes in the value of the Argentine peso on our monetary assets and liabilities in net income, given Argentina’s status as a highly inflationary economy. Prior to the third quarter of 2018, changes in the Argentine peso exchange rate were reflected in net income for our money transfer operations, whereas these effects were reflected in other comprehensive income for our bill payment operations. This designation did not have a material impact on our financial position and results of operations during the year ended December 31, 2018. To mitigate the risks associated with fluctuations in the value of the Argentine peso, we manage our working capital balances to have minimal net monetary assets denominated in the Argentine peso. Furthermore, the impact on our results of operations from potential declines in the value of Argentine peso may be limited because of fee increases we implement that correspond to inflation in Argentina.  

 We have additional foreign exchange risk and associated foreign exchange risk management requirements due to the nature of our Business Solutions business. The majority of this business’ revenue is from exchanges of currency at spot rates, which enable customers to make cross-currency payments. In certain countries, this business also writes foreign currency forward and option contracts for our customers to facilitate future payments. The duration of these derivative contracts at inception is generally less than one year. Business Solutions aggregates its foreign exchange exposures arising from customer contracts, including the derivative contracts described above, and hedges the resulting net currency risks by entering into offsetting contracts with established financial institution counterparties.  

 74  

 Table of Contents  

 As of December 31, 2018 and 2017, a hypothetical uniform 10% strengthening or weakening in the value of the United States dollar relative to all other currencies in which our net income/(loss) is generated would have resulted in a decrease/increase to pre-tax annual income of approximately $30 million and $35 million, respectively, based on our forecast of unhedged exposure to foreign currency at those dates. There are inherent limitations in this sensitivity analysis, primarily due to the following assumptions: (a) that foreign exchange rate movements are linear and instantaneous, (b) that fixed exchange rates between certain currency pairs are retained, (c) that the unhedged exposure is static, and (d) that we would not hedge any additional exposure. As a result, the analysis is unable to reflect the potential effects of more complex market changes that could arise, which may positively or negatively affect income/(loss).  

 Interest Rates  

 We invest in several types of interest-bearing assets, with a total value as of December 31, 2018 of approximately $2.3 billion. Approximately $1.3 billion of these assets bear interest at floating rates and are therefore sensitive to changes in interest rates. These assets primarily include cash in banks, money market instruments, and state and municipal variable rate securities and are included in our Consolidated Balance Sheets within “Cash and cash equivalents” and “Settlement assets.” To the extent these assets are held in connection with money transfers and other related payment services awaiting redemption, they are classified as “Settlement assets.” Earnings on these investments will increase and decrease with changes in the underlying short-term interest rates.  

 The remainder of our interest-bearing assets primarily consists of highly-rated state and municipal debt securities which are fixed rate term notes. These investments may include investments made from cash received from our money order services, money transfer business, and other related payment services awaiting redemption classified within “Settlement assets” in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. As interest rates rise, the fair value of these fixed-rate interest-bearing securities will decrease; conversely, a decrease to interest rates would result in an increase to the fair values of the securities. We have classified these investments as available-for-sale within “Settlement assets” in the Consolidated Balance Sheets, and accordingly, recorded these instruments at their fair value with the net unrealized gains and losses, net of the applicable deferred income tax effect, being added to or deducted from our “Total stockholders’ deficit” on our Consolidated Balance Sheets.  

 As of December 31, 2018, we had a total of approximately $1.4 billion of borrowings, not including commercial paper, that are subject to floating interest rates. Our Floating Rate Notes had an outstanding balance of $250.0 million as of December 31, 2018 and had an effective interest rate of 3.7% or 80 basis points above three-month LIBOR. In addition, as of December 31, 2018, a total of $175.0 million of our fixed-rate borrowings at par value are effectively floating rate debt through interest rate swap agreements, changing this fixed-rate debt to LIBOR-based floating rate debt, with weighted-average spreads of approximately 325 basis points above LIBOR. Finally, interest on $950 million borrowed under our Term Loan Facility is calculated using a selected LIBOR rate plus an interest rate margin of 125 basis points. Borrowings of $125.0 million under our commercial paper program mature in such a short period that the financing is also effectively floating rate.  

 We review our overall exposure to floating and fixed rates by evaluating our net asset or liability position in each, also considering the duration of the individual positions. We manage this mix of fixed versus floating exposure in an attempt to minimize risk, reduce costs and improve returns. Our exposure to interest rates can be modified by changing the mix of our interest-bearing assets as well as adjusting the mix of fixed versus floating rate debt. The latter is accomplished primarily through the use of interest rate swaps and the decision regarding terms of any new debt issuances (i.e., fixed versus floating). We use interest rate swaps designated as hedges to vary the percentage of fixed to floating rate debt, subject to market conditions. As of December 31, 2018, our weighted-average effective rate on total borrowings was approximately 4.5%. For further detail on our variable rate borrowings, see risk factor “We have substantial debt and other obligations that could restrict our operations” in Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors.  

 A hypothetical 100 basis point increase/decrease in interest rates would result in a decrease/increase to pre-tax income of approximately $15 million and $13 million annually based on borrowings, net of the impact of hedges, on December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively, that are sensitive to interest rate fluctuations. The same 100 basis point increase/decrease in interest rates, if applied to our cash and investment balances on December 31, 2018 and 2017 that are sensitive to interest rate fluctuations, would result in an offsetting increase/decrease to annual pre-tax income of 

 75  

 Table of Contents  

approximately $13 million and $15 million, respectively. There are inherent limitations in the sensitivity analysis presented, primarily due to the assumptions that interest rate changes would be instantaneous and consistent across all geographies in which our interest-bearing assets are held and our liabilities are payable. As a result, the analysis is unable to reflect the potential effects of more complex market changes, including changes in credit risk regarding our investments, which may positively or negatively affect income. In addition, the mix of fixed versus floating rate debt and investments and the level of assets and liabilities will change over time, including the impact from commercial paper borrowings that may be outstanding in future periods.  

 Credit Risk  

 To manage our exposures to credit risk with respect to investment securities, money market fund investments, derivatives and other credit risk exposures resulting from our relationships with banks and financial institutions, we regularly review investment concentrations, trading levels, credit spreads and credit ratings, and we attempt to diversify our investments among global financial institutions.  

 We are also exposed to credit risk related to receivable balances from agents in the money transfer, walk-in bill payment and money order settlement process. We perform a credit review before each agent signing and conduct periodic analyses of agents and certain other parties we transact with directly. In addition, we are exposed to credit risk directly from consumer transactions, particularly through our electronic channels, where transactions are originated through means other than cash and therefore are subject to “chargebacks,” insufficient funds or other collection impediments, such as fraud, which are anticipated to increase as electronic channels become a greater proportion of our money transfer business.  

 We are exposed to credit risk in our Business Solutions business relating to: (a) derivatives written by us, primarily to our customers and (b) the extension of trade credit when transactions are paid to recipients prior to our receiving cleared funds from the sending customers. For the derivatives, the duration of these contracts at inception is generally less than one year. The credit risk associated with our derivative contracts increases when foreign currency exchange rates move against our customers, possibly impacting their ability to honor their obligations to deliver currency to us or to maintain appropriate collateral with us. For those receivables where we have offered trade credit, collection ordinarily occurs within a few days. To mitigate the risk associated with potential customer defaults, we perform credit reviews of the customer on an ongoing basis, and, for our derivatives, we may require certain customers to post or increase collateral.  

 Our losses associated with bad debts have been approximately 1% of our consolidated revenues in all periods presented.  

 76  

 Table of Contents  

 ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA