ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  

 You should read the following discussion in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and the notes to those statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10‑K. This Annual Report on Form 10‑K contains certain statements that are forward-looking within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Certain statements contained in the Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations are forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. The forward-looking statements are not historical facts, but rather are based on current expectations, estimates, assumptions and projections about our industry, business and future financial results. Our actual results could differ materially from the results contemplated by these forward-looking statements due to a number of factors, including those discussed in other sections of this Annual Report on Form 10‑K. See “Risk Factors” and “Forward-looking Statements.”  

 Overview  

 We are a leading provider of money movement and payment services, operating in two business segments:  

   ·    Consumer-to-Consumer - The Consumer-to-Consumer operating segment facilitates money transfers between two consumers, primarily through a network of third-party agents. We view our multi-currency money transfer service as one interconnected global network where a money transfer can be sent from one location to another, around the world. This service is available for international cross-border transfers and, in certain countries, intra-country transfers. This segment also includes money transfer transactions that can be initiated through websites and mobile devices. 

   ·    Business Solutions - The Business Solutions operating segment facilitates payment and foreign exchange solutions, primarily cross-border, cross-currency transactions, for small and medium size enterprises and other organizations and individuals. The majority of the segment’s business relates to exchanges of currency at spot rates, which enable customers to make cross-currency payments. In addition, in certain countries, we write foreign currency forward and option contracts for customers to facilitate future payments. 

 All businesses and other services that have not been classified in the above segments are reported as “Other,” which primarily include our electronic-based and cash-based bill payment services which facilitate payments from consumers to businesses and other organizations. The majority of our cash-based bill payments services are led by one executive, and the majority of our electronic-based bill payments services are led by another executive. The Chief Operating Decision Maker (“CODM”) allocates resources and assesses performance using discrete information for these separate bill payments components, neither of which is material from either a quantitative or qualitative perspective. Our money order and other services, in addition to certain corporate costs such as costs related to strategic initiatives, including for the review and closing of mergers, acquisitions, and divestitures, are also included in “Other.” Additional information on our reportable segments is further described in the Segment Discussion below.  

 Results of Operations  

 The following discussion of our consolidated results of operations and segment results refers to the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to the same period in 2017 and the year ended December 31, 2017 compared to the same period in 2016. The results of operations should be read in conjunction with the discussion of our segment results of operations, which provide more detailed discussions concerning certain components of the Consolidated Statements of Income/(Loss). All significant intercompany accounts and transactions between our segments have been eliminated. The below information has been prepared in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America (“GAAP”) unless otherwise noted. All amounts provided in this section are rounded to the nearest tenth of a million, except as otherwise noted. As a result, the percentage changes and margins disclosed herein may not recalculate precisely using the rounded amounts provided. Beginning in the first quarter of 2018, we no longer present the “Derivative gains, net” line item in our Consolidated Statements of Income/(Loss) for all periods presented due to the early adoption of a new accounting pronouncement to improve the financial reporting of hedging relationships, as further described in Part II, Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Note 2, “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies.” 

 49  

 Table of Contents  

Amounts previously reported in prior periods in “Derivative gains, net” are now reported in “Other income, net” in the Consolidated Statements of Income/(Loss). Additionally, certain historical amounts reported in the Consolidated Statements of Income/(Loss) for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 have been adjusted due to the adoption of an accounting standard related to pension costs, as further described in the Segment Discussion below.  

 During the year ended December 31, 2017, our provision for income taxes included $828 million related to the enactment of the Tax Act into United States law, primarily due to a tax on certain previously undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries, partially offset by the remeasurement of deferred tax assets and liabilities and other tax balances to reflect the lower federal income tax rate, among other effects. During the year ended December 31, 2018, we completed our accounting for the Tax Act’s impacts that were provisionally estimated as of December 31, 2017 and recorded an additional $22.5 million of income tax expense, as discussed in Part II, Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Note 11, “Income Taxes.”  

 During the year ended December 31, 2017, we recognized a non-cash goodwill impairment charge related to our Business Solutions reporting unit, which reduced our operating income by $464 million as the estimated fair value of the reporting unit declined below its carrying value. For further detail, see the “Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates” discussion below.  

 Additionally, our operating income for the year ended December 31, 2017 was negatively impacted by a $60 million accrual related to the NYDFS Consent Order, described further in Part II, Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Note 6, “Commitments and Contingencies.” Our operating income for the year ended December 31, 2016 was negatively impacted by $601 million of expenses related to compensation payments and other costs as a result of the Joint Settlement Agreements described further in Part II, Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Note 6, “Commitments and Contingencies.” The NYDFS Consent Order and the Joint Settlement Agreements have been reflected within “Selling, general and administrative” expenses in our Consolidated Statements of Income/(Loss).  

 Our revenues and operating income for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 were negatively impacted by fluctuations in the United States dollar compared to foreign currencies. Fluctuations in the United States dollar compared to foreign currencies, net of the impact of foreign currency hedges, resulted in a reduction to revenues of $111.9 million and $61.3 million for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively, relative to the respective prior year. Included within these amounts are impacts related to the strengthening of the dollar against the Argentine peso, which resulted in a reduction to revenues of $142.7 million and $30.3 million for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively, relative to the respective prior year. The reduction in revenues during the year ended December 31, 2018, primarily from the Argentine peso, was partially offset by the weakening of the United States dollar against various European currencies, primarily the euro and the British pound. Fluctuations in the United States dollar compared to foreign currencies negatively impacted operating income by $18.1 million and $44.0 million during the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively, relative to the respective prior year. Included within these amounts are impacts related to the strengthening of the dollar against the Argentine peso, which resulted in a reduction to operating income of $34.7 million and $7.7 million for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively, relative to the respective prior year.  

 50  

 Table of Contents  

 The following table sets forth our consolidated results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016.  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

   (a)    On January 1, 2018, we adopted an accounting pronouncement that requires the non-service costs of a defined benefit pension plan to be presented outside a subtotal of income from operations, with adoption retrospective for periods previously presented. The adoption of this standard resulted in reductions to “Cost of services” and “Other income, net” of $2.4 million and $3.3 million for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively, from the amounts previously reported. Refer to Part II, Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Note 2, “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies,” for further information. 

   (b)    Calculation not meaningful. 

 Revenues overview  

 Transaction volume is the primary generator of revenue in our businesses. Revenues are primarily derived from consideration paid by customers to transfer money. These revenues vary by transaction based upon channel, send and receive locations, the principal amount sent, whether the money transfer involves different send and receive currencies, the difference between the exchange rate we set to the customer and the rate available in the wholesale foreign exchange market, and speed of service, as applicable. We also offer several other services, including foreign exchange and payment services and other bill payment services, for which revenue is impacted by similar factors.  

 Due to the significance of the effect that foreign exchange fluctuations against the United States dollar can have on our reported revenues, constant currency results have been provided in the table below for consolidated revenues. Additionally, due to the significance of our Consumer-to-Consumer segment to our overall results, we have also provided constant currency results for our Consumer-to-Consumer segment revenues. Constant currency results assume foreign revenues are translated from foreign currencies to the United States dollar, net of the effect of foreign currency hedges, at rates consistent with those in the prior year. Constant currency measures are non-GAAP financial measures and are provided so that revenue can be viewed without the effect of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, which is consistent with how management evaluates our revenue results and trends. We believe that these measures provide management and investors with information about revenue results and trends that eliminates currency volatility and 

 51  

 Table of Contents  

provides greater clarity regarding, and increases the comparability of, our underlying results and trends. This constant currency disclosure is provided in addition to, and not as a substitute for, the percentage change in revenue on a GAAP basis for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 compared to the prior year. Other companies may calculate and define similarly labeled items differently, which may limit the usefulness of this measure for comparative purposes.  

 The following table sets forth our consolidated revenue results for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016.  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

   (a)    Fluctuations in the United States dollar compared to foreign currencies, net of the impact of foreign currency hedges, resulted in a reduction to revenues of $111.9 million and $61.3 million for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively, when compared to foreign currency rates in the prior year. Included within these amounts are impacts related to the strengthening of the dollar against the Argentine peso, which resulted in a reduction to revenues of $142.7 million and $30.3 million for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively, when compared to foreign currency rates in the prior year. The reduction in revenues during the year ended December 31, 2018, primarily from the Argentine peso, was partially offset by the weakening of the United States dollar against various European currencies, primarily the euro and the British pound. 

 2018 compared to 2017  

 During the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to 2017, GAAP revenues increased 1%. The increase in revenue was the result of transaction growth in our Consumer-to-Consumer segment of 4% for the year ended December 31, 2018. The increase in revenues constant currency adjusted (Non-GAAP) of 3% was the result of an increase in local currency revenue per transaction in our Argentine operations, including our cash-based bill payment business, primarily due to inflation, and transaction growth in our Consumer-to-Consumer segment.  

 2017 compared to 2016  

 During the year ended December 31, 2017 compared to 2016, GAAP revenues increased 2%. The increase in revenue was the result of transaction growth in our Consumer-to-Consumer segment of 3% for the year ended December 31, 2017 and growth in our United States electronic-based and Argentina cash-based bill payments services. This growth was partially offset by the fluctuations in the United States dollar compared to foreign currencies, net of the impact of foreign currency hedges, which negatively impacted revenue by 1% for the year ended December 31, 2017. The increase in revenues constant currency adjusted (Non-GAAP) of 3% was also due to transaction growth in our Consumer-to-Consumer segment and an increase in local currency revenue per transaction in our Argentine operations, including our cash-based bill payment business, primarily due to inflation, and growth in our United States electronic-based bill payments services.  

 Operating expenses overview  

 Enhanced regulatory compliance  

 The financial services industry, including money services businesses, continues to be subject to increasingly strict legal and regulatory requirements, and we continue to focus on and regularly review our compliance programs. In connection with these reviews, and in light of growing and rapidly evolving regulatory complexity and heightened attention of, and increased dialogue with, governmental and regulatory authorities related to our compliance activities, we have made, and continue to make enhancements to our processes and systems designed to detect and prevent money laundering, terrorist financing, and fraud and other illicit activity, along with enhancements to improve consumer protection, including related to the Joint Settlement Agreements and the NYDFS Consent Order described further in Part II, Item 8, Financial 

 52  

 Table of Contents  

Statements and Supplementary Data, Note 6, “Commitments and Contingencies,” and similar regulations outside the United States, and other matters. In coming periods, we expect these enhancements will continue to result in changes to certain of our business practices and increased costs. Some of these changes have had, and we believe will continue to have, an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  

 Cost of services  

 Cost of services primarily consists of agent commissions, which represented approximately 60% of total cost of services for the year ended December 31, 2018. Cost of services decreased for the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to the prior year due to decreased severance and related employee benefits, and other expenses related to a business transformation initiative referred to as the WU Way, as further discussed below, and decreased bad debt expenses, partially offset by increased bank fees, including in our United States electronic bill payments services.  

 Cost of services increased for the year ended December 31, 2017, compared to the prior year, due to increased bank fees, primarily in our United States electronic bill payments services, and increased expenses related to the WU Way.  

 Selling, general and administrative  

 Selling, general and administrative expenses decreased for the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to the prior year due to decreased consulting service fees, severance and related employee benefits, and other expenses related to the WU Way, and decreased employee incentive compensation expenses, partially offset by increases in other corporate costs, including costs related to strategic initiatives, other employee-related costs, and marketing expenses. Additionally, selling, general and administrative expenses for the year ended December 31, 2017 were impacted by a $60 million accrual related to the NYDFS Consent Order and $8 million of expenses related to the independent compliance auditor required by the Joint Settlement Agreements.  

 Selling, general and administrative expenses decreased for the year ended December 31, 2017 compared to the prior year due to expenses related to the Joint Settlement Agreements in the amount of $601 million recorded during 2016, as described earlier, partially offset by the NYDFS Consent Order accrual of $60 million discussed above, WU Way-related severance and related employee benefits, consulting service fees, and other expenses, increased employee incentive compensation expenses, and increased marketing expenses. Additionally, fluctuations in the United States dollar compared to foreign currencies resulted in a positive impact on the translation of our expenses.  

 Goodwill Impairment  

 For the year ended December 31, 2017, we recognized a non-cash goodwill impairment charge of $464.0 million related to our Business Solutions reporting unit, as described earlier. We did not record any goodwill impairments during the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2016.  

 Total other expense, net  

 Total other expense, net increased for the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to the prior year due to lower derivatives gains primarily due to the adoption of an accounting standard as described in Part II, Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Note 15, “Derivatives,” and higher interest expense related to an increase in the weighted-average effective interest rate on our debt, partially offset by foreign exchange gains realized during the first half of 2018 on certain U.S. dollar-denominated assets in our Argentina cash-based bill payments business. Total other expense, net decreased for the year ended December 31, 2017, compared to the prior year, due to lower interest expense related to a decrease in the weighted-average effective interest rate on our debt.  

 Income taxes  

 Our effective tax rates on pre-tax income were 14.1%, 260.3% and 25.9% for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively. The decrease in our effective tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2018 is due to the enactment of the Tax Act into United States law in December 2017 which significantly impacted our effective tax rate for 

 53  

 Table of Contents  

the year ended December 31, 2017, primarily due to a tax on certain previously undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries, partially offset by the remeasurement of our deferred tax assets and liabilities and other tax balances to reflect the lower federal income tax rate, among other effects, as discussed in Part II, Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Note 11, “Income Taxes.” Our effective tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to 2017 was also impacted by the goodwill impairment in our Business Solutions reporting unit and the NYDFS Consent Order accrual, both recorded during 2017. The increase in our effective tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2017 compared to 2016 was primarily due to the enactment of the Tax Act into United States law in December 2017, as described above. Our effective tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2017 compared to 2016 was also impacted by the goodwill impairment in our Business Solutions reporting unit and the NYDFS Consent Order accrual, both recorded in 2017, and the Joint Settlement Agreements recorded during 2016.  

 In December 2017, the Tax Act was enacted into United States law, and certain of the Tax Act’s impacts had been provisionally estimated as of December 31, 2017. During the year ended December 31, 2018, we completed our accounting for the Tax Act’s impacts that were provisionally estimated as of December 31, 2017 and recorded an additional $22.5 million of income tax expense, as discussed in Part II, Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Note 11, “Income Taxes.” Our effective tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2018 increased by 2.3% due to these adjustments, as further described in Part II, Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Note 11, “Income Taxes.”  

 The Tax Act is broad and complex, and our income tax expense could increase or decrease in future periods as the effects of the Tax Act are clarified through federal or state regulations, interpretations, or law changes. Changes or clarifications in the interpretation of the Tax Act or other legislative proposals or amendments could have a significant effect on our income tax expense in future periods. Furthermore, the effect of the Tax Act on state income taxes, including how the tax on certain previously undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries will be interpreted by the states and how states will apply forward-looking provisions of the Tax Act, are currently unclear and subject to potential changes affecting both the amount of state taxes and the remeasurement of our deferred tax assets and liabilities and other tax balances.  

 Moreover, we may be subject to additional tax on certain payments to our foreign affiliates in 2019 and thereafter under the Base Erosion Anti-Abuse Tax (“BEAT”) provisions of the Tax Act, as the minimum BEAT rate increases from 5% in 2018 to 10% in 2019 through 2025. We have identified and are in the process of implementing structural actions which we believe will help mitigate the impact of the BEAT. However, if we are not successful at mitigating this impact, the BEAT could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.  

 We have established contingency reserves for a variety of material, known tax exposures. As of December 31, 2018, the total amount of tax contingency reserves was $306.8 million, including accrued interest and penalties, net of related items. Our tax reserves reflect our judgment as to the resolution of the issues involved if subject to judicial review or other settlement. While we believe that our reserves are adequate to cover reasonably expected tax risks, there can be no assurance that, in all instances, an issue raised by a tax authority will be resolved at a financial cost that does not exceed our related reserve. With respect to these reserves, our income tax expense would include (i) any changes in tax reserves arising from material changes in facts and circumstances (i.e. new information) surrounding a tax issue during the period and (ii) any difference from our tax position as recorded in the financial statements and the final resolution of a tax issue during the period. Such resolution could materially increase or decrease income tax expense in our consolidated financial statements in future periods and could impact our operating cash flows.  

 A significant proportion of our profits are foreign-derived. For the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, 101%, 169% and 260%, respectively, of our pre-tax income was derived from foreign sources. While the income tax imposed by any one foreign country is not material to us, our overall effective tax rate could be adversely affected by changes in foreign tax laws.  

 Earnings/(loss) per share  

 During the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, basic earnings/(loss) per share were $1.89, $(1.19) and $0.52, respectively, and diluted earnings/(loss) per share were $1.87, $(1.19) and $0.51, respectively. Outstanding options to purchase Western Union stock and unvested shares of restricted stock are excluded from basic shares outstanding. 

 54  

 Table of Contents  

Diluted earnings/(loss) per share reflects the potential dilution that could occur if outstanding stock options at the presented dates are exercised and shares of restricted stock have vested. As of December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, there were 2.6 million, 2.8 million, and 3.4 million, respectively, of shares excluded from the diluted earnings/(loss) per share calculation under the treasury stock method, primarily due to outstanding options to purchase shares of Western Union stock, as their exercise prices were above our weighted-average share price during the periods and their effect was anti-dilutive. Due to the net loss for the year ended December 31, 2017, an additional 3.0 million shares were excluded from diluted weighted-average shares outstanding, because the effect of including such shares would have been anti-dilutive in the calculation of diluted loss per share.  

 Earnings/(loss) per share for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 compared to the prior year were impacted by the previously described factors impacting net income/(loss). Adjustments to our accounting for the Tax Act’s impacts that were previously provisionally estimated negatively impacted earnings per share for the year ended December 31, 2018 by $0.05. For the year ended December 31, 2017, the Tax Act negatively impacted loss per share by $1.76, and the goodwill impairment charge related to our Business Solutions reporting unit and the NYDFS Consent Order negatively impacted loss per share by $0.96, net of income tax effects, and $0.13, respectively. The Joint Settlement Agreements decreased earnings per share for the year ended December 31, 2016 by $1.21. Earnings/(loss) per share for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 were also impacted by lower weighted-average shares outstanding due to stock repurchases exceeding stock issuances related to our stock compensation programs.  

 Segment Discussion  

 We manage our business around the consumers and businesses we serve and the types of services we offer. Each of our segments addresses a different combination of consumer groups, distribution networks and services offered. Our reportable segments are Consumer-to-Consumer and Business Solutions.  

 The business segment measurements provided to, and evaluated by, our CODM are computed in accordance with the following principles:  

   ·    The accounting policies of the reportable segments are the same as those described in the summary of significant accounting policies. 

   ·    Corporate costs, including stock-based compensation and other overhead, are allocated to the segments primarily based on a percentage of the segments’ revenue compared to total revenue. 

   ·    On January 1, 2018, we adopted an accounting pronouncement that requires the non-service costs of the defined benefit pension plan to be presented outside a subtotal of income from operations, with adoption retrospective for periods previously presented. The adoption of this standard resulted in an increase of $2.4 million and $3.3 million to operating income, respectively, for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, from the amounts previously reported, and this increase was allocated among the segments in a method consistent with the original allocation of this expense. Segment results for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 in the discussion and tables below have been adjusted to conform with the new presentation. 

   ·    As described above, during the year ended December 31, 2017, we recognized a non-cash goodwill impairment charge of $464.0 million related to our Business Solutions reporting unit. While the impairment was identifiable to our Business Solutions segment, it was not allocated to the segment, as it was not included in the measurement of segment operating income provided to the CODM for purposes of assessing segment performance and decision making with respect to resource allocation. 

   ·    As described above, we incurred $60.0 million of expenses related to the NYDFS Consent Order during the year ended December 31, 2017, and expenses of $8.0 million and $601.0 million related to the Joint Settlement Agreements during the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. While these expenses were identifiable to our Consumer-to-Consumer segment, they were not allocated to the segment, as they were not included in the measurement of segment operating income provided to the CODM for purposes of assessing segment performance and decision making with respect to resource allocation. 

 55  

 Table of Contents  

   ·    As of December 31, 2017, expenses associated with the WU Way initiative were effectively complete. We incurred expenses related to the WU Way of $94.4 million and $20.3 million during the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. While certain items related to the initiative were identifiable to our segments, they were not included in the measurement of segment operating income provided to the CODM for purposes of assessing segment performance and decision making with respect to resource allocation. For additional information on this business transformation initiative, see Part II, Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Note 4, “Business Transformation Expenses.” 

   ·    All items not included in operating income are excluded from the segments. 

 The following table sets forth the components of segment revenues as a percentage of the consolidated totals for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016.  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Consumer-to-Consumer Segment  

 The following table sets forth our Consumer-to-Consumer segment results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016.  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 We view our Consumer-to-Consumer money transfer service, including our online money transfer transactions conducted and funded through Western Union branded websites and mobile apps (“westernunion.com”), as one interconnected global network where a money transfer can be sent from one location to another, around the world. The segment includes five geographic regions whose functions are primarily related to generating, managing and maintaining agent relationships and localized marketing activities. We include westernunion.com in our regions. By means of common processes and systems, these regions, including westernunion.com, create an interconnected network for consumer transactions, thereby constituting one global Consumer-to-Consumer money transfer business and one operating segment.  

 The geographic split for transactions and revenue in the table that follows, including transactions conducted through westernunion.com, is determined entirely based upon the region where the money transfer is initiated. Included in each region’s transaction and revenue percentages in the tables below are transactions conducted through westernunion.com for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively. Where reported separately in the discussion below, westernunion.com consists of 100% of the transactions and revenue that are conducted through westernunion.com.  

 56  

 Table of Contents  

 The table below sets forth revenue and transaction changes by geographic region compared to the prior year. Consumer-to-Consumer segment constant currency revenue growth/(decline) is a non-GAAP financial measure, as further discussed in “Revenues overview” above.  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

   (a)    Constant currency revenue growth assumes that revenues denominated in foreign currencies are translated to the United States dollar, net of the effect of foreign currency hedges, at rates consistent with those in the prior year. 

   (b)    Our LACA region results were impacted by the strengthening of the United States dollar against the Argentine peso, in addition to an increase in local currency revenue per transaction, primarily due to inflation, and transaction growth in our Argentine operations for the year ended December 31, 2018. 

   (c)    Westernunion.com revenues have also been included in each region, as described earlier. 

 The table below sets forth regional revenues as a percentage of our Consumer-to-Consumer revenue for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016.  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Westernunion.com, which is included in the regional percentages above, represented approximately 12%, 10%, and 8% of our Consumer-to-Consumer revenue for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively.  

 Our consumers transferred $87.7 billion, $81.8 billion, and $80.0 billion in Consumer-to-Consumer principal for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 respectively, of which $79.9 billion, $74.5 billion, and $72.5 billion, respectively, related to cross-border principal, for the same corresponding periods described above.  

 57  

 Table of Contents  

 Revenues  

 2018 compared to 2017  

 Consumer-to-Consumer money transfer revenue increased 2% on transaction growth of 4% for the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to the prior year. Constant currency revenue growth and transaction growth was driven primarily by continued growth in westernunion.com. Consumer-to-Consumer money transfer revenue was negatively impacted by net price decreases of 1% for the year ended December 31, 2018.  

 Our NA region experienced increased revenue of 2% for the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to the prior year and transaction growth of 2%. The increase in revenue was primarily due to transaction growth in our United States outbound services, partially offset by lower revenue generated from money transfers sent and received within the United States.  

 Our EU & CIS region experienced increased revenue of 7% for the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to the prior year and transaction growth of 8%. Fluctuations in the exchange rate between the United States dollar, the euro, the British pound, and other currencies, net of the impact of foreign currency hedges, positively impacted revenue by 3% for the year ended December 31, 2018. Revenue was positively impacted by transaction growth in France and Spain for the year ended December 31, 2018.  

 Our MEASA region experienced decreased revenue of 5% for the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to the prior year and transaction growth of 1%. Revenue for the year ended December 31, 2018 was negatively impacted by net price decreases. Additionally, fluctuations in the exchange rate between the United States dollar and other currencies negatively impacted revenue by 1% for the year ended December 31, 2018.  

 Our LACA region experienced increased revenue of 8% for the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to the prior year and transaction growth of 14%. Fluctuations in the exchange rate between the United States dollar and other currencies negatively impacted revenue by 11% for the year ended December 31, 2018. Revenues were negatively impacted by the strengthening of the United States dollar against the Argentine peso, partially offset by an increase in local currency revenue per transaction, primarily due to inflation, and transaction growth in certain Latin American countries, including Argentina.  

 Our APAC region experienced decreased revenue of 6% for the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to the prior year and a transaction decline of 1%. Revenue for the year ended December 31, 2018 was negatively impacted by mix.  

 We have historically implemented price reductions or price increases throughout many of our global corridors. We will likely continue to implement price reductions from time to time in response to competition and other factors. Price reductions generally reduce margins and adversely affect financial results in the short term and may also adversely affect financial results in the long term if transaction volumes do not increase sufficiently.  

 2017 compared to 2016  

 Consumer-to-Consumer money transfer revenue increased 1% on transaction growth of 3% for the year ended December 31, 2017 compared to the prior year. Fluctuations in the United States dollar compared to foreign currencies, net of the impact of foreign currency hedges, negatively impacted revenue by 1% for the year ended December 31, 2017. Fluctuations in the exchange rate between the United States dollar and other currencies, net of the impact of foreign currency hedges, resulted in a reduction to revenues for the year ended December 31, 2017 of $37.7 million compared to the previous year. Foreign currency hedges benefited revenues by $4.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2017. Constant currency revenue growth of 2% and transaction growth was driven primarily by continued growth in westernunion.com. Consumer-to-Consumer money transfer revenue was positively impacted by net price increases of 1% for the year ended December 31, 2017.  

 58  

 Table of Contents  

 Our NA region experienced increased revenue of 2% for the year ended December 31, 2017 compared to the prior year and transaction growth of 3%. The increase in revenue was primarily due to transaction growth in our United States outbound services, including to certain LACA and MEASA countries. Revenue for the year ended December 31, 2017 was negatively impacted by transaction declines for money transfers sent and received within the United States and lower revenue generated from money transfers sent to Mexico from the United States.  

 Our EU & CIS region experienced increased revenue of 1% for the year ended December 31, 2017 compared to the prior year and transaction growth of 7%. Fluctuations in the exchange rate between the United States dollar, the euro, the British pound, and other currencies, net of the impact of foreign currency hedges, negatively impacted revenue by 1% for the year ended December 31, 2017. Revenue growth in the region was positively impacted by transaction growth in France but negatively impacted by geographic mix for the year ended December 31, 2017.  

 Our MEASA region experienced decreased revenue of 8% for the year ended December 31, 2017 compared to the prior year and a transaction decline of 10%. Fluctuations in the exchange rate between the United States dollar and other currencies negatively impacted revenue by 1% for the year ended December 31, 2017. Revenue was negatively impacted by declines in transactions from oil-producing countries, partially offset by price increases in the region for the year ended December 31, 2017.  

 Our LACA region experienced increased revenue of 22% for the year ended December 31, 2017 compared to the prior year and transaction growth of 17%. The increase in revenue was primarily due to growth in Argentina and other South American countries.  

 Our APAC region experienced decreased revenue of 2% for the year ended December 31, 2017 compared to the prior year and flat transaction growth. Fluctuations in the exchange rate between the United States dollar and other currencies, net of the impact of foreign currency hedges, negatively impacted revenue by 2% for the year ended December 31, 2017.  

 Operating income  

 2018 compared to 2017  

 Consumer-to-Consumer operating income increased 4% during the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to the prior year. Results for the year ended December 31, 2018 were positively impacted by the revenue increases described above, decreased bad debt expenses, and decreased employee incentive compensation expenses, partially offset by increases in other employee-related costs, marketing expenses, and other corporate costs. The change in operating margin for the year ended December 31, 2018 is due to the factors described above in addition to fluctuations between the United States dollar and other currencies, net of the impact of foreign currency hedges.  

 2017 compared to 2016  

 Consumer-to-Consumer operating income decreased 1% during the year ended December 31, 2017 compared to the prior year. Results for the year ended December 31, 2017 were impacted by increased employee incentive compensation expenses and increased marketing expenses, partially offset by the revenue increase described above. Additionally, operating income for the year ended December 31, 2017 was negatively impacted by fluctuations in the United States dollar compared to foreign currencies.  

 59  

 Table of Contents  

 Business Solutions  

 The following table sets forth our Business Solutions segment results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016.  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Revenues  

 2018 compared to 2017  

 For the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to the prior year, Business Solutions revenue increased 1%. Fluctuations in the exchange rate between the United States dollar and other currencies positively impacted revenue by 1% for the year ended December 31, 2018.  

 2017 compared to 2016  

 For the year ended December 31, 2017 compared to the prior year, Business Solutions revenue decreased 3%. The termination of a partner contract effective during the fourth quarter of 2016 negatively impacted revenue as compared to the prior period. During the fourth quarter of 2017, our revenue was negatively impacted by declines in Europe, particularly in the United Kingdom.  

 Operating income  

 2018 compared to 2017  

 For the year ended December 31, 2018, operating income and operating margin increased when compared to the prior year as a result of reductions in certain expenses, including information technology expenses and bank fees.   

 2017 compared to 2016  

 For the year ended December 31, 2017, operating income decreased when compared to the prior year as a result of increased information technology expenses and the decrease in revenues described above, partially offset by a reduction in amortization expense. The change in operating margins in the segment was due to these same factors.  

 Other  

 The following table sets forth Other results for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016. Other primarily includes our electronic-based and cash-based bill payment services which facilitate bill payments from consumers to businesses and other organizations.  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 60  

 Table of Contents  

 Revenues  

 2018 compared to 2017  

 For the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to the prior year, Other revenue decreased 5% primarily due to the strengthening of the United States dollar against foreign currencies, including the Argentine peso, which negatively impacted revenue growth by 14% for the year ended December 31, 2018. The decrease for the year ended December 31, 2018 was partially offset by an increase in local currency revenue per transaction, primarily due to inflation, and transaction growth in our Argentina cash-based bill payment services. Additionally, revenue decreased for the year ended December 31, 2018 due to a decrease in our United States electronic bill payments services.  

 2017 compared to 2016  

 For the year ended December 31, 2017 compared to the prior year, Other revenue increased 9% primarily due to growth in our United States electronic bill payments and Argentina cash-based bill payments. The strengthening of the United States dollar against foreign currencies, primarily the Argentine peso, negatively impacted revenue growth by 3% for the year ended December 31, 2017.  

 Operating income  

 2018 compared to 2017  

 For the year ended December 31, 2018, the decrease in Other operating income is primarily due to the revenue decreases described above, increased other corporate costs related to strategic initiatives, and increased bank fees in our United States electronic bill payment services. The changes in operating margins were also due to these factors.  

 2017 compared to 2016  

 For the year ended December 31, 2017, Other operating income increased due to the revenue increase described above and information technology efficiencies, partially offset by increased bank fees in our United States electronic bill payments and increased employee incentive compensation expenses. The bank fees were impacted by increased credit card usage from our customers. The changes in operating margins were also due to these factors.  

 Capital Resources and Liquidity  

 Our primary source of liquidity has been cash generated from our operating activities, primarily from net income and fluctuations in working capital. Our working capital is affected by the timing of interest payments on our outstanding borrowings and timing of income tax payments, among other items. The majority of our interest payments are due in the second and fourth quarters which results in a decrease in the amount of cash provided by operating activities in those quarters and a corresponding increase to the first and third quarters. The annual payments of our 2017 United States federal tax liability, as further described below, are due in the second quarter of each year through 2025.  

 Our future cash flows could be impacted by a variety of factors, some of which are out of our control, including changes in economic conditions, especially those impacting migrant populations, changes in income tax laws or the status of income tax audits, including the resolution of outstanding tax matters, and the settlement or resolution of legal contingencies.  

 Substantially all of our cash flows from operating activities have been generated from subsidiaries. Most of these cash flows are generated from our regulated subsidiaries. Our regulated subsidiaries may transfer all excess cash to the parent company for general corporate use, except for assets subject to legal or regulatory restrictions, including: (1) requirements to maintain cash and other qualifying investment balances, free of any liens or other encumbrances, related to the payment of certain of our money transfer and other payment obligations, (2) other legal or regulatory restrictions, including statutory or formalized minimum net worth requirements, and (3) restrictions on transferring assets outside of the countries where 

 61  

 Table of Contents  

these assets are located. See also Part II, Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Note 1, “Business and Basis of Presentation,” in this Annual Report on Form 10‑K.  

 We currently believe we have adequate liquidity to meet our business needs, including payments under our debt and other obligations, through our existing cash balances, our ability to generate cash flows through operations, and our $1.5 billion revolving credit facility (“Revolving Credit Facility”), which expires in January 2024 and supports our commercial paper program. Our commercial paper program enables us to issue unsecured commercial paper notes in an amount not to exceed $1.5 billion outstanding at any time, reduced to the extent of any borrowings outstanding on our Revolving Credit Facility. As of December 31, 2018, we had no outstanding borrowings on our Revolving Credit Facility and $125.0 million of outstanding borrowings on the commercial paper program.  

 To help ensure availability of our worldwide cash where needed, we utilize a variety of planning and financial strategies, including decisions related to the amounts, timing and manner by which cash is made available from our international subsidiaries. While we no longer incur material additional United States taxes as a result of repatriations of foreign profits under the Tax Act, we are also subject to foreign tax laws, and as a result, these decisions can influence our overall tax rate and impact our total liquidity. We regularly evaluate, taking tax consequences and other factors into consideration, our United States cash requirements and also the potential uses of cash internationally to determine the appropriate level of dividend repatriations of our foreign source income.  

 Cash and Investment Securities  

 As of December 31, 2018 and 2017, we had cash and cash equivalents of $973 million and $838 million, respectively. In many cases, we receive funds from money transfers and certain other payment services before we settle the payment of those transactions. These funds, referred to as “Settlement assets” on our Consolidated Balance Sheets, are not used to support our operations. However, we earn income from investing these funds. We maintain a portion of these settlement assets in highly liquid investments, classified as “Cash and cash equivalents” within “Settlement assets,” to fund settlement obligations.  

 Investment securities, classified within “Settlement assets,” were $1.2 billion and $1.4 billion as of December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively, and consist primarily of highly-rated state and municipal debt securities, including fixed rate term notes and variable rate demand notes. The substantial majority of our investment securities are held in order to comply with state licensing requirements in the United States and are required to have credit ratings of “A-” or better from a major credit rating agency.  

 Investment securities are exposed to market risk due to changes in interest rates and credit risk. We regularly monitor credit risk and attempt to mitigate our exposure by investing in highly-rated securities and diversifying our investment portfolio. Our investment securities are also actively managed with respect to concentration. As of December 31, 2018, all investments with a single issuer and each individual security were less than 10% of our investment securities portfolio.  

 Cash Flows from Operating Activities  

 During the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, cash provided by operating activities was $821.3 million, $742.0 million and $1,041.9 million, respectively. Cash provided by operating activities during the year ended December 31, 2018 was negatively impacted by approximately $120 million of payments related to an agreement with the IRS resolving substantially all of the issues related to our restructuring of our international operations in 2003, as further described in Part II, Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Note 11, “Income Taxes,” $64 million of payments related to tax on certain of our previously undistributed foreign earnings associated with the Tax Act, a $60 million payment related to the NYDFS Consent Order and payments related to our business transformation initiative as discussed in Part II, Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Note 4, “Business Transformation Expenses.” Cash provided by operating activities during the year ended December 31, 2017 was impacted by cash payments of $591 million pursuant to the Joint Settlement Agreements and payments related to our business transformation initiative.  

 62  

 Table of Contents  

 Financing Resources  

 As of December 31, 2018, we had the following outstanding borrowings (in millions):  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

   (a)    The difference between the stated interest rate and the effective interest rate is not significant. 

   (b)    On June 11, 2018, we issued $300.0 million of aggregate principal amount of 4.250% unsecured notes due in 2023 (“2023 Notes”). 

   (c)    On December 18, 2018, we entered into an amended and restated term loan facility providing for up to $950 million in borrowings and extending the final maturity of the facility to January 2024 (the “Term Loan Facility”). As of December 31, 2018, we have borrowed the remaining amounts available under the facility. 

   (d)    We utilize interest rate swaps designated as fair value hedges to effectively change the interest rate payments on a portion of our notes from fixed-rate payments to short-term LIBOR-based variable rate payments in order to manage our overall exposure to interest rates. The changes in fair value of these interest rate swaps result in an offsetting hedge accounting adjustment recorded to the carrying value of the related note. These hedge accounting adjustments will be reclassified as reductions to or increases in “Interest expense” in the Consolidated Statements of Income/(Loss) over the life of the related notes and cause the effective rate of interest to differ from the notes’ stated rate. 

   (e)    As of December 31, 2018, our weighted-average effective rate on total borrowings was approximately 4.5%. 

 Commercial Paper Program  

 Pursuant to our commercial paper program, we may issue unsecured commercial paper notes in an amount not to exceed $1.5 billion outstanding at any time, reduced to the extent of borrowings outstanding on our Revolving Credit Facility. Our commercial paper borrowings may have maturities of up to 397 days from date of issuance. Interest rates for borrowings are based on market rates at the time of issuance. As of December 31, 2018 and 2017, we had $125.0 million and no commercial paper borrowings outstanding, respectively. Our commercial paper borrowings as of December 31, 2018 had a weighted-average annual interest rate of approximately 2.9% and a weighted-average term of approximately 3 days. During the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, the average commercial paper balance outstanding was $115.1 million, $69.6 million, and $14.6 million, respectively, and the maximum balance outstanding was $570.0 million, $610.0 million, and $440.0 million, respectively. Proceeds from our commercial paper borrowings were used for general corporate purposes and working capital needs.  

 63  

 Table of Contents  

 Revolving Credit Facility  

 On December 18, 2018, we entered into a credit agreement which expires in January 2024 providing for unsecured financing facilities in an aggregate amount of $1.5 billion, including a $250.0 million letter of credit sub-facility.  

 Interest due under the Revolving Credit Facility is fixed for the term of each borrowing and is payable according to the terms of that borrowing. Generally, interest is calculated using a selected LIBOR rate plus an interest rate margin of 110 basis points. A facility fee of 15 basis points is also payable quarterly on the total facility, regardless of usage. Both the interest rate margin and facility fee percentage are based on certain of our credit ratings.  

 The purpose of our Revolving Credit Facility, which is diversified through a group of 19 participating institutions, is to provide general liquidity and to support our commercial paper program, which we believe enhances our short-term credit rating. The largest commitment from any single financial institution within the total committed balance of $1.5 billion is approximately 11%. As of December 31, 2018 and 2017, we had no outstanding borrowings under our current or prior revolving credit facilities. If the amount available to borrow under the Revolving Credit Facility decreased, or if the Revolving Credit Facility were eliminated, the cost and availability of borrowing under the commercial paper program may be impacted.  

 Term Loan Facility  

 On December 18, 2018, we extended the Term Loan Facility providing for an unsecured delayed draw term loan facility in an aggregate amount of $950 million. In October 2016, we borrowed $575 million under our prior term loan facility and used the proceeds, in addition to cash, including cash generated from operations, and proceeds from commercial paper borrowings in October 2016 to repay our notes due in October 2016. In December 2018, we borrowed the remaining amount available under the facility, with proceeds from the borrowings expected to be used for general corporate purposes.   

 Generally, interest under the Term Loan Facility is calculated using a selected LIBOR rate plus an interest rate margin of 125 basis points. The interest rate margin percentage is based on certain of our credit ratings and will increase or decrease in the event of certain upgrades or downgrades in our credit ratings.  

 In addition to the payment of interest, we are required to make certain periodic amortization payments with respect to the outstanding principal of the term loan, beginning in 2021. The final maturity date of the Term Loan Facility is January 8, 2024.   

 Under the terms of the prior term loan facility, we were required to make certain amortization payments with respect to the outstanding principal of the prior term loan. For the year ended December 31, 2018, we made amortization payments of $14.4 million prior to the extension of the term loan agreement.   

 Notes  

 On June 11, 2018, we issued $300.0 million of aggregate principal amount of unsecured notes due June 9, 2023. Interest with respect to the 2023 Notes is payable semi-annually in arrears on June 9 and December 9 of each year, beginning on December 9, 2018, based on the per annum rate of 4.250%. The interest rate payable on the 2023 Notes will be increased if the debt rating assigned to the note is downgraded by an applicable credit rating agency, beginning at a downgrade below investment grade. However, in no event will the interest rate on the 2023 Notes exceed 6.250% per annum. The interest rate payable on the 2023 Notes may also be adjusted downward for debt rating upgrades subsequent to any debt rating downgrades but may not be adjusted below 4.250% per annum. We may redeem the 2023 Notes, in whole or in part, at any time prior to May 9, 2023 at the greater of par or a price based on the applicable treasury rate plus 25 basis points. We may redeem the 2023 Notes at any time after May 9, 2023 at a price equal to par, plus accrued interest.  

 On August 22, 2017, we issued $250.0 million of aggregate principal amount of unsecured floating rate notes due May 22, 2019 (“Floating Rate Notes”). We used the net proceeds from the sale of the Floating Rate Notes for general corporate purposes, including to fund a portion of the 2017 notes that matured in December 2017. Interest with respect to 

 64  

 Table of Contents  

the Floating Rate Notes is payable quarterly on each February 22, May 22, August 22 and November 22, beginning November 22, 2017, at a per annum interest rate equal to the three-month LIBOR plus 80 basis points (reset quarterly). We may not redeem the Floating Rate Notes prior to maturity.  

 On March 15, 2017, we issued $400.0 million of aggregate principal amount of unsecured notes due March 15, 2022. On August 22, 2017, we issued an additional $100.0 million of aggregate principal amount of unsecured notes due March 15, 2022, for an aggregate principal total of $500.0 million of 3.600% unsecured notes (“2022 Notes”). The notes issued on August 22, 2017 are part of the same series and, accordingly, have the same terms and conditions as the notes issued on March 15, 2017; however, the notes issued on August 22, 2017 were issued at a premium of 101.783% and we received $1.57 million of accrued interest upon issuance. We used the net proceeds from the August 22, 2017 sale of the notes, excluding the accrued interest received, for general corporate purposes, including to fund a portion of the notes that matured in December 2017. Interest with respect to the 2022 Notes is payable semi-annually in arrears on March 15 and September 15 of each year, beginning on September 15, 2017, based on the per annum rate of 3.600%. The interest rate payable on the 2022 Notes will be increased if the debt rating assigned to the note is downgraded by an applicable credit rating agency, beginning at a downgrade below investment grade. However, in no event will the interest rate on the 2022 Notes exceed 5.600% per annum. The interest rate payable on the 2022 Notes may also be adjusted downward for debt rating upgrades subsequent to any debt rating downgrades but may not be adjusted below 3.600% per annum. We may redeem the 2022 Notes at any time prior to February 15, 2022 at the greater of par or a price based on the applicable treasury rate plus 25 basis points. We may redeem the 2022 Notes at any time after February 15, 2022 at a price equal to par, plus accrued interest.  

 On November 22, 2013, we issued $250.0 million of aggregate principal amount of unsecured notes due May 22, 2019 (“2019 Notes”). Interest with respect to the 2019 Notes is payable semi-annually in arrears on May 22 and November 22 of each year, beginning on May 22, 2014, based on the fixed per annum rate of 3.350%. The interest rate payable on the 2019 Notes will be increased if the debt rating assigned to the note is downgraded by an applicable credit rating agency, beginning at a downgrade below investment grade. However, in no event will the interest rate on the 2019 Notes be increased by more than 2.00% above 3.350% per annum. The interest rate payable on the 2019 Notes may also be adjusted downward for debt rating upgrades subsequent to any debt rating downgrades but may not be adjusted below 3.350% per annum. We may redeem the 2019 Notes at any time prior to maturity at the greater of par or a price based on the applicable treasury rate plus 30 basis points.  

 On December 10, 2012, we issued $500.0 million of aggregate principal amounts of unsecured notes due December 10, 2017 (“2017 Notes”). In December 2017, the 2017 Notes matured and were repaid.  

 On August 22, 2011, we issued $400.0 million of aggregate principal amount of unsecured notes due August 22, 2018 (“2018 Notes”). In August 2018, the 2018 Notes matured and were repaid.  

 On June 21, 2010, we issued $250.0 million of aggregate principal amount of unsecured notes due June 21, 2040 (“2040 Notes”). Interest with respect to the 2040 Notes is payable semi-annually on June 21 and December 21 each year based on the fixed per annum rate of 6.200%. We may redeem the 2040 Notes at any time prior to maturity at the greater of par or a price based on the applicable treasury rate plus 30 basis points.  

 On March 30, 2010, we exchanged $303.7 million of aggregate principal amount of unsecured notes due November 17, 2011 for unsecured notes due April 1, 2020 (“2020 Notes”). Interest with respect to the 2020 Notes is payable semi-annually on April 1 and October 1 each year based on the fixed per annum rate of 5.253%. In connection with the exchange, note holders were given a 7% premium ($21.2 million), which approximated market value at the exchange date, as additional principal. As this transaction was accounted for as a debt modification, this premium was not charged to expense. Rather, the premium, along with the offsetting hedge accounting adjustments, will be accreted into “Interest expense” over the life of the notes. We may redeem the 2020 Notes at any time prior to maturity at the greater of par or a price based on the applicable treasury rate plus 15 basis points.  

 On November 17, 2006, we issued $500.0 million of aggregate principal amount of unsecured notes due November 17, 2036 (“2036 Notes”). Interest with respect to the 2036 Notes is payable semi-annually on May 17 and 

 65  

 Table of Contents  

November 17 each year based on the fixed per annum rate of 6.200%. We may redeem the 2036 Notes at any time prior to maturity at the greater of par or a price based on the applicable treasury rate plus 25 basis points.  

 On September 29, 2006, we issued $1.0 billion of aggregate principal amount of unsecured notes maturing on October 1, 2016 (“2016 Notes”). In October 2016, the 2016 Notes matured and were repaid.  

 Credit Ratings and Debt Covenants  

 The credit ratings on our debt are an important consideration in our overall business, managing our financing costs and facilitating access to additional capital on favorable terms. Factors that we believe are important in assessing our credit ratings include earnings, cash flow generation, leverage, available liquidity and the overall business.  

 Our Revolving Credit Facility and our Term Loan Facility contain interest rate margins which are determined based on certain of our credit ratings, and our Revolving Credit Facility also contains a facility fee that is based on our credit ratings. In addition, the interest rates payable on our 2019 Notes, 2022 Notes and 2023 Notes can be impacted by our credit ratings. We are also subject to certain provisions in many of our notes and certain of our derivative contracts, which could require settlement or collateral posting in the event of a change in control combined with a downgrade below investment grade, as further described below. We do not have any other terms within our debt agreements that are tied to changes in our credit ratings.  

 The Revolving Credit Facility and Term Loan Facility contain covenants, subject to certain exceptions, that, among other things, limit or restrict our ability to sell or transfer assets or merge or consolidate with another company, grant certain types of security interests, incur certain types of liens, impose restrictions on subsidiary dividends, enter into sale and leaseback transactions, incur certain subsidiary level indebtedness, or use proceeds in violation of anti-corruption or anti-money laundering laws. Our notes are subject to similar covenants except that only the 2020 Notes and the 2036 Notes contain covenants limiting or restricting subsidiary indebtedness and none of our notes are subject to a covenant that limits our ability to impose restrictions on subsidiary dividends. Our Revolving Credit Facility and Term Loan Facility require us to maintain a consolidated adjusted EBITDA interest coverage ratio of greater than 3:1 (ratio of consolidated adjusted EBITDA, defined as net income/(loss) plus the sum of (a) interest expense; (b) income tax expense; (c) depreciation expense; (d) amortization expense; (e) any other non-cash deductions, losses or charges made in determining net income/(loss) for such period; and (f) extraordinary, non-recurring, or unusual losses or charges (including costs and expenses of litigation included in operating income), minus extraordinary, non-recurring or unusual gains provided that the amount added back to net income (or net loss) for such extraordinary, non-recurring or unusual losses, expenses or charges may not exceed 10% of adjusted EBITDA, in each case determined in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles for such period, to interest expense) for each period comprising the four most recent consecutive fiscal quarters. Our consolidated interest coverage ratio was 10:1 for the year ended December 31, 2018.  

 For the year ended December 31, 2018, we were in compliance with our debt covenants. A violation of our debt covenants could impair our ability to borrow and outstanding amounts borrowed could become due, thereby restricting our ability to use our excess cash for other purposes.  

 Certain of our notes (including the Floating Rate Notes, 2019 Notes, 2022 Notes, 2023 Notes and 2040 Notes) include a change of control triggering event provision, as defined in the terms of the notes. If a change of control triggering event occurs, holders of the notes may require us to repurchase some or all of their notes at a price equal to 101% of the principal amount of their notes, plus any accrued and unpaid interest. A change of control triggering event will occur when there is a change of control involving us and among other things, within a specified period in relation to the change of control, the notes are downgraded from an investment grade rating to below an investment grade rating by all three major credit rating agencies.  

 66  

 Table of Contents  

 Cash Priorities  

 Liquidity  

 Our objective is to maintain strong liquidity and a capital structure consistent with investment-grade credit ratings. We have existing cash balances, cash flows from operating activities, access to the commercial paper markets and our Revolving Credit Facility available to support the needs of our business.  

 Capital Expenditures  

 The total aggregate amount paid for contract costs, purchases of property and equipment and purchased and developed software was $339.0 million, $177.1 million and $229.8 million in 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively. Amounts paid for new and renewed agent contracts vary depending on the terms of existing contracts as well as the timing of new and renewed contract signings. Other capital expenditures during these periods included investments in our information technology infrastructure, purchased and developed software, and, primarily in 2018, leasehold improvements related to our corporate headquarters.  

 Share Repurchases and Dividends  

 During the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, 20.2 million, 24.9 million and 24.8 million shares, respectively, were repurchased for $399.2 million, $487.0 million and $481.3 million, respectively, excluding commissions, at an average cost of $19.81, $19.55 and $19.41 per share, respectively. As of December 31, 2018, $544.2 million remained available under a share repurchase authorization approved by our Board of Directors through December 31, 2019.  

 Our Board of Directors declared quarterly cash dividends of $0.19 per common share in all four quarters of 2018, representing $341.7 million in total dividends. Our Board of Directors declared quarterly cash dividends of $0.175 per common share in all four quarters of 2017 and $0.16 per common share in all four quarters of 2016, representing $325.6 million and $312.2 million, respectively, in total dividends. These amounts were paid to shareholders of record in the respective quarter the dividend was declared.  

 On February 7, 2019, the Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.20 per common share payable on March 29, 2019.  

 Debt Service Requirements  

 Our 2019 and future debt service requirements will include payments on all outstanding indebtedness. In May 2019, our 2019 Notes of $250.0 million and Floating Rate Notes of $250.0 million will mature. We plan to fund these maturities from the proceeds from the Term Loan, commercial paper and cash, including cash generated from operations.  

 2017 United States Federal Tax Liability  

 As previously discussed, the Tax Act imposed a tax on certain of our previously undistributed foreign earnings. This tax charge, combined with our other 2017 United States taxable income and tax attributes, resulted in a 2017 United States federal tax liability of approximately $800 million, which we have elected to pay in periodic installments through 2025. During the year ended December 31, 2018, we made installment payments of $64 million. Under the terms of the law, we are required to pay the remaining installment payments as summarized in “Contractual Obligations” below. These payments have affected and will continue to adversely affect our cash flows and liquidity and may adversely affect future share repurchases.  

 Our ability to grow the business, make investments in our business, make acquisitions, return capital to shareholders, including through dividends and share repurchases, and service our debt and tax obligations will depend on our ability to continue to generate excess operating cash through our operating subsidiaries and to continue to receive dividends from 

 67  

 Table of Contents  

those operating subsidiaries, our ability to obtain adequate financing and our ability to identify acquisitions that align with our long-term strategy.  

 Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements  

 Other than facility and equipment leasing arrangements disclosed in Part II, Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Note 13, “Operating Lease Commitments,” we have no material off-balance sheet arrangements that have or are reasonably likely to have a material current or future effect on our financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources.  

 Pension Plan  

 We have a frozen defined benefit pension plan (“Plan”), for which we had a recorded unfunded pension obligation of $16.0 million and $15.0 million as of December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. We were not required to and did not make a contribution to the Plan during the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, and we are not required to make any contributions to the Plan in 2019.  

 Our most recent measurement date for our pension plan was December 31, 2018. The calculation of the funded status and net periodic benefit cost is dependent upon three primary assumptions: 1) expected long-term return on plan assets; 2) discount rate; and 3) life expectancy trends.  

 The expected long-term return on plan assets is 6.50% for 2019. As of our December 31, 2018 measurement date, pension plan target allocations were approximately 60% in fixed income, 20% in equity investments, and 20% in alternative investment strategies (e.g. hedge funds, royalty rights, and private equity funds). Hedge fund strategy types include, but are not limited to: equity long/short, commodities/currencies, event driven, relative value, and multi-strategy. Investment risk is measured and monitored on an ongoing basis through quarterly investment portfolio reviews, annual liability measurements, and periodic asset and liability studies.  

 The discount rate assumption is set based on the rate at which the pension benefits could be settled effectively. The discount rate is determined by matching the timing and amount of anticipated payouts under the Plan to the rates from an AA spot rate yield curve. The curve is derived from AA bonds of varying maturities. The discount rate assumption for our benefit obligation was 3.79% and 3.11% as of December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. A 100 basis point change to both the discount rate and long-term rate of return on plan assets would not have a material impact to our annual pension expense.  

 The assumptions related to life expectancy are used to estimate the expected period over which pension benefits will be required to be paid. Projections used for life expectancy are based on mortality tables and mortality improvement tables, which are statistical tables of expected annual mortality rates and expected future mortality improvements, respectively. We utilize a mortality table that we believe best aligns with the underlying demographics and census data of the Plan participants.  

 68  

 Table of Contents  

 Contractual Obligations  

 The following table summarizes our contractual obligations to third parties as of December 31, 2018 and the effect such obligations are expected to have on our liquidity and cash flows in future periods (in millions):  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

   (a)    We have estimated our interest payments based on (i) the assumption that no debt issuances or renewals will occur upon the maturity dates of our notes and (ii) an estimate of future interest rates on our interest rate swap agreements based on projected LIBOR rates. However, we may refinance all or a portion of our notes maturing in 2019. 

   (b)    Represents the remaining 2017 United States federal tax liability resulting from the Tax Act, which imposed United States tax on certain of our previously undistributed foreign earnings. Under the terms of the law, we have elected to pay this liability in periodic installments through 2025.  

   (c)    Unrecognized tax benefits include associated interest and penalties. The timing of related cash payments for substantially all of these liabilities is inherently uncertain because the ultimate amount and timing of such liabilities is affected by factors which are variable and outside our control. 

   (d)    Represents the liability position of our foreign currency and interest rate derivative contracts as of December 31, 2018, which will fluctuate based on market conditions. 

   (e)    Many of our contracts contain clauses that allow us to terminate the contract with notice and with a termination penalty. Termination penalties are generally an amount less than the original obligation. Obligations under certain contracts are usage-based and are, therefore, estimated in the above amounts. Historically, we have not had any significant defaults of our contractual obligations or incurred significant penalties for termination of our contractual obligations. 

 Other Commercial Commitments  

 We had approximately $265 million in outstanding letters of credit and bank guarantees as of December 31, 2018 that are primarily held in connection with safeguarding consumer funds, lease arrangements, and certain agent agreements. The letters of credit and bank guarantees have expiration dates through 2024, with many having a one-year renewal option. We expect to renew the letters of credit and bank guarantees prior to expiration in most circumstances.  

 Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates  

 Management’s discussion and analysis of results of operations and financial condition is based on our consolidated financial statements that have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America. The preparation of these consolidated financial statements requires that management make estimates 

 69  

 Table of Contents  

and assumptions that affect the amounts reported for revenues, expenses, assets, liabilities and other related disclosures. Actual results may or may not differ from these estimates. Our significant accounting policies are discussed in Part II, Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Note 2, “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies.”  

 Our critical accounting policies and estimates, described below, are very important to the portrayal of our financial condition and our results of operations and applying them requires our management to make difficult, subjective and complex judgments. We believe that the understanding of these key accounting policies and estimates is essential in achieving more insight into our operating results and financial condition.  

 Income Taxes  

 Income taxes, as reported in our consolidated financial statements, represent the net amount of income taxes we expect to pay to various taxing jurisdictions in connection with our operations. We provide for income taxes based on amounts that we believe we will ultimately owe after applying the required analyses and judgments.  

 The determination of our worldwide provision for income taxes requires significant judgment. We routinely receive, and may in the future receive, questions from taxing authorities on various tax-related assertions. In many of these instances, the ultimate tax determination is uncertain, given the complexities in interpreting tax laws and applying our facts and circumstances to these laws in many jurisdictions throughout the world.  

 Income tax contingencies  

 We recognize the tax benefit from an uncertain tax position only when it is more likely than not, based on the technical merits of the position, that the tax position will be sustained upon examination, including the resolution of any related appeals or litigation. The tax benefits recognized in the consolidated financial statements from such a position are measured as the largest benefit that has a greater than fifty percent likelihood of being realized upon ultimate resolution.  

 We have established contingency reserves for a variety of material, known tax exposures. Our tax reserves reflect our judgment as to the resolution of the issues involved if subject to judicial review or other settlement. While we believe our reserves are adequate to cover reasonably expected tax risks, there can be no assurance that, in all instances, an issue raised by a tax authority will be resolved at a financial cost that does not exceed our related reserve. With respect to these reserves, our income tax expense would include (i) any changes in tax reserves arising from material changes during the period in the facts and circumstances (i.e., new information) surrounding a tax issue and (ii) any difference from our tax position as recorded in the consolidated financial statements and the final resolution of a tax issue during the period.  

 Our tax contingency reserves for our uncertain tax positions as of December 31, 2018 were $306.8 million, including accrued interest and penalties, net of related items. While we believe that our reserves are adequate to cover reasonably expected tax risks, in the event that the ultimate resolution of our uncertain tax positions differs from our estimates, we may be exposed to material increases in income tax expense, which could materially impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.  

 Derivative Financial Instruments  

 We use derivatives to (a) minimize our exposures related to changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates and (b) facilitate cross-currency Business Solutions payments by writing derivatives to customers. We recognize all derivatives in “Other assets” and “Other liabilities” in our Consolidated Balance Sheets at their fair value. Certain of our derivative arrangements are designated as either cash flow hedges or fair value hedges at the time of inception, and others are not designated as accounting hedges.  

   ·    Cash flow hedges - Cash flow hedges consist of foreign currency hedging of forecasted revenues, as well as hedges of the forecasted issuance of fixed rate debt. Derivative fair value changes that are captured in “Accumulated other comprehensive loss” are reclassified to earnings in the same period the hedged item affects earnings when the instrument is effective in offsetting the change in cash flows attributable to the risk being hedged. As discussed in Part II, Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Note 2, “Summary of 

 70  

 Table of Contents  

Significant Accounting Policies,” we early adopted an accounting pronouncement related to hedging activities as of January 1, 2018. As a result of the new accounting pronouncement, for foreign currency cash flow hedges entered into on or after January 1, 2018, we exclude time value from the assessment of effectiveness, and the initial value of the excluded components is amortized into “Revenues” within our Consolidated Statements of Income/(Loss). For foreign currency cash flow hedges entered into before January 1, 2018, all changes in the fair value of the excluded components are recognized immediately in “Revenues” for the year ended December 31, 2018. For the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, the changes in fair value of the excluded components were recognized immediately within our Consolidated Statements of Income/(Loss) and are included in “Other income, net.” 

   ·    Fair value hedges - Fair value hedges consist of hedges of fixed rate debt, through interest rate swaps. The changes in fair value of these hedges, along with offsetting changes in fair value of the related debt instrument attributable to changes in the benchmark interest rate, are recorded in “Interest expense.” 

 The accounting guidance related to derivative accounting is complex and contains strict documentation requirements. The details of each designated hedging relationship must be formally documented at the inception of the arrangement, including the risk management objective, hedging strategy, hedged item, specific risks being hedged, the derivative instrument and how effectiveness is being assessed. The derivative must be highly effective in offsetting the changes in cash flows or fair value of the hedged item, and effectiveness is evaluated quarterly on a retrospective and prospective basis. If the hedge is no longer deemed effective, we discontinue applying hedge accounting to that relationship prospectively.  

 While we expect that our derivative instruments that currently qualify for hedge accounting will continue to meet the conditions for hedge accounting, if hedges do not qualify for hedge accounting, the changes in the fair value of the derivatives used as hedges would be reflected in earnings which could have a significant impact on our reported results. As of December 31, 2018, the cumulative pre-tax unrealized gains classified within accumulated other comprehensive income from such cash flow hedges that would be reflected in earnings if our hedges were disqualified from hedge accounting was $6.1 million. As of December 31, 2018, the cumulative debt adjustments from our fair value hedges that would be reflected in earnings if such hedges were disqualified from hedge accounting was a $0.1 million loss.  

 Other Intangible Assets  

 We capitalize acquired intangible assets as well as certain initial payments for new and renewed agent contracts and software. We evaluate such intangible assets for impairment on an annual basis or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying amount of such assets may not be recoverable. In such reviews, estimated undiscounted cash flows associated with these assets or operations are compared with their carrying amounts to determine if a write-down to fair value (normally measured by the present value technique) is required.  

 The capitalization of initial payments for new and renewed agent contracts is subject to strict accounting policy criteria and requires management judgment as to the amount to capitalize and the related period of benefit. Our accounting policy is to limit the amount of capitalized costs for a given agent contract to the lesser of the estimated future cash flows from the contract or the termination fees we would receive in the event of early termination of the contract. Additionally, the estimated undiscounted cash flows associated with each asset requires us to make estimates and assumptions, including, among other things, revenue growth rates, and operating margins based on our budgets and business plans.  

 Disruptions to contractual relationships, significant declines in cash flows or transaction volumes associated with contracts, or other issues significantly impacting the future cash flows associated with the contract would cause us to evaluate the recoverability of the asset. If an event described above occurs and causes us to determine that an asset has been impaired, that could result in an impairment charge. The net carrying value of our other intangible assets as of December 31, 2018 was $598.2 million. During the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 we recorded immaterial impairments related to other intangible assets.  

 71  

 Table of Contents  

 Goodwill  

 Goodwill represents the excess of purchase price over the fair value of tangible and other intangible assets acquired, less liabilities assumed arising from business combinations. An impairment assessment of goodwill is conducted annually during the Company’s fourth quarter at the reporting unit level. This assessment of goodwill is performed more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the goodwill may not be recoverable. Reporting units are determined by the level at which management reviews segment operating results. In some cases, that level is the operating segment and in others it is one level below the operating segment.  

 Our impairment assessment typically begins with a qualitative assessment to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value. The initial qualitative assessment includes comparing the overall financial performance of the reporting units against the planned results. Additionally, each reporting unit’s fair value is assessed under certain events and circumstances, including macroeconomic conditions, industry and market considerations, cost factors, and other relevant entity-specific events. Periodically, we perform a quantitative assessment, as described below, for each of our reporting units, regardless of the results of prior qualitative assessments.  

 If we determine in the qualitative assessment that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value, then we estimate the fair value of the reporting unit using discounted cash flows and compare the estimated fair value to its carrying value. If the carrying value exceeds the fair value of the reporting unit, then an impairment is recognized for the difference. Refer to Part II, Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Note 2, “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies,” for further discussion regarding our accounting policies for goodwill and any related impairments.  

 The determination of the reporting units and which reporting units to include in the qualitative assessment requires significant judgment. Also, all of the assumptions used in the qualitative assessment require judgment. Additionally, for the quantitative goodwill impairment test, we calculate the fair value of reporting units through discounted cash flow analyses which require us to make estimates and assumptions including, among other items, revenue growth rates, operating margins, and capital expenditures based on our budgets and business plans. Development of such estimates and assumptions and the resultant fair value takes into consideration expected regulatory, marketplace, and other economic factors as well as relevant discount rates and terminal values.  

 We could be required to evaluate the recoverability of goodwill if we experience disruptions to the business, unexpected significant declines in operating results, a divestiture of a significant component of our business, or other triggering events. In addition, as our business or the way we manage our business changes, our reporting units may also change. If an event described above occurs and causes us to recognize a goodwill impairment charge, it would impact our reported earnings in the period such charge occurs.  

 The carrying value of goodwill as of December 31, 2018 was $2,725.0 million which represented approximately 30% of our consolidated assets. As of December 31, 2018, goodwill of $1,980.7 million and $532.0 million resides in our Consumer-to-Consumer and Business Solutions reporting units, respectively, while the remaining $212.3 million resides in Other. For the year ended December 31, 2018, we did not record any goodwill impairments. For the reporting units that comprise Consumer-to-Consumer and Other, the fair value of the businesses significantly exceed their carrying amounts.  

 The fair value of the Business Solutions reporting unit continues to be sensitive to changes in projections for revenue growth rates and EBITDA margins. Our current expectation is for Business Solutions to average low to mid-single digit annual revenue growth over the 10‑year forecast period, with EBITDA margins dependent on revenue growth. Our ability to achieve the projected revenue growth and EBITDA margins may be affected by, amongst other factors, (a) pricing and product competition from direct competitors, banks and new market entrants; (b) our success and speed to market in developing new products; (c) the foreign exchange impact from revenues generated in currencies other than the United States dollar; (d) increased regulatory compliance requirements; (e) our ability to enter relationships with partners that can accelerate our time to market; (f) failure of long-term import growth rates returning to historic levels; (g) our ability to continue to maintain our payment network and bank account infrastructure; (h) foreign currency volatility impacts on customer activity; and (i) continued opportunities for cost reduction. Based on assumptions used within the Business Solutions reporting unit valuation, we believe a decrease of 50 basis points in the ten-year compound annual growth rate 

 72  

 Table of Contents  

of revenue (also reflecting the assumed impact such a reduction would have on EBITDA margins) would result in a reduction in the fair value of the Business Solutions reporting unit of approximately $130 million. Such a reduction would result in the fair value approximating the carrying value of the reporting unit.  

 During the year ended December 31, 2017, we recorded a non-cash goodwill impairment charge of $464.0 million related to our Business Solutions reporting unit, as the estimated fair value of the reporting unit declined below its carrying value. The reduction in estimated fair value primarily resulted from a decrease in projected revenue growth rates and EBITDA margins and the impact of the Tax Act. Revenue and EBITDA projections were reevaluated during the year ended December 31, 2017 due to the declines in revenues and operating results recognized in the fourth quarter of 2017, which were significantly below management’s expectations. Additionally, as disclosed in prior Annual Reports on Form 10‑K and Quarterly Reports on Form 10‑Q, the total estimated fair value of the Business Solutions reporting unit previously included value derived from strategies to optimize United States cash flow management and global liquidity by utilizing international cash balances (including balances generated by other operating segments) to initially fund global principal payouts for Business Solutions transactions initiated in the United States (“Cash Management Strategies”) that would have been available to certain market participants. However, the December 2017 enactment of the Tax Act, which imposed a tax on certain previously undistributed foreign earnings and established minimum taxes on certain future payments and foreign earnings, eliminated any fair value associated with the Cash Management Strategies.  

 We did not record any goodwill impairments during the year ended December 31, 2016.  

 Legal Contingencies  

 We are subject to certain claims and litigation that could result in losses, including damages, fines and/or civil penalties, which could be significant, and in some cases, criminal charges. We regularly evaluate the status of legal matters to assess whether a loss is probable and reasonably estimable in determining whether an accrual is appropriate. If the potential loss from any claim or legal proceeding is considered probable and the amount can be reasonably estimated, we accrue a liability for the estimated loss. When a potential loss is considered probable and the reasonable estimate is a range, we accrue on the low end of the range when no amount is a better estimate than any other amount.  

 Significant judgment is required in determining whether a loss is probable and whether the loss can be reasonably estimated, including determining a loss value within a range. Our judgments are subjective and are based on considerations such as the status of the legal or regulatory proceedings, the merits of our defenses and consultations with in-house and outside legal counsel. As the outcome of claims and litigation is uncertain, accruals are based on the best information available at the time the judgment is made. As additional information becomes available, which may include information we learn through the discovery process, settlement discussions, or rulings by courts, arbitrators or others, we reassess the potential liability related to pending claims and litigation and may revise our estimates.  

 In determining whether disclosure is appropriate, we evaluate each legal matter to assess if there is at least a reasonable possibility that a material loss or additional material loss may have been incurred beyond those amounts which we have already accrued. If such a reasonable possibility exists, we include an estimate of possible loss or range of loss in our disclosure of reasonably possible potential litigation losses or we state if such an estimate of possible loss or range of loss cannot be made.  

 Due to the inherent uncertainties of the legal and regulatory process in the multiple jurisdictions in which we operate and to the varied range of potential outcomes, the actual outcomes may differ materially from our judgments.  

 Recent Accounting Pronouncements  

 Refer to Part II, Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Note 2, “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” for further discussion.  

 73  

 Table of Contents  

 ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK