PART I 

     Item 1. BUSINESS 

  Company Background  

 Avery Dennison Corporation ("Avery Dennison" or the "Company," "Registrant," or "Issuer," and generally referred to as "we" or "us") was incorporated in Delaware in 1977 as Avery International Corporation, the successor corporation to a California corporation of the same name incorporated in 1946. In 1990, we merged one of our subsidiaries into Dennison Manufacturing Company ("Dennison"), as a result of which Dennison became our wholly-owned subsidiary and in connection with which our name was changed to Avery Dennison Corporation. You can learn more about us by visiting our website at www.averydennison.com. Our website address provided in this Form 10-K is not intended to function as a hyperlink and the information on our website is not, nor should it be considered, part of this report or incorporated by reference into this report.  

  Business Overview and Reportable Segments  

 Our businesses include the production of pressure-sensitive materials and a variety of tickets, tags, labels and other converted products. We sell most of our pressure-sensitive materials to label printers and converters that convert the materials into labels and other products through embossing, printing, stamping and die-cutting. We sell other pressure-sensitive materials in converted form as tapes and reflective sheeting. We also manufacture and sell a variety of other converted products and items not involving pressure-sensitive components, such as fasteners, tickets, tags, radio-frequency identification ("RFID") inlays and tags, and imprinting equipment and related solutions, which serve the apparel and other end markets.  

 Our reportable segments for fiscal year 2018 were:   

• Label and Graphic Materials ("LGM");  

• Retail Branding and Information Solutions ("RBIS"); and  

• Industrial and Healthcare Materials ("IHM").   

 In 2018, the LGM, RBIS, and IHM segments made up approximately 68%, 22% and 10%, respectively, of our total sales.  

 In 2018, international operations constituted a substantial majority of our business, representing approximately 77% of our sales. As of December 29, 2018, we operated approximately 180 manufacturing and distribution facilities worldwide with approximately 30,000 employees and operations in over 50 countries.  

  LGM Segment  

 Our LGM segment manufactures and sells Fasson®-, JAC®-, and Avery Dennison®-brand pressure-sensitive label and packaging materials, Avery Dennison®- and Mactac®-brand graphics, and Avery Dennison®-brand reflective products. The business of this segment tends not to be seasonal, except for certain outdoor graphics and reflective products.  

 Pressure-sensitive materials consist primarily of papers, plastic films, metal foils and fabrics, which are coated with internally-developed and purchased adhesives, and then laminated with specially-coated backing papers and films. They are sold in roll or sheet form with either solid or patterned adhesive coatings, and are available in a wide range of face materials, sizes, thicknesses and adhesive properties.  

 A pressure-sensitive, or self-adhesive, material is one that adheres to a surface by press-on contact. It generally consists of four layers: a face material, which may be paper, metal foil, plastic film or fabric; an  

1 

Table of Contents 

adhesive, which may be permanent or removable; a release coating; and a backing material to protect the adhesive from premature contact with other surfaces that can also serve as a carrier for supporting and dispensing individual labels. When the products are to be used, the release coating and protective backing are removed, exposing the adhesive so that the label or other face material may be pressed or rolled into place. Because they are easy to apply without the need for adhesive activation, self-adhesive materials can provide cost savings compared to other materials that require heat- or moisture-activated adhesives and offer aesthetic and other advantages over alternative technologies.  

 Label and packaging materials are sold worldwide to label converters for labeling, decorating, and specialty applications in the home and personal care, beer and beverage, durables, pharmaceutical, wine and spirits, and food market segments. When used in package decoration applications, the visual appeal of self-adhesive materials can help increase sales of the products on which the materials are applied. Self-adhesive materials are also used to convey variable information, such as bar codes for mailing or weight and price information for packaged meats and other foods. Self-adhesive materials provide consistent and versatile adhesion and are available in a large selection of materials, which can be made into labels of varying sizes and shapes.  

 Our graphics and reflective products include a variety of films and other products that are sold to the architectural, commercial sign, digital printing, and other related market segments. We also sell durable cast and reflective films to the construction, automotive and fleet transportation market segments and reflective films for traffic and safety applications. We provide sign shops, commercial printers and designers a broad range of pressure-sensitive materials to enable them to create impactful and informative brand and decorative graphics. We have an array of pressure-sensitive vinyl and specialty materials designed for digital imaging, screen printing and sign cutting applications.  

 In the LGM segment, our larger competitors in label and packaging materials include Raflatac, a subsidiary of UPM-Kymmene Corporation; Lintec Corporation; Ritrama, Inc.; Flexcon Corporation, Inc.; and various regional firms. For graphics and reflective products, our largest competitors are 3M Company ("3M") and the Orafol Group. We believe that entry of competitors into the field of pressure-sensitive adhesives and materials is limited by technical knowledge and capital requirements. We believe that our technical expertise, size and scale of operations, broad line of quality products and service programs, distribution capabilities, brand strength, and new product innovation are the primary advantages in maintaining and further developing our competitive position.  

  RBIS Segment  

 Our RBIS segment designs, manufactures and sells a wide variety of branding and information solutions to retailers, brand owners, apparel manufacturers, distributors and industrial customers. This segment experiences some seasonality, with higher volume generally in advance of the spring, fall (back-to-school), and holiday shipping periods. In recent years, as the apparel industry has moved to more frequent seasonal updates, this segment has experienced less seasonality.  

 The branding solutions of RBIS include creative services, brand embellishments, graphic tickets, tags, and labels, and sustainable packaging. RBIS information solutions include item-level RFID solutions; visibility and loss prevention solutions; price ticketing and marking; care, content, and country of origin compliance solutions; and brand protection and security solutions.  

 In the RBIS segment, our primary competitors include Checkpoint Systems, Inc., a subsidiary of CCL Industries Inc.; R-pac International Corporation; and SML Group Limited. We believe that our global distribution network, reliable service, product quality and consistency, and ability to serve customers consistently with comprehensive solutions wherever they manufacture are the key advantages in maintaining and further developing our competitive position.  

2 

Table of Contents 

  IHM Segment  

 Our IHM segment manufactures and sells Fasson®-brand and Avery Dennison®-brand tapes and fasteners, VanciveTM-brand medical pressure-sensitive adhesive (PSA) based materials and products, and performance polymers. Our tape products include coated tapes and adhesive transfer tapes that are sold for use in non-mechanical fastening, bonding and sealing systems. IHM also manufactures and sells Yongle® brand tapes for wire harnessing and cable wrapping in automotive, electrical, and general industrial applications. The mechanical fasteners are primarily precision extruded and injection-molded plastic devices used in various automotive, industrial, and retail applications.  

 These tapes and fasteners are sold worldwide to original equipment manufacturers and their suppliers. The tapes are available in roll form and in a wide range of face materials, sizes, thicknesses and adhesive properties, and are used in various bonding and fastening applications in the automotive, electronics, building and construction, other industrial, and personal care segments.  

 Our Vancive-brand products include an array of PSA materials and products that address the needs of medical device manufacturers, converters, clinicians, and patients for surgical, wound and skin care, ostomy, diagnostic, electromedical and wearable device applications.  

 For tapes and bonding solutions, our primary competitors include 3M; Tesa-SE, a subsidiary of Beiersdorf AG; Nitto Denko Corporation; and various regional firms. We believe that entry of competitors into this field is limited by technical knowledge and capital requirements. We believe that our technical expertise, size and scale of operations, broad line of quality products and new product innovation are the most significant advantages in maintaining and further developing our competitive position in this business. For Vancive products, we compete with a variety of specialized medical tapes and converted products suppliers ranging from start-ups to multinational companies. We believe that entry into the medical solutions business is limited by capital and regulatory requirements. For fastener products, there are a variety of competitors supplying extruded and injection molded fasteners and fastener attaching equipment. They range from smaller regional competitors to multinational companies. We believe that entry into this business is limited by capital requirements and technical knowledge. For both our Vancive and fastener solutions businesses, we believe that our ability to serve our customers with high-quality, cost-effective solutions and our innovation capabilities are the most significant factors in developing our competitive position.  

  Raw Materials  

 In 2018, we experienced raw material inflation in most of our markets worldwide. In response, we continued to re-engineer our products and drive savings through our procurement function, as well as raise prices. These actions largely offset the raw material inflation we experienced during the year. While we have received sufficient quantities of raw materials to meet our production requirements to date, it is difficult to predict future shortages of raw materials or the impact any such shortages would have. We have avoided disruption to our manufacturing operations through carefully managing our existing raw material inventories and maintaining strategic relationships with our suppliers and additional supply sources.  

  Research and Development  

 Many of our products are the result of our research and development efforts. Our research efforts are directed primarily toward developing new products and operating techniques and improving productivity, sustainability, and product performance, often in close association with customers. These efforts include patent and product development work relating to printing and coating technologies, as well as adhesive, release and ink chemistries in our LGM and IHM segments. Additionally, we focus on research projects related to RFID and external embellishments in our RBIS segment and medical technologies in our IHM segment, for both of which we hold and license a number of patents.  

3 

Table of Contents 

  Patents, Trademarks and Licenses  

 The loss of individual patents or licenses would not be material to us taken as a whole, nor to our operating segments individually. Our principal trademarks are Avery Dennison, our logo, and Fasson. We believe these trademarks are strong in the market segments in which we compete.  

  Manufacturing and Environmental Matters  

 We use various raw materials – primarily paper, plastic films and resins, as well as specialty chemicals purchased from various commercial and industrial sources – that are subject to price fluctuations. Although shortages can occur from time to time, these raw materials are generally available.  

 We produce a majority of our self-adhesive materials using water-based emulsion and hot-melt adhesive technologies. A portion of our manufacturing process for self-adhesive materials utilizes organic solvents, which, unless controlled, could be emitted into the atmosphere or contaminate soil or groundwater. Emissions from these operations contain small amounts of volatile organic compounds, which are regulated by federal, state, local and foreign governments. We continue to evaluate the use of alternative materials and technologies to minimize these emissions. In connection with the maintenance and acquisition of certain manufacturing equipment, we invest in solvent capture and control units to assist in regulating these emissions.  

 We have developed adhesives and adhesive processing systems that minimize the use of solvents. Emulsion adhesives, hot-melt adhesives, and solventless and emulsion silicone systems have been installed in many of our facilities.  

 Based on current information, we do not believe that the cost of complying with applicable laws regulating the discharge of materials into the environment, or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment, will have a material effect upon our capital expenditures, consolidated financial position or results of operations.  

 For information regarding our potential responsibility for cleanup costs at certain hazardous waste sites, see "Legal Proceedings" (Part I, Item 3) and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" (Part II, Item 7).  

  Available Information  

 Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), are available free of charge on our investor website at www.investors.averydennison.com as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. We also make available on our website our (i) Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, (ii) Amended and Restated Bylaws, (iii) Corporate Governance Guidelines, (iv) Code of Conduct, which applies to our directors, officers and employees, (v) Code of Ethics for the Chief Executive Officer and Senior Financial Officers, (vi) charters of the Audit and Finance, Compensation and Executive Personnel, and Governance and Social Responsibility Committees of our Board of Directors, and (vii) Audit Committee Complaint Procedures for Accounting and Auditing Matters. These documents are also available free of charge upon written request to our Corporate Secretary, Avery Dennison Corporation, 207 Goode Avenue, Glendale, California 91203.  

 Reports filed with or furnished to the SEC may be viewed at www.sec.gov.  

4 

Table of Contents 

     Item 1A. RISK FACTORS