ITEM 7A.QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

We are exposed to market risk associated with changes in commodity prices, equity prices and interest rates. We are exposed to risks from changes in interest rates as a result of our issuance of variable and fixed rate debt and commercial paper. We manage our interest rate exposure by limiting our variable rate exposure and by monitoring the effects of market changes in interest rates. We also have the ability to enter into financial derivative instruments, which could include instruments such as, but not limited to, interest rate swaps, forward starting swaps, swaptions and U.S. Treasury lock agreements to manage and mitigate interest rate risk exposure. As of December 31, 2018, a hypothetical increase of interest rates by 1% associated with our short-term borrowings would result in a $10 million increase in short-term interest expense.

As of December 31, 2018, the Company had four forward starting swap agreements with an aggregate notional amount of $360 million to reduce interest rate exposure on debt expected to be issued in 2019. The forward starting swap agreements terminate in 2019 and have an average fixed rate of 3.16%. When entering into forward starting interest rate swaps, the Company is subject to market risk with respect to changes in the underlying benchmark interest rate that impacts the fair value of the forward starting interest rate swaps. We manage market risk by matching terms of the swaps with the critical terms of the expected debt issuance. The fair value of the forward starting swaps at December 31, 2018 was in a loss position of $14 million. A hypothetical 1% adverse change in interest rates would result in a decrease in the fair value of our forward starting swaps of approximately $66 million at December 31, 2018.

On January 8, 2019, we entered into an additional forward starting swap agreement, with a notional amount of $150 million, to reduce interest rate exposure on debt expected to be issued in 2019. This forward starting swap agreement terminates in December 2019, and has an average fixed rate of 2.76%.

Our risks associated with price increases for chemicals, electricity and other commodities are reduced through contractual arrangements and the expected ability to recover price increases through rates, in the next general rate case proceeding or other regulatory mechanism, as authorized by each regulatory jurisdiction. Non-performance by these commodity suppliers could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows.

The market price of our common stock may experience fluctuations, which may be unrelated to our operating performance. In particular, our stock price may be affected by general market movements as well as developments specifically related to the water and wastewater industry. These could include, among other things, interest rate movements, quarterly variations or changes in financial estimates by securities analysts and governmental or regulatory actions. This volatility may make it difficult for us to access the capital markets in the future through additional offerings of our common stock, regardless of our financial performance, and such difficulty may preclude us from being able to take advantage of certain business opportunities or meet business obligations.

We are exposed to credit risk through our water, wastewater and other water-related services provided by our Regulated Businesses and Market-Based Businesses. Our Regulated Businesses serve residential, commercial, industrial and other customers while our Market-Based Businesses engage in business activities with developers, government entities and other customers. Our primary credit risk is exposure to customer default on contractual obligations and the associated loss that may be incurred due to the non-payment of customer accounts receivable balances. Our credit risk is managed through established credit and collection policies which are in compliance with applicable regulatory requirements and involve monitoring of customer exposure and the use of credit risk mitigation measures such as letters of credit or prepayment arrangements. Our credit portfolio is diversified with no significant customer or industry concentrations. In addition, our Regulated Businesses are generally able to recover all prudently incurred costs including uncollectible customer accounts receivable expenses and collection costs through rates.

The Company’s retirement trust assets are exposed to the market prices of debt and equity securities. Changes to the retirement trust asset values can impact the Company’s pension and other benefits expense, funded status and future minimum funding requirements. Changes in interest rates can impact retirement liabilities. We aim to reduce risk through asset diversification and by investing in long duration fixed-income securities that have a duration similar to that of our pension liabilities, seeking to hedge some of the interest rate sensitivity of our liabilities. That way, if interest rates fall and liabilities increase, we expect that the fixed-income assets in our retirement trust will also increase in value. We also expect our risk to be reduced through our ability to recover pension and other benefit costs through rates.

76
We are also exposed to a potential national economic recession or deterioration in local economic conditions in the markets in which we operate. The credit quality of our customer accounts receivable is dependent on the economy and the ability of our customers to manage through unfavorable economic cycles and other market changes. In addition, there can be no assurances that regulators will grant sufficient rate authorizations. Therefore, our ability to fully recover operating expense, recover our investment and provide an appropriate return on invested capital made in our Regulated Businesses may be adversely impacted.

77
ITEM 8.FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA