ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (MD&A) 

EXECUTIVE OVERVIEW 

BUSINESS INTRODUCTION 

We are a global services company with three reportable operating segments: Global Consumer Services Group (GCSG), Global Commercial Services (GCS) and Global Merchant and Network Services (GMNS). Corporate functions and certain other businesses and operations are included in Corporate & Other. 

The following types of revenue are generated from our various products and services: 

  •  Discount revenue, our largest revenue source, primarily represents the amount we earn on transactions occurring at merchants that have entered into a card acceptance agreement with us, or a Global Network Services (GNS) partner or other third-party merchant acquirer, for facilitating transactions between the merchants and Card Members. The amount of fees charged for accepting our cards as payment for goods or services, or merchant discount, varies with, among other factors, the industry in which the merchant does business, the merchant’s overall American Express-related transaction volume, the method of payment, the settlement terms with the merchant, the method of submission of transactions and, in certain instances, the geographic scope for the related card acceptance agreement between the merchant and us (e.g., domestic or global) and the transaction amount. In some instances, an additional flat transaction fee is assessed as part of the merchant discount, and additional fees may be charged such as a variable fee for “non-swiped” card transactions or for transactions using cards issued outside the United States at merchants located in the United States;     

  •  Interest on loans, principally represents interest income earned on outstanding balances;     

  •  Net card fees, represent revenue earned from annual card membership fees, which vary based on the type of card and the number of cards for each account;     

  •  Other fees and commissions, primarily represent Card Member delinquency fees, foreign currency conversion fees charged to Card Members, Membership Rewards program fees, loyalty coalition-related fees, travel commissions and fees, and service fees earned from merchants; and     

  •  Other revenue, primarily represents revenues arising from contracts with partners of our Global Network Services (GNS) business (including commissions and signing fees less issuer rate payments), cross-border Card Member spending, ancillary merchant-related fees, insurance premiums earned from Card Members, prepaid card and Travelers Cheque-related revenue and earnings from equity method investments (including the American Express Global Business Travel Joint Venture (the GBT JV)).     

FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS 

For 2018, we reported net income of $6.9 billion and diluted earnings per share of $7.91. This compared to $2.7 billion of net income and $2.99 diluted earnings per share for 2017, and $5.4 billion of net income and $5.61 diluted earnings per share for 2016. 

2018 results included: 

  •  $496 million of certain discrete tax benefits in the fourth quarter.     

2017 results included: 

  •  A $2.6 billion tax charge related to the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the Tax Act) in the fourth quarter.     

2016 results included:  

  •  A $1.1 billion ($677 million after tax) gain on the sale of Card Member loans and receivables related to our cobrand partnership with Costco in the second quarter;     

  •  $410 million ($266 million after tax) of net restructuring charges; and     

  •  A $127 million ($79 million after tax) gain on the sale of Card Member loans and receivables related to our cobrand partnership with JetBlue in the first quarter.     

NON-GAAP MEASURES 

We prepare our Consolidated Financial Statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP). However, certain information included within this report constitutes non-GAAP financial measures. Our calculations of non-GAAP financial measures may differ from the calculations of similarly titled measures by other companies. 

34 

Table of Contents   

TAX CUTS AND JOBS ACT 

On December 22, 2017, the U.S. government enacted comprehensive tax legislation commonly referred to as the Tax Act, which made broad and complex changes to the U.S. federal corporate income tax rules. Most notably, effective January 1, 2018, the Tax Act reduced the U.S. federal statutory corporate income tax rate from 35 percent to 21 percent, introduced a territorial tax system in which future dividends paid from earnings outside the United States to a U.S. corporation are not subject to U.S. federal taxation and imposed new U.S. federal corporate income taxes on certain foreign operations. For 2019, we estimate that our tax rate will be approximately 22 percent, before discrete tax items. 

BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT 

Our results for 2018 reflect strong performance and our focus on, and investment in, our four strategic imperatives – expand our leadership in the premium consumer space, build on our strong position in commercial payments, strengthen our global, integrated network and make American Express an essential part of our customers’ digital lives. Billings and revenue growth reflected momentum across our businesses. We continued to invest in new services and Card Member benefits, new card acquisitions and expanding our merchant network. During the year, we returned a significant amount of capital to our shareholders through our share buyback program and an increase in our dividend, while increasing our capital ratios. Our results also included the benefit of a lower tax provision due to a reduction in the U.S. corporate income tax rate resulting from the Tax Act, along with several discrete tax benefits. 

Our worldwide billed business increased 9 percent over the prior year, reflecting strong proprietary billings growth both in the U.S. and internationally, and across customer segments. Proprietary billings growth was driven by increased spending within our premium consumer base, as well as consistent double digit growth throughout the year from our small and medium enterprise business customers. GNS billed business declined due to the ongoing and expected impact of changes in the regulatory environment in the EU and Australia; excluding the billings from those geographies, GNS billed business grew 8 percent year-over-year. 

Revenues net of interest expense increased 9 percent, reflecting growth in Card Member spending, net interest income and card fees, partially offset by a year-over-year decline in the average discount rate. We continue to be focused on driving discount revenue growth, not the average discount rate. Card fee revenue saw double digit year-over-year growth and reflected increased engagement from both new and existing customers as a result of the benefits that we have added to our card products around the world. 

Card Member loans grew year-over-year, as we continued to expand our lending relationships with existing customers and acquired new Card Members, including the acquisition of the portion of the Hilton cobrand portfolio that we did not previously own (the acquired Hilton portfolio). Provisions for losses increased, reflecting growth in the loan portfolio and a higher lending write-off rate. Write-off rates continue to modestly increase due to ongoing seasoning of our loan portfolio. 

Spending on customer engagement (the aggregate of rewards, Card Member services and marketing and business development expenses) increased year-over-year across all categories. Increases in rewards and Card Member services reflected the growth in billings and continued higher levels of investment across many of our premium travel services. Marketing and business development expense increased due to higher spending on growth initiatives, including new card acquisition, our global brand campaign, continued investments in our cobrand partnerships and higher corporate client incentives. While impacted by several discrete items, operating expenses were flat year-over-year and remained well controlled, which allowed for additional investment in customer engagement. 

We plan to continue making investments in our business to generate and sustain a strong level of revenue growth, which we believe is the foundation for steady and consistent double-digit EPS growth. While we continue to see some headwinds from an uncertain economic environment, regulation in countries around the world and intense competition, we remain focused on delivering differentiated value to our merchants, Card Members and business partners and delivering appropriate returns to our shareholders. 

See “Supervision and Regulation” in “Business” for information on legislative and regulatory changes that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition and “Risk Factors” for information on the potential impacts of economic, political and competitive conditions and certain litigation and regulatory matters on our business.  

35 

Table of Contents   

CONSOLIDATED RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 

Effective January 1, 2018, we adopted new revenue recognition guidance using the full retrospective method, which applies the new standard to each prior reporting period presented, starting January 1, 2016. The adoption changed the recognition timing and classification of certain revenues and expenses, including changes to the presentation of certain credit and charge card related costs that were previously netted against discount revenue. The adoption did not have a significant impact on our consolidated financial position, net income, equity or cash flows. Refer to Note 1 to the “Consolidated Financial Statements” for additional information. In addition, we reclassified certain business development expenses, from Other expenses to Marketing and business development expenses, which was not directly attributable to the adoption of the new revenue recognition guidance. 

During 2018, we changed the methodology used to allocate certain corporate overhead costs and interest income and expense to the operating segments, and made minor changes to the intercompany settlement process. Prior period amounts have been revised to conform to the current period presentation. 

TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

# Denotes a variance greater than 100 percent 

 (a)  Earnings per common share — diluted was reduced by the impact of (i) earnings allocated to participating share awards and other items of $54 million, $21 million and $43 million for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively, and (ii) dividends on preferred shares of $80 million, $81 million and $80 million for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively.     

 (b)  Return on average equity (ROE) is computed by dividing (i) one-year period net income ($6.9 billion, $2.7 billion and $5.4 billion for 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively) by (ii) one-year average total shareholders’ equity ($20.7 billion for 2018 and $20.9 billion for both 2017 and 2016).     

(c) The adjusted ETRs for 2018 and 2017 are non-GAAP measures. The 2018 adjusted ETR excludes a benefit of $496 million relating to changes in the tax method of accounting for certain expenses, the resolution of certain prior years’ tax audits, and a final adjustment to our 2017 provisional tax charge related to the Tax Act. The 2017 adjusted ETR excludes the $2.6 billion charge related to the Tax Act. Management believes the adjusted ETRs are useful in evaluating our tax rates in comparison with the other presented periods. Refer to Note 21 of the “Consolidated Financial Statements” for additional information. 

TABLE 2: TOTAL REVENUES NET OF INTEREST EXPENSE SUMMARY 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

36 

Table of Contents   

TOTAL REVENUES NET OF INTEREST EXPENSE 

Discount revenue increased in both periods, primarily due to growth in billed business, partially offset by decreases in the average discount rate. U.S. billed business increased 10 percent in 2018 compared to 2017 and 1 percent in 2017 compared to 2016. Non-U.S. billed business increased 8 percent in 2018 compared to 2017 and 12 percent in 2017 compared to 2016. See Tables 5 and 6 for more details on billed business performance. 

The average discount rate was 2.37 percent, 2.40 percent and 2.43 percent for 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively. Several factors continued to drive the average discount rate decline, including impacts from decisions we made with respect to certain strategic partners, the impact of regulatory changes in Europe and Australia, and the continued roll out of the OptBlue program, though the impacts began to moderate in the latter half of the year. 

Net card fees increased in both periods, primarily driven by growth in the Platinum and Delta portfolios, as well as growth in certain key international countries. 

Other fees and commissions increased in both periods, primarily driven by growth in foreign exchange conversion revenue and increases in delinquency fees. 

Other revenues decreased in both periods. The decrease in 2018 was partly driven by a modification of one of our GNS arrangements, lower breakage related to our prepaid cards and a decline in revenues related to the GBT JV. The decrease in 2017 was primarily driven by prior-year revenues related to the Loyalty Edge business, which was sold in the fourth quarter of 2016, and a contractual payment from a GNS partner also in the prior year. 

Interest income increased in both periods, primarily reflecting higher average Card Member loans and higher yields. The growth in average Card Member loans in 2018 was primarily driven by expanding relationships with existing customers, as well as the inclusion of the acquired Hilton portfolio. The growth in average Card Member loans in 2017 was primarily driven by a mix shift towards non-cobrand lending products, where Card Members tend to revolve more of their loan balances. The increase in yields in both periods was primarily driven by a greater percentage of loans at higher rate buckets, specific pricing actions and increases in benchmark interest rates. 

Interest expense increased in both periods, primarily driven by higher interest rates and higher average long-term debt and, additionally in 2018, by higher average deposits. 

TABLE 3: PROVISIONS FOR LOSSES SUMMARY 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

PROVISIONS FOR LOSSES 

Charge card provision for losses increased in both periods, primarily driven by growth in receivables due to increased billed business and higher net write-offs, largely in the corporate and small business portfolios. 

Card Member loans provision for losses increased in both periods, driven by strong loan growth, higher net write-offs and a modest increase in delinquencies. The increases in write-offs and delinquencies were due in part to the seasoning of recent loan vintages. 

Other provision for losses increased in 2018 compared to 2017 and was relatively flat in 2017 compared to 2016. The increase in 2018 was primarily due to growth in the non-card lending and commercial financing portfolios. 2017 compared to 2016 also reflected growth in the non-card lending portfolio, which was offset by improving credit performance in the commercial financing portfolio. 

37 

Table of Contents   

TABLE 4: EXPENSES SUMMARY 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 (a)  Effective January 1, 2018, includes reclassification of certain business development expenses from Other expenses to Marketing and business development that are not directly attributable to the adoption of the new revenue recognition guidance. Prior periods have been conformed to the current period presentation.     

EXPENSES 

Marketing and business development expense increased in 2018 compared to 2017 and decreased in 2017 compared to 2016. The variances for both periods were primarily driven by lower levels of spending on growth initiatives in 2017 compared to the preceding and subsequent years. The higher spending on growth initiatives in 2018 included our new global brand campaign, continued investments in partnerships, and increased corporate client incentives driven by higher volumes. 

Card Member rewards expense increased in both periods. The increase in 2018 was driven by increases in Membership Rewards and cash-back reward expenses of $558 million and cobrand rewards expense of $451 million, both of which were primarily driven by higher spending volumes. The increase in 2017 was primarily driven by higher spending volumes and enhancements to U.S. Consumer and Small Business Platinum rewards during 2017. 

The Membership Rewards Ultimate Redemption Rate (URR) for current program participants increased to 96 percent (rounded up) at December 31, 2018, compared to 95 percent (rounded down) at December 31, 2017 and 2016. 

Card Member services expense increased in both periods, primarily driven by higher usage of travel-related benefits and enhanced Platinum card benefits. 

Salaries and employee benefits expense was flat for both periods, reflecting increases in incentive compensation, offset by lower restructuring charges compared to the respective prior year. 

Other expense increased in both periods. The increase in 2018 was primarily driven by higher technology expenses, a loss in the current year on a transaction involving the operations of our prepaid reloadable and gift card business, and a foreign exchange loss related to the devaluation of the Argentine peso, which was deemed a highly inflationary currency as of July 1, 2018, all partially offset by current-year unrealized gains on certain equity investments and charges in the prior year related to our U.S. loyalty coalition and prepaid businesses. The increase in 2017 was primarily driven by gains in 2016 on the sales of the HFS portfolios, which were recognized as an expense reduction, partially offset by lower technology-related costs in 2017 and higher Loyalty Edge-related costs in 2016. 

INCOME TAXES 

The effective tax rate for 2018 was 14.8 percent and reflects a benefit of $496 million relating to changes in the tax method of accounting for certain expenses, the resolution of certain prior years’ tax audits and an adjustment to the 2017 provisional tax charge related to the Tax Act. The tax rate for 2018 also reflects the reduction in the U.S. federal statutory rate from 35 percent to 21 percent as a result of the Tax Act. 

The effective tax rate for 2017 was 63.0 percent and reflects the charge of $2.6 billion related to the Tax Act that was accounted for as a provisional estimate under Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 118. Refer to Note 21 to the “Consolidated Financial Statements” for additional information. 

The tax rates in all periods reflect the level of pretax income in relation to recurring permanent tax benefits and the geographic mix of business. 

38 

Table of Contents   

TABLE 5: SELECTED CARD-RELATED STATISTICAL INFORMATION 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

  (a)  Effective January 1, 2018, we began including billed business related to certain business-to-business products in the calculation of the average discount rate to reflect our expanding business-to-business product offerings. Prior periods have been conformed to the current period presentation.     

  (b)  Average fee per card is computed based on proprietary basic net card fees divided by average proprietary basic cards-in-force.     

39 

Table of Contents   

TABLE 6: BILLED BUSINESS GROWTH 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 (a)  The foreign currency adjusted information assumes a constant exchange rate between the periods being compared for purposes of currency translation into U.S. dollars (i.e., assumes the foreign exchange rates used to determine results for the current year apply to the corresponding prior year period against which such results are being compared).     

40 

Table of Contents   

TABLE 7: SELECTED CREDIT-RELATED STATISTICAL INFORMATION 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

# Denotes a variance greater than 100 percent 

 (a)  Other includes foreign currency translation adjustments and for 2016, Worldwide Card Member loans include reserves associated with Card Member loans reclassified from HFS to held for investment. Refer to Changes in Card Member loans reserve for losses under Note 4 to the “Consolidated Financial Statements” for additional information.     

 (b)  We present a net write-off rate based on principal losses only (i.e., excluding interest and/or fees) to be consistent with industry convention. In addition, as our practice is to include uncollectible interest and/or fees as part of our total provision for losses, a net write-off rate including principal, interest and/or fees is also presented. The net write-off rates and 30+ days past due as a percentage of total for Card Member receivables relate to GCSG and Global Small Business Services (GSBS) Card Member receivables.     

 (c)  Global Corporate Payments (GCP) reflects global, large and middle market corporate accounts. For GCP Card Member receivables, delinquency data is tracked based on days past billing status rather than days past due. A Card Member account is considered 90 days past billing if payment has not been received within 90 days of the Card Member’s billing statement date. In addition, if we initiate collection procedures on an account prior to the account becoming 90 days past billing, the associated Card Member receivable balance is classified as 90 days past billing. These amounts are shown above as 90+ Days Past Due for presentation purposes. GCP delinquency data for periods other than 90+ days past billing is not available due to system constraints.     

41 

Table of Contents   

TABLE 8: NET INTEREST YIELD ON AVERAGE CARD MEMBER LOANS 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 (a)  Primarily represents interest expense attributable to maintaining our corporate liquidity pool and funding Card Member receivables.     

 (b)  Primarily represents interest income attributable to Other loans, interest-bearing deposits and the fixed income investment portfolios.     

 (c)  Adjusted net interest income and net interest yield on average Card Member loans are non-GAAP measures. Refer to “Glossary of Selected Terminology” for the definitions of these terms. We believe adjusted net interest income is useful to investors because it represents the interest expense and interest income attributable to our Card Member loan portfolio and is a component of net interest yield on average Card Member loans, which provides a measure of profitability of our Card Member loan portfolio. Net interest yield on average Card Member loans reflects adjusted net interest income divided by average Card Member loans, computed on an annualized basis. Net interest income divided by average Card Member loans, computed on an annualized basis, a GAAP measure, includes elements of total interest income and total interest expense that are not attributable to the Card Member loan portfolio, and thus is not representative of net interest yield on average Card Member loans.     

42 

Table of Contents   

BUSINESS SEGMENT RESULTS 

We consider a combination of factors when evaluating the composition of our reportable operating segments, including the results reviewed by the chief operating decision maker, economic characteristics, products and services offered, classes of customers, product distribution channels, geographic considerations (primarily United States versus outside the United States) and regulatory considerations. Refer to Note 25 to the “Consolidated Financial Statements” and Part I, Item 1. “Business” for additional discussion of products and services that comprise each segment. 

Effective for the second quarter of 2018, we realigned our reportable operating segments to reflect the organizational changes announced during the first quarter of 2018. Prior periods have been revised to conform to the new reportable operating segments, which are as follows: 

   GCSG, including proprietary consumer cards globally, consumer services including travel services and non-card financing products, certain international joint ventures and our partnership agreements in China;     

   GCS, including the proprietary GCP business, GSBS and commercial financing products; and     

   GMNS, including the GNS business, the Global Merchant Services business, global loyalty coalition businesses, reloadable prepaid and gift card businesses.      

Corporate functions and certain other businesses and operations, including the GBT JV, are included in Corporate & Other. 

Results of the reportable operating segments generally treat each segment as a stand-alone business. The management reporting process that derives these results allocates revenue and expense using various methodologies as described below. 

TOTAL REVENUES NET OF INTEREST EXPENSE 

We allocate discount revenue and certain other revenues among segments using a transfer pricing methodology. Within the GCSG and GCS segments, discount revenue generally reflects the issuer component of the overall discount revenue generated by each segment’s Card Members; within the GMNS segment, discount revenue generally reflects the network and acquirer component of the overall discount revenue. 

Net card fees and other fees and commissions are directly attributable to the segment in which they are reported. 

Interest and fees on loans and certain investment income is directly attributable to the segment in which it is reported. Interest expense represents an allocated funding cost based on a combination of segment funding requirements and internal funding rates. 

PROVISIONS FOR LOSSES 

The provisions for losses are directly attributable to the segment in which they are reported. 

EXPENSES 

Marketing and business development expense is included in each segment based on the actual expenses incurred. Global brand advertising is primarily reflected in Corporate & Other and may be allocated to the segments based on the actual expense incurred. Rewards and Card Member services expenses are included in each segment based on the actual expenses incurred within the segment. 

Salaries and employee benefits and other operating expenses reflect expenses such as professional services, occupancy and equipment and communications incurred directly within each segment. In addition, expenses related to support services, such as technology costs, are allocated to each segment primarily based on support service activities directly attributable to the segment. Certain other overhead expenses are allocated from Corporate & Other to the segments based on the relative levels of revenue and Card Member loans and receivables. 

INCOME TAXES 

An income tax provision (benefit) is allocated to each reportable operating segment based on the effective tax rates applicable to the various businesses that comprise the segment. The 2017 $2.6 billion charge related to the Tax Act was allocated in full to Corporate & Other. 

43 

Table of Contents   

GLOBAL CONSUMER SERVICES GROUP 

TABLE 9: GCSG SELECTED INCOME STATEMENT DATA 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

GCSG primarily issues a wide range of proprietary consumer cards globally. GCSG also provides services to consumers, including travel services and non-card financing products, and manages certain international joint ventures and our partnership agreements in China. 

TOTAL REVENUES NET OF INTEREST EXPENSE 

Non-interest revenues increased in 2018 compared to 2017, primarily driven by discount revenue, which increased 10 percent, reflecting an increase in proprietary consumer billed business of 12 percent, partially offset by a decline in the average discount rate. U.S. proprietary consumer billed business increased 10 percent and non-U.S. proprietary consumer billed business increased 17 percent. The increases in billed business reflected higher cards-in-force and higher average spend per card. 

The increase in non-interest revenues was also driven by 13 percent growth in net card fees and increased other fees and commissions. The increase in net card fees was driven primarily by growth in the Platinum and Delta portfolios, as well as growth in card fees across certain key international countries. The increase in other fees and commissions was primarily driven by increases in delinquency fees, travel commissions and foreign exchange conversion revenue. 

Net interest income increased in 2018 compared to 2017, primarily driven by growth in average Card Member loans and higher yields, partially offset by higher interest expense, primarily driven by higher cost of funds. The growth in average Card Member loans was primarily driven by expanding relationships with existing customers, as well as the inclusion of the acquired Hilton portfolio. The increase in yields was primarily driven by a greater percentage of loans at higher rate buckets and specific pricing actions. 

Total revenues net of interest expense increased in 2017 compared to 2016, primarily driven by higher discount revenue, reflecting billed business growth. The increase also reflected higher net interest income, primarily driven by growth in average Card Member loans and higher yields, partially offset by higher interest expense. 

PROVISIONS FOR LOSSES 

Provisions for losses increased in both periods, primarily driven by increased Card Member loans provision, reflecting strong loan growth and higher write-offs, in part due to the seasoning of recent loan vintages. The increase in 2017 was additionally driven by a shift in mix towards non-cobrand lending products, which tend to have higher write-off rates. 

Refer to Table 10 for the charge card and lending write-off rates for 2018, 2017 and 2016. 

44 

Table of Contents   

EXPENSES 

Marketing, business development, rewards and Card Member services expenses increased in 2018 compared to 2017. Card Member rewards expense increased 13 percent, primarily driven by increased spending volumes. Marketing and business development expense increased 18 percent, primarily due to higher spending on growth initiatives and continued investments in partnerships. Card Member services expense increased 29 percent, primarily driven by higher usage of travel-related benefits and the enhanced Platinum card benefits. 

Salaries and employee benefits and other operating expense increased in 2018 compared to 2017, primarily driven by increases in payroll costs and higher technology and other servicing-related costs, partially offset by unrealized gains on certain equity investments. 

Total expenses increased in 2017 compared to 2016, primarily reflecting the gains on the sales of the HFS portfolios in the prior year, which were recognized as an expense reduction in other expenses, higher Card Member rewards expense resulting from higher spending volumes and increased Card Member services expense resulting from higher usage of travel-related benefits. 

Income tax provision decreased in 2018 compared to 2017, primarily reflecting the resolution of certain prior years’ tax audits and the reduction in the U.S. federal statutory tax rate as a result of the Tax Act. 

TABLE 10: GCSG SELECTED STATISTICAL INFORMATION 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

45 

Table of Contents   

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 (a)  During 2018, we changed the methodology used to allocate certain corporate overhead costs and interest income and expense to the operating segments, and made minor changes to the intercompany settlement process. Prior period amounts have been revised to conform to the current period presentation.     

 (b)  Refer to Table 7 footnote (b).     

46 

Table of Contents   

TABLE 11: GCSG NET INTEREST YIELD ON AVERAGE CARD MEMBER LOANS 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 (a)  Refer to Table 8 footnote (a).     

 (b)  Refer to Table 8 footnote (b).     

 (c)  Refer to Table 8 footnote (c).     

47 

Table of Contents   

GLOBAL COMMERCIAL SERVICES 

TABLE 12: GCS SELECTED INCOME STATEMENT DATA 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

GCS primarily issues a wide range of proprietary corporate and small business cards and provides payment and expense management services globally. In addition, GCS provides commercial financing products. 

TOTAL REVENUES NET OF INTEREST EXPENSE 

Non-interest revenues increased in 2018 compared to 2017, reflecting a 9 percent increase in discount revenue, primarily driven by growth in billed business from small and medium sized businesses, partially offset by a decline in the average discount rate. 

Net interest income increased in 2018 compared to 2017, primarily driven by an increase in average Card Member loans and higher yields, partially offset by higher interest expense, reflecting an increase in the cost of funds. 

Total revenues net of interest expense increased in 2017 compared to 2016, primarily driven by higher discount revenue due to increases in billed business, higher net card fees and higher other fees and commissions, primarily due to growth in the U.S. small business Platinum portfolio and higher delinquency fees, respectively. 

PROVISIONS FOR LOSSES 

Provisions for losses increased in both periods. The increase in 2018 compared to 2017 was primarily driven by growth in Card Member loans and receivables and the commercial financing portfolio, as well as higher net write-offs across both corporate and small business portfolios. The increase in 2017 compared to 2016 was primarily due to growth in both Card Member receivables and loans, as well as increases in net write-off and delinquency rates, all of which were partially offset by improving credit performance in the commercial financing portfolio. 

EXPENSES 

Marketing, business development, rewards and Card Member services expenses increased in 2018 compared to 2017, primarily driven by Card Member rewards expense, which increased 9 percent reflecting higher spending volumes, and marketing and business development expense, which increased primarily due to an increase in spending on growth initiatives. 

Salaries and employee benefits and other operating expenses increased in 2018 compared to 2017, primarily driven by higher technology and other servicing-related costs. 

Total expenses increased in 2017 compared to 2016, primarily driven by increased Card Member rewards expense due to the Platinum rewards enhancements and higher spending volumes, and the prior-year gains on the sales of the HFS portfolios. 

Income tax provision decreased in 2018 compared to 2017, primarily reflecting the resolution of certain prior years’ tax audits and the reduction in the U.S. federal statutory tax rate as a result of the Tax Act. 

48 

Table of Contents   

TABLE 13: GCS SELECTED STATISTICAL INFORMATION 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

  (a)  During 2018, we changed the methodology used to allocate certain corporate overhead costs and interest income and expense to the operating segments. Prior period amounts have been revised to conform to the current period presentation.     

  (b)  Effective July 1, 2017, GSBS loans and associated metrics reflect worldwide small business services loans. Prior to July 1, 2017, due to certain system limitations, small business services loans outside the U.S. and associated credit metrics are reflected within GCSG, and were not significant to either GCSG or GCS.     

  (c)  Refer to Table 7 footnote (b).     

  (d)  Refer to Table 8 footnote (a).     

  (e)  Refer to Table 8 footnote (b).     

  (f)  Refer to Table 8 footnote (c).     

  (g)  Refer to Table 7 footnote (c).     

  (h)  Represents the ratio of GCP charge card write-offs, consisting of principal (resulting from authorized transactions) and fee components, less recoveries, on Card Member receivables expressed as a percentage of gross amounts billed to corporate Card Members.     

49 

Table of Contents   

GLOBAL MERCHANT AND NETWORK SERVICES 

TABLE 14: GMNS SELECTED INCOME STATEMENT AND OTHER DATA 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

  (a)  During 2018, we changed the methodology used to allocate certain corporate overhead costs and interest income and expense to the operating segments, and made minor changes to the intercompany settlement process. Prior period amounts have been revised to conform to the current period presentation.     

GMNS operates a global payments network that processes and settles card transactions, acquires merchants and provides multi-channel marketing programs and capabilities, services and data analytics, leveraging our global integrated network. GMNS manages our partnership relationships with third-party card issuers, merchant acquirers and a prepaid reloadable and gift card program manager, licensing the American Express brand and extending the reach of the global network. GMNS also manages loyalty coalition businesses in certain countries. 

TOTAL REVENUES NET OF INTEREST EXPENSE 

Non-interest revenues increased in 2018 compared to 2017, primarily driven by an increase in discount revenue, which reflected growth in billed business, partially offset by a decline in the average discount rate and a modification of one of our GNS arrangements.  

Net interest income increased in 2018 compared to 2017, reflecting a higher interest expense credit relating to internal transfer pricing and funding rates, which resulted in a net benefit for GMNS due to its merchant payables. 

Total revenues net of interest expense was flat in 2017 compared to 2016, primarily driven by a decrease in non-interest revenues reflecting a prior-year contractual payment from a GNS partner, offset by an increase in net interest income reflecting a higher interest expense credit.  

EXPENSES 

Marketing, business development, rewards and Card Member services expenses increased in 2018 compared to 2017, primarily driven by payments related to a new partnership agreement with our prepaid reloadable and gift card program manager, partially offset by lower levels of spending on growth initiatives. 

Salaries and employee benefits and other operating expense decreased in 2018 compared to 2017, primarily driven by prior-year charges related to our U.S. loyalty coalition and prepaid businesses, partially offset by a prior-year benefit from a change in the liability related to non-delivery of goods and services by merchants. 

Total expenses decreased in 2017 compared to 2016, primarily driven by lower marketing and business development expenses, reflecting lower levels of spending on growth initiatives, partially offset by an increase in operating expenses reflecting charges related to the US. loyalty coalition and prepaid businesses. 

Income tax provision decreased in 2018 compared to 2017, primarily reflecting the resolution of certain prior years’ tax audits and the reduction in the U.S. federal statutory tax rate as a result of the Tax Act. 

50 

Table of Contents   

CORPORATE & OTHER 

Corporate functions and certain other businesses are included in Corporate & Other. 

Corporate & Other net expense was $0.6 billion, $3.6 billion and $1.1 billion in 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively. The decrease in 2018 compared to 2017 was primarily driven by the 2017 Tax Act charge and unrealized gains on certain equity investments, partially offset by a loss on a transaction involving the operations of our prepaid reloadable and gift card business and a foreign exchange loss related to the devaluation of the Argentine peso, which was deemed a highly inflationary currency as of July 1, 2018. The increase in 2017 compared to 2016 was primarily driven by the Tax Act charge, partially offset by higher restructuring charges in 2016. 

51 

Table of Contents   

CONSOLIDATED CAPITAL RESOURCES AND LIQUIDITY 

Our balance sheet management objectives are to maintain: 

  •  A solid and flexible equity capital profile;     

  •  A broad, deep and diverse set of funding sources to finance our assets and meet operating requirements; and     

  •  Liquidity programs that enable us to continuously meet expected future financing obligations and business requirements for at least a twelve-month period in the event we are unable to continue to raise new funds under our traditional funding programs during a substantial weakening in economic conditions.     

CAPITAL STRATEGY 

Our objective is to retain sufficient levels of capital generated through earnings and other sources to maintain a solid equity capital base and to provide flexibility to support future business growth. We believe capital allocated to growing businesses with a return on risk-adjusted equity in excess of our costs will generate shareholder value. 

The level and composition of our consolidated capital position are determined through our Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process, which takes into account our business activities, as well as marketplace conditions and requirements or expectations of credit rating agencies, regulators and shareholders, among others. Our consolidated capital position is also influenced by subsidiary capital requirements. As a bank holding company, we are also subject to regulatory requirements administered by the U.S. federal banking agencies. The Federal Reserve has established specific capital adequacy guidelines that involve quantitative measures of assets, liabilities and certain off-balance sheet items. 

We report our capital ratios using the Basel III capital definitions and the Basel III standardized approach for calculating risk-weighted assets. The Basel III minimum requirements were fully phased in as of January 1, 2018 and the Basel III buffers were fully phased in as of January 1, 2019. 

We also report capital adequacy standards on a parallel basis to regulators under Basel requirements for advanced approaches institutions. The parallel period will continue until we receive regulatory approval to exit parallel reporting, at which point we will begin publicly disclosing regulatory risk-based capital ratios using both the standardized and advanced approaches, and will be required to use the lower of the regulatory risk-based capital ratios based on the standardized or advanced approaches to determine whether we are in compliance with minimum capital requirements. As described in Part I, Item 1. "Supervision and Regulation," the Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief, and Consumer Protection Act and related proposed rules may exempt certain banking organizations, such as us, from the advanced approaches requirements. 

The following table presents our regulatory risk-based capital ratios and leverage ratios as of December 31, 2018. Effective April 1, 2018, our bank subsidiaries, American Express Centurion Bank and American Express Bank, FSB, were merged to become American Express National Bank (AENB). Refer to Note 23 to the “Consolidated Financial Statements” for additional information. 

TABLE 15: REGULATORY RISK-BASED CAPITAL AND LEVERAGE RATIOS 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 (a)  Basel III minimum capital requirement and additional transitional capital conservation buffer as defined by the Federal Reserve for calendar year 2018 for advanced approaches institutions.     

52 

Table of Contents   

TABLE 16: REGULATORY RISK-BASED CAPITAL COMPONENTS AND RISK-WEIGHTED ASSETS 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 (a)  Tier 2 capital is the sum of the allowance for loan and receivable losses (limited to 1.25 percent of risk-weighted assets) and $600 million of subordinated notes adjusted for capital held by insurance subsidiaries.     

We seek to maintain capital levels and ratios in excess of the minimum regulatory requirements and finance such capital in a cost efficient manner; failure to maintain minimum capital levels at American Express or AENB could affect our status as a financial holding company and cause the regulatory agencies with oversight of American Express or AENB to take actions that could limit our business operations. 

Our primary source of equity capital has been the generation of net income. Capital generated through net income and other sources, such as the exercise of stock options by employees, is used to maintain a strong balance sheet, support asset growth and engage in acquisitions, with excess available for distribution to shareholders through dividends and share repurchases. We currently expect that the portion of generated capital we allocate to support asset growth will be greater going forward than it has been historically due to projected asset growth. 

We maintain certain flexibility to shift capital across our businesses as appropriate. For example, we may infuse additional capital into subsidiaries to maintain capital at targeted levels in consideration of debt ratings and regulatory requirements. These infused amounts can affect the capital profile and liquidity levels at the American Express parent company level. 

The following are definitions for our regulatory risk-based capital ratios and leverage ratio, which are calculated as per standard regulatory guidance: 

Risk-Weighted Assets — Assets are weighted for risk according to a formula used by the Federal Reserve to conform to capital adequacy guidelines. On- and off-balance sheet items are weighted for risk, with off-balance sheet items converted to balance sheet equivalents, using risk conversion factors, before being allocated a risk-adjusted weight. Off-balance sheet exposures comprise a minimal part of the total risk-weighted assets. 

Common Equity Tier 1 Risk-Based Capital Ratio — Calculated as Common Equity Tier 1 capital (CET1), divided by risk-weighted assets. CET1 is the sum of common shareholders’ equity, adjusted for ineligible goodwill and intangible assets, certain deferred tax assets, as well as certain other comprehensive income items as follows: net unrealized gains/losses on securities and derivatives, and net unrealized pension and other postretirement benefit/losses, all net of tax. 

Tier 1 Risk-Based Capital Ratio — Calculated as Tier 1 capital divided by risk-weighted assets. Tier 1 capital is the sum of CET1, our perpetual preferred stock and third-party non-controlling interests in consolidated subsidiaries adjusted for capital held by insurance subsidiaries and deferred tax assets from net operating losses not deducted from CET1. The minimum requirement for the Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio is 1.5 percent higher than the minimum for the CET1 risk-based capital ratio. We have $1.6 billion of preferred shares outstanding to help address a portion of the Tier 1 capital requirements in excess of common equity requirements. 

Total Risk-Based Capital Ratio — Calculated as the sum of Tier 1 capital and Tier 2 capital, divided by risk-weighted assets. Tier 2 capital is the sum of the allowance for loan and receivable losses (limited to 1.25 percent of risk-weighted assets), a portion of the unrealized gains on equity securities and $600 million of subordinated notes, adjusted for capital held by insurance subsidiaries. 

Tier 1 Leverage Ratio — Calculated by dividing Tier 1 capital by our average total consolidated assets for the most recent quarter. 

Supplementary Leverage Ratio — Calculated by dividing Tier 1 capital by total leverage exposure under Basel III. Total leverage exposure reflects average total consolidated assets with adjustments for Tier 1 capital deductions, average off-balance sheet derivative exposures, average securities purchased under agreements to resell, and average credit equivalents of conditionally and unconditionally cancellable undrawn commitments.  

53 

Table of Contents   

In December 2018, federal banking regulators issued a final rule that would provide an optional three-year phase-in period for the day-one adverse regulatory capital effects upon adopting the Current Expected Credit Losses (CECL) model pursuant to new accounting guidance for the recognition of credit losses on financial instruments, effective January 1, 2020. The Federal Reserve also released a statement indicating that it plans to maintain the current framework for calculating credit loss allowances on loans in supervisory stress tests through the 2021 stress test cycle. See Note 1 to our “Consolidated Financial Statements” for further information about CECL. 

SHARE REPURCHASES AND DIVIDENDS 

We return capital to common shareholders through dividends and share repurchases. The share repurchases reduce common shares outstanding and more than offset the issuance of new shares as part of employee compensation plans. We suspended our share buyback program for the first half of 2018 in order to rebuild our capital levels and ratios pursuant to the 2018 CCAR capital plan process. 

During the year ended December 31, 2018, we returned $2.9 billion to our shareholders in the form of common stock dividends of $1.3 billion and share repurchases of $1.6 billion. We repurchased 15 million common shares at an average price of $104.09 in 2018. These dividend and share repurchase amounts collectively represent approximately 41 percent of total capital generated during the year. 

In addition, during the year ended December 31, 2018, we paid $80 million in dividends on $1.6 billion of non-cumulative perpetual preferred shares outstanding. For additional information on our preferred shares, refer to Note 17 and Note 22 to the “Consolidated Financial Statements.” 

FUNDING STRATEGY 

Our principal funding objective is to maintain broad and well-diversified funding sources to allow us to meet our maturing obligations, cost-effectively finance current and future asset growth in our global businesses, as well as to maintain a strong liquidity profile. The diversity of funding sources by type of instrument, by maturity and by investor base, among other factors, provides additional insulation from the impact of disruptions in any one type of instrument, maturity or investor. The mix of our funding in any period will seek to achieve cost efficiency consistent with both maintaining diversified sources and achieving our liquidity objectives. While we diversify our funding sources by maintaining scale and relevance in unsecured debt, asset securitizations and deposits, we currently expect that the Personal Savings High Yield Savings Account program will become a larger proportion of our funding over time. Our funding strategy and activities are integrated into our asset-liability management activities. We have in place a funding policy covering American Express Company and all of our subsidiaries. 

Our proprietary card businesses are the primary asset-generating businesses, with significant assets in both domestic and international Card Member lending and receivable activities. Our financing needs are in large part a consequence of our proprietary card-issuing businesses, and the maintenance of a liquidity position to support all of our business activities, such as merchant payments. We generally pay merchants for card transactions prior to reimbursement by Card Members and therefore fund the merchant payments during the period Card Member loans and receivables are outstanding. We also have additional financing needs associated with general corporate purposes. 

FUNDING PROGRAMS AND ACTIVITIES 

We meet our funding needs through a variety of sources, including direct and third-party distributed deposits and debt instruments, such as senior unsecured debentures, asset securitizations, borrowings through secured borrowing facilities and a long-term committed bank borrowing facility. 

We had the following consolidated debt and customer deposits outstanding as of December 31: 

TABLE 17: SUMMARY OF CONSOLIDATED DEBT AND CUSTOMER DEPOSITS 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

54 

Table of Contents   

We may redeem from time to time certain debt securities within 31 days prior to the original contractual maturity dates in accordance with the optional redemption provisions of those debt securities. 

Our funding plan for the full year 2019 includes, among other sources, approximately $6 billion to $13 billion of unsecured term debt issuance and approximately $4 billion to $11 billion of secured term debt issuance. Our funding plans are subject to various risks and uncertainties, such as future business growth, the impact of global economic, political and other events on market capacity, demand for securities offered by us, regulatory changes, ability to securitize and sell receivables, and the performance of receivables previously sold in securitization transactions. Many of these risks and uncertainties are beyond our control. 

Our equity capital and funding strategies are designed, among other things, to maintain appropriate and stable unsecured debt ratings from the major credit rating agencies: Moody’s Investor Services (Moody’s), Standard & Poor’s (S&P) and Fitch Ratings (Fitch). Such ratings help support our access to cost-effective unsecured funding as part of our overall funding strategy. Our asset securitization activities are rated separately. 

TABLE 18: UNSECURED DEBT RATINGS 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 (a)  American Express Travel Related Services Company, Inc.     

Downgrades in the ratings of our unsecured debt or asset securitization program securities could result in higher funding costs, as well as higher fees related to borrowings under our unused lines of credit. Declines in credit ratings could also reduce our borrowing capacity in the unsecured debt and asset securitization capital markets. We believe our funding mix, including the proportion of U.S. retail deposits insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC), should reduce the impact that credit rating downgrades would have on our funding capacity and costs. 

SHORT-TERM FUNDING PROGRAMS 

Short-term borrowings, such as commercial paper, are defined as any debt with an original maturity of twelve months or less, as well as interest-bearing overdrafts with banks. Our short-term funding programs are used primarily to meet working capital needs, such as managing seasonal variations in receivables balances. The amount of short-term borrowings issued in the future will depend on our funding strategy, our needs and market conditions. As of December 31, 2018, we had $0.8 billion in commercial paper outstanding and we had an average of $0.23 billion in commercial paper outstanding during 2018. Refer to Note 9 to the “Consolidated Financial Statements” for a further description of these borrowings. 

DEPOSIT PROGRAMS 

We offer deposits within our U.S. bank subsidiary, AENB. These funds are currently insured up to $250,000 per account holder through the FDIC. Our ability to obtain deposit funding and offer competitive interest rates is dependent on the capital level of AENB. We, through AENB, have a direct retail deposit program, American Express Personal Savings, which is our primary deposit product channel. The direct retail program makes FDIC-insured certificates of deposit (CDs) and high-yield savings account products available directly to consumers. We also source deposits through third-party distribution channels as needed to meet our overall funding objectives. As of December 31, 2018 we had $70.0 billion in customer deposits. Refer to Note 8 to the “Consolidated Financial Statements” for a further description of these deposits. 

LONG-TERM DEBT AND ASSET SECURITIZATION PROGRAMS 

As of December 31, 2018, we had $58.4 billion in long-term debt outstanding. During 2018, we and our subsidiaries issued $15.9 billion of unsecured debt and asset-backed securities with maturities ranging from 2 to 7 years. Refer to Note 9 to the “Consolidated Financial Statements” for a further description of these borrowings. 

We periodically securitize Card Member loans and receivables arising from our card business, as the securitization market provides us with cost-effective funding. Securitization of Card Member loans and receivables is accomplished through the transfer of those assets to a trust, which in turn issues securities collateralized by the transferred assets to third-party investors. The proceeds from issuance are distributed to us, through our wholly-owned subsidiaries, as consideration for the transferred assets. Refer to Note 6 to the “Consolidated Financial Statements” for a further description of these borrowings. 

55 

Table of Contents   

Our 2018 long-term debt and asset securitization issuances were as follows: 

TABLE 19: DEBT ISSUANCES 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

LIQUIDITY MANAGEMENT 

Our liquidity objective is to maintain access to a diverse set of on- and off-balance sheet liquidity sources. We seek to maintain liquidity sources in amounts sufficient to meet our expected future financial obligations and business requirements for liquidity for a period of at least twelve months in the event we are unable to raise new funds under our regular funding programs during a substantial weakening in economic conditions. 

Our liquidity management strategy includes a number of elements, including, but not limited to: 

   Maintaining diversified funding sources (refer to the “Funding Strategy” section for more details);      

   Maintaining unencumbered liquid assets and off-balance sheet liquidity sources;     

   Projecting cash inflows and outflows under a variety of economic and market scenarios;     

   Establishing clear objectives for liquidity risk management, including compliance with regulatory requirements; and     

   Incorporating liquidity risk management as appropriate into our capital adequacy framework.     

We seek to maintain access to a diverse set of on-balance sheet and off-balance sheet liquidity sources, including cash and other liquid assets, committed bank credit facilities and asset securitization conduit facilities. Through our U.S. bank subsidiary, AENB, we also hold collateral eligible for use at the Federal Reserve’s discount window. 

The amount and type of liquidity resources we maintain can vary over time, based upon the results of stress scenarios required under Dodd Frank and other various regulatory liquidity requirements, such as the Liquidity Coverage Ratio, as well as additional stress scenarios required under our liquidity risk policy. These stress scenarios possess distinct characteristics, varying by cash flow assumptions, time horizon and qualifying liquidity sources, among other factors. Scenarios under our liquidity risk policy include market-wide, firm-specific and combined liquidity stresses. The LCR rule prescribes cash flow assumptions over a 30-day period and establishes qualifying criteria for high-quality liquid assets. We consider other factors in determining the amount and type of liquidity we maintain, such as economic and financial market conditions, seasonality in business operations, growth in our businesses, potential acquisitions or dispositions, the cost and availability of alternative liquidity sources and credit rating agency guidelines and requirements. 

The investment income we receive on liquidity resources is less than the interest expense on the sources of funding for these balances. The net interest costs to maintain these resources have been substantial. The level of future net interest costs depends on the amount of liquidity resources we maintain and the difference between our cost of funding these amounts and their investment yields. 

Securitized Borrowing Capacity 

As of December 31, 2018, we maintained our committed, revolving, secured borrowing facility, with a maturity date of July 15, 2020, which gives us the right to sell up to $3.0 billion face amount of eligible AAA notes from the American Express Issuance Trust II (the Charge Trust). We also maintained our committed, revolving, secured borrowing facility, with a maturity date of September 15, 2020, which gives us the right to sell up to $2.0 billion face amount of eligible AAA certificates from the American Express Credit Account Master Trust (the Lending Trust). Both facilities are used in the ordinary course of business to fund seasonal working capital needs, as well as to further enhance our contingent funding resources. As of December 31, 2018, $1.5 billion was drawn on the Charge Trust facility, which was subsequently repaid on January 15, 2019. No amounts were drawn on the Lending Trust facility. 

56 

Table of Contents   

Federal Reserve Discount Window 

As an insured depository institution, AENB may borrow from the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, subject to the amount of qualifying collateral that it may pledge. The Federal Reserve has indicated that both credit and charge card receivables are a form of qualifying collateral for secured borrowings made through the discount window. Whether specific assets will be considered qualifying collateral and the amount that may be borrowed against the collateral, remain at the discretion of the Federal Reserve. 

We had approximately $70.5 billion as of December 31, 2018 in U.S. credit card loans and charge card receivables that could be sold over time through our securitization trusts or pledged in return for secured borrowings to provide further liquidity, subject in each case to applicable market conditions and eligibility criteria. 

Committed Bank Credit Facility 

In addition to the secured borrowing facilities described above, we maintained a committed syndicated bank credit facility as of December 31, 2018 of $3.5 billion, with a maturity date of October 16, 2020. The availability of this credit line is subject to our compliance with certain financial covenants, principally the maintenance by American Express Credit Corporation (Credco) of a certain ratio of combined earnings and fixed charges to fixed charges. As of December 31, 2018, we were in compliance with each of our covenants. As of December 31, 2018, no amounts were drawn on the committed credit facility. The capacity of the facility mainly served to further enhance our contingent funding resources. 

Our committed bank credit facility does not contain a material adverse change clause, which might otherwise preclude borrowing under the credit facility, nor is it dependent on our credit rating. 

CASH FLOWS 

The following table summarizes our cash flow activity, followed by a discussion of the major drivers impacting operating, investing and financing cash flows. 

TABLE 20: CASH FLOWS 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

Cash Flows from Operating Activities 

Our cash flows from operating activities primarily include net income adjusted for (i) non-cash items included in net income, such as provisions for losses, depreciation and amortization, deferred taxes and stock-based compensation and (ii) changes in the balances of operating assets and liabilities, which can vary significantly in the normal course of business due to the amount and timing of payments. 

The decrease in net cash provided by operating activities was driven by the amount and timing of payments of accounts payable and other liabilities, partially offset by an increase in net income from normal business operations. 

Cash Flows from Investing Activities 

Our cash flows from investing activities primarily include changes in Card Member receivables and loans, as well as changes in our available-for-sale investment securities portfolio. 

The increase in net cash used in investing activities was driven by a larger net increase in the investment securities portfolio, partially offset by less growth in Card Member receivables and loans. 

Cash Flows from Financing Activities 

Our cash flows from financing activities primarily include changes in customer deposits, long-term debt and short-term borrowings, as well as dividend payments and share repurchases. 

The decrease in net cash provided by financing activities was primarily driven by a lower increase in customer deposits and long-term debt, partially offset by a lower level of share repurchases. 

57 

Table of Contents   

OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS AND CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS 

We have identified both on- and off-balance sheet transactions, arrangements, obligations and other relationships that may have a material current or future effect on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, results of operations, or liquidity and capital resources. 

CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS 

The table below identifies transactions that represent our contractually committed future obligations. Purchase obligations include our agreements to purchase goods and services that are enforceable and legally binding and that specify significant terms, including: fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased; fixed, minimum or variable price provisions; and the approximate timing of the transaction. 

TABLE 21: COMMITTED FUTURE OBLIGATIONS BY YEAR 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 (a)  The table above excludes approximately $0.7 billion of tax liabilities related to the uncertainty in income taxes as inherent complexities and the number of tax years currently open for examination in multiple jurisdictions do not permit reasonable estimates of payments, if any, to be made over a range of years. Refer to Note 21 to the “Consolidated Financial Statements” for additional information.     

 (b)  Estimated interest payments were calculated using the effective interest rates as of December 31, 2018, and includes the effect of existing interest rate swaps. Actual cash flows may differ from estimated payments.     

 (c)  As of December 31, 2018, there were no minimum required contributions, and no contributions are currently planned, for the U.S. American Express Retirement Plan. For the U.S. American Express Retirement Restoration Plan and non-U.S. defined benefit pension and postretirement benefit plans, contributions in 2019 are anticipated to be approximately $46 million, and this amount has been included within other long-term liabilities. Remaining obligations under defined benefit pension and postretirement benefit plans aggregating $517 million have not been included in the table above as the timing of such obligations is not determinable. Additionally, other long-term liabilities do not include $8.4 billion of Membership Rewards liabilities, which are not considered long-term liabilities as Card Members in good standing can redeem points immediately, without restrictions, and because the timing of point redemption is not determinable.     

 (d)  As of December 31, 2018, we had committed to provide funding related to certain tax credit investments resulting in a $237 million unfunded commitment included in other long-term liabilities. In addition to this amount, there was a further $59 million of contractual off-balance sheet obligations that have not been included in the table above as the timing of such obligations is not determinable. Refer to Note 7 to the “Consolidated Financial Statements” for additional information.     

 (e)  The purchase obligation amounts represent either the early termination fees or non-cancelable minimum contractual obligations, as applicable, by period under contracts that were in effect as of December 31, 2018.     

 (f)  Represents our estimated obligation under the Tax Act to pay the deemed repatriation tax on certain non-US earnings over eight years. Refer to Note 21 to the “Consolidated Financial Statements” for additional information.     

In addition to the contractual obligations noted in Table 21, we have financial commitments related to agreements with certain cobrand partners under which we are required to make a certain level of minimum payments over the life of the agreement, generally ranging from five to eight years. We make payments to such cobrand partners primarily based on Card Members' spending and earning rewards on their cobrand cards and as we acquire new Card Members. In the event these payments do not fully satisfy the commitment, we will pay the cobrand partner up to the amount of the commitment in exchange for an equivalent value of reward points. As of December 31, 2018, we had $5.0 billion in such commitments outstanding. 

We also have off-balance sheet arrangements that include guarantees, indemnifications and certain other off-balance sheet arrangements. 

GUARANTEES 

As of December 31, 2018, we had guarantees and indemnifications totaling approximately $1 billion related primarily to real estate and business dispositions in the ordinary course of business. Refer to Note 16 to the “Consolidated Financial Statements” for further discussion regarding our guarantees. 

58 

Table of Contents   

CERTAIN OTHER OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS 

As of December 31, 2018, we had approximately $302 billion of unused credit outstanding as part of established lending product agreements. Total unused credit does not represent potential future cash requirements, as a significant portion of this unused credit will likely not be drawn. Our charge card products generally have no pre-set limit, and therefore are not reflected in unused credit available to Card Members. 

We provide Card Member protection plans that cover losses associated with purchased products. The maximum potential liability related to these plans is the portion of annual billed business for which timely and valid disputes may be raised under applicable law and relevant customer agreements. However, based on historical experience, we believe that this total amount is not representative of our actual potential loss exposure. The actual amount of the potential exposure cannot be quantified as the billed business volumes which may include or result in claims under these plans are not sufficiently estimable. Losses related to these protection plans were immaterial for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016. 

Refer to Notes 7 and 13 to the “Consolidated Financial Statements” for discussion regarding our other off-balance sheet arrangements. 

RISK MANAGEMENT 

GOVERNANCE 

We use our comprehensive Enterprise-wide Risk Management (ERM) program to identify, aggregate, monitor, and manage risks. The program also defines our risk appetite, governance, culture and capabilities. The implementation and execution of the ERM program is headed by our Chief Risk Officer. 

Risk management is overseen by our Board of Directors through three Board committees: the Risk Committee, the Audit and Compliance Committee, and the Compensation and Benefits Committee. Each committee consists entirely of independent directors and provides regular reports to the full Board regarding matters reviewed at their committee. The committees meet regularly in private sessions with our Chief Risk Officer, the Chief Compliance & Ethics Officer, the Chief Audit Executive and other senior management with regard to our risk management processes, controls, talent and capabilities. The Board monitors the “tone at the top,” our risk culture, and oversees emerging and strategic risks. 

The Risk Committee of our Board of Directors provides oversight of our enterprise-wide risk management framework, processes and methodologies. The Risk Committee approves our ERM policy. The ERM policy governs risk governance, risk oversight and risk appetite for risks, including individual credit risk, institutional credit risk, market risk, liquidity risk, operational risk, reputational risk, compliance risk, model risk, asset/liability risk and strategic and business risk. Risk appetite defines the authorized risk limits to control exposures within our risk capacity and risk tolerance, including stressed forward-looking scenarios. In addition, it establishes principles for risk taking in the aggregate and for each risk type, and is supported by a comprehensive system for monitoring limits, escalation triggers and assessing control programs. 

The Risk Committee reviews and concurs in the appointment, replacement, performance and compensation of our Chief Risk Officer and receives regular updates from the Chief Risk Officer on key risks, transactions and exposures. 

The Risk Committee reviews our risk profile against the tolerances specified in the Risk Appetite Framework, including significant risk exposures, risk trends in our portfolios and major risk concentrations. 

The Risk Committee also provides oversight of our compliance with Basel capital and liquidity standards, our Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process, including its Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review (CCAR) submissions, and resolution planning. 

The Audit and Compliance Committee of our Board of Directors reviews and approves compliance policies, which include our Compliance Risk Tolerance Statement. In addition, the Audit and Compliance Committee reviews the effectiveness of our Corporate-wide Compliance Risk Management Program. More broadly, this committee is responsible for assisting the Board in its oversight responsibilities relating to the integrity of our financial statements and financial reporting process, internal and external auditing, including the qualifications and independence of the independent registered public accounting firm and the performance of our internal audit services function, and the integrity of our systems of internal controls. 

The Audit and Compliance Committee provides oversight of our Internal Audit Group. The Audit and Compliance Committee reviews and concurs in the appointment, replacement, performance and compensation of our Chief Audit Executive and approves Internal Audit’s annual audit plan, charter, policies and budget. The Audit and Compliance Committee also receives regular updates on the audit plan’s status and results including significant reports issued by Internal Audit and the status of our corrective actions. 

59 

Table of Contents   

The Compensation and Benefits Committee of our Board of Directors works with the Chief Risk Officer to ensure our overall compensation programs, as well as those covering our risk-taking employees, appropriately balance risk with business incentives and how business performance is achieved without taking imprudent or excessive risk. Our Chief Risk Officer is actively involved in setting goals. Our Chief Risk Officer also reviews the current and forward-looking risk profiles of each business unit, and provides input into performance evaluation. The Chief Risk Officer meets with the Compensation and Benefits Committee and attests whether performance goals and results have been achieved without taking imprudent risks. The Compensation and Benefits Committee uses a risk-balanced incentive compensation framework to decide on our bonus pools and the compensation of senior executives. 

There are several internal management committees, including the Enterprise-wide Risk Management Committee (ERMC), chaired by our Chief Risk Officer. The ERMC is the highest-level management committee to oversee all firm-wide risks and is responsible for risk governance, risk oversight and risk appetite. It maintains the enterprise-wide risk appetite framework and monitors compliance with limits and escalations defined in it. The ERMC oversees implementation of risk policies company-wide. The ERMC reviews key risk exposures, trends and concentrations, significant compliance matters, and provides guidance on the steps to monitor, control and report major risks. 

As defined in the ERM policy, we follow the “three lines of defense” approach to risk management. The first line of defense comprises functions and management committees directly initiating risk taking. Business unit presidents, our Chief Credit Officer, Chief Market Risk Officer and Functional Risk Officer are part of the first line of defense. The second line comprises independent functions overseeing risk-taking activities of the first line. The Chief Risk Officer, the Chief Compliance & Ethics Officer, the Chief Operational Risk Officer and certain control groups, both at the enterprise level and within regulated entities, are part of the second line of defense. The global risk oversight team oversees the policies, strategies, frameworks, models, processes and capabilities deployed by the first line teams and provides challenges and independent assessments on how the first line of defense is managing risks. In addition, the Asset Liability Committee, chaired by our Chief Financial Officer, is responsible for managing market, liquidity and asset/liability risk, capital and resolution planning. 

Our Internal Audit Group constitutes the third line of defense, and provides independent assessments and effective challenge of the first and second lines of defense. 

CREDIT RISK MANAGEMENT PROCESS 

Credit risk is defined as loss due to obligor or counterparty default or changes in the credit quality of a counterparty or security. Our credit risks are divided into two broad categories: individual and institutional. Each has distinct risk management capabilities, strategies, and tools. Business units that create individual or institutional credit risk exposures of significant importance are supported by dedicated risk management teams, each led by a Chief Credit Officer. 

INDIVIDUAL CREDIT RISK 

Individual credit risk arises from consumer and small business charge cards, credit cards, lines of credit, and term loans. These portfolios consist of millions of customers across multiple geographies, industries and levels of net worth. We benefit from the high-quality profile of our customers, which is driven by our brand, premium customer servicing, product features and risk management capabilities, which span underwriting, customer management and collections. Externally, the risk in these portfolios is generally correlated to broad economic trends, such as unemployment rates and gross domestic product (GDP) growth. 

The business unit leaders and their Chief Credit Officers take the lead in managing the credit risk process. These Chief Credit Officers are guided by the Individual Credit Risk Committee (ICRC), which is responsible for implementation and enforcement of the Individual Credit Risk Management Policy. The ICRC ensures compliance with ERMC guidelines and procedures and escalates to the ERMC as appropriate. The Individual Credit Risk Management Policy is further supported by subordinate policies and operating manuals covering decision logic and processes of credit extension, including prospecting, new account approvals, point-of-sale authorizations, credit line management and collections. The subordinate risk policies and operating manuals are designed to ensure consistent application of risk management principles and standardized reporting of asset quality and loss recognition. 

Credit risk management is supported by sophisticated proprietary scoring and decision-making models that use up-to-date information on prospects and customers, such as spending and payment history and data feeds from credit bureaus. We have developed data-driven economic decision logic for customer interactions to better serve our customers. 

INSTITUTIONAL CREDIT RISK 

Institutional credit risk arises principally within our GCS, GMS, GNS and Foreign Exchange Services businesses, as well as investment and liquidity management activities. Unlike individual credit risk, institutional credit risk is characterized by a lower loss frequency but higher severity. It is affected both by general economic conditions and by client-specific events. The absence of large losses in any given year or over several years is not necessarily representative of the level of risk of institutional portfolios, given the infrequency of loss events in such portfolios.  

60 

Table of Contents   

Similar to Individual Credit Risk, business units taking institutional credit risks are supported by Chief Credit Officers. These officers are guided by the Institutional Risk Management Committee (IRMC), which is responsible for implementation and enforcement of the Institutional Credit Risk Management Policy and for providing guidance to the credit officers of each business unit with substantial institutional credit risk exposures. The committee, along with the business unit Chief Credit Officers, makes investment decisions in core risk capabilities, ensures proper implementation of the underwriting standards and contractual rights for risk mitigation, monitors risk exposures, and determines risk mitigation actions. The IRMC formally reviews large institutional risk exposures to ensure compliance with ERMC guidelines and procedures and escalates them to the ERMC as appropriate. At the same time, the IRMC provides guidance to the business unit risk management teams to optimize risk-adjusted returns on capital. A centralized risk rating unit provides risk assessment of our institutional obligors. 

Exposure to the Airline and Travel Industry 

We have multiple important cobrand, rewards, merchant acceptance and corporate payments arrangements with airlines. The ERM program evaluates the risks posed by our airline partners and the overall airline strategy companywide through comprehensive business analysis of global airlines, and the travel industry more broadly, including cruise lines, travel agencies and tour operators. Our largest airline partner is Delta, and this relationship includes exclusive cobrand credit card partnerships and other arrangements including Membership Rewards redemption, merchant acceptance, travel and corporate payments. See "We face intense competition for partner relationships, which could result in a loss or renegotiation of these arrangements that could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations" under “Risk Factors” for additional information. 

Debt Exposure 

As part of our ongoing risk management process, we monitor our financial exposure to both sovereign and non-sovereign customers and counterparties, and measure and manage concentrations of risk by geographic regions, as well as by economic sectors and industries. A primary focus area for monitoring is credit deterioration due to weaknesses in economic and fiscal profiles. We evaluate countries based on the market assessment of the riskiness of their sovereign debt and our assessment of the economic and financial outlook and closely monitor those deemed high risk. As of December 31, 2018, we considered our gross credit exposures to government entities, financial institutions and corporations in those countries deemed high risk to be individually and collectively not material. 

OPERATIONAL RISK MANAGEMENT PROCESS 

We define operational risk as the risk of not achieving business objectives due to inadequate or failed processes, people, or information systems, or the external environment, including failures to comply with laws and regulations. Operational risk is inherent in all business activities and can impact an organization through direct or indirect financial loss, brand damage, customer dissatisfaction, or legal and regulatory penalties. 

To appropriately measure and manage operational risk, we have implemented a comprehensive operational risk framework that is defined in the Operational Risk Management Policy approved by the Risk Committee. The Operational Risk Management Committee (ORMC), chaired by the Chief Operational Risk Officer, coordinates with all control groups on effective risk assessments and controls and oversees the preventive, responsive and mitigation efforts by Operational Excellence teams in the business units and staff groups. 

We use the operational risk framework to identify, measure, monitor and report inherent and emerging operational risks. This framework, supervised by the ORMC, consists of (a) operational risk event capture, (b) a project office to coordinate issue management and control enhancements, (c) key risk indicators, and (d) process and entity-level risk assessments. 

The framework requires the assessment of operational risk events to determine root causes, impact to customers and/or us, and resolution plan accountability to correct any defect, remediate customers, and enhance controls and testing to mitigate future issues. The impact is assessed from an operational, financial, brand, regulatory compliance and legal perspective. 

INFORMATION AND CYBER SECURITY 

We have implemented an Information Security Program and Operating Model that is designed to protect the confidentiality, integrity and availability of information and information systems from unauthorized access, use, disclosure, disruption, modification or destruction. 

Our Information Security Program and Operating Model are based on the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) Cybersecurity Common Standards Framework, which consist of controls designed to identify, protect, detect, respond and recover from information and cyber security incidents. The framework defines risks and associated controls which are embedded in our processes and technology. Those controls are measured and monitored by a combination of subject matter experts and a security operations center with our integrated cyber detection, response and recovery capabilities. 

Chaired by the Chief Information Security Officer, our Information Security Risk Management Committee, a sub-committee of the ORMC, provides governance for our information security risk management program. The Information Security and Technology Oversight team provides independent challenge and assessment of the information, cyber security and technology risk management programs. 

See “A major information or cyber security incident or an increase in fraudulent activity could lead to reputational damage to our brand and significant legal, regulatory and financial exposure, and could reduce the use and acceptance of our charge and credit cards” under “Risk Factors” for additional information. 

61 

Table of Contents   

PRIVACY AND DATA GOVERNANCE 

Our Privacy Framework and Operating Model follow a similar structure. Chaired by the Chief Privacy Officer, our Privacy Risk Management Committee, a sub-committee of the ORMC, provides oversight and governance for our privacy program. The committee is responsible for the governance over the collection, notice, use, sharing, transfer, confidentiality and retention of personal data. 

Our Enterprise Data Governance Framework and Policy defines governance requirements for data used in critical processes. 

COMPLIANCE RISK MANAGEMENT PROCESS 

We define compliance risk as the risk of legal or reputational harm, fines, monetary penalties and payment of damages or other forms of sanction as a result of non-compliance with applicable laws, regulations, rules or standards of conduct. 

We view our ability to effectively mitigate compliance risk as an important aspect of our business model. Our Global Compliance and Ethics organization is responsible for establishing and maintaining our corporate-wide Compliance Risk Management Program. Pursuant to this program, we seek to manage and mitigate compliance risk by assessing, controlling, monitoring, measuring and reporting the legal and regulatory risks to which we are exposed. The Compliance Risk Management Committee (CRMC), chaired by the Chief Compliance and Ethics Officer, is responsible for identifying, evaluating, managing, and escalating compliance risks. The CRMC has a dual reporting relationship directly to both the ERMC and the Audit and Compliance Committee. 

We have a comprehensive Anti-Money Laundering program that monitors and reports suspicious activity to the appropriate government authorities. As part of that program, the Global Risk Oversight team provides independent risk assessment of the rules used by the Anti-Money Laundering team. In addition, the Internal Audit Group reviews the processes for practices consistent with regulatory guidance. 

REPUTATIONAL RISK MANAGEMENT PROCESS 

We define reputational risk as the risk that negative stakeholder reaction to our products, services, client and partner relationships, business activities and policies, management and workplace culture, or our response to unexpected events, could cause sustained, critical media coverage, a decline in revenue or investment, talent attrition, litigation, or government or regulatory scrutiny. 

We view protecting our reputation for excellent customer service, trust, security and high integrity as core to our vision of providing the world’s best customer experience and fundamental to our long-term success. 

Our business leaders are responsible for considering the reputational risk implications of business activities and strategies and ensuring the relevant subject matter experts are engaged as needed. The ERMC is responsible for ensuring reputational risk considerations are included in the scope of appropriate subordinate risk policies and committees and properly reflected in all decisions escalated to the ERMC. 

MARKET RISK MANAGEMENT PROCESS 

Market risk is the risk to earnings or asset and liability values resulting from movements in market prices. Our market risk exposures include interest rate risk and foreign exchange risk. Interest rate risk is driven by the relationship between interest rates on assets (such as loans, receivables and investment securities) and interest rates on liabilities (such as debt and deposits). Foreign exchange risk arises from transactions, funding, investments and earnings in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. 

Our Asset-Liability Management (ALM) and Market Risk policies establish the framework that guides and governs market risk management, including quantitative limits and escalation triggers. These policies are approved by the Risk Committee of the Board of Directors or Market Risk Management Committee. 

Market risk is managed by the Market Risk Management Committee. The Market Risk Oversight Officer provides an independent risk assessment and oversight over the policies and exposure management for market risk and ALM activities, as well as overseeing compliance with the Volcker Rule and other regulatory requirements. Market risk management is also guided and governed by policies covering the use of derivative financial instruments, funding, liquidity and investments. 

We analyze a variety of interest rate scenarios to inform us of the potential impacts from interest rate changes on earnings and the value of assets, liabilities and the economic value of equity. Our interest rate exposure can vary over time as a result of, among other things, the proportion of our total funding provided by variable-and fixed-rate debt and deposits compared to our Card Member loans and receivables. Interest rate swaps are used from time to time to effectively convert debt issuances to (or from) variable-rate, from (or to) fixed-rate. We do not engage in derivative financial instruments for trading purposes other than with respect to our Foreign Exchange International Payments business activities. Refer to Note 14 to the “Consolidated Financial Statements” for further discussion of our derivative financial instruments. 

62 

Table of Contents   

As of December 31, 2018, a hypothetical, immediate 100 basis point increase in market interest rates would have a detrimental effect on our annual net interest income of approximately $177 million. This measure first projects net interest income over the following twelve-month time horizon considering forecasted business growth and anticipated future market interest rates. The detrimental impact from a rate increase is then measured by instantaneously increasing the anticipated future interest rates by 100 basis points. It is further assumed that our interest-rate sensitive assets and the majority of our liabilities that reprice within the twelve-month horizon generally reprice by 100 basis points. Our estimated repricing risk assumes that certain deposit liabilities reprice at a lower magnitude than benchmark rate movements consistent with historical deposit repricing experience in the industry and within our own portfolio. Actual changes in our net interest income will depend on many factors, and therefore may differ from our estimated risk to changes in market interest rates. 

In addition to parallel rate changes, our net interest income is subject to changes in the relationship between market benchmark rates. For example, movements in Prime rate change the yield on a large portion of our variable-rate U.S. lending receivables and loans, while LIBOR rates determine the effective interest rate on a significant portion of our outstanding funding. Differences in the rate of change of these two benchmark indices, commonly referred to as basis risk, would thus impact our net interest income. The detrimental effect on our net interest income of a hypothetical 10 basis point decrease in the spread between Prime and LIBOR over the next twelve months is estimated to be $27 million. We currently have approximately $45 billion of Prime-based, variable-rate U.S. lending receivables and loans and $27 billion of LIBOR-indexed debt, including asset securitizations. The replacement of LIBOR as a benchmark rate can have a further detrimental impact on our LIBOR-indexed debt if rates suddenly rise as new market activity transfers to other benchmark curves, such as the Secured Overnight Financing Rate. 

Foreign exchange exposures arise in four principal ways: 1) Card Member spending in currencies that are not the billing currency, 2) cross-currency transactions and balances from our funding activities, 3) cross-currency investing activities, such as in the equity of foreign subsidiaries, and 4) revenues generated and expenses incurred in foreign currencies, which impact earnings. 

These foreign exchange risks are managed primarily by entering into foreign exchange spot transactions or hedged with foreign exchange forward contracts when the hedge costs are economically justified and in notional amounts designed to offset pretax impacts from currency movements in the period in which they occur. As of December 31, 2018 and 2017, foreign currency derivative instruments with total notional amounts of approximately $29 billion and $30 billion were outstanding, respectively. 

With respect to Card Member spending and cross-currency transactions, including related foreign exchange forward contracts outstanding, a hypothetical 10 percent strengthening of the U.S. dollar would result in an immaterial impact to projected earnings as of December 31, 2018. With respect to translation exposure of foreign subsidiary equity balances, including related foreign exchange forward contracts outstanding, a hypothetical 10 percent strengthening of the U.S. dollar would result in an immaterial reduction in other comprehensive income and equity as of December 31, 2018. With respect to earnings denominated in foreign currencies, the adverse impact on pretax income of a hypothetical 10 percent strengthening of the U.S. dollar related to anticipated overseas operating results for the next twelve months would be approximately $140 million as of December 31, 2018. We refined our process to forecast future earnings denominated in foreign currencies that resulted in a reclassification of certain forecasted expenses from U.S. dollar to foreign currencies. The same sensitivity analysis as of December 31, 2017, using the refined process, would have been approximately $154 million. 

To a much lesser extent, we are also subject to market risk arising from activities conducted by our Foreign Exchange International Payments business. We aim to minimize market risk from these activities through hedging, where appropriate, and the establishment of limits to define and protect the company from excessive exposure. 

The actual impact of interest rate and foreign exchange rate changes will depend on, among other factors, the timing of rate changes, the extent to which different rates do not move in the same direction or in the same direction to the same degree, changes in the cost, volume and mix of our hedging activities and changes in the volume and mix of our businesses. 

FUNDING & LIQUIDITY RISK MANAGEMENT PROCESS 

Liquidity risk is defined as our inability to meet our ongoing financial and business obligations as they become due at a reasonable cost. 

Our Board-approved Liquidity Risk Policy establishes the framework that guides and governs liquidity risk management. 

Liquidity risk is managed by the Funding and Liquidity Committee. In addition, the Market Risk Oversight Officer provides independent oversight of liquidity risk management. We manage liquidity risk by maintaining access to a diverse set of cash, readily-marketable securities and contingent sources of liquidity, such that we can continuously meet our business requirements and expected future financing obligations for at least a twelve-month period in the event we are unable to raise new funds under our regular funding programs during a substantial weakening in economic conditions. We consider the trade-offs between maintaining too much liquidity, which can be costly and limit financial flexibility, and having inadequate liquidity, which may result in financial distress during a liquidity event. 

Liquidity risk is managed at an aggregate consolidated level as well as at certain subsidiaries in order to ensure that sufficient and accessible liquidity resources are maintained. The Funding and Liquidity Committee reviews forecasts of our aggregate and subsidiary cash positions and financing requirements, approves funding plans designed to satisfy those requirements under normal and stressed conditions, establishes guidelines to identify the amount of liquidity resources required and monitors positions and determines any actions to be taken.  

63 

Table of Contents   

MODEL RISK MANAGEMENT PROCESS 

We define model risk as the risk of adverse consequences, such as financial loss, poor business and strategic decision making, or damage to our reputation, from decisions based on incorrect or misused model outputs and reports. 

We manage model risk through a comprehensive model governance framework, including policies and procedures for model development, independent model validation and change management capabilities that seek to minimize erroneous model methodology, outputs and misuse. We also assess model performance on an ongoing basis. 

STRATEGIC AND BUSINESS RISK MANAGEMENT PROCESS 

Strategic and business risk is the risk related to our inability to achieve our business objectives due to poor strategic decisions, including decisions related to mergers, acquisitions, and divestitures, poor implementation of strategic decisions or declining demand for our products and services. 

Strategic decisions are reviewed and approved by business leaders and various committees and must be aligned with company policies. We seek to manage strategic and business risks through risk controls embedded in these processes as well as overall risk management oversight over business goals. Existing product performance is reviewed periodically by committees and business leaders. Mergers, acquisitions and divestitures can only be approved following Deal Committee due diligence, a comprehensive risk assessment by operational, market, credit and oversight leaders provided to the Chief Risk Officer and approval by either the Chief Risk Officer or appropriate risk committees. All new products and material changes in business processes are reviewed and approved by the New Products Committee and appropriate credit or risk committees. 

64 

Table of Contents   

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES 

Refer to Note 1 to the “Consolidated Financial Statements” for a summary of our significant accounting policies. Certain of our accounting policies requiring significant management assumptions and judgments are as follows: 

RESERVES FOR CARD MEMBER LOSSES 

Reserves for Card Member losses represent our best estimate of the probable losses inherent in our outstanding portfolio of Card Member loans and receivables, as of the balance sheet date. 

In estimating these losses, we use statistical and analytical models that analyze portfolio performance and reflect our judgment regarding the quantitative components of the reserve. The models take into account several factors, including delinquency-based loss migration rates, loss emergence periods and average losses and recoveries over an appropriate historical period. We also consider whether to adjust the quantitative reserve for certain external and internal qualitative factors that may increase or decrease the reserves for losses on Card Member loans and receivables. Refer to Note 4 to the "Consolidated Financial Statements" for additional information. 

The process of estimating these reserves requires a high degree of judgment. To the extent historical credit experience, updated for any external and internal qualitative factors such as environmental trends, is not indicative of future performance, actual losses could differ significantly from our judgments and expectations, resulting in either higher or lower future provisions for Card Member losses in any quarter. 

As of December 31, 2018, a 10 percent increase in our estimate of losses inherent in the outstanding portfolio of Card Member loans and receivables, evaluated collectively for impairment, would increase reserves for losses with a corresponding change to provisions for losses by approximately $271 million. This sensitivity analysis is provided as a hypothetical scenario to assess the sensitivity of the provisions for losses. It does not represent our expectations for losses in the future, nor does it include how other portfolio factors such as delinquency-based loss migration rates or recoveries, or the amount of outstanding balances, may impact the level of reserves for losses and the corresponding impact on the provisions for losses. 

LIABILITY FOR MEMBERSHIP REWARDS 

The Membership Rewards program is our largest card-based rewards program. Card Members can earn points for purchases charged on their enrolled card products. A significant portion of our cards, by their terms, allow Card Members to earn bonus points for purchases at merchants in particular industry categories. Membership Rewards points are redeemable for a broad variety of rewards, including travel, shopping, gift cards, and covering eligible charges. Points typically do not expire, and there is no limit on the number of points a Card Member may earn. Membership Rewards expense is driven by charge volume on enrolled cards, customer participation in the program and contractual arrangements with redemption partners. 

We record a Membership Rewards liability that represents the estimated cost of points earned that are expected to be redeemed by Card Members in the future. The Membership Rewards liability is impacted over time by enrollment levels, attrition, the volume of points earned and redeemed, and the associated redemption costs. We estimate the Membership Rewards liability by determining the URR and the WAC per point, which are applied to the points of current enrollees. Refer to Note 10 to the “Consolidated Financial Statements” for additional information. 

The URR assumption is used to estimate the number of points earned by current enrollees that will ultimately be redeemed in future periods. We use statistical and actuarial models to estimate the URR of points earned to date by current Card Members based on redemption trends, card product type, enrollment tenure, card spend levels and credit attributes. The WAC per point assumption is used to estimate future redemption costs and is primarily based on redemption choices made by Card Members, reward offerings by partners, and Membership Rewards program changes. The WAC per point is derived from the previous 12 months of redemptions and is adjusted as appropriate for certain changes in redemption costs that are not representative of future cost expectations. 

We periodically evaluate our liability estimation process and assumptions based on developments in redemption patterns, cost per point redeemed, partner contract changes and other factors. 

The process of estimating the Membership Rewards liability includes a high degree of judgment. Actual redemptions and associated redemption costs could differ significantly from our estimates, resulting in either higher or lower Membership Rewards expense. 

Changes in the Membership Rewards URR and WAC per point have the effect of either increasing or decreasing the liability through the current period Membership Rewards expense by an amount estimated to cover the cost of all points previously earned but not yet redeemed by current enrollees as of the end of the reporting period. As of December 31, 2018, an increase in the estimated URR of current enrollees of 25 basis points would increase the Membership Rewards liability and corresponding rewards expense by approximately $113 million. Similarly, an increase in the WAC per point of 1 basis point would increase the Membership Rewards liability and corresponding rewards expense by approximately $106 million. 

65 

Table of Contents   

GOODWILL RECOVERABILITY 

Goodwill represents the excess of acquisition cost of an acquired business over the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed. Goodwill is not amortized but is tested for impairment at the reporting unit level annually or when events or circumstances arise, such as adverse changes in the business climate, that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of the reporting unit below its carrying value. Our methodology for conducting this goodwill impairment testing contains both a qualitative and quantitative assessment. 

We have the option to initially perform an assessment of qualitative factors in order to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. The qualitative factors may include, but are not limited to, economic conditions, industry and market considerations, cost factors, overall financial performance of the reporting unit and other company and reporting unit-specific events. If we determine that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, we then perform the impairment evaluation using a more detailed quantitative assessment. We could also directly perform this quantitative assessment for any reporting unit, bypassing the qualitative assessment. 

Our methodology for conducting the quantitative goodwill impairment testing is fundamentally based on the measurement of fair value for our reporting units, which inherently entails the use of significant management judgment. For valuation, we use a combination of the income approach (discounted cash flows) and market approach (market multiples) in estimating the fair value of our reporting units. 

When preparing discounted cash flow models under the income approach, we estimate future cash flows using the reporting unit’s internal multi-year forecast, and a terminal value calculated using a growth rate that we believe is appropriate in light of current and expected future economic conditions. To discount these cash flows we use our expected cost of equity, determined using a capital asset pricing model. When using the market method under the market approach, we apply comparable publicly traded companies’ multiples (e.g., earnings, revenues) to our reporting units’ actual results. The judgment in estimating forecasted cash flows, discount rates and market comparables is significant, and imprecision could materially affect the fair value of our reporting units.  

We could be exposed to an increased risk of further goodwill impairment if future operating results or macroeconomic conditions differ significantly from management’s current assumptions. 

INCOME TAXES 

We are subject to the income tax laws of the United States, its states and municipalities and those of the foreign jurisdictions in which we operate. These tax laws are complex, and the manner in which they apply to the taxpayer’s facts is sometimes open to interpretation. In establishing a provision for income tax expense, we must make judgments about the application of inherently complex tax laws. 

In particular, the Tax Act is complex and requires interpretation of certain provisions to estimate the impact on our income tax expense. The estimates are based on the information available and our current interpretation of the Tax Act, and may change due to changes in interpretations and assumptions we make and additional guidance or context from the Internal Revenue Service, the U.S. Treasury Department, the Financial Accounting Standards Board or others regarding the Tax Act. Refer to Note 21 to the "Consolidated Financial Statements" for additional information. 

Unrecognized Tax Benefits 

We establish a liability for unrecognized tax benefits, which are the differences between a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return and the benefit recognized in the financial statements. 

In establishing a liability for an unrecognized tax benefit, assumptions may be made in determining whether, and the extent to which, a tax position should be sustained. A tax position is recognized only when it is more likely than not to be sustained upon examination by the relevant taxing authority, based on its technical merits. The amount of tax benefit recognized is the largest benefit that we believe is more likely than not to be realized on ultimate settlement. As new information becomes available, we evaluate our tax positions and adjust our unrecognized tax benefits, as appropriate. 

Tax benefits ultimately realized can differ from amounts previously recognized due to uncertainties, with any such differences generally impacting the provision for income tax. 

Deferred Tax Asset Realization 

Deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on the differences between the financial statement and tax bases of assets and liabilities using the enacted tax rates expected to be in effect for the years in which the differences are expected to reverse. 

Since deferred taxes measure the future tax effects of items recognized in the Consolidated Financial Statements, certain estimates and assumptions are required to determine whether it is more likely than not that all or some portion of the benefit of a deferred tax asset will not be realized. In making this assessment, we analyze and estimate the impact of future taxable income, reversing temporary differences and available tax planning strategies. These assessments are performed quarterly, taking into account any new information. 

Changes in facts or circumstances can lead to changes in the ultimate realization of deferred tax assets due to uncertainties. 

66 

Table of Contents   

OTHER MATTERS 

RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING STANDARDS 

Refer to the Recently Issued Accounting Standards section of Note 1 to the “Consolidated Financial Statements.” 

GLOSSARY OF SELECTED TERMINOLOGY 

Adjusted net interest income — A non-GAAP measure that represents net interest income attributable to our Card Member loans and loans HFS (which includes, on a GAAP basis, interest that is deemed uncollectible), excluding the impact of interest expense and interest income not attributable to our Card Member loans. We believe adjusted net interest income is useful to investors because it represents the interest expense and interest income attributable to our Card Member loan portfolio and it is a component of net interest yield on average Card Member loans. 

Asset securitizations — Asset securitization involves the transfer and sale of loans or receivables to a special-purpose entity created for the securitization activity, typically a trust. The trust, in turn, issues securities, commonly referred to as asset-backed securities that are secured by the transferred loans and receivables. The trust uses the proceeds from the sale of such securities to pay the purchase price for the underlying loans or receivables. The loans and receivables of our Lending Trust and Charge Trust (collectively, the Trusts) securitized are reported as assets and the securities issued by the Trusts are reported as liabilities on our “Consolidated Balance Sheets.” 

Average discount rate — This calculation is generally designed to reflect the average pricing at all merchants accepting American Express cards and represents the percentage of proprietary and GNS billed business retained by us from merchants we acquire, or from merchants acquired by third parties on our behalf, net of amounts retained by such third parties. 

Billed business — Represents transaction volumes (including cash advances) on cards and other payment products issued by American Express (proprietary billed business) and cards issued under network partnership agreements with banks and other institutions, including joint ventures (GNS billed business). In-store spending activity within GNS retail cobrand portfolios, from which we earn no revenue, is not included in billed business. Billed business is reported as in the United States or outside the United States based on the location of the issuer. 

Capital ratios — Represents the minimum standards established by the regulatory agencies as a measure to determine whether the regulated entity has sufficient capital to absorb on- and off-balance sheet losses beyond current loss accrual estimates. Refer to the Capital Strategy section under “Consolidated Capital Resources and Liquidity” for further related definitions under Basel III. 

Cards-in-force — Represents the number of cards that are issued and outstanding by American Express (proprietary cards-in-force) and cards issued and outstanding under network partnership agreements with banks and other institutions, including joint ventures (GNS cards-in-force), except for GNS retail cobrand cards that had no out-of-store spending activity during the prior twelve months. Basic cards-in-force excludes supplemental cards issued on consumer accounts. 

Card Member — The individual holder of an issued American Express-branded charge, credit and certain prepaid cards. 

Card Member loans — Represents the outstanding amount due from Card Members for charges made on their American Express credit cards, as well as any interest charges and card-related fees. Card Member loans also include revolving balances on certain American Express charge card products. 

Card Member loans and receivables HFS — Beginning as of December 1, 2015 and continuing until the sales were completed, represents Card Member loans and receivables related to our cobrand partnerships with Costco in the United States and JetBlue. The JetBlue and Costco portfolio sales were completed on March 18 and June 17, 2016, respectively. 

Card Member receivables — Represents the outstanding amount due from Card Members for charges made on their American Express charge cards, as well as any card-related fees, other than revolving balances on certain American Express charge cards with Pay Over Time features. Such revolving balances are included within Card Member loans. 

Charge cards — Represents cards that generally carry no pre-set spending limits and are primarily designed as a method of payment and not as a means of financing purchases. Charge Card Members generally must pay the full amount billed each month. No finance charges are assessed on charge cards. Each charge card transaction is authorized based on its likely economics reflecting a Card Member’s most recent credit information and spend patterns. Some charge card accounts have additional Pay Over Time feature(s) that allow revolving of certain charges. 

Cobrand cards — Cards issued under cobrand agreements with selected commercial firms. Pursuant to the cobrand agreements, we make payments to our cobrand partners, which can be significant, based primarily on the amount of Card Member spending and corresponding rewards earned on such spending and, under certain arrangements, on the number of accounts acquired and retained. The partner is then liable for providing rewards to the Card Member under the cobrand partner’s own loyalty program. 

67 

Table of Contents   

Credit cards — Represents cards that have a range of revolving payment terms, grace periods, and rate and fee structures. 

Discount revenue — Primarily represents revenue earned from fees charged to merchants who have entered into a card acceptance agreement. The discount fee is generally deducted from our payment for Card Member purchases. 

Interest expense — Includes interest incurred primarily to fund Card Member loans and receivables, general corporate purposes and liquidity needs, and is recognized as incurred. Interest expense is divided principally into two categories: (i) deposits, which primarily relates to interest expense on deposits taken from customers and institutions, and (ii) debt, which primarily relates to interest expense on our long-term financing and short-term borrowings, (e.g., commercial paper, federal funds purchased, bank overdrafts and other short-term borrowings), as well as the realized impact of derivatives hedging interest rate risk on our long-term debt. 

Interest income — Includes (i) interest on loans, (ii) interest and dividends on investment securities and (iii) interest income on deposits with banks and other. 

Interest on loans — Assessed using the average daily balance method for Card Member loans and loans HFS. Unless the loan is classified as non-accrual, interest is recognized based upon the principal amount outstanding in accordance with the terms of the applicable account agreement until the outstanding balance is paid or written off. 

Interest and dividends on investment securities — Primarily relates to our performing fixed-income securities. Interest income is recognized as earned using the effective interest method, which adjusts the yield for security premiums and discounts, fees and other payments, so a constant rate of return is recognized on the outstanding balance of the related investment security throughout its term. Amounts are recognized until securities are in default or when it is likely that future interest payments will not be made as scheduled. 

Interest income on deposits with banks and other — Recognized as earned, and primarily relates to the placement of cash in excess of near-term funding requirements in interest-bearing time deposits, overnight sweep accounts, and other interest-bearing demand and call accounts. 

Liquidity Coverage Ratio — Represents the minimum standards established by the regulatory agencies as a measure to determine whether the regulated entity has sufficient liquidity to meet liquidity needs in periods of financial and economic stress. 

Merchant acquisition — Represents our process of entering into agreements with merchants to accept American Express-branded cards. 

Net card fees — Represents the card membership fees earned during the period. These fees are recognized as revenue over the covered card membership period (typically one year), net of the provision for projected refunds for Card Membership cancellation and deferred acquisition costs. 

Net interest yield on average Card Member loans — A non-GAAP measure that is computed by dividing adjusted net interest income by average Card Member loans, computed on an annualized basis. Reserves and net write-offs related to uncollectible interest are recorded through provisions for losses, and are thus not included in the net interest yield calculation. We believe net interest yield on average Card Member loans is useful to investors because it provides a measure of profitability of our Card Member loan portfolio. 

Net loss ratio — Represents the ratio of GCP charge card write-offs, consisting of principal (resulting from authorized transactions) and fee components, less recoveries, on Card Member receivables expressed as a percentage of gross amounts billed to corporate Card Members. 

Net write-off rate — principal only — Represents the amount of proprietary consumer or small business Card Member loans or receivables written off, consisting of principal (resulting from authorized transactions), less recoveries, as a percentage of the average loan or receivables balance during the period. 

Net write-off rate — principal, interest and fees — Includes, in the calculation of the net write-off rate, amounts for interest and fees in addition to principal for Card Member loans and fees in addition to principal for Card Member receivables. 

Operating expenses — Represents salaries and employee benefits, professional services, occupancy and equipment, and other expenses. 

Return on average equity — Calculated by dividing one-year period net income by one-year average total shareholders’ equity. 

68 

Table of Contents   

CAUTIONARY NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS 

This report includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, which are subject to risks and uncertainties. The forward-looking statements, which address our current expectations regarding business and financial performance, among other matters, contain words such as “believe,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “intend,” “plan,” “aim,” “will,” “may,” “should,” “could,” “would,” “likely,” and similar expressions. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date on which they are made. We undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from these forward-looking statements, include, but are not limited to, the following: 

   our ability to grow earnings per share in the future, which will depend in part on revenue growth, credit performance and the effective tax rate remaining consistent with current expectations, the company’s ability to control operating expense growth and generate operating leverage, and the company’s ability to continue executing its share repurchase program, any of which could be impacted by, among other things, the factors identified in the subsequent paragraphs as well as the following: issues impacting brand perceptions and our reputation; the impact of any future contingencies, including, but not limited to, litigation-related settlements, judgments or expenses, the imposition of fines or civil money penalties, increases in Card Member reimbursements, restructurings, impairments and changes in reserves; the amount we spend on customer engagement and our inability to drive growth from such investments; changes in interest rates beyond current expectations (including the impact of hedge ineffectiveness and deposit rate increases); a greater impact from new or renegotiated cobrand agreements than expected, which could be affected by spending volumes and customer engagement; and the impact of regulation and litigation, which could affect the profitability of our business activities, limit our ability to pursue business opportunities, require changes to business practices or alter our relationships with partners, merchants and Card Members;     

   our ability to grow revenues net of interest expense, which could be impacted by, among other things, weakening economic conditions in the United States or internationally, a decline in consumer confidence impacting the willingness and ability of Card Members to sustain and grow spending and revolve balances, growth in Card Member loans and the yield on Card Member loans not remaining consistent with current expectations, a greater decline of the average discount rate than expected, the strengthening of the U.S. dollar beyond expectations, the willingness of Card Members to pay higher card fees, lower spending on new cards acquired than estimated, and our inability to address competitive pressures and implement our strategies and business initiatives, including within the premium consumer segment, commercial payments, the global network and digital environment;     

   changes in the substantial and increasing worldwide competition in the payments industry, including competitive pressure that may impact the prices we charge merchants that accept American Express cards, competition for new and existing cobrand relationships, competition from new and non-traditional competitors and the success of marketing, promotion and rewards programs;     

   the average discount rate changing by a greater amount than anticipated, including as a result of changes in the mix of spending by location and industry, merchant negotiations (including merchant incentives, concessions and volume-related pricing discounts), pricing initiatives, competition, pricing regulation (including regulation of competitors’ interchange rates in the European Union and elsewhere) and other factors;     

   our delinquency and write-off rates and growth of provisions for losses being higher or lower than current expectations, which will depend in part on changes in the level of loan and receivable balances and delinquencies generally, as well as macroeconomic factors, the mix of balances, newer vintages and balance transfers, loans and receivables related to new Card Members and other borrowers performing as expected, credit performance of new and enhanced lending products, unemployment rates, the volume of bankruptcies, collections capabilities and recoveries of previously written-off loans and receivables;     

   our ability to continue to grow loans, which may be affected by increasing competition, brand perceptions and reputation, our ability to manage risk, the behavior of Card Members and their actual spending and borrowing patterns, and our ability to issue new and enhanced card products, offer attractive non-card lending products, capture a greater share of existing Card Members’ spending and borrowings, reduce Card Member attrition and attract new customers;     

   our net interest yield on average Card Member loans not remaining consistent with current expectations, which will be influenced by, among other things, the difference between the prime rate and our cost of funds, changes in consumer behavior that affect loan balances (such as paydown rates), our Card Member acquisition strategy, product mix, credit actions, including line size and other adjustments to credit availability, changes in the level of loans at promotional rates and other pricing changes, which could be impacted by, among other things, changes in benchmark interest rates, competitive pressure and regulatory constraints;     

   the actual amount to be spent on customer engagement, which will be based in part on management’s assessment of competitive opportunities; overall business performance and changes in macroeconomic conditions; our ability to cost effectively enhance card products and services to make them attractive to Card Members; Card Member behavior as it relates to their spending patterns (including the level of spend in bonus categories) and the redemption of rewards and offers, as well as the degree of interest of Card Members in the value propositions we offer; the costs related to reward point redemptions, advertising and Card Member acquisition; our ability to continue to shift Card Member acquisition to digital channels; new and renegotiated contractual obligations with business partners; and the pace and cost of the expansion of our global lounge collection;     

69 

Table of Contents   

   our ability to control operating expense growth, which could be impacted by the need to increase significant categories of operating expenses, such as consulting or professional fees, including as a result of increased litigation, compliance or regulatory-related costs, or cyber or fraud costs; higher than expected employee levels; an inability to innovate efficient channels of customer interactions, such as chat supported by artificial intelligence, or customer acquisition; the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates on costs; the payment of civil money penalties, disgorgement, restitution, non-income tax assessments and litigation-related settlements; impairments of goodwill or other assets; management’s decision to increase or decrease spending in such areas as technology, business and product development and sales forces; greater -than -expected inflation; and the level of M&A activity and related expenses;     

   our ability to satisfy our commitments to certain of our cobrand partners as part of the ongoing operations of the business, which will be impacted in part by competition, brand perceptions and reputation, and our ability to develop and market value propositions that appeal to current cobrand Card Members and new customers and offer attractive services and rewards programs, which will depend in part on ongoing investments, new product innovation and development, Card Member acquisition efforts and enrollment processes, including through digital channels, and infrastructure to support new products, services and benefits;     

   changes affecting our plans regarding the return of capital to shareholders through dividends and share repurchases, which will depend on factors such as our capital levels and regulatory capital ratios; changes in the stress testing and capital planning process and the continued non-objection by our primary regulators to our capital plans; the amount of capital required to support asset growth; the amount we spend on acquisitions of companies; and our results of operations and financial condition; and the economic environment and market conditions in any given period;     

   our tax rate not remaining consistent with current expectations, which could be impacted by, among other things, the company’s geographic mix of income, further changes in tax laws and regulation, unfavorable tax audits and other unanticipated tax items;     

   a failure in or breach of our operational or security systems, processes or infrastructure, or those of third parties, including as a result of cyberattacks, which could compromise the confidentiality, integrity, privacy and/or security of data, disrupt our operations, reduce the use and acceptance of American Express cards and lead to regulatory scrutiny, litigation, remediation and response costs, and reputational harm;     

   our deposit rates increasing faster or slower than current expectations and changes affecting our ability to grow Personal Savings deposits due to market demand, changes in benchmark interest rates, competition or regulatory restrictions on our ability to obtain deposit funding or offer competitive interest rates, which could affect our net interest yield and ability to fund our businesses;     

   our funding plan being implemented in a manner inconsistent with current expectations, which will depend on various factors such as future business growth, the impact of global economic, political and other events on market capacity, demand for securities we offer, regulatory changes, ability to securitize and sell receivables and the performance of receivables previously sold in securitization transactions;     

   changes in global economic and business conditions, consumer and business spending generally, the availability and cost of capital, unemployment rates, geopolitical conditions, Brexit, prolonged or recurring government shutdowns, trade policies, foreign currency rates and interest rates, all of which may significantly affect demand for and spending on American Express cards, delinquency rates, loan and receivable balances and other aspects of our business and results of operations;     

   changes in capital and credit market conditions, which may significantly affect our ability to meet our liquidity needs, expectations regarding capital and liquidity ratios, access to capital and cost of capital, including changes in interest rates; changes in market conditions affecting the valuation of our assets; or any reduction in our credit ratings or those of our subsidiaries, which could materially increase the cost and other terms of our funding or restrict our access to the capital markets;     

   legal and regulatory developments, which could require us to make fundamental changes to many of our business practices, including our ability to continue certain cobrand and agent relationships in their current form; exert further pressure on the average discount rate and GNS volumes; result in increased costs related to regulatory oversight, litigation-related settlements, judgments or expenses, restitution to Card Members or the imposition of fines or civil money penalties; materially affect our capital or liquidity requirements, results of operations or ability to pay dividends or repurchase stock; or result in harm to the American Express brand;     

   changes in the financial condition and creditworthiness of our business partners, such as bankruptcies, restructurings or consolidations, including merchants that represent a significant portion of our business, such as the airline industry, or our partners in GNS or financial institutions that we rely on for routine funding and liquidity, which could materially affect our financial condition or results of operations; and     

   factors beyond our control such as fire, power loss, disruptions in telecommunications, severe weather conditions, natural disasters, health pandemics or terrorism, any of which could significantly affect demand for and spending on American Express cards, delinquency rates, loan and receivable balances and other aspects of our business and results of operations or disrupt our global network systems and ability to process transactions.     

A further description of these uncertainties and other risks can be found in “Risk Factors” above and our other reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. 

70 

Table of Contents   

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK