Item 7a.Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk

General 

We are exposed to worldwide market risks that may impact our Consolidated Balance Sheets, Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income, Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity, and Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows due primarily to changing interest and foreign exchange rates as well as volatility in commodity prices. The following discussion provides additional information regarding the market risks.

Interest Rates

Interest rate fluctuations expose the variable-rate debt of the organization to changes in interest expense and cash flows. At August 31, 2019, the variable-rate debt was solely comprised of our $4.0 million long-term industrial revenue bond. We had no borrowings outstanding under the Revolving Credit Facility as of August 31, 2019. A 10% increase in market interest rates at August 31, 2019, would have resulted in a de minimis amount of additional annual after-tax interest expense. A fluctuation in interest rates would not affect interest expense or cash flows related to our fixed-rate debt, which includes the $350.0 million publicly-traded fixed-rate notes. A 10% increase in market interest rates at August 31, 2019 would have decreased the estimated fair value of these debt obligations by approximately $0.4 million. See the Debt and Lines of Credit footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained in this Form 10-K for additional information.

Foreign Exchange Rates

The majority of our net sales, expense, and capital purchases are transacted in U.S. dollars. However, exposure with respect to foreign exchange rate fluctuation exists due to our operations in Mexico and Canada, where a significant portion of products sold are produced or sourced from the United States, and, to a lesser extent, in Europe. Based on fiscal 2019 performance, a hypothetical decline in the value of the Canadian dollar in relation to the U.S. dollar of 10% would negatively impact operating profit by approximately $12 million, while a hypothetical appreciation of 10% in the value of the Canadian dollar in relation to the U.S. dollar would favorably impact operating profit by approximately $15 million. In addition to products and services sold in Mexico, a significant portion of the goods sold in the United States are manufactured in Mexico. A hypothetical 10% decrease in the value of the Mexican peso in relation to the U.S. dollar would favorably impact operating profit by approximately $13 million, while a hypothetical increase of 10% in the value of the Mexican peso in relation to the U.S. dollar would negatively impact operating profits by approximately $16 million. The individual impacts to the operating profit of hypothetical currency fluctuations in the Canadian dollar and Mexican peso have been calculated in isolation from any potential responses to address such exchange rate changes in our foreign markets.

Our exposure to foreign currency risk related to our operations in Europe is immaterial and has been excluded from this analysis.

Commodity Prices

We utilize a variety of raw materials and components in our production processes including petroleum-based products, steel, and aluminum. In fiscal 2019, we purchased approximately 90,000 tons of steel and aluminum. We estimate that approximately 7% of raw materials purchased are petroleum-based and that approximately six million gallons of diesel fuel were consumed in fiscal 2019. Failure to effectively manage future increases in the costs of these items could have an adverse impact on our results of operations and cash flow.

34
Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data