Item 7.Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

The purpose of this discussion and analysis is to enhance the understanding and evaluation of the results of operations, financial position, cash flows, indebtedness, and other key financial information of Acuity Brands, Inc. (“Acuity Brands”) and its subsidiaries for the years ended August 31, 2019, 2018, and 2017. The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included within this report.

Overview

Company

Acuity Brands is the parent company of Acuity Brands Lighting, Inc. (“ABL”) and other wholly-owned subsidiaries (Acuity Brands, ABL, and such other subsidiaries are collectively referred to herein as “we,” “our,” “us,” “the Company,” or similar references). Our principal office is located in Atlanta, Georgia. 

We are one of the world’s leading providers of lighting and building management solutions and services for commercial, institutional, industrial, infrastructure, and residential applications throughout North America and select international markets. Our lighting and building management solutions include devices such as luminaires, lighting controls, controls for various building systems, power supplies, prismatic skylights, and drivers, as well as integrated systems designed to optimize energy efficiency and comfort for various indoor and outdoor applications. Additionally, we continue to expand our solutions portfolio, including software and services, to provide a host of other economic benefits resulting from data analytics that enables the Internet of Things (“IoT”), supports the advancement of smart buildings, smart cities, and the smart grid, and allows businesses to develop custom applications to scale their operations. As of August 31, 2019, we employed approximately 12,000 associates and operated 18 manufacturing facilities, nine distribution facilities, and four warehouses to serve our extensive customer base.

We do not consider acquisitions a critical element of our strategy but seek opportunities to expand and enhance our portfolio of solutions, including the following transactions: 

On September 17, 2019, using cash on hand and borrowings under available existing credit arrangements, we acquired all of the equity interests of The Luminaires Group (“TLG”), a leading provider of specification-grade luminaires for commercial, institutional, hospitality, and municipal markets, all of which complements our current and dynamic lighting portfolio. TLG’s indoor and outdoor lighting fixtures are marketed to architects, landscape architects, interior designers and engineers through five niche lighting brands: A-light, Cyclone, Eureka, Luminaire LED and Luminis. 

On June 20, 2019, using cash on hand we acquired all of the equity interests of WhiteOptics, LLC (“WhiteOptics”). WhiteOptics is headquartered in New Castle, Delaware and manufactures advanced optical components used to reflect, diffuse, and control light for LED lighting used in commercial and institutional applications. 

On May 1, 2018, using cash on hand and borrowings available under existing credit arrangements, we acquired IOTA Engineering, LLC (“IOTA”). IOTA is headquartered in Tucson, Arizona and manufactures highly engineered emergency lighting products and power equipment for commercial and institutional applications both in the U.S. and internationally. 

On February 12, 2018, using cash on hand, we acquired Lucid Design Group, Inc (“Lucid”). Lucid is headquartered in Oakland, California and provides a data and analytics platform to make data-driven decisions to improve building efficiency and drive energy conservation and savings. 

No acquisitions were completed during fiscal 2017.

Please refer to the Acquisitions footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. 

Strategy

Our strategy is to extend our leadership position in the North American market and certain international markets by delivering superior lighting and building management solutions. Additionally, we plan to continue to expand our software solution offerings, including IoT enabled solutions. As a results-oriented, customer-centric company, management plans to align the unique capabilities and resources of the organization to drive profitable growth through a keen focus on providing comprehensive and differentiated lighting and building management solutions for our customers, driving world-class cost efficiency, and leveraging a culture of operational excellence through continuous improvement. 

Throughout fiscal 2019, we believe we made progress towards achieving our strategic objectives, including expanding our access to the market, expanding our addressable market, introducing new lighting and building management 

19
solutions, and enhancing our operations to create a stronger, more effective organization. Our strategic objectives were developed in order to meet or exceed the following financial goals during an entire business cycle:

•Operating profit margin in the mid-teens or higher;

•Diluted earnings per share growth in excess of 15% per annum;

•Return on stockholders’ equity of 20% or better per annum;

•Cash flow from operations, less capital expenditures, that is in excess of net income; and

•Return on invested capital in excess of our weighted average cost of capital.

To enhance our probability of achieving these financial goals, management will continue to implement programs to enhance our capabilities at providing unparalleled customer service; creating a globally competitive cost structure; improving productivity; and introducing innovative solutions and services more rapidly and cost effectively. In addition, we have invested considerable resources to teach and train associates to utilize tools and techniques that accelerate success in these key areas, as well as to create a culture that demands excellence through continuous improvement. Additionally, we promote a “pay-for-performance” culture that rewards associates for achieving various levels of year-over-year improvement, while closely monitoring appropriate risk-taking. The expected outcome of these activities will be to better position ourselves to deliver on our full potential, to provide a platform for future growth opportunities, and to achieve our long-term financial goals. See the Outlook section below for additional information.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

Our principal sources of liquidity are operating cash flows generated primarily from our business operations, cash on hand, and various sources of borrowings. Our ability to generate sufficient cash flow from operations or to access certain capital markets, including banks, is necessary to fund our operations and capital expenditures, pay dividends, repurchase shares, meet obligations as they become due, and maintain compliance with covenants contained in our financing agreements.

In fiscal 2019, we invested $53.0 million in property, plant, and equipment, primarily for new and enhanced information technology capabilities, equipment, tooling, and facility enhancements. We expect to invest approximately 1.7% of net sales in capital expenditures during fiscal 2020.

In March 2018, the Board authorized the repurchase of up to six million shares of our common stock. As of August 31, 2019, 1.45 million shares had been purchased under this authorization, of which 0.7 million were repurchased in fiscal 2019. We expect to repurchase the remaining shares available for repurchase on an opportunistic basis subject to various factors including stock price, Company performance, market conditions and other possible uses of cash.

Our short-term cash needs are expected to include funding operations as currently planned; making capital investments as currently anticipated; paying quarterly stockholder dividends as currently anticipated; paying principal and interest on debt as currently scheduled, including our senior unsecured notes maturing in December 2019, which we expect to repay with borrowings available under existing credit arrangements, subject to satisfying the applicable conditions precedent; making required contributions to our employee benefit plans; funding possible acquisitions; and potentially repurchasing shares of our outstanding common stock. We believe that we will be able to meet our liquidity needs over the next 12 months based on our cash on hand, current projections of cash flow from operations, and borrowing availability under financing arrangements. Additionally, we believe that our cash flows from operations and sources of funding, including, but not limited to, future borrowings and capacity, will sufficiently support our long-term liquidity needs.

Cash Flow

We use available cash and cash flows from operations as well as borrowings on credit arrangements to fund operations, capital expenditures, and acquisitions, if any; to repurchase Company stock; and to pay dividends.

Our cash position at August 31, 2019 was $461.0 million, an increase of $331.9 million from August 31, 2018. During the year ended August 31, 2019, we generated net cash flows from operating activities of $494.7 million. Cash generated from operating activities, as well as cash on-hand, was used during the current year primarily to repurchase 0.7 million shares of our outstanding common stock for $81.6 million, fund capital expenditures of $53.0 million, pay dividends to stockholders of $20.8 million, and pay withholding taxes on the net settlement of equity awards of $6.0 million. 

During fiscal 2019, net cash generated from operating activities increased $143.2 million to $494.7 million compared with $351.5 million in the prior-year period due primarily to lower net working capital requirements. Operating working capital (calculated by adding accounts receivable plus inventories and subtracting accounts payable-net of acquisitions and the impact of foreign exchange rate changes) decreased by approximately $57.0 million during fiscal 2019 compared to an increase of $84.7 million during fiscal 2018. Operating working capital decreased primarily due to 

20
greater cash collections from customers year over year as well as reductions in current year inventory as a result of our efforts to improve inventory turnover. These improvements were partially offset by the timing of payments for trade payables.

Management believes that investing in assets and programs that will over time increase the overall return on its invested capital is a key factor in driving stockholder value. We invested $53.0 million and $43.6 million in fiscal 2019 and 2018, respectively, in property, plant, and equipment primarily for new and enhanced information technology capabilities, equipment, tooling, and facility enhancements. We expect to invest approximately 1.7% of net sales in capital expenditures during fiscal 2020.

Contractual Obligations

The following table summarizes our contractual obligations at August 31, 2019 (in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

___________________________[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(3) Our operating lease obligations are described in the Commitments and Contingencies footnote.

(4) Purchase obligations include commitments to purchase goods or services that are enforceable and legally binding and that specify all significant terms, including open purchase orders.

(5) These amounts are included in our Consolidated Balance Sheets and largely represent liabilities for which we are obligated to make future payments under certain long-term employee benefit programs. Estimates of the amounts and timing of these amounts are based on various assumptions, including expected return on plan assets, interest rates, and other variables. The amounts in this table do not include amounts related to future funding obligations under the defined benefit pension plans. The amount and timing of these future funding obligations are subject to many variables and are also dependent on whether or not we elect to make contributions to the pension plans in excess of those required under Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974. Such voluntary contributions may reduce or defer the funding obligations. See the Pension and Profit Sharing Plans footnote for additional information. These amounts exclude $16.6 million of unrecognized tax benefits as the period of cash settlement with the respective taxing authorities cannot be reasonably estimated.

The above table does not include deferred income tax liabilities of approximately $174.4 million as of August 31, 2019. Refer to the Income Taxes footnote for more information. This amount is not included in the total contractual obligations table because we believe this presentation would not be meaningful. Deferred income tax liabilities are calculated based on temporary differences between the tax and book bases of assets and liabilities, which will result in taxable amounts in future years when the liabilities are settled at their reported financial statement amounts. The results of these calculations do not have a direct connection with the amount of cash taxes to be paid in any future periods. As a result, scheduling deferred income tax liabilities as payments due by period could be misleading, because this scheduling would not relate to liquidity needs.

Capitalization

Our current capital structure is comprised principally of senior unsecured notes and equity of our stockholders. Total debt outstanding was $356.6 million and $356.8 million at August 31, 2019 and 2018, respectfully, and consisted primarily of fixed-rate obligations. We fully repaid all borrowings under our revolving credit facility during fiscal 2019. Additionally, we repaid $0.4 million under the fixed rate long-term bank loans during fiscal 2019. 

On December 8, 2009, ABL issued $350.0 million of senior unsecured notes due in December 2019 (the “Unsecured Notes”) in a private placement transaction. The Unsecured Notes were subsequently exchanged for Securities and Exchange Commission registered notes with substantially identical terms. The Unsecured Notes bear interest at a rate of 6% per annum and were issued at a price equal to 99.797% of their face value and for a term of ten years. Although 

21
the Unsecured Notes will mature within one year from August 31, 2019, we have the ability and intent to refinance these borrowings using availability under our unsecured delayed draw term loan facility (“Term Loan Facility”) as described below, subject to satisfying the applicable conditions precedent. Currently, we plan to refinance the Unsecured Notes in full with borrowings under the Term Loan Facility, of which $341.2 million of the carrying value would be due more than one year from the anticipated refinancing date. As such, this amount is reflected within Long-term debt on the Consolidated Balance Sheets as of August 31, 2019. See the Debt and Lines of Credit footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information.

On June 29, 2018, we entered into a credit agreement (“Credit Agreement”) with a syndicate of banks that provides us with a $400.0 million five-year unsecured revolving credit facility (“Revolving Credit Facility”) and a $400.0 million Term Loan Facility. On August 31, 2019, we had no borrowings outstanding under the Revolving Credit Facility and no borrowings under the Term Loan Facility. We were in compliance with all financial covenants under the Credit Agreement as of August 31, 2019. At August 31, 2019, we had additional borrowing capacity under the Credit Agreement of $796.2 million under the most restrictive covenant in effect at the time, which represents the full amount of the Revolving Credit Facility and the Term Loan Facility less the outstanding letters of credit of $3.8 million issued under the Revolving Credit Facility. As of August 31, 2019, we had outstanding letters of credit totaling $8.0 million, primarily for securing collateral requirements under our casualty insurance programs and for providing credit support for our industrial revenue bond, including $3.8 million issued under the Revolving Credit Facility. See the Debt and Lines of Credit footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information.

During fiscal 2019, our consolidated stockholders’ equity increased $202.1 million to $1.92 billion at August 31, 2019 from $1.72 billion at August 31, 2018. The increase was due primarily to net income earned in the period, partially offset by share repurchases, pension plan adjustments, dividend payments, adjustments related to the adoption of Accounting Standards Codification 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (“ASC 606”), shares withheld for employee taxes on vested restricted stock grants, and foreign currency translation adjustments. Our debt to total capitalization ratio (calculated by dividing total debt by the sum of total debt and total stockholders’ equity) was 15.7% and 17.2% at August 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. The ratio of debt, net of cash, to total capitalization, net of cash, was (5.8)% and 11.7% at August 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. 

Dividends

We paid dividends on our common stock of $20.8 million ($0.52 per share) in fiscal 2019 and $21.4 million ($0.52 per share) in fiscal 2018, indicating a quarterly dividend rate of $0.13 per share. All decisions regarding the declaration and payment of dividends are at the discretion of the Board and are evaluated regularly in light of our financial condition, earnings, growth prospects, funding requirements, applicable law, and any other factors the Board deems relevant.

22
Results of Operations

Fiscal 2019 Compared with Fiscal 2018 

The following table sets forth information comparing the components of net income for the year ended August 31, 2019 with the year ended August 31, 2018 (in millions except per share data):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Net sales decreased $7.4 million, or 0.2%, to $3.67 billion for the year ended August 31, 2019 compared with $3.68 billion reported for the year ended August 31, 2018. For the year ended August 31, 2019, we reported net income of $330.4 million compared with $349.6 million for the year ended August 31, 2018, a decrease of $19.2 million, or 5.5%. For fiscal 2019, diluted earnings per share decreased 2.7% to $8.29 from $8.52 for the prior-year period. 

Fiscal 2019 results were impacted by the adoption of ASC 606, which resulted in a decrease to revenues, gross profit, and operating profit of $8.9 million, $4.8 million, and $5.2 million, respectively, during the year ended August 31, 2019. Additionally, fiscal 2018 results were retrospectively adjusted to reflect the impact of adopting Accounting Standards Update No. 2017-07, Compensation — Retirement Benefits (Topic 715): Improving the Presentation of Net Periodic Pension Cost and Net Periodic Postretirement Benefit Cost (“ASU 2017-07”). Upon adoption of ASU 2017-07, our previously reported operating profit and other expense both increased $6.2 million for the year ended August 31, 2018. The provisions of ASU 2017-07 had no impact to our previously reported net income or earnings per share. See New Accounting Pronouncements footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details.

The following table reconciles certain U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“U.S. GAAP”) financial measures to the corresponding non-U.S. GAAP measures referred to in the discussion of our results of operations, which exclude the impact of acquisition-related items, certain manufacturing inefficiencies and excess inventory adjustments related to the closure of a facility, amortization of acquired intangible assets, share-based payment expense, special charges associated primarily with continued efforts to streamline the organization, a gain associated with the sale of our former Spanish lighting business, and certain discrete income tax benefits of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (“TCJA”). Although the impacts of these items have been recognized in prior periods and could recur in future periods, management typically excludes these items during internal reviews of performance and uses these non-U.S. GAAP measures for baseline comparative operational analysis, decision making, and other activities. These non-U.S. GAAP financial measures, including adjusted gross profit and margin, adjusted selling, distribution, and administrative (“SD&A”) expenses and adjusted SD&A expenses as a percent of net sales, adjusted operating profit and margin, adjusted other expense, adjusted net income, and adjusted diluted earnings per share, are provided to enhance the user’s overall understanding of our current financial performance. Specifically, we believe these non-U.S. GAAP measures provide greater comparability and enhanced visibility into our results of operations. The non-U.S. GAAP financial measures 

23
should be considered in addition to, and not as a substitute for or superior to, results prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

______________________________ 

(1) Incremental costs incurred due to manufacturing inefficiencies directly related to the closure of a facility.

(2) Acquisition-related items include profit in inventory and professional fees.

(3) Excess inventory related to the closure of a facility.

(4) Discrete income tax benefits of the TCJA recognized within Income tax expense on the Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income. See Income Taxes footnote within the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional details.

24
Net Sales

Net sales for the year ended August 31, 2019 decreased by 0.2% compared with the prior-year period as a 1% decline in sales volumes was offset by favorable changes in product prices and mix of products sold (“price/mix”). The volume decline was a result of several factors, which included prior year’s significant initial stocking of product in the stores of a new customer in the retail sales channel that did not repeat in the current period; the elimination of certain products in our portfolio sold primarily through the retail sales channel that did not meet our return objectives; and softer market conditions. The favorable change in price/mix was due to changes in sales channel mix and implemented price increases, which were partially offset by changes in the mix of product sold. The combined negative impact of changes in foreign currencies, the adoption of ASC 606, and acquisitions net of divestitures was de minimis. Due to the changing dynamics of our product portfolio, including the increase of integrated lighting and building management solutions, it is not possible to precisely quantify or differentiate the individual components of volume, price, and mix.

Gross Profit

Gross profit for fiscal 2019 decreased $5.7 million, or 0.4%, to $1.48 billion compared with $1.49 billion for the prior year. Gross profit margin decreased to 40.3% for the year ended August 31, 2019 compared with 40.4% for the year ended August 31, 2018. The decline in gross profit margin was due primarily to a shift in sales among key customers within the retail channel, tariff costs, and the under-absorption of manufacturing costs as a result of inventory reduction efforts, partially offset by inter-channel mix, price increases, and favorable materials and inbound freight costs. Adjusted gross profit for fiscal 2019 decreased $8.4 million, or 0.6%, to $1.48 billion compared with $1.49 billion for the prior year. Adjusted gross profit margin decreased 20 basis points to 40.3% compared to 40.5% in the prior year. 

Operating Profit

SD&A expenses of $1.02 billion for the year ended August 31, 2019 decreased $4.0 million, or 0.4%. The decrease in SD&A expenses was primarily due to lower outbound freight charges, which was partially due to the customer shift within the retail sales channel, as well as lower employee-related costs, partially offset by expenses associated with acquired businesses. Compared with the prior-year period, SD&A expenses as a percent of net sales decreased 10 basis points to 27.6% for fiscal 2019 from 27.7% in fiscal 2018. Adjusted SD&A expenses were $953.7 million, or 26.0% of net sales, in fiscal 2019 compared to $956.1 million, or 26.0% of net sales, in the year-ago period. 

During the year ended August 31, 2019, we recognized pre-tax special charges of $1.8 million compared with pre-tax special charges of $5.6 million recorded during the year ended August 31, 2018. Further details regarding our special charges are included in the Special Charges footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

Operating profit for fiscal 2019 was $462.9 million compared with $460.8 million reported for the prior-year period, an increase of $2.1 million, or 0.5%. Operating profit margin increased 10 basis points to 12.6% for fiscal 2019 compared with 12.5% for fiscal 2018. The increase in operating profit was due to a decrease in SD&A expenses and a lower net special charge, partially offset by lower gross profit.

Adjusted operating profit decreased $6.0 million, or 1.1%, to $528.1 million compared with $534.1 million for fiscal 2018. Adjusted operating profit margin was 14.4% and 14.5% for fiscal 2019 and 2018, respectively.

Other Expense

Other expense consists principally of net interest expense and net miscellaneous expense, which includes non-service related components of net periodic pension cost, gains and losses associated with foreign currency-related transactions, and non-operating gains and losses. Interest expense, net, was $33.3 million and $33.5 million for the years ended August 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. We reported net miscellaneous expense of $4.7 million in fiscal 2019 compared with $1.4 million in fiscal 2018. Net miscellaneous expense for fiscal 2018 included a gain of $5.4 million associated with the sale of our former Spanish lighting business.

Income Taxes and Net Income

Our effective income tax rate was 22.2% and 17.9% for the years ended August 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. The effective income tax rate for the year ended August 31, 2018 was significantly impacted by the provisions of the TCJA, which was enacted during the second quarter of fiscal 2018. Further details regarding the TCJA are included in the Income Taxes footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. We estimate that our effective tax rate for fiscal 2020 will be approximately 23% before any discrete items, assuming the rates in our taxing jurisdictions remain generally consistent throughout the year.

25
Net income for fiscal 2019 decreased $19.2 million, or 5.5%, to $330.4 million from $349.6 million reported for the prior year. The decrease in net income resulted primarily from a one-time tax benefit for income taxes related to the TCJA recorded in 2018 that did not recur in the current fiscal year. Adjusted net income for fiscal 2019 increased 5.1% to $381.4 million compared with $362.9 million in the year-ago period. Diluted earnings per share for fiscal 2019 was $8.29 compared with $8.52 for the prior-year period, which represented a decrease of $0.23 or 2.7%. Adjusted diluted earnings per share for fiscal 2019 was $9.57 compared with $8.84 for the prior-year period, which represented an increase of $0.73, or 8.3%.

Fiscal 2018 Compared with Fiscal 2017 

The following table sets forth information comparing the components of net income for the year ended August 31, 2018 with the year ended August 31, 2017 (in millions except per share data):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Net sales increased $175.0 million, or 5.0%, to $3.68 billion for the year ended August 31, 2018 compared with $3.51 billion reported for the year ended August 31, 2017. For the year ended August 31, 2018, we reported net income of $349.6 million compared with $321.7 million for the year ended August 31, 2017, an increase of $27.9 million, or 8.7%. For fiscal 2018, diluted earnings per share increased 14.7% to $8.52 from $7.43 for the prior-year period.

Fiscal 2018 and fiscal 2017 results were retrospectively adjusted to reflect the impact of adopting ASU 2017-07. Upon adoption of ASU 2017-07, our previously reported operating profit and other expense both increased $6.2 million for the year ended August 31, 2018 and $8.7 million for the year ended August 31, 2017. The provisions of ASU 2017-07 had no impact to our previously reported net income or earnings per share. See New Accounting Pronouncements footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details.

The following table reconciles certain U.S. GAAP financial measures to the corresponding non-U.S. GAAP measures referred to in the discussion of our results of operations, which exclude the impact of acquisition-related items, certain manufacturing inefficiencies and excess inventory adjustments related to the closure of a facility, amortization of acquired intangible assets, share-based payment expense, special charges associated primarily with continued efforts to streamline the organization, a gain associated with the sale of our former Spanish lighting business, a gain on the sale of an investment in an unconsolidated affiliate, and certain discrete income tax benefits of the TCJA. 

26
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

______________________________ 

(1) Acquisition-related items include acquired profit in inventory and professional fees.

(2) Incremental costs incurred due to manufacturing inefficiencies directly related to the closure of a facility.

(3) Excess inventory related to the closure of a facility.

(4) Discrete income tax benefits of the TCJA recognized within Income tax expense on the Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income. See Income Taxes footnote within the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional details.

27
Net Sales 

Net sales for the year ended August 31, 2018 increased by 5.0% compared with the prior-year period due primarily to an increase in sales volumes of approximately 7% and an approximately 1% favorable impact of acquired revenues from acquisitions, partially offset by the impact of an unfavorable change in price/mix of approximately 3%. The increase in volumes was due primarily to greater shipments of Atrius-based luminaires to customers in certain key vertical applications and higher shipments within the home center channel. The net unfavorable price/mix was primarily due to lower pricing on certain luminaires as a result of increased competition in portions of the market for more basic, lesser-featured products; changes in product mix reflecting the substitution of certain products with less costly form factors resulting in lower price points; and changes in sales channel mix, which reflected fewer large commercial projects that generally include higher priced solutions. Due to the changing dynamics of our product portfolio, including the increase of integrated lighting and building management solutions, it is not possible to precisely quantify or differentiate the individual components of volume, price, and mix.

Gross Profit

Gross profit for fiscal 2018 increased $4.3 million, or 0.3%, to $1.49 billion compared with $1.48 billion for the prior year. Gross profit margin decreased to 40.4% for the year ended August 31, 2018 compared with 42.3% for the year ended August 31, 2017. Gross profit margin was lower than the prior-year period primarily due to unfavorable price/mix; higher material, component, and freight costs; increased wages; and additional reserves for excess inventory related to the closure of a facility. These declines were partially offset by higher sales volumes, productivity improvements, and gross profit attributable to acquisitions. Adjusted gross profit for fiscal 2018 increased $7.5 million, or 0.5%, to $1.49 billion compared with $1.48 billion for the prior year. Adjusted gross profit margin decreased 180 basis points to 40.5% compared to 42.3% in the prior year. 

Operating Profit

SD&A expenses for the year ended August 31, 2018 increased $76.7 million, or 8.1%, to $1.02 billion compared with $942.3 million in the prior year. The increase in SD&A expenses was primarily due to higher employee related costs, including additional headcount from acquisitions, increased freight charges and commissions to support greater sales volume, higher professional fees related to acquisitions, and to a lesser degree, certain other operating expenses. Compared with the prior-year period, SD&A expenses as a percent of net sales increased 80 basis points to 27.7% for fiscal 2018 from 26.9% in fiscal 2017. Adjusted SD&A expenses were $956.1 million, or 26.0% of net sales, in fiscal 2018 compared to $882.3 million, or 25.2% of net sales, in the year-ago period. 

During the year ended August 31, 2018, we recognized pre-tax special charges of $5.6 million compared with pre-tax net special charges of $11.3 million recorded during the year ended August 31, 2017. Further details regarding our special charges are included in the Special Charges footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

Operating profit for fiscal 2018 was $460.8 million compared with $527.5 million reported for the prior-year period, a decrease of $66.7 million, or 12.6%. Operating profit margin decreased 250 basis points to 12.5% for fiscal 2018 compared with 15.0% for fiscal 2017. The decrease in operating profit was due primarily to the impact of price/mix on gross profit as well as higher SD&A expenses, partially offset by higher sales volumes and lower net special charges. 

Adjusted operating profit decreased $66.3 million, or 11.0%, to $534.1 million compared with $600.4 million for fiscal 2017. Adjusted operating profit margin was 14.5% and 17.1% for fiscal 2018 and 2017, respectively.

Other Expense

Other expense consists principally of net interest expense and net miscellaneous expense, which includes non-service related components of net periodic pension cost, gains and losses associated with foreign currency-related transactions, and non-operating gains and losses. Interest expense, net, was $33.5 million and $32.5 million for the years ended August 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. We reported net miscellaneous expense of $1.4 million in fiscal 2018 compared with $2.4 million in fiscal 2017. Net miscellaneous expense included a gain of $5.4 million associated with the sale of our former Spanish lighting business and a gain of $7.2 million associated with the sale of an investment in an unconsolidated affiliate for fiscal 2018 and 2017, respectively.

28
Income Taxes and Net Income

Our effective income tax rate was 17.9% and 34.7% for the years ended August 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. The effective income tax rate for the year ended August 31, 2018 was significantly impacted by the provisions of the TCJA, which was enacted during the second quarter of fiscal 2018. Further details regarding the TCJA are included in the Income Taxes footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Net income for fiscal 2018 increased $27.9 million, or 8.7%, to $349.6 million from $321.7 million reported for the prior year. The increase in net income resulted primarily from the benefit recognized related to the TCJA, partially offset by a decrease in operating profit. Adjusted net income for fiscal 2018 decreased 0.8% to $362.9 million compared with $365.9 million in the year-ago period. Diluted earnings per share for fiscal 2018 was $8.52 compared with $7.43 for the prior-year period, which represented an increase of $1.09 or 14.7%. Adjusted diluted earnings per share for fiscal 2018 was $8.84 compared with $8.45 for the prior-year period, which represented an increase of $0.39, or 4.6%.

Outlook

We continue to believe the execution of our strategy will provide attractive opportunities for profitable growth over the long-term. Our strategy is to capitalize on market growth and share gain opportunities by continuing to expand and leverage our industry-leading lighting and building management solutions portfolio, coupled with our extensive market presence and financial strength, to produce attractive financial performance over the long-term.

We remain cautious about overall market conditions within the lighting industry for fiscal 2020 primarily due to continued economic uncertainties caused by global trade issues, including tariffs. We expect market demand for lighting products to remain sluggish until there is more clarity regarding these global trade issues. Additionally, we expect that labor shortages in certain markets will continue to dampen growth rates for both the construction and lighting markets. Nonetheless, our focus for fiscal 2020 will be to drive top-line growth through market share gains and enhance margins, while implementing appropriate cost containment measures as necessitated by market demand.

Management estimates a fiscal 2020 annual tax rate of approximately 23% before any discrete items, assuming the tax rates in the Company’s taxing jurisdictions remain generally consistent throughout the year. Additionally, management expects fiscal 2020 capital expenditures will approximate 1.7% of net sales.

We believe our fiscal 2020 first quarter net sales could be down in the mid-to-high single-digit percentage range compared with first quarter of fiscal 2019 primarily due to the pull forward of orders by certain customers in advance of announced price increases in the prior-year period as well as our recent efforts to reduce our exposure to products whose profitability has been most negatively impacted by tariffs and are sold primarily through the retail sales channel. The decline in net sales should be partially mitigated by the recently acquired TLG. While we believe prior year’s pull forward of orders contributed significantly to first quarter of fiscal 2019 net sales growth rate of 11%, we are unable to specifically quantify its impact. Therefore, it is not possible to precisely know how this will impact this year’s first quarter results compared with the year-ago period. 

We expect to continue to outperform the growth rates of the key markets that we serve in future periods, subject to quarterly volatility and excluding our actions to prune less profitable portions of our product portfolio, by continuing to execute our various strategies. These strategies focus on growth opportunities for new construction and renovation projects, expansion into underpenetrated geographies and channels, and growth from the continued introduction of new lighting and building management solutions as part of our integrated, tiered solutions strategy, including leveraging our unique, technology driven solutions portfolio, including IoT enabled solutions, to capture market share in the nascent, but rapidly growing, market for data capture, analytics, and other services, assisting in transforming buildings and campuses from cost centers to strategic assets. 

We expect the pricing environment to continue to be challenging in portions of the market, particularly for more basic, lesser-featured products sold through certain sales channels as well as shifts in product mix, both of which could continue to negatively impact net sales and margins. We expect recently announced price increases to mitigate some of the pricing pressures in the market but not to have any material impact on product substitution trends to lower priced alternatives. We expect to continue to introduce products and solutions to more effectively compete in these portions of the market and to accelerate programs to reduce product costs in order to maintain our competitiveness and drive improved profitability.

Starting in calendar 2018, the U.S. federal government began imposing tariffs on certain Chinese imports and threatened to impose tariffs on all products imported from Mexico. We produce a meaningful percentage of our products in Mexico. Certain components used in our products as well as source certain finished products from China that are impacted by the recently imposed Chinese tariffs. Our efforts to mitigate the impact of these added costs include a variety of activities, such as finding alternative suppliers, producing components and finished goods in countries other than China, in-

29
sourcing the production of certain products, and raising prices. We believe that our mitigation activities, including recently announced price increases once fully enacted, will assist to offset the added costs. Future U.S. policy changes that may be implemented, including additional tariffs, could have a positive or negative consequence on our financial performance depending on how the changes influence many factors, including business and consumer sentiment.

We expect to refinance our $350 million public notes maturing in December 2019 through borrowings under our Term Loan, which we would expect to have a meaningfully lower interest rate. Our borrowing capacity additionally provides us with the resources to support our growth opportunities, including acquisitions, and accommodate the current stock repurchase program, of which 4.55 million shares remain available for repurchase as of August 31, 2019. The extent and timing of actual stock repurchases will be subject to various factors, including stock price, company performance, expected future market conditions, and other possible uses of cash, including acquisitions. We may increase our leverage to accommodate the stock repurchase program.

From a longer term perspective, we expect that our addressable markets have the potential to experience solid growth over the next decade, particularly as energy and environmental concerns continue to come to the forefront along with emerging opportunities for digital lighting to play a key role in the IoT through the use of intelligent networked lighting and building automation systems that can collect and exchange data to increase efficiency as well as provide a host of other economic benefits resulting from data analytics. We remain positive about the future prospects of the Company and our ability to outperform the markets we serve.

Accounting Standards Adopted in Fiscal 2019 and Accounting Standards Yet to Be Adopted

See the New Accounting Pronouncements footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information on recently adopted and upcoming standards.

Critical Accounting Estimates

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations addresses the financial condition and results of operations as reflected in our Consolidated Financial Statements, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. As discussed in the Description of Business and Basis of Presentation footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, the preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and reported amounts of revenue and expense during the reporting period. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates and judgments, including those related to revenue recognition; inventory valuation; depreciation, amortization, and the recoverability of long-lived assets, including goodwill and intangible assets; share-based payment expense; medical, product warranty and recall, and other reserves; retirement benefits; and litigation. We base our estimates and judgments on our substantial historical experience and other relevant factors, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results could differ from those estimates. We discuss the development of accounting estimates with our Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. See the Significant Accounting Policies footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a summary of the accounting policies.

We believe the following represent our critical accounting estimates:

Revenue Recognition

We recognize revenue when we transfer control of goods and services to our customers. Revenue is measured as the amount of consideration we expect to receive in exchange for goods and services. In the period of revenue recognition, provisions for certain rebates, sales incentives, product returns, and discounts to customers are estimated and recorded, in most instances, as a reduction of revenue. We also maintain one-time or on-going marketing and trade-promotion programs with certain customers that require us to estimate and accrue the expected costs of such programs. Generally, these items are estimated based on customer agreements, historical trends, and expected demand. For sales with multiple deliverables, significant judgment may be required to determine which performance obligations are distinct and should be accounted for separately. We allocate the expected consideration to be collected to each distinct performance obligation based on its standalone selling price. Standalone selling price is generally estimated using a cost plus margin valuation when no observable input is available. 

Actual results could differ from estimates, which would require adjustments to accrued amounts. Please refer to the Revenue Recognition footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding estimates related to revenue recognition.

30
Inventories

Inventories include materials, direct labor, in-bound freight, and related manufacturing overhead and are stated at the lower of cost (on a first-in, first-out or average-cost basis) and net realizable value. We review inventory quantities on hand and record a provision for excess or obsolete inventory primarily based on estimated future demand and current market conditions. A significant change in customer demand, market conditions, or technology could render certain inventory obsolete and thus could have a material adverse impact on our operating results in the period the change occurs.

Goodwill and Indefinite-Lived Intangible Assets

We review goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment on an annual basis in the fiscal fourth quarter or on an interim basis if an event occurs or circumstances change that would more likely than not indicate that the fair value of the goodwill or indefinite-lived asset is below its carrying value. All other long-lived and intangible assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the asset may not be recoverable. An impairment loss for goodwill or an indefinite-lived intangible asset would be recognized based on the difference between the carrying value of the asset and its estimated fair value, which would be determined based on either discounted future cash flows or another appropriate fair value method. The evaluation of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangibles for impairment requires management to use significant judgments and estimates in accordance with U.S. GAAP including, but not limited to, economic, industry, and company-specific qualitative factors, projected future net sales, operating results, and cash flows.

Although we currently believe that the estimates used in the evaluation of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangibles are reasonable, differences between actual and expected net sales, operating results, and cash flows and/or changes in the discount rates or theoretical royalty rates used could cause these assets to be deemed impaired. If this were to occur, we would be required to record a non-cash charge to earnings for the write-down in the value of such assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position but not our cash flows from operations.

Goodwill

Our business is comprised of one reporting unit with a goodwill balance of $967.3 million as of August 31, 2019. During fiscal 2019, we utilized a qualitative assessment of the fair value of goodwill as of June 1, 2019. To perform this assessment, we identified and analyzed macroeconomic conditions, industry and market conditions, and company-specific factors. Additionally, factors that would have the greatest impact on the fair value of the organization were compared to those used in the most recent quantitative impairment test, which was performed as of June 1, 2017, to identify potentially significant variances to the reasonableness of the assumptions. Taking into consideration these factors, we estimated the potential change in the fair value of goodwill compared with our most recent quantitative impairment test. As a result of the analysis performed, management believes the estimated fair value of the reporting unit continues to exceed its carrying value by a substantial margin and does not represent a more likely than not possibility of potential impairment. The goodwill analysis did not result in an impairment charge. 

Indefinite-Lived Intangible Assets

Our indefinite-lived intangible assets consist of eight trade names with an aggregate carrying value of approximately $141.3 million. We utilized significant assumptions to estimate the fair value of these indefinite-lived trade names using a fair value model based on discounted future cash flows (“fair value model”) in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Future cash flows associated with each of our indefinite-lived trade names are calculated by multiplying a theoretical royalty rate a willing third party would pay for use of the particular trade name by estimated future net sales attributable to the relevant trade name. The present value of the resulting after-tax cash flow is our current estimate of the fair value of the trade names. This fair value model requires us to make several significant assumptions, including estimated future net sales (including short and long-term growth rates), the royalty rate, and the discount rate.

Future net sales and short-term growth rates are estimated for each particular trade name based on management’s financial forecasts, which consider key business drivers, such as specific revenue growth initiatives, market share changes, expected growth in our addressable market, and general economic factors, such as credit availability and interest rates. The long-term growth rate used in determining terminal value is estimated at 3% and is based primarily on our understanding of projections for expected long-term growth within our addressable market and historical long-term performance. The theoretical royalty rate is estimated primarily using management’s assumptions regarding the amount a willing third party would pay to use the particular trade name and is compared with market information for similar intellectual property within and outside of the industry. If future operating results are unfavorable compared with forecasted amounts, we may be required to reduce the theoretical royalty rate used in the fair value model. A reduction 

31
in the theoretical royalty rate would result in lower expected future after-tax cash flows in the valuation model. We utilized a range of estimated discount rates between 9% and 14% as of June 1, 2019, based on the Capital Asset Pricing Model, which considers the current risk-free interest rate, beta, market risk premium, and entity specific size premium.

During fiscal 2019, we performed an evaluation of the fair values of our indefinite-lived trade names. Our expected revenues are based on our fiscal 2020 expectations and recent lighting, controls, and building management solutions market growth estimates for fiscal 2020 through 2024. We also included revenue growth estimates based on current initiatives expected to help improve performance. During fiscal 2019, estimated theoretical royalty rates ranged between 1% and 4%. Based on the results of the indefinite-lived intangible asset analyses, we concluded that our indefinite-lived trade names are fairly stated; therefore, no impairment charges were recorded for fiscal 2019. Any reasonably likely change in the assumptions used in the analyses for our trade names, including revenue growth rates, royalty rates, and discount rates, would not be material to our financial condition or results of operations.

Definite-Lived Intangible Assets

We evaluate the remaining useful lives of our definite-lived intangible assets on an annual basis in the fiscal fourth quarter or on an interim basis if an event occurs or circumstances change that would warrant a revision to the remaining period of amortization. For each reporting period we consider whether an event occurred or circumstances changed that would more likely than not indicate that the fair value of the definite-lived asset is below its carrying value. We recorded no impairment charges for our definite-lived intangible assets during fiscal 2019 or 2018.

Self-Insurance

We self-insure, up to certain limits, traditional risks including workers’ compensation, comprehensive general liability, and auto liability. A provision for claims under this self-insured program, based on our estimate of the aggregate liability for claims incurred, is revised and recorded annually. The estimate is derived from both internal and external sources including, but not limited to, our independent actuary. The actuarial estimates are subject to uncertainty from various sources including, changes in claim reporting patterns, claim settlement patterns, judicial decisions, legislation, and economic conditions, among others. Although we believe that the actuarial estimates are reasonable, significant differences related to the items noted above could materially affect our self-insurance obligations, future expense, and cash flow. We are also self-insured up to certain limits for certain other insurable risks, primarily physical loss to property and business interruptions resulting from such loss lasting two days or more in duration. Insurance coverage is maintained for catastrophic property and casualty exposures as well as those risks required to be insured by law or contract. We are fully self-insured for certain other types of liabilities, including environmental, product recall, warranty, and patent infringement. 

We are also self-insured for the majority of our medical benefit plans up to certain limits. We estimate our aggregate liability for claims incurred by applying a lag factor to our historical claims and administrative cost experience. The appropriateness of our lag factor is evaluated and revised, if necessary, annually. Although we believe that the current estimates are reasonable, significant differences related to claim reporting patterns, plan design, legislation, and general economic conditions could materially affect our medical benefit plan liabilities, future expense, and cash flow.

Retirement Benefits

We sponsor domestic and international defined benefit pension plans, defined contribution plans, and other postretirement plans. Assumptions are used to determine the estimated fair value of plan assets, the actuarial value of plan liabilities, and the current and projected costs for these employee benefit plans and include, among other factors, estimated discount rates, expected returns on the pension fund assets, estimated mortality rates, the rates of increase in employee compensation levels, and, for one international plan, retroactive inflationary adjustments. These assumptions are determined based on organizational and market data and are evaluated annually as of the plans’ measurement date. See the Pensions and Defined Contribution Plans footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on our plans, including the potential impact of changes to certain of these assumptions.

Share-based Payment Expense

We recognize compensation cost relating to share-based payment transactions in the financial statements based on the estimated grant date fair value of the equity instrument issued. We account for stock options, restricted shares, and share units representing certain deferrals into the Director Deferred Compensation Plan or the Supplemental Deferred Savings Plan (both of which are discussed further in the Share-based Payments footnote of the Notes to 

32
Consolidated Financial Statements) based on the grant-date fair value estimated under the provisions of ASC Topic 718, Compensation — Stock Compensation (“ASC 718”).

We utilize the Black-Scholes model in deriving the fair value estimates of our stock option awards and estimate forfeitures of all share-based awards at the time of grant, which are revised in subsequent periods if actual forfeitures differ from initial estimates. Forfeitures are estimated based on historical experience. If factors change causing different assumptions to be made in future periods, estimated compensation expense may differ significantly from that recorded in the current period. See the Significant Accounting Policies and Share-based Payments footnotes of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information regarding the assumptions used in estimating the fair value of stock options.

Product Warranty and Recall Costs

Our products generally have a standard warranty term of five years. We record an allowance for the estimated amount of future warranty costs when the related revenue is recognized. Estimated future warranty costs are primarily based on historical experience of identified warranty claims. We are fully self-insured for product warranty costs. Historical warranty costs have been within expectations. We expect that historical activity will continue to be the best indicator of future warranty costs. There can be no assurance that future warranty costs will not exceed historical amounts. Estimated costs related to product recalls based on a formal campaign soliciting repair or return of that product are accrued when they are deemed to be probable and can be reasonably estimated. If actual future warranty or recall costs exceed recorded amounts, additional allowances may be required, which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and cash flow.

We also sell certain service-type warranties that extend coverages for products beyond their base warranties. We account for service-type warranties as distinct performance obligations and recognize revenue for these contracts ratably over the life of the additional warranty period. Claims related to service-type warranties are expensed as incurred.

Litigation

We recognize expense for legal claims when payments associated with the claims become probable and can be reasonably estimated. Due to the difficulty in estimating costs of resolving legal claims, actual costs could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and cash flow.

Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements and Information

This filing contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws. Statements made herein that may be considered forward-looking include statements incorporating terms such as “expect,” “believe,” “intend,” “anticipate,” and similar terms that relate to future events, performance, or results of the organization. In addition, we, or the executive officers on our behalf, may from time to time make forward-looking statements in reports and other documents we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission or in connection with oral statements made to the press, current and potential investors, or others. Forward-looking statements include, without limitation: (a) our projections regarding financial performance, liquidity, capital structure, capital expenditures, investments, share repurchases, and dividends, including our intent and ability to refinance our senior unsecured notes; (b) expectations about the impact of any changes in demand as well as volatility and uncertainty in general economic conditions and the pricing environment; (c) external forecasts projecting the North American lighting and building management solutions market growth rate and growth in our addressable markets; (d) our ability to execute and realize benefits from initiatives related to streamlining our operations, capitalize on growth opportunities, expand in key markets as well as underpenetrated geographies and channels, and introduce new lighting and building management solutions; (e) estimate of our fiscal 2020 tax rates, results of operations, and cash flows; (f) our estimate of future amortization expense; (g) our ability to achieve our long-term financial goals and measures and outperform the markets we serve; (h) the impact of changes in the political landscape and related policy changes, including monetary, regulatory, and trade policies; (i) our expectations related to mitigating efforts around recently imposed tariffs; (j) our expectations about the resolution of trade compliance, securities class action, patent litigation, and/or other legal matters; and (k) the impacts of new accounting pronouncements. You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on any forward looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this annual report. Except as required by law, we undertake no obligation to publicly update or release any revisions to these forward-looking statements to reflect any events or circumstances after the date of this annual report or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. Our forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the historical experience of the organization and management’s present expectations or projections. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, customer and supplier relationships and prices; competition; ability to realize anticipated benefits from initiatives taken and timing of benefits; market demand; litigation and other contingent liabilities; and economic, political, governmental, and technological factors that have affected us as a company. Also, additional risks 

33
that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed in our forward-looking statements are discussed in Part I, Item 1a. Risk Factors of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and are specifically incorporated herein by reference.

The industry and market data contained in this report are based either on our management’s own estimates or, where indicated, independent industry publications, reports by governmental agencies, or market research firms or other published independent sources and, in each case, are believed by our management to be reasonable estimates. However, industry and market data is subject to change and cannot always be verified with complete certainty due to limits on the availability and reliability of raw data, the voluntary nature of the data gathering process and other limitations and uncertainties inherent in any statistical survey of market shares. We have not independently verified market and industry data from third-party sources.

Item 7a.Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk