ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS

The following discussion sets forth some of the more important risk factors that could materially affect BB&T's financial condition and operations. When a risk factor spans several risk categories, the below risks have been listed by their primary risk category. Other factors that could affect the Company's financial condition and operations are discussed in the "Forward-Looking Statements" section above. However, there may be additional risks that are not presently material or known, and factors besides those discussed below, or elsewhere in this or other reports that BB&T filed or furnished with the SEC, that also could adversely affect the Company.

As a result of BB&T entering into the merger agreement with SunTrust, certain risk factors have been identified. These risks and the other risks associated with the proposed merger will be more fully discussed in the joint proxy statement/prospectus that will be included in the registration statement on Form S-4 that BB&T will file with the SEC in connection with the merger. 

Risks Relating to the Proposed Merger with SunTrust 

The consummation of the merger is contingent upon the satisfaction of a number of conditions, including shareholder and regulatory approvals, that may be outside of BB&T's or SunTrust's control and that BB&T and SunTrust may be unable to satisfy or obtain or which may delay the consummation of the merger or result in the imposition of conditions that could reduce the anticipated benefits from the merger or cause the parties to abandon the merger.

Consummation of the merger is contingent upon the satisfaction of a number of conditions, some of which are beyond BB&T's and SunTrust's control, including, among others: 

•adoption of the merger agreement by SunTrust's shareholders and by BB&T's shareholders;

•authorization for listing on the NYSE of the shares of BB&T common stock to be issued in the merger, subject to official notice of issuance; 

•the receipt of required regulatory approvals, including the approval of the FRB, the FDIC, the NCCOB and the Georgia Department of Banking and Finance;

•effectiveness of the registration statement on Form S-4 for the BB&T common stock to be issued in the merger; and 

•the absence of any order, injunction, decree or other legal restraint preventing the completion of the merger or making the completion of the merger illegal.

Each party's obligation to complete the merger is also subject to certain additional customary conditions, including: 

•subject to certain exceptions, the accuracy of the representations and warranties of the other party;

•performance in all material respects by the other party of its obligations under the merger agreement; and 

•receipt by such party of an opinion from its counsel to the effect that the merger will qualify as a reorganization within the meaning of Section 368(a) of the IRC.

These conditions to the closing of the merger may not be fulfilled in a timely manner or at all, and, accordingly, the merger may not be completed. In addition, the parties can mutually decide to terminate the merger agreement at any time, before or after receipt of the requisite approvals by BB&T's or SunTrust's shareholders, or BB&T or SunTrust may elect to terminate the merger agreement in certain other circumstances.

As a condition to granting required regulatory approvals, governmental entities may impose conditions, limitations or costs, require divestitures or place restrictions on the conduct of BB&T after the closing of the merger. Such conditions or changes and the process of obtaining regulatory approvals could, among other things, have the effect of delaying completion of the merger or of imposing additional costs or limitations on BB&T following the merger, any of which may have an adverse effect on BB&T following the merger.

BB&T and SunTrust may also be subject to lawsuits challenging the merger, and adverse rulings in these lawsuits may delay or prevent the merger from being completed or require BB&T or SunTrust to incur significant costs to defend or settle these lawsuits. Any delay in completing the merger could cause BB&T not to realize, or to be delayed in realizing, some or all of the benefits that BB&T expects to achieve if the merger is successfully completed within its expected time frame.

BB&T Corporation 16

BB&T may fail to realize all of the anticipated benefits of the merger, or those benefits may take longer to realize than expected. BB&T may also encounter significant difficulties in integrating with SunTrust.

BB&T and SunTrust have operated and, until the completion of the merger, will continue to operate, independently. The success of the merger, including anticipated benefits and cost savings, will depend, in part, on BB&T's ability to successfully integrate SunTrust's operations in a manner that results in various benefits and that does not materially disrupt existing customer relationships or result in decreased revenues due to loss of customers. The process of integrating operations could result in a loss of key personnel or cause an interruption of, or loss of momentum in, the activities of one or more of the combined company's businesses. Inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies could adversely affect the combined company. The diversion of management's attention and any delays or difficulties encountered in connection with the merger and the integration of SunTrust's operations could have an adverse effect on the business, financial condition, operating results and prospects of the combined company.

If BB&T experiences difficulties in the integration process, including those listed above, BB&T may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of the merger in a timely manner or at all.

While the merger is pending, BB&T will be subject to business uncertainties and contractual restrictions that could adversely affect its business and operations.

Uncertainty about the effect of the merger on employees, customers and other persons with whom BB&T or SunTrust have a business relationship may have an adverse effect on BB&T's business, operations and stock price. Existing customers of BB&T and SunTrust could decide to no longer do business with BB&T, SunTrust or the combined company, reducing the anticipated benefits of the merger. BB&T and SunTrust are also subject to certain restrictions on the conduct of their respective businesses while the merger is pending. As a result, certain other projects may be delayed or abandoned and business decisions could be deferred. Employee retention at SunTrust and BB&T may be challenging before completion of the merger, as certain employees may experience uncertainty about their future roles with the combined company, and these retention challenges will require BB&T to incur additional expenses in order to retain key employees. If key employees depart because of issues relating to the uncertainty and difficulty of integration or a desire not to remain with BB&T, SunTrust or the combined company, the benefits of the merger could be materially diminished.

BB&T is expected to incur substantial expenses related to the merger and the integration with SunTrust.

Both BB&T and SunTrust will incur substantial expenses in connection with the merger and integration. There are a large number of processes, policies, procedures, operations, technologies and systems that must be integrated. While BB&T has assumed that a certain level of expenses would be incurred, there are many factors beyond BB&T's control that could affect the total amount or the timing of the integration expenses. Moreover, many of the expenses that will be incurred are, by their nature, difficult to estimate accurately. These expenses could, particularly in the near term, exceed the savings that BB&T expects to achieve from the elimination of duplicative expenses and the realization of economies of scale. The amount and timing of any charges to earnings as a result of merger or integration expenses are uncertain at present.

BB&T's future results will suffer if it does not effectively manage its expanded operations following the merger.

Following the merger, the size of BB&T's business will increase significantly beyond its current size. BB&T's future success depends, in part, upon the ability to manage this expanded business, which will pose substantial challenges for management, including challenges related to the management and monitoring of new operations and associated increased costs and complexity. There can be no assurances BB&T will be successful or that BB&T will realize the expected operating efficiencies, cost savings and other benefits currently anticipated from the merger.

Compliance Risk

Changes in banking laws could have a material adverse effect on BB&T.

BB&T is extensively regulated under federal and state banking laws and regulations that are intended primarily for the protection of depositors, the DIF and the banking system as a whole. In addition, BB&T is subject to changes in federal and state laws as well as changes in banking and credit regulations and governmental economic and monetary policies. Any of these changes could adversely and materially affect BB&T. The regulatory environment for financial institutions entails significant potential increases in compliance requirements and associated costs, including those related to consumer credit, with a focus on mortgage lending.

Federal and state banking regulators also possess broad powers to take supervisory actions as they deem appropriate. These supervisory actions may result in higher capital requirements, higher deposit insurance premiums and limitations on BB&T's activities that could have a material adverse effect on its business and profitability.

17 BB&T Corporation

For example, as discussed in "Regulatory Considerations" above, the FDIC adopted a final rule that imposed a DIF assessment surcharge for banks with total assets of at least $10 billion. The surcharge became effective July 1, 2016 and ended on September 30, 2018 at which time the DIF reached the target level. BB&T incurred incremental regulatory charges of $63 million for 2018, $84 million for 2017 and $42 million for 2016 while the surcharge was imposed.

The Dodd-Frank Act, and its related rulemaking activities, may result in lower revenues, higher costs and ratings downgrades. In addition, failure to meet the FRB's capital planning and adequacy requirements and liquidity requirements under the Dodd-Frank Act and other banking laws may limit the ability to pay dividends, pursue acquisitions and repurchase common stock.

The Dodd-Frank Act represents a significant overhaul of many aspects of the regulation of the financial services industry, addressing, among other things, systemic risk, capital adequacy, deposit insurance assessments, consumer financial protection, interchange fees, derivatives, lending limits, and changes among the bank regulatory agencies. Under Dodd-Frank, BB&T is deemed to be a "systemically important" institution subject to certain enhanced prudential standards imposed by the FRB. Federal agencies continue to implement the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act. Certain of these provisions remain subject to further rulemaking, guidance and interpretation by the applicable federal regulators. Additionally, the CFPB has finalized a number of significant rules that impact nearly every aspect of the lifecycle of a residential mortgage. These rules implement the Dodd-Frank Act amendments to the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Truth in Lending Act and the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act. These rules have a direct impact on BB&T's operations, as BB&T is both a mortgage originator and a servicer.

Due to BB&T's size, it is subject to additional regulations such as the "living will" requirements relating to the rapid and orderly resolution of systemically important financial institutions in the event of material financial distress or failure. BB&T cannot predict the additional effects that compliance with the Dodd-Frank Act or any regulations will have on BB&T's businesses or its ability to pursue future business opportunities. Additional regulations resulting from the Dodd-Frank Act may materially adversely affect BB&T's business, financial condition or results of operations. See "Regulatory Considerations" for additional information regarding the Dodd-Frank Act and its impact upon BB&T.

BB&T is subject to enhanced capital requirements and may be subject to more stringent capital requirements, which could diminish its ability to pay dividends or require BB&T to reduce its operations. 

The Dodd-Frank Act requires federal banking agencies to establish more stringent risk-based capital requirements and leverage limits applicable to banks and BHCs. The FRB approved final rules that established a new comprehensive capital framework for U.S. banking organizations and established a more conservative definition of capital. These requirements, known as Basel III, became effective on January 1, 2015, and as a result, BB&T became subject to enhanced minimum capital and leverage ratios. These requirements, and any other new regulations, including those that have been proposed but not yet implemented as a result of the requirements established by the BCBS, could adversely affect BB&T's ability to pay dividends or raise capital, or could require BB&T to limit certain business activities, which may adversely affect its results of operations or financial condition. BB&T currently qualifies as a standardized approach banking organization under Basel III. Financial institutions with greater than $250 billion in assets or $10 billion in foreign assets are considered advanced approaches banking organizations, which are subject to a more complex calculation of RWA that includes an assessment of the impact of operational risk, among other requirements. In October 2018, the federal banking agencies proposed revisions that would tailor rules for large banking companies based on risk profile. See additional disclosures in the "Regulatory Considerations" section. Should the proposed rule not become final, BB&T would need to comply with the advanced approaches requirements after the pending merger with SunTrust. These more stringent requirements, or BB&T's failure to properly comply with them, could materially and adversely impact BB&T's financial results and regulatory status if the requirements become applicable to BB&T. In addition, the costs associated with complying with more stringent capital requirements, such as the requirement to formulate and submit capital plans based on pre-defined stress scenarios on an annual basis, could have a material adverse effect on BB&T. See "Regulatory Considerations" for additional information regarding the capital requirements under the Dodd-Frank Act and Basel III. 

For example, BB&T is subject to assessment by the FRB as part of the CCAR program. CCAR is an exercise required by the FRB to ensure that institutions have forward-looking capital planning processes that account for their risks and sufficient capital to continue operations throughout times of economic and financial stress. BB&T cannot be certain that the FRB will have no objections to BB&T's future capital plans submitted through the CCAR program. Failure to pass the CCAR review could adversely affect BB&T's ability to pay dividends, enter into acquisitions and repurchase common stock.

BB&T Corporation 18

BB&T is subject to extensive government regulation and supervision, which can lead to costly enforcement actions while increasing the cost of doing business and limiting BB&T's ability to generate revenue.

The financial services industry is subject to intense scrutiny from bank supervisors in the examination process and aggressive enforcement of regulations on both the federal and state levels, particularly with respect to mortgage-related practices and other consumer compliance matters, as well as compliance with anti-money laundering, Bank Secrecy Act and Office of Foreign Assets Control efforts, and economic sanctions against certain foreign countries and nationals. Federal banking law grants substantial enforcement powers to federal banking regulators. This enforcement authority includes, among other things, the ability to assess significant civil or criminal monetary penalties, fines, or restitution; to issue cease and desist or removal orders; and to initiate injunctive actions against banking organizations and institution-affiliated parties. These enforcement actions may be initiated for violations of laws and regulations and unsafe or unsound practices. Failure to comply with these and other regulations, and supervisory expectations related thereto, may result in fines, penalties, lawsuits, regulatory sanctions, reputation damage or restrictions on business. 

In addition, federal bank regulatory agencies are required to consider the effectiveness of a financial institution's anti-money laundering activities and other regulatory compliance matters when reviewing bank mergers and BHC acquisitions and, consequently, non-compliance with the applicable regulations could materially impair BB&T's ability to enter into or complete mergers and acquisitions. Emerging technologies, such as cryptocurrencies could limit BB&T's ability to track the movement of funds. BB&T's ability to comply with BSA/AML and other regulations is dependent on its ability to improve detection and reporting capabilities and reduce variation in control processes and oversight accountability.

For example, as discussed in "Regulatory Considerations" above, Branch Bank entered into a consent order with the FDIC and the NCCOB in December 2016 and BB&T entered into a cease and desist order with the FRB and NCCOB in January 2017. The orders call for corrective actions and enhancements to address certain internal control deficiencies within the BSA/AML Compliance Program. Although the NCCOB and FDIC have exited the consent order, the FRB has not. BB&T's and Branch Bank's ability to pursue mergers and acquisitions may be limited for a period of time, including BB&T's potential merger with SunTrust. See additional risk factors under the heading "Risks Relating to the Proposed Merger with SunTrust."

Issuance of new tax guidance or differences in interpretation of tax laws and regulations may adversely impact BB&T's financial statements.

Local, state or federal tax authorities may interpret tax laws and regulations differently than BB&T, including the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, and challenge tax positions that BB&T has taken on its tax returns. This may result in differences in the treatment of revenues, deductions or credits and/or differences in the timing of these items. The differences in treatment may result in payment of additional taxes, interest or penalties that could have a material adverse effect on financial results. Potential litigation related to BB&T could adversely affect BB&T's financial position or results of operations.

Changes in tax laws contained in the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act include a number of provisions that will have an impact on the banking industry, borrowers and the market for single-family residential real estate. Changes include (i) a lower limit on the deductibility of mortgage interest on single-family residential mortgage loans, (ii) the elimination of interest deductions for home equity loans, (iii) a limitation on the deductibility of business interest expense and (iv) a limitation on the deductibility of property taxes and state and local income taxes. 

The recent changes in the tax laws may have an adverse effect on the market for, and valuation of, residential properties, and on the demand for such loans in the future, and could make it harder for borrowers to make their loan payments. In addition, these recent changes may also have a disproportionate effect on taxpayers in states with high residential home prices and high state and local taxes. If home ownership becomes less attractive, demand for mortgage loans could decrease. The value of the properties securing loans in BB&T's loan portfolio may be adversely impacted as a result of the changing economics of home ownership, which could require an increase in BB&T's provision for loan losses, which would reduce its profitability and could materially adversely affect its business, financial condition and results of operations.

19 BB&T Corporation

Credit Risk

Changes in national, regional and local economic conditions and deterioration in the geographic and financial markets in which BB&T operates could lead to higher loan charge-offs and reduce net income and growth.

BB&T's business is subject to fluctuations based on national, regional and local economic conditions, as well as conditions that may be specific to particular sectors or industries. These fluctuations are not predictable, cannot be controlled and may have a material adverse impact on BB&T's operations and financial condition even if other favorable events occur. BB&T's banking operations are primarily locally oriented and community-based. Accordingly, BB&T expects to continue to be dependent upon local business conditions as well as conditions in the local residential and CRE markets it serves. For example, an increase in unemployment, a decrease in real estate values or increases in interest rates, as well as other factors, could weaken the economies of the communities BB&T serves. Weakness in BB&T's market area could depress its earnings and consequently its financial condition because:

•customers may not want or need BB&T's products or services;

•borrowers may not be able or willing to repay their loans;

•the value of the collateral securing loans to borrowers may decline; and

•the quality of BB&T's loan portfolio may decline.

Any of the latter three scenarios could require BB&T to charge off a higher percentage of loans and/or increase provisions for credit losses, which would reduce net income. These factors could result in higher delinquencies and greater charge-offs in future periods, which could adversely affect BB&T's business, financial condition or results of operations.

A systemic lack of available credit, a lack of confidence in the financial sector, volatility in the financial markets and/or reduced business activity could materially adversely affect BB&T's business, financial condition and results of operations.

Potential downgrades of U.S. government securities by one or more of the credit ratings agencies could have a material adverse effect on BB&T's operations, earnings and financial condition.

A possible future downgrade of the sovereign credit ratings of the U.S. government and a decline in the perceived creditworthiness of U.S. government-related obligations could impact BB&T's ability to obtain funding that is collateralized by affected instruments, as well as affect the pricing of that funding when it is available. A downgrade may also adversely affect the market value of such instruments. BB&T cannot predict if, when or how any changes to the credit ratings or perceived creditworthiness of these obligations will affect economic conditions. Such ratings actions could result in a significant adverse impact on BB&T. For example, BB&T's securities portfolio consists largely of MBS issued by GSEs, such as FHLMC and FNMA. Among other things, a downgrade in the U.S. government's credit rating could adversely impact the value of these securities and may trigger requirements that the Company post additional collateral for trades relative to these securities. A downgrade of the sovereign credit ratings of the U.S. government or the credit ratings of related institutions, agencies or instruments would significantly exacerbate the other risks to which BB&T is subject and any related adverse effects on its business, financial condition and results of operations.

The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect BB&T.

Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. BB&T has exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and BB&T and certain of its subsidiaries routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds and other institutions. Many of these transactions expose BB&T to credit risk in the event of default of its counterparty. In addition, BB&T's credit risk may be exacerbated when collateral is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure. These types of losses could materially adversely affect BB&T's results of operations or financial condition.

Liquidity Risk

BB&T's liquidity could be impaired by an inability to access the capital markets, an unforeseen outflow of cash or a reduction in the credit ratings for BB&T or its subsidiaries.

Liquidity is essential to BB&T's businesses. When volatility or disruptions occur in the capital markets, BB&T's ability to access capital could be materially impaired. Additionally, other factors outside of BB&T's control, such as a general market disruption or an operational problem that affects third parties, could impair BB&T's ability to access capital markets or create an unforeseen outflow of cash or deposits. BB&T's inability to access the capital markets could constrain its ability to make new loans or meet its existing lending commitments and could ultimately jeopardize its overall liquidity and capitalization.

BB&T Corporation 20

BB&T's credit ratings are also important to its liquidity. Rating agencies regularly evaluate BB&T and its subsidiaries, and their ratings are based on a number of factors, including the financial strength of BB&T and its subsidiaries, as well as factors not entirely within BB&T's control, including conditions affecting the financial services industry generally. As a result, there can be no assurance that BB&T will maintain its current ratings. A reduction in BB&T's credit ratings could adversely affect BB&T's liquidity and competitive position, increase its borrowing costs, limit its access to the capital markets or trigger unfavorable contractual obligations. In connection with the pending SunTrust merger, Moody's placed BB&T's credit ratings under review for possible downgrade.  

Market Risk

Instability in economic conditions and geopolitical matters as well as volatility in financial markets could have a material adverse effect on BB&T's operations, earnings and financial condition.

The macroeconomic environment in the United States is susceptible to global events and volatility. The negative impact on economic conditions and global markets from foreign sovereign debt matters, changes of trade policies and other matters could adversely affect BB&T's business, financial condition and liquidity. Domestic and global political activity, geopolitical matters, including international political unrest or disturbances, concerns over energy prices, trade wars and economic instability or recession in certain regions could cause turmoil and volatility in the financial markets, which could reduce the value of BB&T's assets or cause a reduction in liquidity that adversely impacts BB&T's financial condition and results of operations.

Changes in U.S. trade policies and other factors beyond BB&T's control, including the imposition of tariffs and retaliatory tariffs, may adversely impact its business, financial condition and results of operations.

Following the U.S. presidential election in 2016, there has been discussion and dialogue regarding potential changes to U.S. trade policies, legislation, treaties and tariffs, including trade policies and tariffs affecting other countries, including China, the European Union, Canada and Mexico and retaliatory tariffs by such countries. Tariffs and retaliatory tariffs have been imposed, and additional tariffs and retaliation tariffs have been proposed. Such tariffs, retaliatory tariffs or other trade restrictions on products and materials that BB&T's customers import or export, including among others, agricultural products, could cause the prices of its customers' products to increase, which could reduce demand for such products, or reduce its customer margins, and adversely impact their revenues, financial results and ability to service debt. This, in turn, could adversely affect BB&T's financial condition and results of operations.

In addition, to the extent changes in the political environment have a negative impact on BB&T or on the markets in which BB&T operates its business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely impacted in the future. It remains unclear what the U.S. Administration or foreign governments will or will not do with respect to tariffs already imposed, additional tariffs that may be imposed, or international trade agreements and policies. On November 30, 2018, the United States, Canada and Mexico signed a new trade deal, the U.S.-Mexico-Canada Agreement, to replace the North American Free Trade Agreement, which is subject to congressional approval and various components of the agreement are not effective until 2020. The full impact of this agreement on BB&T, its customers and on the economic conditions in its geographic markets is currently unknown. A trade war or other governmental action related to tariffs or international trade agreements or policies has the potential to negatively impact BB&T's and/or its customers' costs, demand for its customers' products, and/or the U.S. economy or certain sectors thereof and, thus, adversely impact BB&T's business, financial condition and results of operations.

The monetary, tax and other policies of governmental agencies, including the FRB, have a significant impact on market interest rates, and BB&T's business and financial performance may be impacted significantly by such interest rates.

BB&T's businesses and earnings are affected by the monetary, tax and other policies adopted by various regulatory authorities of the U.S., non-U.S. governments and international agencies. The FRB regulates the supply of money and credit in the U.S. The federal policies determine in large part the cost of funds for lending and investing and the return earned on those loans and investments. The market impact from such policies can also materially decrease the value of certain of BB&T's financial assets, most notably debt securities. Changes in the federal policies are beyond BB&T's control and, consequently, the impact of these changes on BB&T's activities and results of operations is difficult to predict.

21 BB&T Corporation

Changes in interest rates may have an adverse effect on BB&T's profitability.

BB&T's earnings and financial condition are largely dependent on net interest income, which is the difference between interest earned from loans and investments and interest paid on deposits and borrowings. The narrowing of interest rate spreads could adversely affect BB&T's earnings and financial condition. BB&T cannot control or predict with certainty changes in interest rates. Regional and local economic conditions, competitive pressures and the policies of regulatory authorities, including monetary policies of the FRB, affect interest income and interest expense. As discussed in "Market Risk Management – Interest Rate Market Risk (Other than Trading)," BB&T has ongoing policies and procedures designed to manage the risks associated with changes in market interest rates. However, changes in interest rates still may have an adverse effect on BB&T's profitability. For example, rising interest rates could adversely affect BB&T's mortgage banking business because higher interest rates could cause customers to apply for fewer mortgages. Similarly, rising interest rates would increase the required periodic payment for variable rate loans and may result in borrowers becoming unable to pay. Additionally, rising interest rates may increase the cost of BB&T's deposits, which are a primary source of funding. 

On July 27, 2017, the Chief Executive of the U.K. Financial Conduct Authority announced that it will no longer persuade or compel banks to submit rates for the calculation of the LIBOR rates after 2021. In the U.S., the Alternative Reference Rates Committee of the FRB and the Federal Reserve Bank of New York identified the SOFR as an alternative U.S. dollar reference interest rate. The replacement of LIBOR creates operational and market risk which will become clear as replacement choices are developed. Uncertainty as to the nature of such potential changes or other reforms may adversely affect BB&T's financial condition and results of operations. 

Loss of deposits or a change in deposit mix could increase the Company's funding costs.

Deposits are a low cost and stable source of funding. BB&T competes with banks and other financial institutions for deposits. Funding costs may increase because the Company may lose deposits and replace them with more expensive sources of funding, clients may shift their deposits into higher cost products or the Company may need to raise its interest rates to avoid losing deposits. Higher funding costs reduce the Company's NIM, net interest income and net income.

Operational Risk

BB&T faces cybersecurity risks that could result in the disruption of operations or the disclosure of confidential information, adversely affect BB&T's business or reputation and create significant legal and financial exposure.

BB&T's computer systems and network infrastructure are subject to security risks and could be susceptible to cyber attacks, such as denial of service attacks, hacking, terrorist activities or identity theft. Financial services institutions and companies engaged in data processing have reported breaches in the security of their websites or other systems, some of which have involved sophisticated and targeted attacks intended to obtain unauthorized access to confidential information, destroy data, disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems, often through the introduction of computer viruses or malware, cyber attacks and other means. Denial of service attacks have been launched against a number of large financial services institutions, including BB&T. As a result of these attacks, the performance of BB&T's website, BBT.com, was adversely affected, and in some instances customers were prevented from accessing BB&T's website. BB&T expects to be subject to similar attacks in the future. While events to date primarily resulted in inconvenience, future cyber attacks could be more disruptive and damaging. Hacking and identity theft risks, in particular, could cause serious reputational harm. Cyber threats are rapidly evolving and BB&T may not be able to anticipate or prevent all such attacks. BB&T may incur increasing costs in an effort to minimize these risks and could be held liable for any security breach or loss.

Despite efforts to ensure the integrity of its systems, BB&T will not be able to anticipate all security breaches of these types, and BB&T may not be able to implement effective preventive measures against such security breaches. The techniques used by cyber criminals change frequently and can originate from a wide variety of sources, including outside groups such as external service providers, organized crime affiliates, terrorist organizations or hostile foreign governments. Those parties may also attempt to fraudulently induce associates, customers or other users of BB&T's systems to disclose sensitive information in order to gain access to its data or that of its clients. These risks may increase in the future as the Company continues to increase its mobile-payment and other internet-based product offerings and expands its internal usage of web-based products and applications.

A successful penetration or circumvention of system security could cause serious negative consequences to BB&T, including disruption of operations, misappropriation of confidential information of BB&T or its customers, or damage to computer systems of BB&T or its customers and counterparties. A security breach could result in violations of applicable privacy and other laws, financial loss to BB&T or to its customers, loss of confidence in BB&T's security measures, significant litigation exposure and harm to BB&T's reputation, all of which could have a material adverse effect on BB&T's financial condition or results of operations.

BB&T Corporation 22

BB&T relies on its associates, systems and certain counterparties, and certain failures could materially adversely affect operations.

BB&T's business is dependent on the ability to process, record and monitor a large number of complex transactions. The Company could be materially adversely affected if one or more of its associates cause a significant operational breakdown or failure, either as a result of human error or intentionally. Financial, accounting or other data processing systems may fail or have other significant shortcomings that materially adversely affect BB&T's business. In addition, BB&T continually enhances products, services and processes and may not fully identify new operational risks that may arise from such changes. Any of these occurrences could diminish the ability to operate one or more BUs or result in potential liability to clients, increased operating expenses, higher litigation costs (including fines and sanctions), reputational damage, regulatory intervention and/or weaker competitive standing, any of which could be material to the Company.

If personal, confidential or proprietary information of clients were to be mishandled or misused, significant regulatory consequences, reputational damage and financial loss could occur. Such mishandling or misuse could include circumstances where, for example, such information was erroneously provided to parties who are not permitted to have the information, either through the fault of systems, associates, or counterparties, or where such information was intercepted or otherwise inappropriately taken by third parties.

BB&T may be subject to disruptions of its operating systems arising from events that are wholly or partially beyond its control, which may include, for example, security breaches; electrical or telecommunications outages; failures of computer servers or other damage to property or assets; natural disasters; health emergencies or pandemics; or events arising from political events, including terrorist acts. There can be no assurance that disaster recovery or other plans will fully mitigate all potential business continuity risks. Any failures or disruptions of systems or operations could impact BB&T's ability to service its clients, which could adversely affect BB&T's results of operations by subjecting BB&T to losses, litigation, regulatory fines or penalties or by requiring the expenditure of significant resources to correct the failure or disruption.

Significant litigation and regulatory proceedings could have a material adverse effect on BB&T.

BB&T faces significant litigation and regulatory proceedings in its business. The volume of claims and amount of damages and penalties claimed in litigation and regulatory proceedings against financial institutions remains high. Given the inherent uncertainties involved in litigation and regulatory proceedings, and the very large or indeterminate damages sought in some matters asserted against BB&T, there can be significant uncertainty as to the ultimate liability BB&T may incur from such matters. The finding, or even the assertion, of substantial legal liability or significant regulatory action against BB&T may have material adverse financial effects or cause significant reputational harm to BB&T, which in turn could seriously harm BB&T's business prospects.

BB&T faces significant operational and other risks related to its activities, which could expose it to negative publicity, litigation and/or regulatory action.

BB&T is exposed to many types of operational risks, legal and compliance risk, internal or external fraud (including identity and information theft), transaction processing errors due to clerical or record-keeping mistakes or those resulting from faulty or disabled computer or telecommunications systems. Negative public opinion can result from BB&T's actual or alleged conduct in any number of activities, including lending practices, corporate governance and acquisitions, activities related to asset sales and balance sheet management and from actions taken by government regulators and community organizations in response to those activities. Negative public opinion can adversely affect BB&T's ability to attract and keep customers and can expose it to litigation and regulatory action.

Because the nature of the financial services industry involves a high volume of transactions, certain errors may be repeated or compounded before they are discovered and successfully rectified. BB&T's necessary dependence upon automated systems to record and process its transaction volume may further increase the risk that technical flaws or associate tampering or manipulation of those systems will result in losses that are difficult to detect. BB&T also may be subject to disruptions of its operating systems arising from events that are wholly or partially beyond its control (for example, computer viruses or electrical or telecommunications outages), which may give rise to disruption of service to customers and to financial loss or liability. BB&T is further exposed to the risk that its external vendors may be unable to fulfill their contractual obligations (or will be subject to the same risk of fraud or operational errors by their respective employees as is BB&T) and to the risk that BB&T's (or its vendors') business continuity and data security systems prove to be inadequate.

BB&T relies on other companies to provide certain key components of its business infrastructure.

Third party vendors provide certain key components of BB&T's business infrastructure such as internet connections, network access and certain transaction processing. While BB&T conducts careful due diligence on third party vendors, and has established processes for ongoing vendor management and monitoring, it does not control their operations. Any failure by these third parties to perform or provide agreed upon goods and services for any reason, or their poor performance of services, could adversely affect BB&T's ability to deliver products and services to its customers and otherwise conduct its business. Replacing these third party vendors could also entail significant delay and expense.

23 BB&T Corporation

BB&T may not be able to successfully integrate mergers and acquisitions.

Difficulties may arise in the integration of the business and operations of BHCs, banks and non-bank entities that BB&T acquires and, as a result, BB&T may not be able to achieve the cost savings and synergies that it expects will result from such transactions. Achieving cost savings is dependent on consolidating certain operational and functional areas, eliminating duplicative positions and terminating certain agreements for outside services. Additional operational savings are dependent upon the integration of the acquired or merged entity's businesses with BB&T or one of BB&T's subsidiaries, the conversion of core operating systems, data systems and products and the standardization of business practices. Complications or difficulties in the conversion of core operating systems, data systems and products may result in the loss of customers, damage to BB&T's reputation within the financial services industry, operational problems, one-time costs currently not anticipated or reduced cost savings resulting from such mergers or acquisitions. Annual cost savings in each such transaction may be materially less than anticipated if the merger or acquisition is delayed unexpectedly, the integration of operations is delayed beyond what is anticipated or the conversion to a single set of data systems is not accomplished on a timely basis.

Difficulty in integrating an acquired company may prevent BB&T from realizing expected revenue increases, cost savings, increases in geographic or product presence and/or other projected benefits from the acquisition. The integration could result in higher than expected deposit attrition, loss of key associates, disruption of BB&T's businesses or the businesses of the acquired company, or otherwise adversely affect BB&T's ability to maintain relationships with customers and associates or achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. Also, the negative effect of any divestitures required by regulatory authorities in acquisitions or business combinations may be greater than expected. As a result of these and other factors, BB&T could incur losses on acquired assets and increased expenses resulting from the failure to successfully integrate an acquired company, which could adversely impact its financial condition or results of operations. See additional risk factors under the heading "Risks Relating to the Proposed Merger with SunTrust."

BB&T may not be able to successfully implement future information technology system enhancements, which could adversely affect BB&T's business operations and profitability.

BB&T invests significant resources in information technology system enhancements in order to provide functionality and security at an appropriate level. BB&T may not be able to successfully implement and integrate future system enhancements, which could adversely impact the ability to provide timely and accurate financial information in compliance with legal and regulatory requirements, which could result in sanctions from regulatory authorities. Such sanctions could include fines and suspension of trading in BB&T stock, among others. In addition, future system enhancements could have higher than expected costs and/or result in operating inefficiencies, which could increase the costs associated with the implementation as well as ongoing operations.

Failure to properly utilize system enhancements that are implemented in the future could result in impairment charges that adversely impact BB&T's financial condition and results of operations and could result in significant costs to remediate or replace the defective components. In addition, BB&T may incur significant training, licensing, maintenance, consulting and amortization expenses during and after systems implementations, and any such costs may continue for an extended period of time.

There are risks resulting from the extensive use of models in BB&T's business, which may impact decisions made by management and regulators.

BB&T relies on quantitative models to measure risks and to estimate certain financial values. Models may be used in such processes as determining the pricing of various products, grading loans and extending credit, measuring interest rate and other market risks, predicting or estimating losses, assessing capital adequacy and calculating economic and regulatory capital levels, as well as to estimate the value of financial instruments and balance sheet items. Poorly designed or implemented models present the risk that BB&T's business decisions based on information incorporating model output would be adversely affected due to the inadequacy of that information. Also, information BB&T provides to the public or to its regulators based on poorly designed or implemented models could be inaccurate or misleading. Some of the decisions that the regulators make, including those related to capital distributions to BB&T's shareholders, could be affected adversely due to the perception that the quality of the models used to generate the relevant information is insufficient.

BB&T's risk management measures may not be fully effective, which may adversely impact BB&T's ability to manage risks to its business.

Management of risk, including compliance, credit, liquidity, market, operational, reputation and strategic risks, requires policies and procedures to properly record and verify a large number of transactions and events. BB&T's risk management measures may not be fully effective in identifying and mitigating its risk exposure in all market environments or against all types of risk, including risks that are unidentified or unanticipated, even if the models for assessing risk are properly designed and implemented. Some of BB&T's methods of managing risk are based upon its use of observed historical market behavior and management's judgment. These methods may not accurately predict future exposures, which could be significantly greater than the historical measures indicate. In addition, credit risk is inherent in the financial services business. BB&T's ability to assess the creditworthiness of its customers may be impaired if the models and approaches it uses to select, manage and underwrite consumer and commercial customers become less predictive of future charge-offs. 

BB&T Corporation 24

Strategic and Other Risk

BB&T may experience significant competition from new or existing competitors, which may reduce its customer base or cause it to lower prices for its products and services in order to maintain market share.

There is intense competition among commercial banks in BB&T's market area. In addition, BB&T competes with other providers of financial services, such as savings and loan associations, credit unions, consumer finance companies, securities firms, insurance companies, commercial finance and leasing companies, the mutual funds industry, full-service brokerage firms and discount brokerage firms, some of which are subject to less extensive regulations than BB&T is with respect to the products and services they provide. BB&T's success depends, in part, on its ability to adapt its products and services to evolving industry standards and customer expectations. There is increasing pressure to provide products and services at lower prices. Lower prices can reduce BB&T's NIM and revenues from its fee-based products and services.

In addition, the adoption of new technologies by competitors, including internet banking services, mobile applications, advanced ATM functionality and cryptocurrencies could require BB&T to make substantial expenditures to modify or adapt its existing products and services. These and other capital investments in BB&T's business may not produce expected growth in earnings anticipated at the time of the expenditure. BB&T may not be successful in introducing new products and services, achieving market acceptance of its products and services, anticipating or reacting to consumers' changing technological preferences or developing and maintaining loyal customers. In addition, BB&T could lose market share to the shadow banking system, non-traditional banking organizations or other market participants who engage in business or offer products in areas it deems speculative or risky, such as cryptocurrencies. 

Any potential adverse reactions to BB&T's financial condition or status in the marketplace, as compared to its competitors, could limit BB&T's ability to attract and retain customers and to compete for new business opportunities. The inability to attract and retain customers or to effectively compete for new business may have a material and adverse effect on BB&T's financial condition and results of operations.

BB&T also experiences competition from nonbank companies inside and outside of its market area and, in some cases, from companies other than those traditionally considered financial sector participants. In particular, technology companies focus on the financial sector and offer software and products primarily over the Internet, with an increasing focus on mobile device delivery. These companies generally are not subject to the comparable regulatory burdens as financial institutions and may accordingly realize certain cost savings and offer products and services at more favorable rates and with greater convenience to the customer. For example, a number of companies offer bill pay and funds transfer services that allow customers to avoid using a bank. Technology companies are generally positioned and structured to quickly adapt to technological advances and directly focus resources on implementing those advances. This competition could result in the loss of fee income and customer deposits and related income. In addition, changes in consumer spending and saving habits could adversely affect BB&T's operations, and the Company may be unable to develop competitive and timely new products and services in response. As the pace of technology and change advance, continuous innovation is expected to exert long-term pressure on the financial services industry.

BB&T may not be able to complete future mergers or acquisitions.

BB&T must generally satisfy a number of meaningful conditions before it can complete an acquisition of another bank or BHC, including federal and/or state regulatory approvals. In determining whether to approve a proposed bank or BHC acquisition, bank regulators will consider, among other factors, the effect of the acquisition on competition, financial condition and future prospects, including current and projected capital ratios and levels, the competence, experience and integrity of management and record of compliance with laws and regulations, the convenience and needs of the communities to be served, including the acquiring institution's record of compliance under the CRA, the effectiveness of the acquiring institution in combating money laundering activities and protests from various stakeholders of both BB&T and its acquisition partner. Also, under the Dodd-Frank Act, U.S. regulators must now take systemic risk into account when evaluating whether to approve a potential acquisition transaction involving a large financial institution like BB&T. BB&T cannot be certain when or if, or on what terms and conditions, any required regulatory approvals will be granted. In specific cases, BB&T may be required to sell banks or branches, or take other actions as a condition to receiving regulatory approval. An inability to satisfy other conditions necessary to consummate an acquisition transaction, such as third-party litigation, a judicial order blocking the transaction or lack of shareholder approval, could also prevent BB&T from completing an announced acquisition. See additional risk factors under the heading "Risks Relating to the Proposed Merger with SunTrust."

25 BB&T Corporation

Catastrophic weather-related events and other natural disasters could have a material adverse effect on BB&T.

The occurrence of events such as hurricanes, tropical storms, tornados, winter storms and other large scale catastrophes could adversely affect BB&T's financial condition or results of operations. BB&T has operations and customers along the Gulf and Atlantic coasts as well as other parts of the southeastern United States. Such areas could be adversely impacted by such events in those regions, the nature and severity of which may be impacted by climate change and are difficult to predict. These and other unpredictable natural disasters could have an adverse effect on BB&T in that such events could materially disrupt its operations or the ability or willingness of its customers to access the financial services offered by BB&T. These events could reduce BB&T's earnings and cause volatility in its financial results for any fiscal quarter or year and have a material adverse effect on BB&T's financial condition and/or results of operations.

Changes in accounting standards and management's application of those standards could materially impact BB&T's financial statements.

BB&T accounting policies and methods are fundamental to the way it records and reports its financial condition and results of operations. Management must apply significant judgment in selecting and applying these accounting policies and methods, and these judgments have a significant impact on BB&T's financial condition and operating results. Different assumptions in the application of these policies could result in material changes to BB&T's consolidated financial position and/or consolidated results of operations and related disclosures. Further, if those assumptions were incorrectly made, BB&T could be required to correct and restate prior-period financial statements. Refer to "Critical Accounting Policies" and "Note 1. Basis of Presentation" for additional disclosures.

From time to time, the FASB changes the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of financial statements. These changes can be difficult to predict and can materially impact how BB&T records and reports its financial condition and results of operations. For example, in June 2016 the FASB issued an accounting standard related to credit losses that will be effective for the Company effective January 1, 2020. This standard replaces the incurred loss impairment methodology with an expected credit loss methodology and requires consideration of a broader range of information to determine credit loss estimates. Implementation of the standard will likely result in an increase to the allowance for credit losses, potentially materially, with a corresponding negative impact to equity. This increase to the allowance for credit losses will also adversely impact BB&T's regulatory capital position to the extent that the FRB and other U.S. banking agencies do not amend existing regulatory capital rules in a manner that gives appropriate consideration to the loss-absorbing capacity associated with the anticipated increased allowance for credit loss estimate. It is also possible that BB&T's reported earnings and lending activity will be negatively impacted in periods following adoption.

ITEM 2. PROPERTIES