Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis

of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Business Strategy

Cintas helps more than one million businesses of all types and sizes, primarily in North America, as well as Latin America, Europe and Asia, get Ready™ to open their doors with confidence every day by providing a wide range of products and services that enhance our customers’ image and help keep their facilities and employees clean, safe and looking their best. With products and services including uniforms, floor care, restroom supplies, first aid and safety products, fire extinguishers and testing and safety and compliance training, Cintas helps customers get Ready for the Workday™.

We are North America's leading provider of corporate identity uniforms through rental and sales programs, as well as a significant provider of related business services, including entrance mats, restroom cleaning services and supplies, carpet and tile cleaning services, first aid and safety services and fire protection products and services.

Cintas' principal objective is "to exceed customers' expectations in order to maximize the long-term value of Cintas for shareholders and working partners," and it provides the framework and focus for Cintas' business strategy. This strategy is to achieve revenue growth for all our products and services by increasing our penetration at existing customers and by broadening our customer base to include business segments to which we have not historically served. We will also continue to identify additional product and service opportunities for our current and future customers.

To pursue the strategy of increasing penetration, we have a highly talented and diverse team of service professionals visiting our customers on a regular basis. This frequent contact with our customers enables us to develop close personal relationships. The combination of our distribution system and these strong customer relationships provides a platform from which we launch additional products and services.

We pursue the strategy of broadening our customer base in several ways. Cintas has a national sales organization introducing all our products and services to prospects in all business segments. Our broad range of products and services allows our sales organization to consider any type of business a prospect. We also broaden our customer base through geographic expansion, especially in our first aid and safety and fire protection businesses. Finally, we evaluate strategic acquisitions as opportunities arise.

Results of Operations

Cintas classifies its business into two reportable operating segments and places the remainder of its operating segments in an All Other category. Cintas’ two reportable operating segments are Uniform Rental and Facility Services and First Aid and Safety Services. The Uniform Rental and Facility Services reportable operating segment, consists of the rental and servicing of uniforms and other garments including flame resistant clothing, mats, mops and shop towels and other ancillary items. In addition to these rental items, restroom cleaning services and supplies, carpet and tile cleaning services and the sale of items from our catalogs to our customers on route are included within this reportable operating segment. The First Aid and Safety Services reportable operating segment consists of first aid and safety products and services. The remainder of Cintas’ business, which consists of Fire Protection Services and its Uniform Direct Sale business, is included in All Other. These operating segments consist of fire protection products and services and the direct sale of uniforms and related items. Cintas evaluates operating segment performance based on revenue and income before income taxes. Revenue and income before income taxes for each of these reportable operating segments for the years ended May 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017 are presented in Note 15 entitled Operating Segment Information of "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements." The Company regularly reviews its operating segments for reporting purposes based on the information its chief operating decision maker regularly reviews for purposes of allocating resources and assessing performance and makes changes when appropriate.

On March 21, 2017, Cintas completed the acquisition of G&K Services, Inc. (G&K). G&K is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Cintas that operates within the Uniform Rental and Facility Services operating segment. In fiscal 2018, Cintas sold a significant business referred to as "Discontinued Services." Prior to the sale of Discontinued Services, the operations were primarily included in All Other and classified as held for sale. In accordance with the applicable accounting guidance for the disposal of long-lived assets and discontinued operations, the results of Discontinued Services have been excluded from both continuing operations and operating segment results for all periods presented. See Note 17 entitled Discontinued Operations of "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" for additional information.

15

In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) 2014-09, "Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606)," to clarify revenue recognition principles. This guidance is intended to improve disclosure requirements and enhance the comparability of revenue recognition practices. Cintas adopted this ASU, and all the related amendments, effective June 1, 2018 using the modified retrospective method. See Note 1 entitled Significant Accounting Policies and Note 2 entitled Revenue Recognition of "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" for more information.

The following table sets forth certain consolidated statements of income data as a percent of revenue by reportable operating segment, All Other and in total for the fiscal years ended May 31:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

16

Fiscal 2019 Compared to Fiscal 2018 

Fiscal 2019 total revenue was $6.9 billion, an increase of 6.4% over the prior fiscal year. Revenue increased organically by 6.5% as a result of increased sales volume. Organic growth adjusts for the impact of acquisitions, divestitures and foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. Total revenue was positively impacted by 0.2% due to acquisitions and negatively impacted by 0.3% due to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. 

Organic growth by quarter for fiscal 2019 is as follows: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Uniform Rental and Facility Services reportable operating segment revenue consists predominantly of revenue derived from the rental of corporate identity uniforms and other garments, including flame resistant clothing, and the rental and/or sale of mats, mops, shop towels, restroom supplies and other rental services. Revenue from the Uniform Rental and Facility Services reportable operating segment increased 5.8% compared to fiscal 2018 due to an organic growth increase of 6.1%. Revenue growth was negatively impacted by 0.3% due to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. Revenue growth was a result of new business, the penetration of additional products and services into existing customers and price increases, partially offset by lost business. New business growth resulted from an increase in the number and productivity of sales representatives. Generally, sales productivity improvements are due to increased tenure and improved training, which produce a higher number of products and services sold. 

Other revenue, consisting of revenue from the First Aid and Safety Services reportable operating segment and All Other, increased 9.0% compared to fiscal 2018. Revenue increased organically by 7.8% primarily due to improved sales representative productivity. Revenue growth was positively impacted by 1.2% due to acquisitions.

Cost of uniform rental and facility services increased 4.9% compared to fiscal 2018. Cost of uniform rental and facility services consists primarily of production expenses, delivery expenses and the amortization of in service inventory, including uniforms, mats, shop towels and other ancillary items. The cost of uniform rental and facility services increase compared to fiscal 2018 was due to increased Uniform Rental and Facility Services reportable operating segment sales volume from organic growth.

Cost of other consists primarily of cost of goods sold (predominantly first aid and safety products, uniforms and fire protection products), delivery expenses and distribution expenses in the First Aid and Safety Services reportable operating segment and All Other. Cost of other increased 8.1% in fiscal 2019 compared to fiscal 2018. The increase was primarily related to the increased sales volumes in the First Aid and Safety Services reportable operating segment and All Other.

Selling and administrative expenses increased $63.9 million, or 3.3%, compared to fiscal 2018 primarily due to increases in labor and other employee-partner related expenses. 

Operating income in both fiscal 2019 and 2018 was negatively impacted by $14.4 million and $41.9 million, respectively, of integration expenses incurred in connection with the G&K acquisition. The after-tax effect of these integration expenses represents a negative impact on diluted earnings per share of $0.10 per share in fiscal 2019 and $0.26 per share in fiscal 2018.

During fiscal 2019, Cintas sold a cost method investment for $73.3 million, resulting in a pre-tax gain of $69.4 million. The after-tax effect of the gain represents a positive impact on diluted earnings per share of $0.47 per share. 

Net interest expense (interest expense less interest income) was $100.5 million in fiscal 2019 compared to $108.8 million in fiscal 2018. The decrease in net interest expense was primarily due to lower debt outstanding during the fiscal 2019 as a result of the payment of $300.0 million aggregate principal amount of our 6.13% 10-year senior notes 

17

that matured on December 1, 2017. Also, during fiscal 2018, Cintas paid off the term loan balance of $250.0 million with cash on hand. 

Income before income taxes was $1,102.4 million, an increase of $261.4 million, or 31.1%, compared to fiscal 2018. The increase in income before income taxes was primarily due to revenue growing at a faster pace than expenses, the gain on sale of a cost method investment and the decrease in integration expenses. 

Cintas' effective tax rate on continuing operations was 19.9% for fiscal 2019 compared to 6.8% in fiscal 2018. The effective tax rate in both periods was impacted by certain discrete items (primarily the tax accounting for stock-based compensation). The effective tax rate for fiscal 2018 was also largely impacted by the one-time revaluation of deferred tax assets and liabilities as a result of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (Tax Act). 

Net income from continuing operations for fiscal 2019 of $882.6 million was a 12.6% increase compared to fiscal 2018. Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations of $7.97 was a 13.4% increase compared to fiscal 2018. Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations increased primarily due to the increase in earnings from continuing operations explained above. 

Uniform Rental and Facility Services Reportable Operating Segment

Uniform Rental and Facility Services reportable operating segment revenue increased $305.3 million, or 5.8%, and the cost of uniform rental and facility services increased $140.6 million, or 4.9%, due to the reasons previously discussed. The reportable operating segment's fiscal 2019 gross margin was 45.5% of revenue compared to 45.0% in fiscal 2018. The increase in gross margin was driven by new business sold by sales representatives, penetration of additional products and services into existing customers and continuous improvements in process efficiency.

Selling and administrative expenses for the Uniform Rental and Facility Services reportable operating segment increased $33.1 million in fiscal 2019 compared to fiscal 2018. Selling and administrative expense as a percent of revenue for fiscal 2019 was 27.6% compared to 28.6% in fiscal 2018. The decrease in selling and administrative expenses as a percent of revenue was due to revenue growing at a faster pace than labor and employee-partner related expenses and a one-time cash payment to employee-partners during fiscal 2018 following the enactment of the Tax Act. 

The Uniform Rental and Facility Services reportable operating segment incurred $14.4 million and $41.9 million of integration expenses directly related to the G&K acquisition in fiscal 2019 and 2018, respectively. The expenses incurred in fiscal 2019 consisted primarily of facility closure expenses. 

Income before income taxes increased $159.1 million to $976.7 million for fiscal 2019 compared to fiscal 2018. Income before income taxes as a percent of revenue at 17.6% increased 200 basis points from 15.6% in fiscal 2018. The increase was primarily due to the increase in sales, the one-time cash payment to employee-partners in the prior year and the reduction in G&K integration expenses.

First Aid and Safety Services Reportable Operating Segment

First Aid and Safety Services reportable operating segment revenue increased $54.8 million in fiscal 2019, an 9.7% increase compared to fiscal 2018. Revenue increased organically by 9.7% as a result of increased sales volume. Revenue growth was positively impacted by 0.1% due to acquisitions and negatively impacted by 0.1% due to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations.

Cost of sales for the First Aid and Safety Services reportable operating segment increased $23.5 million, or 7.9%, in fiscal 2019, primarily due to higher sales volume. Gross margin for the First Aid and Safety Services reportable operating segment is defined as revenue less cost of goods, warehouse expenses, service expenses and training expenses. The gross margin as a percent of revenue was 48.0% for fiscal 2019 compared to 47.1% in fiscal 2018. The increase was primarily driven by improved sourcing, leveraging of existing warehouses and optimization of delivery routes. 

Selling and administrative expenses for the First Aid and Safety Services reportable operating segment increased by $16.4 million, or 8.6%, in fiscal 2019 compared to fiscal 2018. Selling and administrative expenses as a percent of revenue were 33.4% in fiscal 2019 compared to 33.7% in fiscal 2018. The decrease in selling and administrative expenses as a percent of revenue was due to revenue growing at a faster pace than labor and employee-partner related expenses and the one-time cash payment to employee-partners during fiscal 2018. 

18

Income before income taxes for the First Aid and Safety Services reportable operating segment was $90.1 million in fiscal 2019, an increase of $14.9 million, or 19.8%, compared to fiscal 2018. Income before income taxes as a percent of revenue at 14.5%, increased from 13.3% in fiscal 2018 due to the previously discussed growth in revenue, improvement in the gross margin percentage and improvement in selling and administrative expenses as a percent of revenue. 

Fiscal 2018 Compared to Fiscal 2017 

Fiscal 2018 total revenue was $6.5 billion, an increase of 21.7% over the prior fiscal year. Revenue increased organically by 7.1% as a result of increased sales volume. Organic growth adjusts for the impact of acquisitions, divestitures and foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. Total revenue was positively impacted by 14.3% due to acquisitions, primarily G&K. Revenue growth was positively impacted by 0.3% due to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. 

Organic growth by quarter for fiscal 2018 is as follows: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Uniform Rental and Facility Services reportable operating segment revenue consists predominantly of revenue derived from the rental of corporate identity uniforms and other garments, including flame resistant clothing, and the rental and/or sale of mats, mops, shop towels, restroom supplies and other rental services. Revenue from the Uniform Rental and Facility Services reportable operating segment increased 24.9% compared to fiscal 2017. Revenue was positively impacted by 17.9% due to acquisitions, primarily G&K. The remaining increase primarily resulted from an organic growth increase in revenue of 6.7%. The amount of new business grew, resulting from an increase in the number and productivity of sales representatives. Generally, sales productivity improvements are the result of increased tenure and improved training, which result in a higher number of products and services sold. Revenue growth was positively impacted by 0.3% due to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations.

Other revenue, consisting of revenue from the First Aid and Safety Services reportable operating segment and All Other, increased 9.7% compared to fiscal 2017. Revenue increased organically by 8.6% due primarily to improved sales representative productivity. Revenue growth was positively impacted by 0.1% due to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. Acquisitions positively impacted revenue by 1.0%.

Cost of uniform rental and facility services increased 25.1% compared to fiscal 2017. Cost of uniform rental and facility services consists primarily of production expenses, delivery expenses and the amortization of in service inventory, including uniforms, mats, shop towels and other ancillary items. The cost of uniform rental and facility services increase compared to fiscal 2017 was due to increased Uniform Rental and Facility Services reportable operating segment sales volume from organic growth and the acquired G&K sales volume.

Cost of other consists primarily of cost of goods sold (predominantly first aid and safety products, uniforms and fire protection products), delivery expenses and distribution expenses in the First Aid and Safety Services reportable operating segment and All Other. Cost of other increased 7.2% in fiscal 2018 compared to fiscal 2017. The increase was primarily related to the increased sales volumes in the First Aid and Safety Services reportable operating segment and All Other.

Selling and administrative expenses increased $389.4 million, or 25.5%, compared to fiscal 2017 due primarily to a one-time cash payment to employee-partners, increased labor and other employee-partner related expenses as a result of the acquisition of G&K, increased amortization expense related to intangible assets acquired as a result of the G&K acquisition and increased costs related to investments in a new enterprise resource planning system. The one-time cash payment to employee-partners was made following the enactment of the Tax Act, which was signed into legislation by the President on December 22, 2017. The one-time cash payment to employee-partners amounted to an expense of approximately $40 million, or 0.6% of total revenue. Operating income for fiscal 2018 was negatively impacted by $41.9 millio

19

n, or 0.6% of total revenue, from transaction and integration expenses incurred in connection with the G&K acquisition and $79.2 million, or 1.5% of total revenue, in fiscal 2017.

Net interest expense (interest expense less interest income) was $108.8 million in fiscal 2018 compared to $86.3 million in fiscal 2017. The increase in net interest expense is primarily due to the additional debt issued to finance the G&K acquisition.

Income before income taxes was $841.0 million, an increase of $153.6 million, or 22.3%, compared to fiscal 2017. The increase in income before income taxes was primarily due to revenue growing at a faster pace than expenses. 

Cintas' effective tax rate on continuing operations was 6.8% for fiscal 2018 compared to 33.5% in fiscal 2017. The decrease was due to the impact of the Tax Act. The effective tax rate in fiscal 2017 was impacted by certain discrete items (primarily the tax accounting for stock-based compensation).

Net income from continuing operations for fiscal 2018 of $783.9 million was a 71.4% increase compared to fiscal 2017. Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations of $7.03 was a 68.6% increase compared to fiscal 2017. Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations increased primarily due to the lower effective tax rate as a result of the Tax Act, the gain on the sale of Discontinued Services and higher gross margin.

Uniform Rental and Facility Services Reportable Operating Segment

Uniform Rental and Facility Services reportable operating segment revenue increased $1,044.6 million, or 24.9%, and the cost of uniform rental and facility services increased $579.2 million, or 25.1%, as previously discussed. The reportable operating segment's fiscal 2018 gross margin was 45.0% of revenue compared to 45.1% in fiscal 2017. The slight decrease in gross margin was driven by the G&K acquisition, which had lower margins than the legacy Cintas margins. In addition, we incurred expected integration inefficiencies which impacted margins in the short-term.

Selling and administrative expenses for the Uniform Rental and Facility Services reportable operating segment increased $362.3 million in fiscal 2018 compared to fiscal 2017. Selling and administrative expense as a percent of revenue for fiscal 2018 was 28.6% compared to 27.1% in fiscal 2017. The increase in selling and administrative expenses for the Uniform Rental and Facility Services reportable operating segment was primarily related to a onetime cash payment to employee-partners, increased labor and employee-partner related expenses as a result of the G&K acquisition, increased amortization expense related to intangibles acquired as a result of the G&K acquisition and an investment in an enterprise resource planning system.

As a result of the G&K acquisition, the Uniform Rental and Facility Services reportable operating segment incurred $41.9 million of transaction and integration expenses directly related to the acquisition. The expenses incurred in fiscal 2018 consisted of lease cancellation costs, facility closure expenses and other integration related expenses. 

Income before income taxes increased $140.5 million to $817.6 million for fiscal 2018 compared to fiscal 2017. Income before income taxes as a percent of revenue at 15.6% decreased 50 basis points from 16.1% in fiscal 2017. The decrease is primarily due to the increase in selling and administrative expenses as previously discussed.

First Aid and Safety Services Reportable Operating Segment

First Aid and Safety Services reportable operating segment revenue increased $56.5 million in fiscal 2018, an 11.1% increase compared to fiscal 2017. Revenue increased organically by 10.5% as a result of increased sales volume. Revenue growth was positively impacted by 0.5% due to acquisitions. 

Cost of first aid and safety services increased $20.9 million, or 7.5%, in fiscal 2018, due primarily to higher sales volume. Gross margin for the First Aid and Safety Services reportable operating segment is defined as revenue less cost of goods, warehouse expenses, service expenses and training expenses. The gross margin as a percent of revenue was 47.1% for fiscal 2018 compared to 45.3% in fiscal 2017. The increase was driven primarily by improved sourcing, leveraging of existing warehouses and optimization of delivery routes. 

Selling and administrative expenses for the First Aid and Safety Services reportable operating segment increased by $13.2 million, or 7.4%, in fiscal 2018 compared to fiscal 2017. The increase was due primarily to increased labor, including a one-time cash payment to employee-partners. Selling and administrative expenses as a percent of revenue 

20

were 33.7% in fiscal 2018 compared to 34.9% in fiscal 2017. The decrease in selling and administrative expenses as a percent of revenue was due to revenue growing at a faster pace than labor and employee-partner related expenses.

Income before income taxes was $75.2 million in fiscal 2018, an increase of $22.4 million, or 42.5%, compared to fiscal 2017. Income before income taxes as a percent of revenue at 13.3%, increased from 10.4% in fiscal 2017 due to the previously discussed growth in revenue, improvement in the gross margin percentage and improvement in selling and administrative expenses as a percent of revenue.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

The following table summarizes our cash flows and cash and cash equivalents as of and for the fiscal years ended May 31:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Cash and cash equivalents as of May 31, 2019 and 2018 include $28.5 million and $33.9 million, respectively, that is located outside of the United States. 

Cash flows provided by operating activities have historically supplied us with a significant source of liquidity. We generally use these cash flows to fund most, if not all, of our operations and expansion activities and dividends on our common stock. We may also use cash flows provided by operating activities, as well as proceeds from long-term debt and short-term borrowings, to fund growth and expansion opportunities, as well as other cash requirements such as the repurchase of our common stock and payment of long-term debt. 

Net cash provided by operating activities was $1.1 billion for fiscal 2019, which was an increase of $103.7 million compared to fiscal 2018. The increase was the result of higher net income and favorable changes in deferred taxes, partially offset by changes in working capital.

Net cash used in investing activities was $235.6 million in fiscal 2019 compared to $135.7 million in fiscal 2018. Capital expenditures were $276.7 million and $271.7 million for fiscal 2019 and fiscal 2018, respectively. Capital expenditures for fiscal 2019 included $220.4 million for the Uniform Rental and Facility Services reportable operating segment and $36.8 million for the First Aid and Safety Services reportable operating segment. Cash paid for acquisitions of businesses, net of cash acquired, was $9.8 million and $19.3 million for fiscal 2019 and fiscal 2018, respectively. The acquisitions in both fiscal 2019 and 2018 occurred in our Uniform Rental and Facility Services reportable operating segment, our First Aid and Safety Services reportable operating segment and our Fire Protection business, which is included in All Other. In fiscal 2019, investing activities included proceeds of $73.3 million from the sale of a cost method investment and $3.2 million from the sale of a business included in discontinued operations, and during fiscal 2018, included proceeds of $127.8 million related to the sale of Discontinued Services. Net cash used in investing activities also included $17.8 million of investment purchases during fiscal 2019 and net proceeds of $26.1 million from purchases and redemptions of marketable securities and investments during fiscal 2018. 

Net cash used in financing activities was $873.3 million for fiscal 2019, compared to $864.1 million in fiscal 2018. The increase in fiscal 2019 from fiscal 2018 is primarily due to the repurchase of common stock in fiscal 2019. On August 2, 2016, we announced that the Board of Directors authorized a $500.0 million share buyback program. During fiscal 2019, under the August 2, 2016 share buyback program, we purchased a total of 2.1 million shares of Cintas common stock at an average price of $192.55 per share for a total purchase price of $410.0 million to complete the August 2, 2016 share buyback program. On October 30, 2018, we announced that the Board of Directors authorized a new $1.0 billion share buyback program, which does not have an expiration date. During fiscal 2019, under this new program, we purchased 2.7 million shares of Cintas common stock at an average price of $203.30 for a total purchase price of $543.4 million. During fiscal 2018, under the August 2, 2016 share buyback program, we purchased 0.5 million shares of Cintas common at an average price of $173.51 per share for a total purchase price of $90.0 million. Subsequent to May 31, 2019 through July 26, 2019, under the new share buyback program, Cintas purchased 0.8 million shares at an average price of $230.66 per share for a total purchase price of $193.1 million. From the inception of the October 30, 2018 share buyba

21

ck program through July 26, 2019, Cintas has purchased a total of 3.5 million shares of Cintas common stock at an average price of $209.82 for a total purchase price of $736.5 million. Also, for the fiscal year ended May 31, 2019, Cintas acquired 0.3 million shares of Cintas common stock in satisfaction of employee payroll taxes due on restricted stock awards that vested during the fiscal year. These shares were acquired at an average price of $204.50 per share for a total purchase price of $62.9 million.

On October 30, 2018, Cintas declared an annual cash dividend of $2.05 per share on outstanding common stock, a

26.5% increase over the annual dividend paid in the prior year. The dividend was paid on December 7, 2018 to shareholders of record as of November 9, 2018. This marked the 36th consecutive year that Cintas has increased its annual dividend, every year since going public in 1983.

During the fiscal year ended May 31, 2019, Cintas issued a net total of $112.5 million of commercial paper and received proceeds of $200.0 million as a result of a new term loan. During fiscal 2018, Cintas paid a net total of $50.5 million of commercial paper and paid off the term loan balance of $250.0 million with cash on hand. On December 1, 2017, Cintas paid the $300.0 million aggregate principal amount of its 6.13% 10-year senior notes that matured on that date with cash on hand and proceeds from the issuance of commercial paper. 

The following table summarizes Cintas' outstanding debt at May 31:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Variable rate debt instrument. The rate presented is the variable borrowing rate at May 31, 2019.

(2) Cintas assumed these senior notes with the acquisition of G&K in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2017, and they were recorded at fair value. The interest rate shown above is the effective interest rate. The principal amount of these notes is $50.0 million with a stated interest rate of 3.73%. 

(3)  Cintas assumed these senior notes with the acquisition of G&K in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2017, and they were recorded at fair value. The interest rate shown above is the effective interest rate. The principal amount of these notes is $50.0 million with a stated interest rate of 3.88%. 

The credit agreement that supports our commercial paper program was amended and restated on May 24, 2019. The amendment increased the capacity of the revolving credit facility from $600.0 million to $1.0 billion and created a new term loan of $200.0 million. The credit agreement has an accordion feature that provides Cintas the ability to request increases to the borrowing commitments under either the revolving credit facility or the term loan of up to $250.0 million in the aggregate, subject to customary conditions. The maturity date of the revolving credit facility is May 22, 2024, and the maturity date of the term loan is May 22, 2020, which can be extended 12 months, annually, for up to four years. As of May 31, 2019, there was $112.5 million of commercial paper outstanding with a weighted average interest rate of 2.7% and maturity dates less than 30 days and no borrowings on our revolving credit facility. No commercial paper or borrowings on our revolving credit facility were outstanding at May 31, 2018. 

22

Cintas has certain covenants related to debt agreements. These covenants limit Cintas' ability to incur certain liens, to engage in sale-leaseback transactions and to merge, consolidate or sell all or substantially all of Cintas' assets. These covenants also require Cintas to maintain certain debt to consolidated earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) and interest coverage ratios. Cross-default provisions exist between certain debt instruments. If a default of a significant covenant were to occur, the default could result in an acceleration of the maturity of the indebtedness, impair liquidity and limit the ability to raise future capital. Cintas was in compliance with all of the debt covenants for all periods presented. 

Our access to the commercial paper and long-term debt markets has historically provided us with sources of liquidity. We do not anticipate having difficulty in obtaining financing from those markets in the future in view of our favorable experiences in the debt markets in the recent past. Our ability to continue to access the commercial paper and long-term debt markets on favorable interest rate and other terms will depend, to a significant degree, on the ratings assigned by the credit rating agencies to our indebtedness. As of May 31, 2019, our ratings were as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

In the event that the ratings of our commercial paper or our outstanding long-term debt issues were substantially lowered or withdrawn for any reason, or if the ratings assigned to any new issue of long-term debt securities were significantly lower than those noted above, particularly if we no longer had investment grade ratings, our ability to access the debt markets may be adversely affected. In addition, in such a case, our cost of funds for new issues of commercial paper and long-term debt would be higher than our cost of funds would have been had the ratings of those new issues been at or above the level of the ratings noted above. The rating agency ratings are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold our commercial paper or debt securities. Each rating may be subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating organization and should be evaluated independently of any other rating. Moreover, each credit rating is specific to the security to which it applies.

To monitor our credit rating and our capacity for long-term financing, we consider various qualitative and quantitative factors. One such factor is the ratio of our total debt to EBITDA. For the purpose of this calculation, debt is defined as the sum of short-term borrowings, long-term debt due within one year, obligations under capital leases due in one year, long-term debt, long-term obligations under capital leases and standby letters of credit. 

Contractual Obligations

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) See Note 7 entitled Debt and Derivatives of "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" for a detailed presentation of Cintas' debt.

(2) Operating leases consist primarily of operational facility leases and vehicle leases.

(3) Interest payments could include interest on both fixed and variable rate debt. As of May 31, 2019, Cintas had approximately $312.5 million of variable rate debt outstanding, which consisted of $112.5 million of commercial paper and a $200.0 million term loan. The interest payments for variable rate debt were estimated using forecasted rates in future years.

Cintas also makes payments to defined contribution plans and may make payments to defined benefit plans to satisfy minimum funding requirements. The amount of contributions made to the defined contribution plans are at the discretion of the Board of Directors of Cintas. Future contributions to the defined contribution plans are expected to be $73.6 million in the next year, $158.4 million in the next two to three years and $174.7 million in the next four to five years. Future contributions to the defined benefit plans are expected to be $3.1 million in the next year, $6.1 million in the next two to three years and $6.1 million in the next four to five years. 

23

Other Commitments

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Back-up facility for the commercial paper program (reference Note 7 entitled Debt and Derivatives of "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" for further discussion).

(2) These standby letters of credit and surety bonds support certain outstanding debt (reference Note 7 entitled Debt and Derivatives of "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements"), self-insured workers' compensation and general liability insurance programs.

Inflation and Changing Prices

Changes in wages, benefits and energy costs have the potential to materially impact Cintas' consolidated financial results. Management believes inflation has not had a material impact on Cintas' consolidated financial condition or a negative impact on consolidated results of operations.

Litigation and Other Contingencies

Cintas is subject to legal proceedings, insurance receipts, legal settlements and claims arising from the ordinary course of its business, including personal injury, customer contract, environmental and employment claims. In the opinion of management, the aggregate liability, if any, with respect to such ordinary course of business actions will not have a material adverse effect on the consolidated financial position, consolidated results of operations or consolidated cash flows of Cintas. 

New Accounting Standards

In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU 2014-09, "Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606)," to clarify revenue recognition principles. This guidance is intended to improve disclosure requirements and enhance the comparability of revenue recognition practices. Improved disclosures under the amended guidance relate to the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue that is recognized from contracts with customers. We adopted ASU 2014-09, and all the related amendments, effective June 1, 2018 using the modified retrospective method. ASU 2014-09 requires a company to recognize revenue to depict the transfer of goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. Upon adoption of ASU 2014-09, we recorded an adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings as of June 1, 2018. The adjustment to retained earnings primarily relates to the capitalization of certain direct and incremental contract costs required by the new guidance. Capitalized costs are amortized ratably over the anticipated period of benefit. We applied ASU 2014-09 only to contracts that were not completed prior to fiscal 2019. Results for reporting periods beginning after May 31, 2018 are presented under ASU 2014-09, while comparative prior period amounts have not been restated and continue to be presented under accounting standards in effect in those periods.

There were two implementation adjustments upon adoption of ASU 2014-09: (1) capitalization of certain direct and incremental contract costs and (2) the timing of revenue recognition for certain contracts with customers that create an asset with no alternative use to the Company and an enforceable right of payment from the customer upon termination. Adoption of ASU 2014-09 impacted the Company's previously reported results as of May 31, 2018 as follows:

Capitalization of Contract Costs. The Company has elected to apply the guidance, as a practical expedient, to a portfolio of contracts (or performance obligations) with similar characteristics because the Company reasonably expects that the effects on the consolidated financial statements of applying this guidance to the portfolio would not differ materially from applying this guidance to the individual contracts within the portfolio. The Company also continues to expense certain costs to obtain a contract if those costs do not meet the criteria of the new standard or the amortization period of the asset would have been one year or less.

24

Assets With No Alternative Use. For our Uniform Direct Sale business, our revenue, prior to the adoption of ASU 2014-09, was primarily generated from the sale of finished products to customers as products are shipped and title passes to the customers. For certain contracts with customers, the Company creates an asset with no alternative use to the Company, and the Company has an enforceable right to payment for performance completed to date. For these contracts, we have moved from a point-in-time model to an over-time model in which our measure of progress is finished goods with no alternative use in accordance with the provisions of ASU 2014-09. We expect ASU 2014-09 will have no cash impact and will not affect the economics of our underlying customer contracts.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The impacts of adopting ASU 2014-09 on our fiscal 2019 consolidated financial statements are presented in the following tables: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

25

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The adoption of ASU 2014-09 had no impact to the Company's fiscal 2019 operating cash flow, and the only impact of the adoption on our fiscal 2019 consolidated statement of comprehensive income was the impact to net income as presented in the table above.

In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, “Leases (Topic 842),” as amended. The new standard requires lessees to apply a dual approach, classifying leases as either finance or operating leases based on the principle of whether or not the lease is effectively a financed purchase by the lessee. This classification will determine whether lease expense is recognized based on an effective interest method or on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease, respectively. A lessee is also required to record a right-of-use asset and a lease liability for all leases with a term of greater than 12 months regardless of their classification. Topic 842 provides a number of optional practical expedients in transition, and we have determined to use certain of these practical expedients. The Company plans to elect the package of practical expedients permitted under Topic 842, which allows a lessee to carryforward their population of existing leases, the classification of each lease, as well as the treatment of initial direct costs as of the period of adoption. The Company also plans to elect the practical expedient related to lease and non-lease components, as an accounting policy election for all asset classes, which allows a lessee to not separate non-lease from lease components and instead account for consideration paid in a contract as a single lease component. In addition, the Company plans to elect the short-term lease recognition exemption for all leases with a term of 12 months or less, which means it will not recognize right-of-use assets or lease liabilities for these leases. The Company does not expect to elect the use-of-hindsight practical expedient. This guidance will be adopted by the Company on June 1, 2019. In accordance with Topic 842, a registrant can elect not to present comparative financial information under Topic 842 if it recognizes a cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings upon adoption. The Company intends to make this transition election. The Company has implemented a new lease system in connection with the adoption of Topic 842. The majority of our lease spend relates to certain real estate with the remaining lease spend primarily related to vehicles and equipment. Based on the Company's portfolio of leases at May 31, 2019, approximately $160.0 million to $185.0 million of lease assets and liabilities will be recognized on the balance sheet upon adoption. We do not expect a material impact on the consolidated statements of income or consolidated statements of cash flows. The Company is substantially complete with its implementation efforts.

In August 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-15, “Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments.” ASU 2016-15 makes eight targeted changes to how certain cash receipts and cash payments are presented and classified in the statement of cash flows. ASU 2016-15 is effective for interim and annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2017, with early adoption permitted. The Company’s adoption of this standard on June 1, 2018 did not have a material impact on its consolidated statements of cash flows.

26

In January 2017, the FASB issued ASU 2017-04, “Simplifying the Test for Goodwill Impairment.” ASU 2017-04 eliminates the two-step process that required identification of potential impairment and a separate measure of the actual impairment. Goodwill impairment charges, if any, would be determined by the difference between a reporting unit's carrying value and its fair value (impairment loss is limited to the carrying value). This standard is effective for annual or any interim goodwill impairment tests beginning after December 15, 2019. The adoption of this standard is not expected to have a material impact on the consolidated financial statements.

In March 2017, the FASB issued ASU 2017-07, “Improving the Presentation of Net Periodic Pension Cost and Net Periodic Postretirement Benefit Costs.” ASU 2017-07 continues to require the service component of pension and other postretirement benefit costs to be presented in the same line item as other employee compensation costs on the consolidated statement of income and changes the presentation of other components of net benefit cost so that these items will be presented outside of operating income within the consolidated statements of income. Cintas retrospectively adopted ASU 2017-07 on June 1, 2017. The adoption of this standard did not have a material effect on the consolidated financial statements. 

In August 2017, the FASB issued ASU 2017-12, “Targeted Improvements to Accounting for Hedging Activities.” ASU 2017-12 better aligns an entity’s risk management activities and financial reporting for hedging relationships through changes to both the designation and measurement guidance for qualifying hedging relationships and the presentation of hedge results. Among other amendments, the update allows entities to designate the variability in cash flows attributable to changes in a contractually specified component stated in the contract as the hedged risk in a cash flow hedge of a forecasted purchase or sale of a nonfinancial asset. This standard is effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2018. We adopted the standard effective as of June 1, 2018, and the effect of adoption of this standard did not have a material impact to our consolidated financial statements.

In February 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-02, "Income Statement - Reporting Comprehensive Income (Topic 220): Reclassification of Certain Tax Effects from Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income." ASU 2018-02 allows entities to elect to reclassify the income tax effects of the Tax Act on items within accumulated other comprehensive income to retained earnings and requires additional related disclosures. This standard is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018 and interim periods within those fiscal years. Cintas is currently evaluating the impact that ASU 2018-02 will have on its consolidated financial statements.

In April 2019, the FASB issued ASU 2016-13, “Financial Instruments-Credit Losses (Topic 326): Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments.” ASU 2016-13 will replace the incurred loss impairment methodology with a methodology that reflects expected credit losses and requires consideration of a broader range of reasonable and supportable information to inform credit loss estimates. In connection with recognizing credit losses on receivables and other financial instruments, Cintas will be required to use a forward-looking expected loss model rather than the incurred loss model. This standard is effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2019, with early adoption permitted. The adoption of this standard will be through a cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings as of the effective date. Cintas is currently evaluating the impact that ASU 2016-13 will have on its consolidated financial statements. 

No other new accounting pronouncement recently issued or newly effective had or is expected to have a material impact on the consolidated financial statements.

27

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates

The preparation of Cintas' consolidated financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires management to make estimates and judgments that have a significant effect on the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. These critical accounting policies should be read in conjunction with Note 1 entitled Significant Accounting Policies of "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements." Significant changes, estimates or assumptions related to any of the following critical accounting policies could possibly have a material impact on the consolidated financial statements.

Revenue recognition

Rental revenue, which is recorded in the Uniform Rental and Facility Services reportable operating segment, is recognized when services are performed. Other revenue, which is recorded in the First Aid and Safety Services reportable operating segments and All Other, is recognized when either services are performed or the obligations under the terms of a contract with a customer are satisfied. See Note 2 entitled Revenue Recognition of the "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" for more information on Cintas' revenue. 

Uniforms and other rental items in service

Uniforms and other rental items in service are valued at cost less amortization, calculated using the straight-line method. Uniforms in service (other than cleanroom and flame resistant clothing) are amortized over their useful life of 18 months. Other rental items, including shop towels, mats, mops, cleanroom garments, flame resistant clothing, linens and restroom dispensers, are amortized over their useful lives, which range from 8 to 60 months. The amortization rates used are based on industry experience, Cintas' specific experience and wear tests performed by Cintas. These factors are critical to determining the amount of in service inventory and related cost of uniforms and ancillary products that are presented in the consolidated financial statements.

Property and equipment

Depreciation is calculated using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets based on industry and Cintas specific experience, which is typically 30 to 40 years for buildings, 5 to 20 years for building improvements, 3 to 10 years for equipment and 2 to 15 years for leasehold improvements. When events or circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of long-lived assets may not be recoverable, the estimated undiscounted future cash flows are compared to the carrying amount of the assets. If the estimated undiscounted future cash flows are less than the carrying amount of the assets, an impairment loss is recorded based on the excess of the carrying amount of the assets over their respective fair values. Fair value is generally determined by discounted cash flows or based on prices of similar assets, as appropriate. Cintas did not identify any indicators of impairment for the fiscal years ended May 31, 2019 and 2018. 

Goodwill

Goodwill, obtained through acquisitions of businesses, is valued at cost less any impairment. Cintas completes an annual impairment test, that includes an assessment of qualitative factors including, but not limited to, macroeconomic conditions, industry and market conditions, and entity specific factors such as strategies and financial performance. We test for goodwill impairment at the reporting unit level. Cintas has identified four reporting units for purposes of evaluating goodwill impairment: Uniform Rental and Facility Services, First Aid and Safety Services and two reporting units within All Other. Based on the results of the annual impairment tests, Cintas was not required to recognize an impairment of goodwill for the fiscal years ended May 31, 2019, 2018 or 2017. Cintas will continue to perform impairment tests as of March 1 in future years and when indicators of impairment exist.

Service contracts and other assets

Service contracts and other assets, which consist primarily of noncompete and consulting agreements obtained through acquisitions of businesses, are amortized by use of the straight-line method over the estimated lives of the agreements, which are generally 5 to 10 years. The G&K service contract asset is being amortized over a period of 15 years, which represents the estimated life of the economic benefit and the asset amortization is based on the annual economic value of the underlying asset, which generally decreases over the 15-year term. Certain noncompete agreements, as well as all service contracts, require that a valuation be determined using a discounted cash flow model. The assumptions and judgments used in these models involve estimates of cash flows and discount rates, among other factors. Because of the assumptions used to value these intangible assets, actual results over time could vary from original estimates. Impairment of service contracts and other assets is accomplished through specific identification. No impairment has been recognized by Cintas for the fiscal years ended May 31, 2019, 2018 or 2017.

28

Business Combinations 

Accounting for acquisitions requires us to recognize separately from goodwill the assets acquired and the liabilities assumed at their acquisition date fair values. Goodwill as of the acquisition date is measured as the excess of consideration transferred over the net of the acquisition date fair values of the assets acquired and the liabilities assumed. While we use our best estimates and assumptions to accurately value assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the acquisition date as well as contingent consideration, where applicable, our estimates are inherently uncertain and subject to refinement. As a result, during the measurement period, which may be up to one year from the acquisition date, we record adjustments to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed with the corresponding offset to goodwill. Upon the conclusion of the measurement period or final determination of the values of assets acquired or liabilities assumed, whichever comes first, any subsequent adjustments are recorded to our consolidated statements of income.

General insurance liabilities 

General insurance liabilities represent the estimated ultimate cost of all asserted and unasserted claims incurred, primarily related to worker's compensation, auto liability and other general liability exposure through the consolidated balance sheet dates. Our reserves are estimated through actuarial procedures of the insurance industry and by using industry assumptions, adjusted for specific expectations based on our claims history. Cintas records an increase or decrease in selling and administrative expenses related to development of prior claims, higher claims activity and other environmental factors in the period in which it becomes known. These changes in estimates may be material to the consolidated financial statements.

Stock-based compensation

Compensation expense is recognized for all share-based payments to employees, including stock options and restricted stock awards, in the consolidated statements of income based on the fair value of the awards that are granted. The fair value of stock options is estimated at the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model. Generally, measured compensation cost, net of estimated forfeitures, is recognized on a straight-line basis over the vesting period of the related share-based compensation award. See Note 13 entitled Stock-Based Compensation of "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" for further information.

Litigation and other contingencies

Cintas is subject to legal proceedings and claims arising from the ordinary course of its business, including personal injury, customer contract, environmental and employment claims. U.S. GAAP requires that a liability for contingencies be recorded when it is probable that a liability has occurred and the amount of the liability can be reasonably estimated. Significant judgment is required to determine the existence of a liability, as well as the amount to be recorded. While a significant change in assumptions and judgments could have a material impact on the amounts recorded for contingent liabilities, Cintas does not believe that they will result in a material adverse effect on the consolidated financial statements.

Income taxes

Deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined by the differences between the consolidated financial statement carrying amounts and the tax basis of assets and liabilities. See Note 9 entitled Income Taxes of "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" for the types of items that give rise to significant deferred income tax assets and liabilities. Deferred income taxes are classified as assets or liabilities based on the classification of the related asset or liability for financial reporting purposes. Cintas regularly reviews deferred tax assets for recoverability based upon projected future taxable income and the expected timing of the reversals of existing temporary differences. Although realization is not assured, management believes it is more likely than not that the recorded deferred tax assets, as adjusted for valuation allowances, will be realized. 

Accounting for uncertain tax positions requires the determination of whether tax benefits claimed or expected to be claimed on a tax return should be recorded in the consolidated financial statements. Companies may recognize the tax benefit from an uncertain tax position only if it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained on examination by the taxing authorities, based on the technical merits of the position. The tax benefits recognized in the consolidated financial statements from such a position should be measured based on the largest benefit that has a greater than fifty percent likelihood of being realized upon ultimate settlement.

Cintas is periodically reviewed by domestic and foreign tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due. These reviews include questions regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. In evaluating the exposure associated with various filing positions, Cintas records reserves as deemed appropriate. Based on Cintas' evaluation of current tax positions, Cintas believes its tax related accruals are appropriate.

29

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk