ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (“MD&A”) is designed to provide a reader of Danaher’s financial statements with a narrative from the perspective of Company management. The Company’s MD&A is divided into five sections:

•Overview

•Results of Operations

•Liquidity and Capital Resources

•Critical Accounting Estimates

•New Accounting Standards

This discussion and analysis should be read along with Danaher’s audited financial statements and related Notes thereto as of December 31, 2018 and 2017 and for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2018 included in this Annual Report.

OVERVIEW

General

Refer to “Item 1. Business—General” for a discussion of Danaher’s strategic objectives and methodologies for delivering long-term shareholder value. Danaher is a multinational business with global operations. During 2018, approximately 63% of Danaher’s sales were derived from customers outside the United States. As a diversified, global business, Danaher’s operations are affected by worldwide, regional and industry-specific economic and political factors. Danaher’s geographic and industry diversity, as well as the range of its products, software and services, help limit the impact of any one industry or the economy of any single country on its consolidated operating results. Given the broad range of products manufactured, software and services provided and geographies served, management does not use any indices other than general economic trends to predict the overall outlook for the Company. The Company’s individual businesses monitor key competitors and customers, including to the extent possible their sales, to gauge relative performance and the outlook for the future.

As a result of the Company’s geographic and industry diversity, the Company faces a variety of opportunities and challenges, including rapid technological development (particularly with respect to computing, automation, artificial intelligence, mobile connectivity, communications and digitization) in most of the Company’s served markets, the expansion and evolution of opportunities in high-growth markets, trends and costs associated with a global labor force, consolidation of the Company’s competitors and increasing regulation. The Company operates in a highly competitive business environment in most markets, and the Company’s long-term growth and profitability will depend in particular on its ability to expand its business in high-growth geographies and high-growth market segments, identify, consummate and integrate appropriate acquisitions, develop innovative and differentiated new products and services with higher gross profit margins, expand and improve the effectiveness of the Company’s sales force, continue to reduce costs and improve operating efficiency and quality, and effectively address the demands of an increasingly regulated global environment. The Company is making significant investments, organically and through acquisitions, to address the rapid pace of technological change in its served markets and to globalize its manufacturing, research and development and customer-facing resources (particularly in high-growth markets) in order to be responsive to the Company’s customers throughout the world and improve the efficiency of the Company’s operations.

Business Performance

Consolidated sales for the year ended December 31, 2018 increased 8.5% as compared to 2017. While differences exist among the Company’s businesses, on an overall basis, demand for the Company’s products and services increased on a year-over-year basis in 2018 as compared to 2017. This demand, together with the Company’s continued investments in sales growth initiatives and the other business-specific factors discussed below, contributed to year-over-year core sales growth of 6.0% (for the definition of “core sales,” refer to “—Results of Operations” below). Geographically, both high-growth and developed markets contributed to year-over-year core sales growth during 2018. Core sales growth rates in high-growth markets grew at a high-single digit rate in 2018 as compared to 2017 led by strength in Asia, particularly China. High-growth markets represented approximately 31% of the Company’s total sales in 2018. Core sales in developed markets grew at a mid-single digit rate in 2018 as compared to 2017 and were driven by North America and Western Europe. 

31
The Company’s net earnings from continuing operations for the year ended December 31, 2018 totaled approximately $2.7 billion, or $3.74 per diluted share, compared to approximately $2.5 billion, or $3.50 per diluted share for the year ended December 31, 2017.

The Company recorded a net increase to beginning retained earnings of $3 million as of January 1, 2018 due to the cumulative impact of adopting Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606). The impact to beginning retained earnings was primarily driven by the capitalization of certain costs to obtain a contract, primarily sales-related commissions, partially offset by the deferral of revenue for unfulfilled performance obligations.  The adoption of this ASU did not have a significant impact on the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2018 and, as a result, comparisons of revenues and operating profit performance between periods are not affected by the adoption of this ASU. Refer to Note 2 to the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements.

Acquisitions

During 2018, the Company acquired two businesses for total consideration of approximately $2.2 billion in cash, net of cash acquired. The businesses acquired complement existing units of the Company’s Life Sciences and Environmental & Applied Solutions segments. The aggregate annual sales of these two businesses at the time of their respective acquisitions, in each case based on the company’s revenues for its last completed fiscal year prior to the acquisition, were $313 million. 

For a discussion of the Company’s 2017 and 2016 acquisition and disposition activity, refer to “Liquidity and Capital Resources—Investing Activities”.

Fortive Separation and Proposed Dental Separation

On July 2, 2016, Danaher completed the Separation of its former Test & Measurement segment, Industrial Technologies segment (excluding the product identification businesses) and retail/commercial petroleum business by distributing to Danaher stockholders on a pro rata basis all of the issued and outstanding common stock of Fortive, the entity Danaher incorporated to hold such businesses. To effect the Fortive Separation, Danaher distributed to its stockholders one share of Fortive common stock for every two shares of Danaher common stock outstanding as of June 15, 2016, the record date for the distribution.

During the second quarter of 2016, the Company received net cash distributions of approximately $3.0 billion from Fortive as consideration for the Company’s contribution of assets to Fortive in connection with the Separation (“Fortive Distribution”). Danaher used a portion of the cash distribution proceeds to repay the $500 million aggregate principal amount of 2.3% senior unsecured notes that matured in June 2016 and to redeem approximately $1.9 billion in aggregate principal amount of outstanding indebtedness in August 2016 (consisting of the Company’s 5.625% senior unsecured notes due 2018, 5.4% senior unsecured notes due 2019 and 3.9% senior unsecured notes due 2021 (collectively the “Redeemed Notes”)). Danaher also paid an aggregate of $188 million in make-whole premiums in connection with the August 2016 redemptions, plus accrued and unpaid interest. The Company used the balance of the Fortive Distribution to fund certain of the Company’s regular, quarterly cash dividends to shareholders. 

The accounting requirements for reporting the Fortive Separation as a discontinued operation were met when the separation was completed. Accordingly, the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements for all periods presented reflect this business as a discontinued operation. The Company allocated a portion of the consolidated interest expense and income to discontinued operations based on the ratio of the discontinued business’ net assets to the Company’s consolidated net assets. Fortive had revenues of approximately $3.0 billion in 2016 prior to the Fortive Separation. 

As a result of the Fortive Separation, the Company incurred $48 million in Fortive Separation-related costs during the year ended December 31, 2016 which are included in earnings from discontinued operations, net of income taxes in the accompanying Consolidated Statement of Earnings. These Fortive Separation costs primarily relate to professional fees associated with preparation of regulatory filings and Separation activities within finance, tax, legal and information system functions as well as certain investment banking fees incurred upon the Fortive Separation. 

In 2017, Danaher recorded a $22 million income tax benefit related to the release of previously provided reserves associated with uncertain tax positions on certain Danaher tax returns which were jointly filed with Fortive entities. These reserves were released due to the expiration of statutes of limitations for those returns. All Fortive entity-related balances were included in the income tax benefit related to discontinued operations.

In July 2018, the Company announced its intention to spin-off its Dental business into an independent publicly-traded company. The transaction is expected to be tax-free to the Company’s shareholders. The Company is targeting to complete the Dental Separation in the second half of 2019, subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions, including obtaining final 

32
approval from the Danaher Board of Directors, satisfactory completion of financing, receipt of tax opinions, receipt of favorable rulings from the IRS and receipt of other regulatory approvals. 

Sale of Investments

For a discussion of the Company’s 2017 and 2016 sales of investments activity, refer to “Liquidity and Capital Resources—Investing Activities”.

U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act

On December 22, 2017, the TCJA was enacted, which substantially changed the U.S. tax system, including lowering the corporate tax rate from 35.0% to 21.0% (beginning in 2018). As a result of the TCJA, the Company recognized a provisional tax liability of approximately $1.2 billion in 2017 for the Transition Tax, which, after the application of available tax credits of approximately $1.0 billion, is payable over a period of eight years. The net Transition Tax payable as of December 31, 2018 of approximately $180 million is not expected to significantly impact the Company’s cash flows from operations. The Company also remeasured U.S. deferred tax assets and liabilities based on the income tax rates at which the deferred tax assets and liabilities are expected to reverse in the future (generally 21.0%), resulting in an income tax benefit of approximately $1.2 billion. In 2018, the Company recorded an additional charge related to finalizing the provisional accounting for the enactment of the TCJA of $6 million. For further discussion of the TCJA, refer to “—Income Taxes.”

UK’s referendum decision to exit the EU (“Brexit”)

In a referendum on June 23, 2016, voters approved for the UK to exit the EU and the UK is expected to depart the EU on March 29, 2019. With the terms of the UK’s withdrawal and the nature of its future relationship with the EU still being decided, the Company continues to monitor the status of the negotiations and plan for any impact. The ultimate impact of Brexit on the Company’s financial results is uncertain. For additional information, refer to the “Item 1A—Risk Factors” section of this Annual Report. 

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

In this report, references to the non-GAAP measure of core sales (also referred to as core revenues or sales/revenues from existing businesses) refer to sales from continuing operations calculated according to generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (“GAAP”) but excluding:

•sales from acquired businesses; and

•the impact of currency translation.

References to sales or operating profit attributable to acquisitions or acquired businesses refer to sales or operating profit, as applicable, from acquired businesses recorded prior to the first anniversary of the acquisition less the amount of sales and operating profit, as applicable, attributable to divested product lines not considered discontinued operations. The portion of revenue attributable to currency translation is calculated as the difference between:

•the period-to-period change in revenue (excluding sales from acquired businesses); and

•the period-to-period change in revenue (excluding sales from acquired businesses) after applying current period foreign exchange rates to the prior year period.

Core sales growth should be considered in addition to, and not as a replacement for or superior to, sales, and may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. Management believes that reporting the non-GAAP financial measure of core sales growth provides useful information to investors by helping identify underlying growth trends in Danaher’s business and facilitating comparisons of Danaher’s revenue performance with its performance in prior and future periods and to Danaher’s peers. Management also uses core sales growth to measure the Company’s operating and financial performance. The Company excludes the effect of currency translation from core sales because currency translation is not under management’s control, is subject to volatility and can obscure underlying business trends, and excludes the effect of acquisitions and divestiture-related items because the nature, size, timing and number of acquisitions and divestitures can vary dramatically from period-to-period and between the Company and its peers and can also obscure underlying business trends and make comparisons of long-term performance difficult.

Throughout this discussion, references to sales volume refer to the impact of both price and unit sales and references to productivity improvements generally refer to improved cost efficiencies resulting from the ongoing application of DBS.

33
Core Revenue  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Core sales grew on a year-over-year basis in both 2018 and 2017. Sales from acquired businesses increased on a year-over-year basis in 2018 due primarily to the acquisition of IDT in the second quarter of 2018 and in 2017 due primarily to the acquisition of Cepheid in the fourth quarter of 2016. Currency translation increased reported sales on a year-over-year basis in 2018 primarily due to the U.S. dollar weakening against other major currencies in the first half of 2018, partially offset by the U.S. dollar strengthening in the second half of 2018. Currency translation increased reported sales on a year-over-year basis in 2017 primarily due to the U.S. dollar weakening against the euro, partially offset by the U.S. dollar strengthening against the Japanese yen and Chinese renminbi.

Operating profit margins were 17.1% for the year ended December 31, 2018 as compared to 16.3% in 2017. The following factors impacted year-over-year operating profit margin comparisons.

2018 vs. 2017 operating profit margin comparisons were favorably impacted by: [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•Restructuring, impairment and other related charges related to discontinuing a product line in the second quarter of 2017 related to the Diagnostic segment - 40 basis points 

•Trade name impairments and related productivity improvement initiatives in 2017 related to the Dental segment - 5 basis points 

2018 vs. 2017 operating profit margin comparisons were unfavorably impacted by:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•Acquisition-related charges consisting of transaction costs and fair value adjustments to inventory for the acquisition of IDT in the second quarter of 2018 - 10 basis points

Operating profit margins were 16.3% for the year ended December 31, 2017 as compared to 16.2% in 2016. The following factors impacted year-over-year operating profit margin comparisons.

2017 vs. 2016 operating profit margin comparisons were favorably impacted by:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•Acquisition-related charges consisting of transaction costs and fair value adjustments to inventory and deferred revenue for the acquisition of Cepheid in 2016 - 50 basis points

2017 vs. 2016 operating profit margin comparisons were unfavorably impacted by:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

34
•Third quarter 2016 gain on resolution of acquisition-related matters less the fourth quarter 2017 net gain on resolution of acquisition-related matters - 5 basis points[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Business Segments

Sales by business segment for the years ended December 31 are as follows ($ in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

LIFE SCIENCES

The Company’s Life Sciences segment offers a broad range of research tools that scientists use to study the basic building blocks of life, including genes, proteins, metabolites and cells, in order to understand the causes of disease, identify new therapies and test new drugs and vaccines. The segment is also a leading provider of filtration, separation and purification technologies to the biopharmaceutical, food and beverage, medical, aerospace, microelectronics and general industrial sectors. 

Life Sciences Selected Financial Data 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Core Revenue 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

2018 Compared to 2017

Price increases in the segment contributed 0.5% to revenue growth on a year-over-year basis during 2018 as compared with 2017 and are reflected as a component of the change in core revenue growth. 

Core sales of the business’ broad range of mass spectrometers continued to grow on a year-over-year basis led by strong sales growth in high-growth markets, particularly China and the rest of Asia, and in North America. This growth was led by demand in the clinical, applied and pharmaceutical end-markets and by demand for service offerings. Core sales of microscopy products continued to grow on a year-over-year basis with growth in demand across most major end-markets partially driven by recent new product releases. Geographically, demand for microscopy products increased in North America and high-growth markets, particularly China. Year-over-year core sales for the business’ flow cytometry and particle counting products 

35
continued to grow in 2018 across most major end-markets, led by increases in sales in North America, China and Western Europe. New product launches in 2018 also contributed to the increased demand in these markets. Core sales for filtration, separation and purification technologies grew on a year-over-year basis led by growth in biopharmaceuticals, microelectronics and fluid technology and asset protection end-markets. Geographically, core sales in filtration, separation and purification technologies were led by growth in Western Europe, North America and high-growth markets.

Sales growth from acquisitions is primarily due to the acquisition of IDT in April 2018. IDT provides additional sales and earnings growth opportunities for the segment by expanding the segment’s product line diversity, including new product and service offerings in the area of genomics consumables. During 2018, IDT’s revenues grew on a year-over-year basis with growth across all major geographies and product lines.

Operating profit margins increased 140 basis points during 2018 as compared to 2017. The following factors impacted year-over-year operating profit margin comparisons.

2018 vs. 2017 operating profit margin comparisons were favorably impacted by:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•2018 gain on resolution of acquisition-related matters - 20 basis points

2018 vs. 2017 operating profit margin comparisons were unfavorably impacted by:

•The incremental net dilutive effect in 2018 of acquired businesses - 35 basis points

•Acquisition-related charges consisting of transaction costs and fair value adjustments to inventory for the acquisition of IDT in the second quarter of 2018 - 25 basis points

2017 Compared to 2016 

During the first quarter of 2017, a product line was transferred from the Life Sciences segment to the Environmental & Applied Solutions segment. While this change is not material to segment results in total, the resulting change in sales growth has been included in the “Acquisitions and other” line in the table above.

Price increases in the segment contributed 0.5% to revenue growth on a year-over-year basis during 2017 as compared with 2016 and are reflected as a component of the change in core revenue growth.

Core sales of the business’ broad range of mass spectrometers continued to grow on a year-over-year basis led by strong sales growth in the pharmaceutical market across Asia and North America as well as sales growth in the food and forensics markets across all major regions. This growth was partially offset by continuing declines in demand in the clinical market in North America. Core sales of microscopy products increased on a year-over-year basis with growth in demand across most end-markets particularly in Western Europe and the high-growth markets. Year-over-year sales for the business’ flow cytometry and particle counting products grew in 2017, primarily due to new product introductions and were led by increases in sales in North America, Western Europe and China. Core sales for filtration, separation and purification technologies grew on a year-over-year basis led by continued growth in biopharmaceuticals and microelectronics, partially offset by declines in the process, industrial and medical products particularly in the first half of 2017. Geographically, core sales in filtration, separation and purification technologies were primarily led by growth in North America and Asia, partially offset by declines in the Middle East largely due to a major project in 2016 which did not repeat in 2017.

Operating profit margins increased 230 basis points during 2017 as compared to 2016. The following factors impacted year-over-year operating profit margin comparisons. 

2017 vs. 2016 operating profit margin comparisons were favorably impacted by:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•Acquisition-related charges including transaction costs deemed significant, change in control and restructuring payments, and fair value adjustment to acquired inventory and deferred revenue - 10 basis points

36
•The incremental net accretive effect in 2017 of acquired businesses and intersegment product line transfers - 20 basis points

2017 vs. 2016 operating profit margin comparisons were unfavorably impacted by:

•Fourth quarter 2017 loss on resolution of acquisition-related matters - 5 basis points

DIAGNOSTICS

The Company’s Diagnostics segment offers analytical instruments, reagents, consumables, software and services that hospitals, physicians’ offices, reference laboratories and other critical care settings use to diagnose disease and make treatment decisions. 

Diagnostics Selected Financial Data

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Core Revenue 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

2018 Compared to 2017

Price in the segment negatively impacted sales growth by 0.5% on a year-over-year basis during 2018 as compared with 2017 and is reflected as a component of the change in core revenue growth.

Core sales in the molecular diagnostics business increased on a year-over-year basis, driven by strong growth in both developed and high-growth markets. The molecular diagnostics business experienced particularly strong growth in the infectious disease product line driven in part by the severity of the flu season during the first quarter of 2018. Core sales in the clinical lab business increased on a year-over-year basis due to increased demand in the high-growth markets, led by China, partially offset by lower sales in Western Europe. The increased demand in the clinical lab business was driven by the immunoassay product line. Core sales in the acute care diagnostic business increased, driven by continued strong sales of blood gas and immunoassay product lines across most major geographies, led by the high-growth markets. Core sales in the pathology diagnostics business increased across most major geographies, led by North America, Western Europe and China. Demand for new products in the advanced staining and core histology product lines drove the increased core sales in the pathology diagnostics business.

Operating profit margins increased 230 basis points during 2018 as compared to 2017. The following factors impacted year-over-year operating profit margin comparisons.

2018 vs. 2017 operating profit margin comparisons were favorably impacted by:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

37
associated with various new product development, sales and marketing growth investments and the effect of year-over-year changes in currency exchange rates - 125 basis points

•Restructuring, impairment and other related charges related to discontinuing a product line in 2017 - 130 basis points

2018 vs. 2017 operating profit margin comparisons were unfavorably impacted by:

•2017 gain on resolution of acquisition-related matters - 25 basis points

2017 Compared to 2016 

Price increases in the segment contributed 0.5% to sales growth on a year-over-year basis during 2017 as compared with 2016 and are reflected as a component of the change in core revenue growth.

Core sales in the clinical lab business increased on a year-over-year basis. Geographically, continued strong demand in high-growth markets for the clinical lab business was partially offset by declines in Western Europe and Japan. Increased demand in the immunoassay product line drove the majority of the growth for the year in the clinical lab business. Growth in the acute care diagnostic business was driven by continued strong consumable sales in 2017 across most major geographies. Increased demand for advanced staining and core histology instruments and related consumables across most major geographies drove the majority of the year-over-year core sales growth in the pathology diagnostics business.

The acquisition of Cepheid in November 2016 contributed the majority of the increase in sales from acquisitions. During 2017, Cepheid’s revenues compared to the business’ 2016 results grew on a year-over-year basis in most major geographies and product lines. As Cepheid is integrated into the Company, a process that will continue over the next several years, the Company has realized and expects to realize cost savings and other business process improvements through the application of DBS. 

During 2017, the Company made the strategic decision to discontinue a molecular diagnostic product line in its Diagnostics segment. As a result, the Company recorded $76 million of pretax restructuring, impairment and other related charges ($51 million after-tax or $0.07 per diluted share). These charges included $49 million of noncash charges for the impairment of certain technology-related intangible assets as well as related inventory and property, plant and equipment with no further use. In addition, the Company incurred $27 million of cash restructuring costs primarily related to employee severance and related charges. Substantially all restructuring activities related to this discontinued product line were completed in 2017.

Operating profit margins declined 70 basis points during 2017 as compared to 2016. The following factors impacted year-over-year operating profit margin comparisons.

2017 vs. 2016 operating profit margin comparisons were favorably impacted by:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•Acquisition-related charges in 2016 associated with the acquisition of Cepheid, including transaction costs deemed significant, change in control and restructuring payments, and fair value adjustments to acquired inventory and deferred revenue - 150 basis points

•2017 gain on resolution of acquisition-related matters - 25 basis points

2017 vs. 2016 operating profit margin comparisons were unfavorably impacted by:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Depreciation and amortization increased during 2017 as compared with 2016 primarily due to the impact of recently acquired businesses, primarily Cepheid, and the resulting increase in depreciable and amortizable assets.

DENTAL

The Company’s Dental segment offers products and services that are used to diagnose, treat and prevent disease and ailments of the teeth, gums and supporting bone, as well as to improve the aesthetics of the human smile. With leading brand names, 

38
innovative technology and significant market positions, the Company is a leading worldwide provider of a broad range of dental consumables, equipment and services, and is dedicated to driving technological innovations that help dental professionals improve clinical outcomes and enhance productivity. 

Dental Selected Financial Data 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Core Revenue 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

2018 Compared to 2017 

Price in the segment negatively impacted sales growth by 0.5% on a year-over-year basis during 2018 as compared with 2017 and is reflected as a component of the change in core revenue growth.

Geographically, year-over-year core revenue growth was driven by growth in the high-growth markets, primarily China and Russia, which was partially offset by declines in North America and Western Europe. Core revenue growth for the specialty consumables business, which consists of implant solutions and orthodontic products, was led by the high-growth markets, primarily China, and North America. Dental equipment and traditional dental consumables core sales declined during 2018, primarily due to declines in North America, offset partially by growth in the high-growth markets, primarily China and Russia. Lower core sales of dental equipment and traditional dental consumables product lines in North America partially offset the core revenue growth in the specialty consumables business, primarily reflecting the impact of inventory reductions at several distribution partners as well as the impact from realignment of distributors and manufacturers in the dental industry. The Company has begun to see stability in the North America end-markets for dental equipment and traditional dental consumables.

Operating profit margins declined 210 basis points during 2018 as compared to 2017. The following factors impacted year-over-year operating profit margin comparisons.

2018 vs. 2017 operating profit margin comparisons were favorably impacted by:

•Trade name impairments and related productivity improvement initiatives in 2017 - 45 basis points 

2018 vs. 2017 operating profit margin comparisons were unfavorably impacted by:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

39
In July 2018, the Company announced its intention to spin-off its Dental business into an independent publicly-traded company. The transaction is expected to be tax-free to the Company’s shareholders. The Company is targeting to complete the Dental Separation in the second half of 2019, subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions, including obtaining final approval from the Danaher Board of Directors, satisfactory completion of financing, receipt of tax opinions, receipt of favorable rulings from the IRS and receipt of other regulatory approvals. 

2017 Compared to 2016 

Price increases in the segment did not have a significant impact on sales growth on a year-over-year basis during 2017 as compared with 2016.

Geographically, year-over-year core revenue growth was strong in China, Russia and other high-growth markets, offset by lower demand in the United States and Western Europe. Strong year-over-year growth continued during 2017 for the specialty consumables business, which consists of implant solutions and orthodontic products. Core sales growth for the specialty consumables business was led by high-growth markets and North America. Dental equipment core sales were essentially flat during 2017, as increased demand in high-growth markets was offset by weaker demand in the United States and Western Europe, particularly later in the year for North America due to the realignment of dental equipment distributors and manufacturers. Demand was lower for traditional dental consumable product lines in North America and Western Europe reflecting inventory destocking by several distribution partners. 

Operating profit margins declined 80 basis points during 2017 as compared to 2016. The following factors unfavorably impacted year-over-year operating profit margin comparisons:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

ENVIRONMENTAL & APPLIED SOLUTIONS

The Company’s Environmental & Applied Solutions segment offers products and services that help protect important resources and keep global food and water supplies safe. The Company’s water quality business provides instrumentation, services and disinfection systems to help analyze, treat and manage the quality of ultra-pure, potable, industrial, waste, ground, source and ocean water in residential, commercial, municipal, industrial and natural resource applications. The Company’s product identification business provides equipment, software, services and consumables for various color and appearance management, packaging design and quality management, packaging converting, printing, marking, coding and traceability applications for consumer, pharmaceutical and industrial products.

Environmental & Applied Solutions Selected Financial Data 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

40
Core Revenue 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

2018 Compared to 2017 

Price increases in the segment contributed 1.5% to sales growth on a year-over-year basis during 2018 as compared with 2017 and are reflected as a component of the change in core revenue growth.

Core sales in the segment’s water quality businesses grew at a high-single digit rate during 2018 as compared with 2017. Year-over-year core sales in the analytical instrumentation product line increased, led by continued demand in the industrial and municipal end-markets. Geographically, year-over-year core revenue growth in the analytical instrumentation product line was driven by increased demand across all major geographies, led by China, North America and Western Europe. Year-over-year core revenue growth in the business’ chemical treatment solutions product line was driven by demand in the commercial and industrial, mining and primary metals end-markets. Geographically, year-over-year core revenue growth in the chemical treatment solutions product line was driven by North America and Latin America. Core sales in the business’ ultraviolet water disinfection product line grew on a year-over-year basis due primarily to demand in the municipal and consumer end-markets. Geographically, year-over year core revenue growth in the ultraviolet water disinfection product line was led by North America and China, partially offset by softer demand in Western Europe. 

Core sales in the segment’s product identification businesses grew at a mid-single digit rate during 2018 as compared with 2017. Year-over-year core revenue growth for marking and coding equipment and related consumables was driven by demand across all major end-markets and in all major geographies, particularly Western Europe, North America and high-growth markets. Demand for the business’ packaging and color solutions decreased slightly year-over-year. Geographically, core sales for packaging and color solutions decreased in North America and high-growth markets, partially offset by increased demand in Western Europe.

Operating profit margins declined 10 basis points during 2018 as compared to 2017. The following factors impacted year-over-year operating profit margin comparisons:

2018 vs. 2017 operating profit margin comparisons were favorably impacted by:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

2018 vs. 2017 operating profit margin comparisons were unfavorably impacted by:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

2017 Compared to 2016

During the first quarter of 2017, a product line was transferred from the Life Sciences segment to the Environmental & Applied Solutions segment. While this change is not material to segment results in total, the resulting change in sales growth has been included in the “Acquisitions and other” line in the table above. 

Price increases in the segment contributed 1.0% to sales growth on a year-over-year basis during 2017 as compared with 2016 and are reflected as a component of the change in core revenue growth.

Core sales in the segment’s water quality businesses grew at a low-single digit rate during 2017 as compared with 2016. Year-over-year core sales in the analytical instrumentation product line grew, as increased demand in the industrial and municipal end-markets was partially offset by lower demand in the environmental end-markets. Geographically, year-over-year core revenue growth in the analytical instrumentation product line was driven by increased demand in China, Western Europe and North America, partially offset by lower demand in the Middle East and Latin America. Year-over-year core revenue growth in the business’ chemical treatment solutions product line was due primarily to an expansion of the customer base in the United 

41
States, driven by higher demand in food, steel and oil and gas-related end-markets. Core sales in the business’ ultraviolet water disinfection product line grew on a year-over-year basis due primarily to higher demand in municipal and industrial end-markets in North America, Western Europe and Asia. 

Core sales in the segment’s product identification businesses grew at a mid-single digit rate during 2017 as compared with 2016. Continued strong year-over-year demand for marking and coding equipment and related consumables in most major geographies, led by North America and Western Europe, drove the majority of the core revenue growth. Demand for the business’ packaging and color solutions also increased year-over-year. Geographically, core revenue growth for packaging and color solutions was led by North America, Western Europe and Asia.

Operating profit margins declined 60 basis points during 2017 as compared to 2016. The following factors impacted year-over-year operating profit margin comparisons:

2017 vs. 2016 operating profit margin comparisons were favorably impacted by:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

2017 vs. 2016 operating profit margin comparisons were unfavorably impacted by:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

COST OF SALES AND GROSS PROFIT

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The year-over-year increase in cost of sales during 2018 as compared with 2017 is due primarily to the impact of higher year-over-year sales volumes, including sales from recently acquired businesses, partially offset by incremental year-over-year cost savings associated with the continued productivity improvement actions taken in 2018 and 2017 and charges associated with the Company’s strategic decision to discontinue a product line in its Diagnostics segment in 2017. Cost of goods sold also increased as a result of tariffs in 2018, and tariffs are estimated to have a modest impact on cost of goods sold in 2019.

The year-over-year increase in cost of sales during 2017 as compared with 2016, is due primarily to the impact of higher year-over-year sales volumes, including sales from recently acquired businesses and the impact of restructuring, impairment and other related charges associated with the Company’s strategic decision to discontinue a product line in its Diagnostics segment. This increase in cost of sales was partially offset by year-over-year cost savings at recently acquired businesses, incremental year-over-year cost savings associated with the continued productivity improvement actions taken in 2017 and 2016, and the year-over-year decrease in acquisition-related charges associated with fair value adjustments to acquired inventory which decreased cost of sales by $21 million during 2017 as compared to 2016.

The year-over-year increase in gross profit margins during 2018 as compared with 2017 is due primarily to the favorable impact of higher year-over-year sales volumes, including sales from recently acquired businesses, increased leverage of certain manufacturing costs and incremental year-over-year cost savings associated with the continuing productivity improvements taken in 2018 and 2017. Gross margin improvements were partially offset by the impact of foreign exchange rates in 2018.

The year-over-year increase in gross profit margins during 2017 as compared with 2016 is due primarily to the favorable impact of higher year-over-year sales volumes, incremental year-over-year cost savings associated with the continuing productivity improvements taken in 2017 and 2016. In addition, the acquisition-related charges associated with fair value adjustments to acquired inventory and deferred revenue were higher in 2016 than 2017, which improved gross profit margins by 10 basis points during 2017 as compared with 2016.

42
OPERATING EXPENSES

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

SG&A expenses as a percentage of sales declined 60 basis points on a year-over-year basis for 2018 compared with 2017. The decline was driven by increased leverage of the Company’s general and administrative cost base resulting from higher 2018 sales volumes, continuing productivity improvements taken in 2018 and 2017, and the impact of the restructuring, impairment and other related charges incurred in 2017 associated with the Company’s strategic decision to discontinue a product line in its Diagnostics segment. The decline in SG&A expenses as a percentage of sales was partially offset by higher relative spending levels at recently acquired companies and continued investments in sales and marketing growth initiatives. 

SG&A expenses as a percentage of sales declined 20 basis points on a year-over-year basis for 2017 compared with 2016. The decline was driven by increased leverage of the Company’s general and administrative cost base resulting from higher 2017 sales volumes, continuing productivity improvements taken in 2017 and 2016 as well as the benefit of lower acquisition charges in 2017 compared to 2016, particularly change in control payments and restructuring costs in connection with the acquisition of Cepheid. The decline in SG&A expenses as a percentage of sales was partially offset by restructuring, impairment and other related charges associated with the Company’s strategic decision to discontinue a product line in its Diagnostics segment, higher relative spending levels at recently acquired companies, primarily Cepheid, and continued investments in sales and marketing growth initiatives. 

R&D expenses (consisting principally of internal and contract engineering personnel costs) as a percentage of sales remained consistent in 2018 as compared with 2017 as year-over-year increases in spending in the Company’s new product development initiatives corresponded to the increase in sales. R&D expenses as a percentage of sales increased in 2017 as compared to 2016 due primarily to higher R&D expenses as a percentage of sales in the businesses most recently acquired, primarily Cepheid, as well as year-over-year increases in spending in the Company’s new product development initiatives.

NONOPERATING INCOME (EXPENSE) 

As described in Note 1 and Note 11, in the first quarter of 2018, the Company adopted ASU No. 2017-07, Compensation— Retirement Benefits (Topic 715): Improving the Presentation of Net Periodic Pension Cost and Net Periodic Postretirement Benefit Cost. The ASU requires the Company to disaggregate the service cost component from the other components of net periodic benefit costs and requires the Company to present the other components of net periodic benefit cost in other income, net. The ASU also requires application on a retrospective basis. The other components of net periodic benefit costs included in other income, net for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 were net gains of $37 million, $31 million and $16 million, respectively.

During 2017, the Company received $138 million of cash proceeds and recorded $22 million in short-term other receivables from the sale of certain marketable equity securities during 2017. The Company recorded a pretax gain related to this sale of $73 million ($46 million after-tax or $0.06 per diluted share).

During 2016, the Company received cash proceeds of $265 million from the sale of certain marketable equity securities and recorded a pretax gain related to this sale of $223 million ($140 million after-tax or $0.20 per diluted share). 

During 2016, the Company also paid $188 million of make-whole premiums associated with the early extinguishment of the Redeemed Notes. The Company recorded a loss on extinguishment of these borrowings, net of certain deferred gains, of $179 million ($112 million after-tax or $0.16 per diluted share). 

INTEREST COSTS

Interest expense of $157 million for 2018 was $5 million lower than in 2017, due primarily to the decrease in interest costs as a result of the repayment of certain outstanding borrowings in the third quarter of 2018 and the second and fourth quarters of 2017, lower average outstanding U.S. commercial paper borrowings during 2018 compared to 2017, and the impact of foreign currency exchange rates in 2018 as compared to 2017, partially offset by the cost of additional non-U.S. debt issued during 

43
2017. For a further description of the Company’s debt as of December 31, 2018 refer to Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Interest expense of $163 million in 2017 was $21 million lower than the 2016 interest expense of $184 million due primarily to the decrease in interest costs as a result of the early extinguishment of certain outstanding borrowings in the third quarter of 2016 using the proceeds from the Fortive Distribution and lower commercial paper borrowings in 2017 compared to 2016, partially offset by the cost of additional long-term debt refinancing relating to the acquisition of Cepheid. 

In January 2019, the Company entered into approximately $1.9 billion of cross-currency swap derivative contracts on its U.S. dollar-denominated bonds to effectively convert the Company’s U.S. dollar-denominated bonds to obligations denominated in Danish kroner, Japanese yen, euro and Swiss franc. Based on the interest rates of the swaps and current currency exchange rates, the Company expects these contracts to effectively reduce the Company’s interest expense in 2019 by approximately $35 million versus the stated interest rates on the U.S. dollar denominated debt. 

INCOME TAXES

General

Income tax expense and deferred tax assets and liabilities reflect management’s assessment of future taxes expected to be paid on items reflected in the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements. The Company records the tax effect of discrete items and items that are reported net of their tax effects in the period in which they occur.

The Company’s effective tax rate can be affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with different statutory tax rates (including as a result of business acquisitions and dispositions), changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, accruals related to contingent tax liabilities and period-to-period changes in such accruals, the results of audits and examinations of previously filed tax returns (as discussed below), the expiration of statutes of limitations, the implementation of tax planning strategies, tax rulings, court decisions, settlements with tax authorities and changes in tax laws and regulations, including the TCJA and legislative policy changes that may result from the OECD’s initiative on Base Erosion and Profit Shifting. For a description of the tax treatment of earnings that are planned to be reinvested indefinitely outside the United States, refer to “—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Cash and Cash Requirements” below.

The amount of income taxes the Company pays is subject to ongoing audits by federal, state and foreign tax authorities, which often result in proposed assessments. Management performs a comprehensive review of its global tax positions on a quarterly basis. Based on these reviews, the results of discussions and resolutions of matters with certain tax authorities, tax rulings and court decisions and the expiration of statutes of limitations, reserves for contingent tax liabilities are accrued or adjusted as necessary. For a discussion of risks related to these and other tax matters, refer to “Item 1A. Risk Factors”.

On December 22, 2017, the TCJA was enacted, substantially changing the U.S. tax system and affecting the Company in a number of ways. Notably, the TCJA:  

•established a flat corporate income tax rate of 21.0% on U.S. earnings; 

•imposed a one-time tax on unremitted cumulative non-U.S. earnings of foreign subsidiaries, which we refer to in this Annual Report as the Transition Tax; 

•imposes a new minimum tax on certain non-U.S. earnings, irrespective of the territorial system of taxation, and generally allows for the repatriation of future earnings of foreign subsidiaries without incurring additional U.S. taxes by transitioning to a territorial system of taxation; 

•subjects certain payments made by a U.S. company to a related foreign company to certain minimum taxes (Base Erosion Anti-Abuse Tax); 

•eliminated certain prior tax incentives for manufacturing in the United States and creates an incentive for U.S. companies to sell, lease or license goods and services abroad by allowing for a reduction in taxes owed on earnings related to such sales; 

•allows the cost of investments in certain depreciable assets acquired and placed in service after September 27, 2017 to be immediately expensed; and 

•reduces deductions with respect to certain compensation paid to specified executive officers. 

While the changes from the TCJA were generally effective beginning in 2018, GAAP accounting for income taxes requires the effect of a change in tax laws or rates to be recognized in income from continuing operations for the period that includes the enactment date. Due to the complexities involved in accounting for the enactment of the TCJA, SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 118 (“SAB No. 118”) allowed the Company to record provisional amounts in earnings for the year ended December 31, 

44
2017. Where reasonable estimates could be made, the provisional accounting was based on such estimates. When no reasonable estimate could be made, SAB No. 118 required the accounting to be based on the tax law in effect before the TCJA. The Company was required to complete its tax accounting for the TCJA when it had obtained, prepared and analyzed the information to complete the income tax accounting but no later than December 22, 2018. 

Accordingly, during 2018, the Company completed its accounting for the tax effects of the enactment of the TCJA based on the Company’s interpretation of the new tax regulations and related guidance issued by the U.S. Department of the Treasury and the IRS. [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•In connection with finalizing the calculation of tax credits available to reduce the Transition Tax and other U.S. taxable income, the Company recorded an additional provision of $13 million related to net unrealizable credits which is included as a component of income tax expense from continuing operations in 2018.  

•U.S. deferred tax assets and liabilities were remeasured as of December 31, 2017 based upon the tax rates at which the assets and liabilities are expected to reverse in the future, which is generally 21.0%, resulting in an income tax benefit of approximately $1.2 billion in 2017. Upon finalizing the provisional accounting for the remeasurement of U.S. deferred tax assets and liabilities in 2018, the Company recorded an additional tax benefit of $47 million, which is included as a component of income tax expense from continuing operations. 

•The TCJA imposes tax on U.S. shareholders for global intangible low-taxed income (“GILTI”) earned by certain foreign subsidiaries. The Company is required to make an accounting policy election of either: (1) treating taxes due on future amounts included in U.S. taxable income related to GILTI as a current period tax expense when incurred (the “period cost method”); or (2) factoring such amounts into the Company’s measurement of its deferred tax expense (the “deferred method”). As of December 31, 2017, the Company was still analyzing its global income and did not record a GILTI-related deferred tax amount. In 2018, the Company elected the period cost method for its accounting for GILTI. 

Due to the complexity and recent issuance of these tax regulations, management’s interpretations of the impact of these rules could be subject to challenge by the taxing authorities.

Year-Over-Year Changes in the Tax Provision and Effective Tax Rate

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The Company’s effective tax rate for 2018, 2017 and 2016 differs from the U.S. federal statutory rates of 21.0% for 2018 and 35.0% for 2017 and 2016, due principally to the Company’s earnings outside the United States that are indefinitely reinvested and taxed at rates different than the U.S. federal statutory rate. In addition: [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

45
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The Company conducts business globally, and files numerous consolidated and separate income tax returns in the U.S. federal, state and foreign jurisdictions. The non-U.S. countries in which the Company has a significant presence include China, Denmark, Germany, Singapore, Switzerland and the United Kingdom. The Company believes that a change in the statutory tax rate of any individual foreign country would not have a material effect on the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements given the geographic dispersion of the Company’s taxable income. 

The Company and its subsidiaries are routinely examined by various domestic and international taxing authorities. The IRS has completed substantially all of the examinations of the Company’s federal income tax returns through 2011 and is currently examining certain of the Company’s federal income tax returns for 2012 through 2015. In addition, the Company has subsidiaries in Austria, Belgium, Canada, China, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Hong Kong, India, Italy, Japan, New Zealand, Sweden, Switzerland, the United Kingdom and various other countries, states and provinces that are currently under audit for years ranging from 2004 through 2017. 

In the fourth quarter of 2018, the IRS proposed significant adjustments to the Company’s taxable income for the years 2012 through 2015 with respect to the deferral of tax on certain premium income related to the Company’s self-insurance programs. The proposed adjustments would increase the Company’s taxable income over the 2012 through 2015 period by approximately $960 million. In addition, as of December 31, 2018, the IRS has notified the Company that it is considering additional taxable income adjustments related to other aspects of the Company’s self-insurance programs for the years 2012 through 2015. These additional proposed adjustments would increase the Company’s taxable income by approximately $1.7 billion. Management believes the positions the Company has taken in its U.S. tax returns are in accordance with the relevant tax laws, intends to vigorously defend these positions and is currently considering all of its alternatives. Due to the enactment of the TCJA in 2017 and the resulting reduction in the U.S. corporate tax rate for years after 2017, the Company revalued its deferred tax liabilities related to the temporary differences associated with this deferred premium income from 35.0% to 21.0%. If the Company is not successful in defending these assessments, the taxes owed to the IRS may be computed under the previous 35.0% statutory tax rate and the Company may be required to revalue the related deferred tax liabilities from 21.0% to 35.0%, which in addition to any interest due on the amounts assessed, would require a charge to future earnings. The ultimate resolution of this matter is uncertain, could take many years and could result in a material adverse impact to the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements, including its cash flows and effective tax rate.  

Tax authorities in Denmark have raised significant issues related to interest accrued by certain of the Company’s subsidiaries. On December 10, 2013, the Company received assessments from the Danish tax authority (“SKAT”) totaling approximately DKK 1.6 billion (approximately $247 million based on exchange rates as of December 31, 2018) including interest through December 31, 2018, imposing withholding tax relating to interest accrued in Denmark on borrowings from certain of the Company’s subsidiaries for the years 2004 through 2009. The Company is currently in discussions with SKAT and anticipates receiving an assessment for years 2010 through 2012 totaling approximately DKK 954 million (approximately $146 million based on exchange rates as of December 31, 2018) including interest through December 31, 2018. Management believes the positions the Company has taken in Denmark are in accordance with the relevant tax laws and is vigorously defending its positions. The Company appealed these assessments with the National Tax Tribunal in 2014 and intends on pursuing this matter through the European Court of Justice should this appeal be unsuccessful. The ultimate resolution of this matter is uncertain, could take many years, and could result in a material adverse impact to the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements, including its cash flows and effective tax rate. 

After considering the effect of the TCJA, the Company expects its 2019 effective tax rate to be approximately 19.5%. Any future legislative changes in the United States including new regulations related to the TCJA or potential tax reform in other jurisdictions, could cause the Company’s effective tax rate to differ from this estimate. Refer to Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information related to income taxes.

DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS 

As further discussed in Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, discontinued operations include the results of the Fortive businesses which were disposed of during the third quarter of 2016. 

In 2017, Danaher recorded a $22 million income tax benefit related to the release of previously provided reserves associated with uncertain tax positions on certain Danaher tax returns which were jointly filed with Fortive entities. These reserves were released due to the expiration of statutes of limitations for those returns. All Fortive entity-related balances were included in 

46
the income tax benefit related to discontinued operations. 

In 2016, earnings from discontinued operations, net of income taxes, were $400 million and reflected the operating results of the Fortive businesses prior to the Fortive Separation. 

COMPREHENSIVE INCOME

Comprehensive income decreased by approximately $1.5 billion in 2018 as compared to 2017, primarily due to a loss from foreign currency translation adjustments in 2018 compared to a gain in 2017 and a loss from pension and postretirement plan benefit adjustments as compared to a gain in 2017, partially offset by higher net earnings from continuing operations and a decrease in unrealized losses on available-for-sale securities in 2018 compared to 2017. The Company recorded a foreign currency translation loss of $632 million for 2018 compared to a translation gain of $976 million for 2017. The Company recorded a pension and postretirement plan benefit loss of $13 million for 2018 compared to a gain of $71 million for 2017. These negative impacts were partially offset by higher net earnings in 2018 compared to 2017.

Comprehensive income increased by approximately $1.7 billion in 2017 as compared to 2016, primarily due to increased earnings from continuing operations, an increased gain from foreign currency translation adjustments compared to 2016, pension and postretirement plan benefit adjustments and the decrease in unrealized losses on available-for-sale securities, partially offset by lower net earnings attributable to discontinued operations in 2017 compared to 2016. The Company recorded a foreign currency translation gain of $976 million for 2017 compared to a translation loss of $517 million for 2016. The Company recorded a pension and postretirement plan benefit gain of $71 million in 2017 compared to a loss of $58 million in 2016.

INFLATION

The effect of inflation on the Company’s revenues and net earnings was not significant in any of the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 or 2016.

FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND RISK MANAGEMENT

The Company is exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, equity prices and commodity prices as well as credit risk, each of which could impact its Consolidated Financial Statements. The Company generally addresses its exposure to these risks through its normal operating and financing activities. The Company may periodically use derivative financial instruments to manage foreign exchange risks. In addition, the Company’s broad-based business activities help to reduce the impact that volatility in any particular area or related areas may have on its operating profit as a whole.

Interest Rate Risk

The Company manages interest cost using a mixture of fixed-rate and variable-rate debt. A change in interest rates on long-term debt impacts the fair value of the Company’s fixed-rate long-term debt but not the Company’s earnings or cash flow because the interest on such debt is fixed. Generally, the fair market value of fixed-rate debt will increase as interest rates fall and decrease as interest rates rise. As of December 31, 2018, an increase of 100 basis points in interest rates would have decreased the fair value of the Company’s fixed-rate long-term debt (excluding the LYONs, which have not been included in this calculation as the value of this convertible debt is primarily derived from the value of its underlying common stock) by $460 million.

As of December 31, 2018, the Company’s variable-rate debt obligations consisted primarily of U.S. dollar and euro-based commercial paper borrowings (refer to Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding the Company’s outstanding commercial paper balances as of December 31, 2018). As a result, the Company’s primary interest rate exposure results from changes in short-term interest rates. As these shorter duration obligations mature, the Company may issue additional short-term commercial paper obligations to refinance all or part of these borrowings. In 2018, the average annual interest rate associated with outstanding commercial paper borrowings was approximately negative 18 basis points. A hypothetical increase of this average to negative eight basis points would have increased the Company’s annual interest expense by $3 million. The hypothetical increase used is the actual amount by which the Company’s commercial paper interest rates fluctuated during 2018.

In January 2019, the Company entered into approximately $1.9 billion of cross-currency swap derivative contracts on its U.S. dollar denominated bonds to effectively convert the Company’s U.S. dollar denominated bonds to obligations denominated in Danish kroner, Japanese yen, euro and Swiss franc. Based on the interest rates of the swaps and current currency exchange 

47
rates, the Company expects these contracts to reduce the Company’s interest expense in 2019 by approximately $35 million versus the stated interest rates on the U.S. dollar denominated debt. 

Currency Exchange Rate Risk

The Company faces transactional exchange rate risk from transactions with customers in countries outside the United States and from intercompany transactions between affiliates. Transactional exchange rate risk arises from the purchase and sale of goods and services in currencies other than Danaher’s functional currency or the functional currency of its applicable subsidiary. The Company also faces translational exchange rate risk related to the translation of financial statements of its foreign operations into U.S. dollars, Danaher’s functional currency. Costs incurred and sales recorded by subsidiaries operating outside of the United States are translated into U.S. dollars using exchange rates effective during the respective period. As a result, the Company is exposed to movements in the exchange rates of various currencies against the U.S. dollar. In particular, the Company has more sales in European currencies than it has expenses in those currencies. Therefore, when European currencies strengthen or weaken against the U.S. dollar, operating profits are increased or decreased, respectively. The effect of a change in currency exchange rates on the Company’s net investment in international subsidiaries is reflected in the accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) component of stockholders’ equity. 

Currency exchange rates positively impacted 2018 reported sales by 0.5% on a year-over-year basis, primarily as a result of the U.S. dollar weakening against other major currencies in the first half of 2018. The U.S. dollar strengthened in the second half of 2018 which mitigated some of the benefit recorded in early 2018. If the exchange rates in effect as of December 31, 2018 were to prevail throughout 2019, currency exchange rates would adversely impact 2019 estimated sales by 1.5% relative to the Company’s performance in 2018. Strengthening of the U.S. dollar against other major currencies would adversely impact the Company’s sales and results of operations on an overall basis. Any weakening of the U.S. dollar against other major currencies would positively impact the Company’s sales and results of operations.

The Company has generally accepted the exposure to exchange rate movements without using derivative financial instruments to manage this transactional exchange risk. Both positive and negative movements in currency exchange rates against the U.S. dollar will therefore continue to affect the reported amount of sales and net earnings in the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements. In addition, the Company has assets and liabilities held in foreign currencies. The Company may also use foreign currency-denominated debt and cross-currency swaps to partially hedge its net investments in foreign operations against adverse movements in exchange rates. A 10% depreciation in major currencies relative to the U.S. dollar as of December 31, 2018 would have reduced foreign currency-denominated net assets and stockholders’ equity by $860 million. In 2019, the Company entered into approximately $1.9 billion of cross-currency swap derivative contracts on its U.S. dollar-denominated bonds to hedge its net investment in foreign operations against adverse changes in the exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and the Danish kroner, Japanese yen, euro and the Swiss franc. These contracts effectively convert the Company’s U.S. dollar-denominated bonds to obligations denominated in Danish kroner, Japanese yen, euro and Swiss franc, and will partially offset the impact of changes in currency rates on foreign currency-denominated net assets in future periods. 

Equity Price Risk

The Company’s investment portfolio has in the past included publicly-traded equity securities that are sensitive to fluctuations in market price. However, during 2017 the Company sold substantially all of its available-for-sale marketable equity securities. The Company also holds investments in non-marketable equity instruments in privately held companies that may be impacted by equity price risks or other factors. These non-marketable equity investments are accounted for under the Fair Value Alternative method with changes in fair value recorded in earnings. Volatility in the equity markets or other fair value considerations could affect the value of these investments and require charges or gains to be recognized in earnings. 

Commodity Price Risk

For a discussion of risks relating to commodity prices, refer to “Item 1A. Risk Factors.”

Credit Risk

The Company is exposed to potential credit losses in the event of nonperformance by counterparties to its financial instruments. Financial instruments that potentially subject the Company to credit risk consist of cash and temporary investments, receivables from customers and derivatives. The Company places cash and temporary investments with various high-quality financial institutions throughout the world and exposure is limited at any one institution. Although the Company typically does not obtain collateral or other security to secure these obligations, it does regularly monitor the third-party depository institutions that hold its cash and cash equivalents. The Company’s emphasis is primarily on safety and liquidity of principal and secondarily on maximizing yield on those funds.

48
In addition, concentrations of credit risk arising from receivables from customers are limited due to the diversity of the Company’s customers. The Company’s businesses perform credit evaluations of their customers’ financial conditions as appropriate and also obtain collateral or other security when appropriate.

The Company enters into derivative transactions infrequently and such transactions are generally insignificant to the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. These transactions are typically entered into with high-quality financial institutions and exposure at any one institution is limited.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

Management assesses the Company’s liquidity in terms of its ability to generate cash to fund its operating, investing and financing requirements. The Company continues to generate substantial cash from operating activities and believes that its operating cash flow and other sources of liquidity will be sufficient to allow it to continue investing in existing businesses, consummating strategic acquisitions and investments, paying interest and servicing debt and managing its capital structure on a short and long-term basis.

Following is an overview of the Company’s cash flows and liquidity for the years ended December 31:

Overview of Cash Flows and Liquidity

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

49
Payments for additions to property, plant and equipment increased $36 million in 2018 compared to 2017 and included investments in operating assets, and new facilities across the Company. In addition, in 2018, the Company invested $149 million in non-marketable equity securities.

•The Company repaid the $500 million aggregate principal amount of 2018 U.S. Notes (plus accrued interest) upon their maturity in September 2018 using available cash and proceeds from the issuance of commercial paper. [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Operating Activities

Cash flows from operating activities can fluctuate significantly from period-to-period as working capital needs and the timing of payments for income taxes, restructuring activities and productivity improvement initiatives, pension funding and other items impact reported cash flows.

Operating cash flows from continuing operations were approximately $4.0 billion for 2018, an increase of $544 million, or 16%, as compared to 2017. The year-over-year change in operating cash flows from 2017 to 2018 was primarily attributable to the following factors:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Operating cash flows from continuing operations were approximately $3.5 billion for 2017, an increase of $390 million, or 13%, as compared to 2016. This increase was primarily attributable to the increase in net earnings from continuing operations in 2017 as compared to 2016.

Investing Activities

Cash flows relating to investing activities consist primarily of cash used for acquisitions and capital expenditures, including instruments leased to customers, cash used for investments and cash proceeds from divestitures of businesses or assets.

Net cash used in investing activities was approximately $2.9 billion during 2018 compared to $843 million and approximately $5.2 billion of net cash used in 2017 and 2016, respectively.

Acquisitions, Divestitures and Sale of Investments

2018 Acquisitions and Sale of Investments

For a discussion of the Company’s 2018 acquisitions refer to “—Overview.” In addition, in 2018, the Company invested $149 million in non-marketable equity securities and partnerships. The Company received cash proceeds of $22 million from the collection of short-term other receivables related to the sale of certain marketable equity securities during 2017.

50
2017 Acquisitions and Sale of Investments

During 2017, the Company acquired ten businesses for total consideration of $386 million in cash, net of cash acquired. The businesses acquired complement existing units of the Life Sciences, Dental and Environmental & Applied Solutions segments. The aggregate annual sales of these ten businesses at the time of their respective acquisitions, in each case based on the company’s revenues for its last completed fiscal year prior to the acquisition, were $160 million. 

The Company received $138 million of cash proceeds and recorded $22 million in short-term other receivables from the sale of certain marketable equity securities during 2017. The Company recorded a pretax gain related to this sale of $73 million ($46 million after-tax or $0.06 per diluted share).

2016 Acquisitions, Divestitures and Sale of Investments

For a discussion of the Company’s 2016 Separation of its former Test & Measurement segment, Industrial Technologies segment (excluding the product identification businesses) and retail/commercial petroleum business, refer to “—Overview.”

On November 4, 2016, Copper Merger Sub, Inc., a California corporation and an indirect, wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company acquired all of the outstanding shares of common stock of Cepheid, a California corporation, for $53.00 per share in cash, for a total purchase price of approximately $4.0 billion, net of assumed debt and acquired cash (the “Cepheid Acquisition”). Cepheid is now part of the Company’s Diagnostics segment. Cepheid generated revenues of $539 million in 2015. The Company initially financed the Cepheid acquisition price with available cash and proceeds from the issuance of U.S. dollar and euro-denominated commercial paper.

In addition to the Cepheid Acquisition, during 2016 the Company acquired seven businesses for total consideration of $882 million in cash, net of cash acquired. The businesses acquired complement existing units of each of the Company’s four segments. The aggregate annual sales of these seven businesses at the time of their respective acquisitions, in each case based on the company’s revenues for its last completed fiscal year prior to the acquisition, were $237 million.

In addition, during 2016, the Company received cash proceeds of $265 million from the sale of certain marketable equity securities and recorded a pretax gain related to this sale of $223 million ($140 million after-tax or $0.20 per diluted share).

Capital Expenditures

Capital expenditures are made primarily for increasing capacity, replacing equipment, supporting new product development, improving information technology systems and the manufacture of instruments that are used in operating-type lease arrangements that certain of the Company’s businesses enter into with customers. Capital expenditures totaled $656 million in 2018, $620 million in 2017 and $590 million in 2016. The increase in capital spending in both 2018 and 2017 was due to increased investments in operating assets and new facilities across the Company. In 2019, the Company expects capital spending to be approximately $750 million, though actual expenditures will ultimately depend on business conditions.

Financing Activities

Cash flows from financing activities consist primarily of cash flows associated with the issuance and repayments of commercial paper and other debt, issuances and repurchases of common stock, excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation and payments of cash dividends to shareholders. Financing activities used cash of $797 million during 2018 compared to approximately $3.1 billion of cash used during 2017. The year-over-year decrease in cash used in financing activities was due primarily to lower net repayments of commercial paper borrowings in 2018, as the Company decreased its commercial paper borrowings in 2017 after increasing commercial paper borrowings for the Cepheid acquisition. The Company issued commercial paper early in 2018 to pay for a portion of the acquisition price of IDT and repaid substantially all of such commercial paper borrowings later in 2018. The cash outflow in 2017 for the net repayment of commercial paper was partially offset by proceeds from the issuance of long-term notes. In both 2018 and 2017, the Company repaid long-term debt, with slightly lower repayments in 2018 compared to 2017, as the Company repaid the $500 million aggregate principal amount of 2018 U.S. Notes with accrued interest upon their maturity in September 2018. 

Financing activities used cash of approximately $3.1 billion during 2017 compared to approximately $2.0 billion of cash provided during 2016. Cash provided by financing activities in 2017 primarily related to higher net repayments of commercial paper borrowings in 2017 as compared to 2016 (as the Company increased its commercial paper borrowings in 2016 for the Cepheid acquisition) as well as lower proceeds from the issuance of debt in 2017 as compared to 2016. These impacts were partially offset by lower repayments of long-term debt in 2017 as compared to 2016 as the Company used a portion of the proceeds from the Fortive Distribution to repay outstanding long-term indebtedness in August 2016.

51
Total debt was approximately $9.7 billion and $10.5 billion as of December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. The Company had the ability to incur approximately an additional $1.5 billion of indebtedness in direct borrowings or under the outstanding commercial paper facility based on the amounts available under the Company’s $4.0 billion credit facility which were not being used to backstop outstanding commercial paper balances as of December 31, 2018. The Company has classified the 2019 Euronotes and approximately $2.5 billion of its borrowings outstanding under the commercial paper programs as of December 31, 2018 as long-term debt in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheet as the Company had the intent and ability, as supported by availability under the Credit Facility, to refinance these borrowings for at least one year from the balance sheet date. As commercial paper obligations mature, the Company may issue additional short-term commercial paper obligations to refinance all or part of these borrowings. 

Under the Company’s U.S. and euro-denominated commercial paper program, the notes are typically issued at a discount from par, generally based on the ratings assigned to the Company by credit rating agencies at the time of the issuance and prevailing market rates measured by reference to LIBOR or EURIBOR. Additionally, the Company’s floating rate senior unsecured notes due 2022 pay interest based upon the three-month EURIBOR plus 0.3%. In July 2017, the head of the United Kingdom Financial Conduct Authority announced the desire to phase out the use of LIBOR by the end of 2021. The U.S. Federal Reserve, in conjunction with the Alternative Reference Rates Committee, a steering committee comprised of large U.S. financial institutions, is considering replacing U.S. dollar LIBOR with the Secured Overnight Financing Rate, or SOFR, a new index calculated by short-term repurchase agreements, backed by Treasury securities. The Company has evaluated the immediate impact of the transition from LIBOR and does not expect the transition to be material. 

Refer to Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding the Company’s financing activities and indebtedness, including the Company’s outstanding debt as of December 31, 2018, and the Company’s commercial paper program and related credit facility.

Shelf Registration Statement

The Company has filed a “well-known seasoned issuer” shelf registration statement on Form S-3 with the SEC that registers an indeterminate amount of debt securities, common stock, preferred stock, warrants, depositary shares, purchase contracts and units for future issuance. The Company expects to use net proceeds realized by the Company from future securities sales off this shelf registration statement for general corporate purposes, including without limitation repayment or refinancing of debt or other corporate obligations, acquisitions, capital expenditures, share repurchases and dividends and/or working capital.

Stock Repurchase Program

Please see “Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities” in Item 5 of Part II of this Annual Report for a description of the Company’s stock repurchase program.

Dividends

The Company declared a regular quarterly dividend of $0.16 per share that was paid on January 25, 2019 to holders of record on December 28, 2018. Aggregate cash payments for dividends during 2018 were $433 million. Dividend payments were higher in 2018 as compared to 2017 due to increases in the quarterly dividend rate effective with respect to the dividend paid in the second quarter of 2017 and with respect to the dividend paid in the second quarter of 2018.

Cash and Cash Requirements

As of December 31, 2018, the Company held $788 million of cash and cash equivalents that were invested in highly liquid investment-grade debt instruments with a maturity of 90 days or less with an approximate weighted average annual interest rate of 1.3%. Of this amount, $38 million was held within the United States and $750 million was held outside of the United States. The Company will continue to have cash requirements to support working capital needs, capital expenditures, acquisitions and investments, pay interest and service debt, pay taxes and any related interest or penalties, fund its restructuring activities and pension plans as required, pay dividends to shareholders, repurchase shares of the Company’s common stock and support other business needs. The Company generally intends to use available cash and internally generated funds to meet these cash requirements, but in the event that additional liquidity is required, particularly in connection with acquisitions, the Company may also borrow under its commercial paper programs or credit facility, enter into new credit facilities and either borrow directly thereunder or use such credit facilities to backstop additional borrowing capacity under its commercial paper programs and/or issue debt and/or equity in the capital markets. The Company also may from time to time access the capital markets to take advantage of favorable interest rate environments or other market conditions.

While repatriation of some cash held outside the United States may be restricted by local laws, most of the Company’s foreign cash could be repatriated to the United States. Following enactment of the TCJA and the associated Transition Tax, in general, 

52
repatriation of cash to the United States can be completed with no incremental U.S. tax; however, repatriation of cash could subject the Company to non-U.S. jurisdictional taxes on distributions. The cash that the Company’s non-U.S. subsidiaries hold for indefinite reinvestment is generally used to finance foreign operations, investments and acquisitions. The income taxes applicable to such earnings are not readily determinable. As of December 31, 2018, the Company continues to assert that principally all of its non-U.S. earnings are indefinitely reinvested and management believes that the Company has sufficient liquidity to satisfy its cash needs, including its cash needs in the United States.

During 2018, the Company contributed $55 million to its U.S. defined benefit pension plans and $52 million to its non-U.S. defined benefit pension plans. During 2019, the Company’s cash contribution requirements for its U.S. and its non-U.S. defined benefit pension plans are expected to be approximately $10 million and $50 million, respectively. The ultimate amounts to be contributed depend upon, among other things, legal requirements, underlying asset returns, the plan’s funded status, the anticipated tax deductibility of the contribution, local practices, market conditions, interest rates and other factors.

Contractual Obligations

The following table sets forth, by period due or year of expected expiration, as applicable, a summary of the Company’s contractual obligations as of December 31, 2018 under (1) debt obligations, (2) leases, (3) purchase obligations and (4) other long-term liabilities reflected on the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheet. The amounts presented in the “Other long-term liabilities” line in the table below include $911 million of noncurrent gross unrecognized tax benefits and related interest (and do not include $75 million of current gross unrecognized tax benefits which are included in the “Accrued expenses and other liabilities” line on the Consolidated Balance Sheet). However, the timing of the long-term portion of these tax liabilities is uncertain, and therefore, they have been included in the “More Than 5 Years” column in the table below. Refer to Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on unrecognized tax benefits. Certain of the Company’s acquisitions also involve the potential payment of contingent consideration. The table below does not reflect any such obligations, as the timing and amounts of any such payments are uncertain. Refer to “—Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements” for a discussion of other contractual obligations that are not reflected in the table below.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a) As described in Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

(b) Amounts do not include interest payments. Interest on debt and capital lease obligations is reflected in a separate line in the table.

(c) Interest payments on debt are projected for future periods using the interest rates in effect as of December 31, 2018. Certain of these projected interest payments may differ in the future based on changes in market interest rates.

(d) As described in Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, certain leases require the Company to pay real estate taxes, insurance, maintenance and other operating expenses associated with the leased premises. These future costs are not included in the table above. As discussed in Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, the Company adopted ASC 842 related to lease accounting on January 1, 2019. Future minimum lease payments differ from the future lease liability recognized under ASC 842, as the lease liability recognized under ASC 842 discounts the lease payments while the minimum lease payments are not discounted. Additionally, ASC 842 allows a lessee to elect to combine or separate any non-lease components in an arrangement with the lease components for the calculation of the lease liability while the minimum lease payments exclude any non-lease components.

(e) Consist of agreements to purchase goods or services that are enforceable and legally binding on the Company and that specify all significant terms, including fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased, fixed, minimum or variable price provisions and the approximate timing of the transaction.

(f) Primarily consist of obligations under product service and warranty policies and allowances, performance and operating cost guarantees, estimated environmental remediation costs, self-insurance and litigation claims, postretirement benefits, pension obligations, deferred tax 

53
liabilities and deferred compensation obligations. The timing of cash flows associated with these obligations is based upon management’s estimates over the terms of these arrangements and is largely based upon historical experience.

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

Guarantees and Related Instruments

The following table sets forth, by period due or year of expected expiration, as applicable, a summary of guarantees and related instruments of the Company as of December 31, 2018.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Guarantees and related instruments consist primarily of outstanding standby letters of credit, bank guarantees and performance and bid bonds. These have been provided in connection with certain arrangements with vendors, customers, insurance providers, financing counterparties and governmental entities to secure the Company’s obligations and/or performance requirements related to specific transactions.

Other Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

The Company has from time to time divested certain of its businesses and assets. In connection with these divestitures, the Company often provides representations, warranties and/or indemnities to cover various risks and unknown liabilities, such as claims for damages arising out of the use of products or relating to intellectual property matters, commercial disputes, environmental matters or tax matters. In particular, in connection with the 2016 Fortive Separation and the 2015 split-off of the Company’s communications business, Danaher entered into separation and distribution and related agreements pursuant to which Danaher agreed to indemnify the other parties against certain damages and expenses that might occur in the future. These indemnification obligations cover a variety of liabilities, including, but not limited to, employee, tax and environmental matters. The Company has not included any such items in the contractual obligations table above because they relate to unknown conditions and the Company cannot estimate the potential liabilities from such matters, but the Company does not believe it is reasonably possible that any such liability will have a material effect on the Company’s financial statements. In addition, as a result of these divestitures, as well as restructuring activities, certain properties leased by the Company have been sublet to third-parties. In the event any of these third-parties vacate any of these premises, the Company would be legally obligated under master lease arrangements. The Company believes that the financial risk of default by such sub-lessors is individually and in the aggregate not material to the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements.

In the normal course of business, the Company periodically enters into agreements that require it to indemnify customers, suppliers or other business partners for specific risks, such as claims for injury or property damage arising out of the Company’s products, software or services or claims alleging that Company products or services infringe third-party intellectual property. The Company has not included any such indemnification provisions in the contractual obligations table above. Historically, the Company has not experienced significant losses on these types of indemnification obligations.

The Company’s Restated Certificate of Incorporation requires it to indemnify to the full extent authorized or permitted by law any person made, or threatened to be made a party to any action or proceeding by reason of his or her service as a director or officer of the Company, or by reason of serving at the request of the Company as a director or officer of any other entity, subject to limited exceptions. Danaher’s Amended and Restated By-laws provide for similar indemnification rights. In addition, Danaher has executed with each director and executive officer of Danaher Corporation an indemnification agreement which provides for substantially similar indemnification rights and under which Danaher has agreed to pay expenses in advance of the final disposition of any such indemnifiable proceeding. While the Company maintains insurance for this type of liability, a significant deductible applies to this coverage and any such liability could exceed the amount of the insurance coverage.

Legal Proceedings

Refer to “Item 3. Legal Proceedings” and Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding legal proceedings and contingencies, and for a discussion of risks related to legal proceedings and contingencies, refer to “Item 1A. Risk Factors.”

54
CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES

Management’s discussion and analysis of the Company’s financial condition and results of operations is based upon the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. The Company bases these estimates and judgments on historical experience, the current economic environment and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results may differ materially from these estimates and judgments.

The Company believes the following accounting estimates are most critical to an understanding of its financial statements. Estimates are considered to be critical if they meet both of the following criteria: (1) the estimate requires assumptions about material matters that are uncertain at the time the estimate is made, and (2) material changes in the estimate are reasonably likely from period-to-period. For a detailed discussion on the application of these and other accounting estimates, refer to Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Acquired Intangibles—The Company’s business acquisitions typically result in the recognition of goodwill, in-process R&D and other intangible assets, which affect the amount of future period amortization expense and possible impairment charges that the Company may incur. Refer to Notes 1, 3 and 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of the Company’s policies relating to goodwill, acquired intangibles and acquisitions.

In performing its goodwill impairment testing, the Company estimates the fair value of its reporting units primarily using a market-based approach. In evaluating the estimates derived by the market-based approach, management makes judgments about the relevance and reliability of the multiples by considering factors unique to its reporting units, including operating results, business plans, economic projections, anticipated future cash flows, and transactions and marketplace data as well as judgments about the comparability of the market proxies selected. In certain circumstances the Company also estimates fair value utilizing a discounted cash flow analysis (i.e., an income approach) in order to validate the results of the market approach. The discounted cash flow model requires judgmental assumptions about projected revenue growth, future operating margins, discount rates and terminal values. There are inherent uncertainties related to these assumptions and management’s judgment in applying them to the analysis of goodwill impairment. 

As of December 31, 2018, the Company had eight reporting units for goodwill impairment testing. Reporting units resulting from recent acquisitions generally present the highest risk of impairment. Management believes the impairment risk associated with these reporting units generally decreases as these businesses are integrated into the Company and better positioned for potential future earnings growth. The Company’s annual goodwill impairment analysis in 2018 indicated that in all instances, the fair values of the Company’s reporting units exceeded their carrying values and consequently did not result in an impairment charge. The excess of the estimated fair value over carrying value (expressed as a percentage of carrying value for the respective reporting unit) for each of the Company’s reporting units as of the annual testing date ranged from approximately 15% to approximately 600%. In order to evaluate the sensitivity of the fair value calculations used in the goodwill impairment test, the Company applied a hypothetical 10% decrease to the fair values of each reporting unit and compared those hypothetical values to the reporting unit carrying values. Based on this hypothetical 10% decrease, the excess of the estimated fair value over carrying value (expressed as a percentage of carrying value for the respective reporting unit) for each of the Company’s reporting units ranged from approximately 5% to approximately 530%.

The Company reviews identified intangible assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the related carrying amounts may not be recoverable. The Company also tests intangible assets with indefinite lives at least annually for impairment. Determining whether an impairment loss occurred requires a comparison of the carrying amount to the sum of undiscounted cash flows expected to be generated by the asset. These analyses require management to make judgments and estimates about future revenues, expenses, market conditions and discount rates related to these assets.

If actual results are not consistent with management’s estimates and assumptions, goodwill and other intangible assets may be overstated and a charge would need to be taken against net earnings which would adversely affect the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements. Historically, the Company’s estimates of goodwill and intangible assets have been materially correct.

Contingent Liabilities—As discussed in “Item 3. Legal Proceedings” and Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, the Company is, from time to time, subject to a variety of litigation and similar contingent liabilities incidental to its business (or the business operations of previously owned entities). The Company recognizes a liability for any legal contingency that is known or probable of occurrence and reasonably estimable. These assessments require judgments concerning matters such as litigation developments and outcomes, the anticipated outcome of negotiations, the number of future claims and the cost of both pending and future claims. In addition, because most contingencies are resolved over long periods of time, liabilities may change in the future due to various factors, including those discussed in Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. If 

55
the reserves established by the Company with respect to these contingent liabilities are inadequate, the Company would be required to incur an expense equal to the amount of the loss incurred in excess of the reserves, which would adversely affect the Company’s financial statements.

Revenue Recognition—On January 1, 2018, the Company adopted ASU No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), which supersedes nearly all previous revenue recognition guidance. Refer to Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the Company’s adoption of this ASU. 

The Company derives revenues from the sale of products and services. Revenue is recognized when control over the promised products or services is transferred to the customer in an amount that reflects the consideration that the Company expects to receive in exchange for those goods or services. In determining if control has transferred, the Company considers whether certain indicators of the transfer of control are present, such as the transfer of title, present right to payment, significant risks and rewards of ownership and customer acceptance when acceptance is not a formality. To determine the consideration that the customer owes the Company, the Company must make judgments regarding the amount of customer allowances and rebates, as well as an estimate for product returns. The Company also enters into lease arrangements with customers, which requires the Company to determine whether the arrangements are operating or sales-type leases. Certain of the Company’s lease contracts are customized for larger customers and often result in complex terms and conditions that typically require significant judgment in applying the lease accounting criteria. Refer to Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of the Company’s revenue recognition policies.

If the Company’s judgments regarding revenue recognition prove incorrect, the Company’s reported revenues in particular periods may be incorrect. Historically, the Company’s estimates of revenue have been materially correct.

Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits—For a description of the Company’s pension and other postretirement benefit accounting practices, refer to Notes 11 and 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Calculations of the amount of pension and other postretirement benefit costs and obligations depend on the assumptions used in the actuarial valuations, including assumptions regarding discount rates, expected return on plan assets, rates of salary increases, health care cost trend rates, mortality rates and other factors. If the assumptions used in calculating pension and other postretirement benefits costs and obligations are incorrect or if the factors underlying the assumptions change (as a result of differences in actual experience, changes in key economic indicators or other factors) the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements could be materially affected. A 50 basis point reduction in the discount rates used for the plans would have increased the U.S. net obligation by $121 million ($92 million on an after-tax basis) and the non-U.S. net obligation by $125 million ($96 million on an after-tax basis) from the amounts recorded in the Consolidated Financial Statements as of December 31, 2018. A 50 basis point increase in the discount rates used for the plans would have decreased the U.S. net obligation by $111 million ($84 million on an after-tax basis) and the non-U.S. net obligation by $120 million ($93 million on an after-tax basis) from the amounts recorded in the Consolidated Financial Statements as of December 31, 2018.

For 2018, the estimated long-term rate of return for the U.S. plans is 7.0%, and the Company intends to continue to use an assumption of 7.0% for 2019. The estimated long-term rate of return for the non-U.S. plans was determined on a plan-by-plan basis based on the nature of the plan assets and ranged from 1.0% to 5.8%. If the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets for 2018 was reduced by 50 basis points, pension expense for the U.S. and non-U.S. plans for 2018 would have increased $10 million ($8 million on an after-tax basis) and $6 million ($5 million on an after-tax basis), respectively.

For a discussion of the Company’s 2018 and anticipated 2019 defined benefit pension plan contributions, refer to “—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Cash and Cash Requirements”.

Income Taxes—For a description of the Company’s income tax accounting policies, refer to Notes 1 and 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The Company establishes valuation allowances for its deferred tax assets if it is more likely than not that some or all of the deferred tax asset will not be realized. This requires management to make judgments and estimates regarding: (1) the timing and amount of the reversal of taxable temporary differences, (2) expected future taxable income, and (3) the impact of tax planning strategies. Future changes to tax rates would also impact the amounts of deferred tax assets and liabilities and could have an adverse impact on the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements. 

The Company provides for unrecognized tax benefits when, based upon the technical merits, it is “more likely than not” that an uncertain tax position will not be sustained upon examination. Judgment is required in evaluating tax positions and determining income tax provisions. The Company re-evaluates the technical merits of its tax positions and may recognize an uncertain tax benefit in certain circumstances, including when: (1) a tax audit is completed; (2) applicable tax laws change, including a tax case ruling or legislative guidance; or (3) the applicable statute of limitations expires.

On December 22, 2017, the TCJA was enacted, which substantially changed the U.S. tax system, including lowering the corporate tax rate from 35.0% to 21.0% (beginning in 2018). While the changes from the TCJA were generally effective 

56
beginning in 2018, GAAP accounting for income taxes requires the effect of a change in tax laws or rates to be recognized in income from continuing operations for the period that includes the enactment date. Due to the complexities involved in accounting for the enactment of the TCJA, SAB No. 118 allowed the Company to record provisional amounts in earnings for the year ended December 31, 2017. Where reasonable estimates could be made, the provisional accounting was based on such estimates. When no reasonable estimate could be made, SAB No. 118 required the accounting to be based on the tax law in effect before the TCJA. The Company was required to complete its tax accounting for the TCJA when it had obtained, prepared and analyzed the information to complete the income tax accounting but no later than December 22, 2018. The Company completed its accounting for the tax effects of the enactment of the TCJA based on the Company’s interpretation of the new tax regulations and related guidance. The net tax effect to adjust the prior year provisional amounts was not material to the Company’s financial statements. Due to the complexity and recent issuance of these tax regulations, management’s interpretations of the impact of these rules could be subject to challenge by the taxing authorities. Some or all of these judgments are also subject to review by the IRS. If the IRS were to successfully challenge the Company’s right to realize some or all of the tax benefit the Company has recorded, or its interpretation of the law regarding certain items, or if the amount of the Transition Tax or other tax liabilities are understated, it could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial statements.

In addition, certain of the Company’s tax returns are currently under review by tax authorities including in Denmark and the United States (refer to “—Results of Operations—Income Taxes” and Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements). Management believes the positions taken in these returns are in accordance with the relevant tax laws. However, the outcome of these audits is uncertain and could result in the Company being required to record charges for prior year tax obligations which could have a material adverse impact to the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements, including its effective tax rate.

An increase of 1.0% in the Company’s 2018 nominal tax rate would have resulted in an additional income tax provision for continuing operations for the year ended December 31, 2018 of $33 million.

NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS

For a discussion of the new accounting standards impacting the Company, refer to Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK