ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Management’s Discussion and Analysis includes financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP in the U.S., as well as certain non-GAAP financial measures such as adjusted earnings and adjusted earnings per share discussed below. Generally, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of financial performance, financial position or cash flows that excludes (or includes) amounts that are included in (or excluded from) the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP. The non-GAAP financial measures should be viewed as a supplement to, and not a substitute for, financial measures presented in accordance with GAAP. Non-GAAP measures as presented herein may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies.

The following combined Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations is separately filed by Duke Energy Corporation (collectively with its subsidiaries, Duke Energy) and its subsidiaries Duke Energy Carolinas, LLC (Duke Energy Carolinas), Progress Energy, Inc. (Progress Energy), Duke Energy Progress, LLC (Duke Energy Progress), Duke Energy Florida, LLC (Duke Energy Florida), Duke Energy Ohio, Inc. (Duke Energy Ohio), Duke Energy Indiana, LLC (Duke Energy Indiana) and Piedmont Natural Gas Company, Inc. (Piedmont). However, none of the registrants make any representation as to information related solely to Duke Energy or the subsidiary registrants of Duke Energy other than itself. Subsequent to Duke Energy's acquisition of Piedmont on October 3, 2016, Piedmont is a wholly owned subsidiary of Duke Energy. The financial information for Duke Energy includes results of Piedmont subsequent to October 3, 2016. See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, "Acquisitions and Dispositions," for additional information regarding the acquisition. 

DUKE ENERGY

Duke Energy is an energy company headquartered in Charlotte, North Carolina. Duke Energy operates in the U.S. primarily through its wholly owned subsidiaries, Duke Energy Carolinas, Duke Energy Progress, Duke Energy Florida, Duke Energy Ohio, Duke Energy Indiana and Piedmont. When discussing Duke Energy’s consolidated financial information, it necessarily includes the results of the Subsidiary Registrants, which along with Duke Energy, are collectively referred to as the Duke Energy Registrants.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016.

Executive Overview

At Duke Energy the fundamentals of our business are strong. In 2018, we met our near-term financial commitments and positioned the company for sustainable long-term growth. We are focused on a stable, predictable and regulated businesses portfolio to deliver a reliable dividend with 4 to 6 percent EPS growth through 2023. We have made progress advancing our long-term growth strategy that delivers value to our customers through investments in cleaner energy, grid modernization, natural gas infrastructure, and digital transformation, while also achieving constructive regulatory outcomes. The strength of our balance sheet is of vital importance to the cost-effective financing of our growth strategy, and in 2018 we took proactive steps to strengthen it by issuing $2 billion of equity.

Financial Results

(a)See Results of Operations below for Duke Energy’s definition of adjusted earnings and adjusted diluted earnings per share as well as a reconciliation of this non-GAAP financial measure to net income attributable to Duke Energy and net income attributable to Duke Energy per diluted share.

Duke Energy's 2018 GAAP reported earnings were impacted by favorable weather, improved residential volumes and ongoing cost management efforts, offset by charges which management believes are not indicative of ongoing performance, including regulatory and legislative items, impairments, a loss on the sale of a retired plant, and severance. See “Results of Operations” below for a detailed discussion of the consolidated results of operations and a detailed discussion of financial results for each of Duke Energy’s reportable business segments, as well as Other.

40

MD&ADUKE ENERGY

2018 Areas of Focus and Accomplishments

Operational Excellence and Reliability. The safety of our workforce is a core value. Our employees delivered strong safety results in 2018, and we maintained our industry-leading performance levels from 2016 and 2017. The reliable and safe operation of our power plants, electric distribution system and natural gas infrastructure is foundational to our customers, our financial results and our credibility with stakeholders. Our nuclear and fossil/hydro generation fleets demonstrated strong performance, exceeding their respective reliability targets. Five of our six nuclear sites have achieved INPO 1 status, the industry’s highest distinction. Our electric distribution system performed well throughout the year, though we see opportunities to reduce outage durations.

Storm Response and System Restoration. 2018 was a year of intense storm activity, with Hurricane Florence and Hurricane Michael delivering a significant impact to our jurisdictions. Employees and utility partners worked tirelessly to restore 3 million outages during the hurricane season. Our team restored 93 percent of outages within five days during Hurricane Florence and 90 percent of outages within three days during Hurricane Michael. Our ability to effectively handle all facets of the 2018 storm response efforts is a testament to our team’s extensive preparation and coordination in advance of the storm, applying lessons learned from previous storms, and on-the-ground management throughout the restoration efforts.

Customer Satisfaction. Duke Energy continues to transform the customer experience through our use of customer data to better inform operational priorities and performance levels. This data-driven approach allows us to identify the investments that are the most important to the customer experience. In 2018, we instituted more proactive communications, such as text alerts during outages, in response to customer expectations. Over time our work with data analytics will result in customer satisfaction improvement as measured through J.D. Power and other surveys. 

Constructive Regulatory and Legislative Outcomes. One of our long-term strategic goals is to achieve modernized regulatory constructs in our jurisdictions. Modernized constructs provide benefits, which include improved earnings and cash flows through more timely recovery of investments, as well as stable pricing for customers. We achieved constructive regulatory outcomes in 2018 in North Carolina for both Duke Energy Carolinas and Duke Energy Progress, including the recovery of coal ash basin closure costs. The Ohio Comprehensive Settlement Agreement in 2018, approved by PUCO, was a favorable outcome that will enable the creation of a new PowerForward rider to recover costs associated with projects to modernize the grid and transform the customer experience. We are making progress in addressing tax reform across our jurisdictions, targeting solutions that provide benefits to customers and support the long-term credit quality of our utilities.

Cost Management and Efficiencies. Duke Energy has a demonstrated track record of driving efficiencies and productivity into the business, including merger integration and continuous improvement efforts. We continue to leverage new technology and data analytics to drive additional efficiencies across the business in response to a transforming landscape. In 2018, we established a digital transformation initiative that is tasked with identifying the best ways to use digital capabilities throughout our business. 

Modernizing the Power Grid. Our grid improvement programs continue to be a key component of our growth strategy. Modernization of the electric grid, including smart meters, storm hardening, self-healing and targeted undergrounding helps to ensure the system is better prepared for severe weather, improves the system's reliability and flexibility, and provides better information and services for customers. Grid improvements enable successful storm response; for example, in the Carolinas, self-healing grid technologies rerouted power from damaged lines and systems to minimize outages. In 2018, we deployed 1.6 million smart meters resulting in 4.3 million customers having access to this technology across our regulated footprint. 

Generating Cleaner Energy. We advanced efforts to generate cleaner energy, including progress on several strategic investments during 2018. Overall, we have lowered our carbon emissions by over 30 percent since 2005, consistent with our goal to reduce carbon emissions by 40 percent by 2030. Two natural gas plants came online in 2018 and construction continues on a third one. In our Commercial Renewable business, our Shoreham solar facility came online in 2018.

Expanding the Natural Gas Platform. We continue to pursue natural gas infrastructure investments. We are working diligently to construct the ACP pipeline to bring low-cost gas supply and economic development opportunities to the Mid-Atlantic. While we navigate the impacts of permitting delays and court rulings, we remain steadfast in our commitment to this backbone infrastructure for the southeast U.S. In 2018, Piedmont announced plans to construct a new liquefied natural gas facility in Robeson County North Carolina on property Piedmont already owns. This investment will help Piedmont provide a reliable gas supply to customers during peak usage periods. We expect to begin construction in the summer of 2019.

Dividend Growth. In 2018, Duke Energy continued to grow the dividend payment to shareholders by approximately 4 percent. 2018 represented the 92nd consecutive year Duke Energy paid a cash dividend on its common stock.

41

MD&ADUKE ENERGY

Duke Energy Objectives – 2019 and Beyond

Duke Energy will continue to deliver exceptional value to customers, be an integral part of the communities in which we do business, and provide attractive returns to investors. We have an achievable, long-term strategy in place and it is producing tangible results, yet the industry in which we operate is becoming more and more dynamic. We are adjusting, where necessary, and accelerating our focus in key areas to ensure the company is well positioned to be successful for many decades into the future. As we look ahead to 2019, our plans include:

•Continuing to place the customer at the center of all that we do.

•Advancing the achievement of modernized regulatory constructs across all jurisdictions, including consideration of cost recovery models that break the link between load growth and earnings.

•Improving and strengthening the energy grid to provide customers with more control, convenience and communications, and make the grid more resilient to severe weather and ever-evolving cyber threats.

•Investing in both natural gas generation and infrastructure to support our growing gas system, as we replace coal units and continue to expand our LDC customer base in the Carolinas and Midwest.

•Increasing renewables, energy storage and next-generation demand-side management into our supply/demand resource plans, in pursuit of a growth strategy that leverages these resources to provide choices that our customers value.

•Modernizing the way we plan and build our generation, transmission, distribution and customer systems in a fully integrated way through Integrated System and Operations Planning to accommodate increased distributed energy resources.

•Transforming the business using multiple levers, including digital tools, to increase productivity and reinvest the proceeds into new growth opportunities, improved customer service, and lower bills for customers.

Results of Operations

Non-GAAP Measures

Management evaluates financial performance in part based on non-GAAP financial measures, including adjusted earnings and adjusted diluted EPS. These items represent income from continuing operations attributable to Duke Energy, adjusted for the dollar and per share impact of special items. As discussed below, special items include certain charges and credits, which management believes are not indicative of Duke Energy's ongoing performance. Management believes the presentation of adjusted earnings and adjusted diluted EPS provides useful information to investors, as it provides them with an additional relevant comparison of Duke Energy’s performance across periods. 

Management uses these non-GAAP financial measures for planning and forecasting, and for reporting financial results to the Board of Directors, employees, stockholders, analysts and investors. Adjusted diluted EPS is also used as a basis for employee incentive bonuses. The most directly comparable GAAP measures for adjusted earnings and adjusted diluted EPS are GAAP Reported Earnings and GAAP Reported EPS, respectively. 

Special items included in the periods presented include the following, which management believes do not reflect ongoing costs: 

•Costs to Achieve Mergers represents charges that result from strategic acquisitions.

•Regulatory and Legislative Impacts in 2018 represents charges related to the Duke Energy Progress and Duke Energy Carolinas North Carolina rate case orders and the repeal of the South Carolina Base Load Review Act. For 2017, it represents charges related to the Levy nuclear project in Florida and the Mayo Zero Liquid Discharge and Sutton combustion turbine projects in North Carolina.

•Impairment Charges in 2018 represents an impairment at Citrus County CC, a goodwill impairment at Commercial Renewables and an other-than-temporary impairment of an investment in Constitution Pipeline Company, LLC. For 2017 and 2016, the charges represent goodwill and other-than-temporary asset impairments at Commercial Renewables.

•Sale of Retired Plant represents the loss associated with selling Beckjord, a nonregulated generating facility in Ohio.

•Impacts of the Tax Act represents amounts recognized related to the Tax Act.

•Severance Charges relate to companywide initiatives, excluding merger integration, to standardize processes and systems, leverage technology and workforce optimization.

Adjusted earnings also include the operating results of the International Disposal Group, which has been classified as discontinued operations. Management believes inclusion of the operating results of the International Disposal Group within adjusted earnings and adjusted diluted EPS results in a better reflection of Duke Energy's financial performance during the period.

Duke Energy’s adjusted earnings and adjusted diluted EPS may not be comparable to similarly titled measures of another company because other companies may not calculate the measures in the same manner.

42

MD&ADUKE ENERGY

Reconciliation of GAAP Reported Amounts to Adjusted Amounts

The following table presents a reconciliation of adjusted earnings and adjusted diluted EPS to the most directly comparable GAAP measures.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a)Net of tax benefit of $19 million in 2018, $39 million in 2017, and $194 million in 2016.

(b)Net of tax benefit of $63 million in 2018 and $60 million in 2017.

(c)Net of $27 million tax benefit and $2 million Noncontrolling Interests in 2018. Net of $28 million tax benefit in 2017 and $26 million in 2016.

(d)Net of $25 million tax benefit.

(e) The Tax Act reduced the corporate income tax rate from 35 to 21 percent, effective January 1, 2018. As the tax change was enacted in 2017, Duke Energy was required to remeasure its existing deferred tax assets and liabilities at the lower rate at December 31, 2017. For Duke Energy's regulated operations, where the reduction in the net accumulated deferred income tax liability is expected to be returned to customers in future rates, the remeasurement has been deferred as a regulatory liability. For 2018, the amount represents a true up of existing regulatory liabilities related to the Tax Act. See Note 23 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, "Income Taxes" for more information.

(f)Net of tax benefit of $43 million in 2018 and $35 million in 2016.

(g)For 2016, includes a loss on sale of the International Disposal Group. Represents the GAAP reported Loss from Discontinued Operations, less the International Disposal Group operating results, which are included in adjusted earnings. For 2017 and 2018, amounts reflect adjustments related to the sale of the International Disposal Group, primarily related to estimated tax expense.

Year Ended December 31, 2018, as compared to 2017

Duke Energy’s full-year 2018 GAAP Reported EPS was $3.76 compared to $4.36 for full-year 2017. In addition to the adjusted diluted EPS drivers discussed below, GAAP Reported EPS in 2018 was lower primarily due to regulatory and legislative impacts, impairment charges, severance charges and a loss on sale of a retired plant.

As discussed, management also evaluates financial performance based on adjusted earnings. Duke Energy’s full-year 2018 adjusted diluted EPS was $4.72 compared to $4.57 for full-year 2017. The increase in adjusted diluted EPS was primarily due to:

•Higher regulated electric revenues due to favorable weather and higher retail sales volumes in the current year; 

•Positive impacts from the North Carolina rate case orders; and

•Rider growth.

Partially offset by:

•Higher interest expense due to higher debt outstanding and higher interest rates;

•Higher depreciation and amortization expense at Electric Utilities and Infrastructure primarily due to rate base growth; and

•A reduced tax benefit on holding company interest as a result of the Tax Act.

Year Ended December 31, 2017, as compared to 2016

Duke Energy’s full-year 2017 GAAP Reported EPS was $4.36 compared to $3.11 for full-year 2016. In addition to the adjusted diluted EPS drivers discussed below, GAAP Reported EPS in 2017 was higher primarily due to a $0.14 benefit per share related to the Tax Act in 2017, lower costs to achieve the Piedmont merger and a loss on sale and impairments associated with the sale of the International Disposal Group in 2016, partially offset by charges of $0.14 related to regulatory settlements in Electric Utilities and Infrastructure.

As discussed, management also evaluates financial performance based on adjusted earnings. Duke Energy’s full-year 2017 adjusted diluted EPS was $4.57 compared to $4.69 for full-year 2016. The decrease in adjusted diluted EPS was primarily due to:

•Lower regulated electric revenues due to less favorable weather in the current year, including lost revenues related to Hurricane Irma;

43

MD&ADUKE ENERGY

•The prior year operating results from the International Disposal Group, which was sold in December 2016. The 2016 operating results included a benefit from the valuation of deferred income taxes. See Note 23 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, "Income Taxes," for additional information;

•Higher financing costs, primarily due to the Piedmont acquisition; and

•Higher depreciation and amortization expense at Electric Utilities and Infrastructure primarily due to higher depreciable base.

Partially offset by:

•Higher regulated electric revenues from increased pricing and riders driven by new rates in Duke Energy Progress South Carolina, base rate adjustments in Florida and energy efficiency rider revenues in North Carolina, as well as growth in weather-normal retail volumes;

•Lower operations, maintenance and other expenses, net of amounts recoverable in rates, at Electric Utilities and Infrastructure resulting from ongoing cost efficiency efforts and lower year-to-date storm costs than the prior year; and

•Additional earnings from incremental investments in ACP and Sabal Trail natural gas pipelines.

SEGMENT RESULTS

The remaining information presented in this discussion of results of operations is on a GAAP basis. Management evaluates segment performance based on segment income. Segment income is defined as income from continuing operations net of income attributable to noncontrolling interests. Segment income includes intercompany revenues and expenses that are eliminated in the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Duke Energy's segment structure includes the following segments: Electric Utilities and Infrastructure, Gas Utilities and Infrastructure and Commercial Renewables. The remainder of Duke Energy’s operations is presented as Other. See Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Business Segments,” for additional information on Duke Energy’s segment structure.

The Tax Act

On December 22, 2017, President Trump signed the Tax Act into law. Among other provisions, the Tax Act lowered the corporate federal income tax rate from 35 to 21 percent, limits interest deductions outside of regulated utility operations, requires the normalization of excess deferred taxes associated with property under the average rate assumption method as a prerequisite to qualifying for accelerated depreciation and repealed the federal manufacturing deduction. The Tax Act also repealed the corporate AMT and stipulates a refund of 50 percent of remaining AMT credit carryforwards (to the extent the credits exceed regular tax for the year) for tax years 2018, 2019 and 2020 with all remaining AMT credits to be refunded in tax year 2021.

As a result of the Tax Act, Duke Energy revalued its existing deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities as of December 31, 2017, to account for the estimated future impact of lower corporate tax rates on these deferred tax amounts. During the year ended December 31, 2018, Duke Energy recorded measurement period adjustments to the provisional estimate recorded as of December 31, 2017, in accordance with SAB 118. For Duke Energy's regulated operations, where the net reduction in the net accumulated deferred income tax liability is expected to be returned to customers in future rates, the remeasurement has been deferred as a regulatory liability. See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, "Regulatory Matters," for additional information on the Tax Act's impact to the regulatory asset and liability accounts. The following table shows the expense (benefit) recorded on Duke Energy's Consolidated Statements of Operations. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a)Except where noted below, amounts are included within Income Tax Expense From Continuing Operations on the Consolidated Statements of Operations.

(b)See Notes 4 and 23 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, "Regulatory Matters" and "Income Taxes," respectively, for information about the Tax Act's impact on Duke Energy's Consolidated Balance Sheets. 

(c)Amount primarily relates to the 2017 remeasurement, and true up of that remeasurement in 2018, of net deferred tax liabilities that are excluded for ratemaking purposes related to abandoned or impaired assets and certain wholesale fixed rate contracts.

(d)2017 amount includes a $16 million expense recorded within Equity in earnings (losses) of unconsolidated affiliates on the Consolidated Statement of Operations.

(e)2017 amount primarily relates to the remeasurement of net deferred tax liabilities related to equity method investments.

(f)2017 amount primarily relates to the remeasurement of Foreign Tax Credits, federal NOLs and nonregulated deferred tax assets.

44

MD&ASEGMENT RESULTS - ELECTRIC UTILITIES AND INFRASTRUCTURE

Electric Utilities and Infrastructure

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Year Ended December 31, 2018, as compared to 2017 

Electric Utilities and Infrastructure's results were impacted by higher legislative and regulatory charges compared to the prior year and higher depreciation from a growing asset base, partially offset by favorable weather in the current year, improved retail volumes, lower income tax expense and a positive net contribution from the Duke Energy Progress and Duke Energy Carolinas North Carolina rate cases. The following is a detailed discussion of the variance drivers by line item.

Operating Revenues. The variance was driven primarily by:

•a $577 million increase in fuel related revenues due to higher sales volumes driven primarily by favorable weather in the current year, and increases in fuel rates billed to customers, which reflects higher average fuel prices;

•a $331 million increase in retail sales, net of fuel revenues, due to favorable weather in the current year;

•a $236 million increase in retail pricing primarily due to the Duke Energy Progress and Duke Energy Carolinas North Carolina rate cases and Duke Energy Florida base rate adjustments related to generation assets being placed into service;

•a $109 million increase in wholesale power revenues, net of fuel, primarily due to higher recovery of coal ash costs at Duke Energy Progress and Duke Energy Carolinas, partially offset by contracts that expired in the prior year at Duke Energy Indiana and customer refunds in the current year at Duke Energy Carolinas related to a FERC order on a complaint filed by PMPA;

•an $82 million increase in weather-normal retail sales volumes driven by residential growth;

•a $73 million net increase in retail rider revenues, primarily related to capital investment riders at Duke Energy Indiana and Duke Energy Ohio, partially offset by a net decrease in rider revenues related to the implementation of new base rates at Duke Energy Carolinas and Duke Energy Progress; and

•a $49 million increase in other revenues at Duke Energy Carolinas primarily due to the recognition of previously deferred revenues associated with storm restoration costs in South Carolina and favorable transmission revenues.

45

MD&ASEGMENT RESULTS - ELECTRIC UTILITIES AND INFRASTRUCTURE

Partially offset by:

•a $578 million decrease in retail and wholesale sales due to revenues subject to refund to customers associated with the lower statutory federal corporate tax rate under the Tax Act.

Operating Expenses. The variance was driven primarily by:

•a $538 million increase in fuel used in electric generation and purchased power due to higher sales and higher amortization of deferred fuel expenses;

•a $513 million increase in depreciation and amortization expense primarily due to higher amortization of deferred coal ash costs, additional plant in service and new depreciation rates associated with the Duke Energy Progress and Duke Energy Carolinas North Carolina rate cases;

•a $271 million increase in operation, maintenance and other expense primarily due to impacts associated with the Duke Energy Progress North Carolina rate case and higher storm costs, partially offset by a FERC approved settlement refund of certain transmission costs previously billed by PJM; and

•a $133 million increase in impairment charges primarily due to the impacts associated with the Duke Energy Carolinas and Duke Energy Progress North Carolina rates cases and the Duke Energy Florida Citrus County CC impairments in the current year, offset by the write-off of remaining unrecovered Levy Nuclear project costs at Duke Energy Florida in the prior year.

Other Income and Expenses, net. The decrease was primarily due to lower post in-service equity returns for projects that had been completed prior to being reflected in customer rates at Duke Energy Carolinas and lower income from non-service components of employee benefit costs in the current year at Duke Energy Progress and Duke Energy Florida. For additional information on employee benefit costs, see Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, "Employee Benefit Plans."

Interest Expense. The variance was due to higher debt outstanding in the current year, partially offset by lower deferred debt costs on major projects.

Income Tax Expense. The variance was primarily due to the lower statutory federal corporate tax rate under the Tax Act, a decrease in pretax income and the impact of the Tax Act in the prior year. The ETRs for the years ended December 31, 2018, and 2017 were 20.7 percent and 29.7 percent, respectively. The decrease in the ETR was primarily due to the lower statutory federal corporate tax rate under the Tax Act and the amortization of excess deferred taxes partially offset by the impact of the Tax Act in the prior year. See the Tax Act section above for additional information.

Year Ended December 31, 2017, as compared to 2016 

Electric Utilities and Infrastructure's results were impacted by the Tax Act, growth from investments, lower operations and maintenance expense and higher weather-normal retail sales volumes, partially offset by less favorable weather, impairment charges due to regulatory settlements, increased depreciation and amortization, higher interest expense and higher property and other taxes. The following is a detailed discussion of the variance drivers by line item.

Operating Revenues. The variance was driven primarily by:

•a $292 million decrease in retail sales, net of fuel revenue, due to less favorable weather in the current year; and

•a $235 million decrease in fuel revenues driven by lower retail sales volumes, lower fuel prices included in rates and changes in the generation mix.

Partially offset by:

•a $364 million increase in rider revenues including increased revenues related to energy efficiency programs, Duke Energy Florida’s nuclear asset securitization, Midwest transmission and distribution capital investments and Duke Energy Indiana’s Edwardsport IGCC plant, as well as an increase in retail pricing due to base rate adjustments for Duke Energy Florida’s Osprey acquisition and Hines Chillers and the Duke Energy Progress South Carolina rate case;

•an $86 million increase in weather-normal sales volumes to customers; and

•a $26 million increase in other revenues primarily due to favorable transmission revenues.

Operating Expenses. The variance was driven primarily by:

•a $160 million increase in impairment charges primarily due to the write-off of remaining unrecovered Levy Nuclear Project costs in the current year at Duke Energy Florida and the disallowance from rate base of certain projects at the Mayo and Sutton plants in the current year at Duke Energy Progress related to the partial settlement in the North Carolina rate case;

•a $113 million increase in depreciation and amortization expense primarily due to additional plant in service; and

•a $58 million increase in property and other taxes primarily due to higher property taxes.

46

MD&ASEGMENT RESULTS - ELECTRIC UTILITIES AND INFRASTRUCTURE

Partially offset by:

•a $216 million decrease in fuel expense (including purchased power) primarily due to lower retail sales and changes in the generation mix; and 

•a $73 million decrease in operation, maintenance and other expense primarily due to lower plant outage, storm restoration and labor and benefits costs partially offset by higher operational costs that are recoverable in rates.

Interest Expense. The variance was due to higher debt outstanding in the current year and Duke Energy Florida's Crystal River Unit 3 regulatory asset debt return ending in June 2016 upon securitization.

Income Tax Expense. The variance was primarily due to a decrease in pretax income and the impact of the Tax Act. The effective tax rates for the years ended December 31, 2017, and 2016 were 29.7 percent and 35.5 percent, respectively. The decrease in the effective tax rate was primarily due to the impact of the Tax Act. See the Tax Act section above for additional information.

Matters Impacting Future Electric Utilities and Infrastructure Results

On May 18, 2016, the NCDEQ issued proposed risk classifications for all coal ash surface impoundments in North Carolina. All ash impoundments not previously designated as high priority by the Coal Ash Act were designated as intermediate risk. Certain impoundments classified as intermediate risk, however, were eligible for reassessment as low risk pursuant to legislation enacted on July 14, 2016. On November 14, 2018, NCDEQ issued final low-risk classifications for these impoundments, indicating that Duke Energy Carolinas and Duke Energy Progress have satisfied the permanent replacement water supply and certain dam improvement requirements set out in the Coal Ash Management Act. As the final closure plans and corrective action measures are developed and approved for each site, the closure work progresses and the closure method scope and remedial action methods are determined, the complexity of work and the amount of coal combustion material could be different than originally estimated and, therefore, could materially impact Electric Utilities and Infrastructure's results of operations, financial position and cash flows. See Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, "Asset Retirement Obligations," for additional information.

Duke Energy is a party to multiple lawsuits and could be subject to fines and other penalties related to operations at certain North Carolina facilities with ash basins. In addition, the orders issued in the Duke Energy Carolinas and Duke Energy Progress North Carolinas rate cases supporting recovery of past coal ash remediation costs have been appealed by various parties. The outcome of these appeals, lawsuits and potential fines and penalties could have an adverse impact on Electric Utilities and Infrastructure's results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. See Notes 4 and 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, "Regulatory Matters" and “Commitments and Contingencies,” respectively, for additional information.

On June 22, 2018, Duke Energy Carolinas received an order from the NCUC, which denied the Grid Rider Stipulation and deferral treatment of grid improvement costs. Duke Energy Carolinas may petition for deferral of grid modernization costs outside of a general rate case proceeding if it can show financial hardship or a stipulation that includes greater consensus among intervening parties on costs being classified as grid modernization. While Duke Energy Progress did not request recovery of these costs in its most recent case with the NCUC, Duke Energy Progress may request recovery of certain grid modernization costs in future regulatory proceedings. Electric Utilities and Infrastructure's results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be adversely impacted if grid modernization costs are not ultimately approved for recovery and/or deferral treatment. See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Regulatory Matters,” for additional information.

During the last half of 2018, Duke Energy Carolinas, Duke Energy Progress and Duke Energy Florida’s service territories were impacted by several named storms. Hurricane Florence, Hurricane Michael and Winter Storm Diego caused flooding, extensive damage and widespread power outages to the service territories of Duke Energy Carolinas and Duke Energy Progress. Duke Energy Florida’s service territory was also impacted by Hurricane Michael, a Category 4 hurricane and the most powerful storm to hit the Florida Panhandle in recorded history. A significant portion of the incremental operation and maintenance expenses related to these storms have been deferred. On December 21, 2018, Duke Energy Carolinas and Duke Energy Progress filed with the NCUC petitions for approval to defer the incremental storm costs incurred to a regulatory asset for recovery in the next base rate case. Duke Energy Progress filed a similar request with the PSCSC on January 11, 2019, which also included a request for the continuation of prior deferrals requested for other storms, and on January 30, 2019, the PSCSC issued a directive approving the deferral request. Duke Energy Florida anticipates filing a petition in the first half of 2019 with the FPSC to recover incremental storm costs consistent with the provisions in its 2017 Settlement. An order from regulatory authorities disallowing the deferral and future recovery of storm restoration costs could have an adverse impact on Electric Utilities and Infrastructure's results of operations, financial position and cash flows. See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, "Regulatory Matters," for additional information.

Appeals of recently approved rate cases for Duke Energy Carolinas and Duke Energy Progress are pending at the North Carolina Supreme Court. The North Carolina Attorney General and various intervenors primarily dispute the allowance of recovery of coal ash costs from customers, which was approved by the NCUC. The outcome of these appeals could have an adverse impact to Electric Utilities and Infrastructure's results of operations, financial position and cash flows. See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Regulatory Matters,” for additional information.

On February 6, 2018, the FPSC approved a stipulation that would apply tax savings resulting from the Tax Act toward storm costs effective January 2018 in lieu of implementing a storm surcharge. On May 31, 2018, Duke Energy Florida filed for recovery of the storm costs. Storm costs are currently expected to be fully recovered by approximately mid-2021. The commission has scheduled the hearing to begin on May 21, 2019. An order disallowing recovery of these costs could have an adverse impact on Electric Utilities and Infrastructure's results of operations, financial position and cash flows. See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Regulatory Matters,” for additional information.

Within this Item 7, see the Tax Act section above as well as Liquidity and Capital Resources below for discussion of risks associated with the Tax Act.

47

MD&ASEGMENT RESULTS - GAS UTILITIES AND INFRASTRUCTURE

Gas Utilities and Infrastructure

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a)Includes throughput subsequent to Duke Energy's acquisition of Piedmont on October 3, 2016.

Year Ended December 31, 2018, as compared to 2017

Gas Utilities and Infrastructure's results were primarily impacted by the OTTI recorded on the Constitution investment and higher operation, maintenance and other expenses, partially offset by favorable price adjustments, customer growth and other income. The following is a detailed discussion of the variance drivers by line item.

Operating Revenues. The variance was driven primarily by:

•a $76 million increase primarily due to higher natural gas costs passed through to customers as a result of higher volumes sold driven primarily by weather and higher natural gas prices; and

•a $37 million increase primarily due to residential and commercial customer revenue, net of natural gas costs passed through to customers, due to customer growth and IMR rate adjustments and new power generation customers.

Partially offset by:

•a $69 million decrease primarily due to revenues subject to refund to customers associated with the lower statutory corporate tax rate under the Tax Act.

Operating Expenses. The variance was driven primarily by:

•a $65 million increase in natural gas costs primarily due to higher costs passed through to customers, as a result of a higher natural gas prices;

•a $38 million increase in operations, maintenance, and other expense primarily due to increased shared services, costs to achieve merger expenses and a pension settlement charge at Piedmont in 2017; and

•a $14 million increase in depreciation and amortization expense due to additional plant in service and higher amortization of software costs.

Other Income and Expenses, net. The variance was driven primarily by:

•a $55 million impairment recorded for the investment in Constitution in 2018.

Partially offset by:

•a $25 million increase in non-service components of employee benefit costs in 2018. For additional information on employee benefit costs, see Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, "Employee Benefit Plans"; and

48

MD&ASEGMENT RESULTS - GAS UTILITIES AND INFRASTRUCTURE

•a $20 million increase in equity earnings from pipeline investments.

Income Tax Expense. The variance was primarily due to the lower statutory federal corporate tax rate under the Tax Act, a decrease in pretax income and the impact of the Tax Act in the prior year. The ETRs for the years ended December 31, 2018, and 2017 were 22.2 percent and 26.7 percent, respectively. The decrease in the ETR was primarily due to the lower statutory federal corporate tax rate under the Tax Act partially offset by the impact of the Tax Act in the prior year. See the Tax Act section above for additional information.

Year Ended December 31, 2017, as compared to 2016 

Gas Utilities and Infrastructure's higher results were primarily due to the inclusion of Piedmont's earnings in the current year as a result of Duke Energy's acquisition of Piedmont on October 3, 2016, as well as additional equity earnings from investments in the ACP and Sabal Trail pipelines.

Operating Revenues. The variance was driven primarily by:

•an $884 million increase in operating revenues due to the inclusion of Piedmont's operating revenues beginning in October 2016; and

•a $47 million increase in Piedmont's fourth quarter results due to colder weather, higher natural gas prices, IMR rate adjustments, customer growth and new power generation customers.

Operating Expenses. The variance was driven primarily by:

•a $686 million increase in operating expenses due to the inclusion of Piedmont's operating expenses beginning in October 2016; and

•a $34 million increase in Piedmont's fourth quarter results primarily due to higher natural gas costs passed through to customers due to the higher price per dekatherm of natural gas.

Other Income and Expenses, net. The increase was driven primarily by higher equity earnings from pipeline investments.

Interest Expense. The variance was primarily due to the inclusion of Piedmont's interest expense beginning in October 2016.

Income Tax Expense. The variance was primarily due to an increase in pretax income due to the inclusion of Piedmont's earnings beginning in October 2016, partially offset by prior period true ups. The effective tax rates for the years ended December 31, 2017, and 2016 were 26.7 percent and 37.2 percent, respectively. The decrease in the effective tax rate was primarily due to the prior period true ups and the impact of the Tax Act. See the Tax Act section above for additional information.

Matters Impacting Future Gas Utilities and Infrastructure Results

Gas Utilities and Infrastructure has a 47 percent ownership interest in ACP, which is building an approximately 600-mile interstate natural gas pipeline intended to transport diverse natural gas supplies into southeastern markets. Affected states (West Virginia, Virginia and North Carolina) have issued certain necessary permits; the project remains subject to other pending federal and state approvals, which will allow full construction activities to begin. In 2018, FERC issued a series of Notices to Proceed, which authorized the project to begin certain construction-related activities along the pipeline route. Project cost estimates are a range of $7.0 billion to $7.8 billion, excluding financing costs. ACP expects to achieve a late 2020 in-service date for key segments of the project, while it expects a remainder to extend into 2021. Project construction activities, schedule and final costs are subject to uncertainty due to abnormal weather, work delays (including delays due to judicial or regulatory action) and other conditions and risks that could result in potential higher project costs, a potential delay in the targeted in-service dates and potential impairment charges. ACP and Duke Energy will continue to consider their options with respect to the foregoing in light of their existing contractual and legal obligations. See Notes 4 and 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, "Regulatory Matters" and "Investments in Unconsolidated Affiliates," respectively, for additional information.

Within this Item 7, see the Tax Act section above as well as Liquidity and Capital Resources below for discussion of risks associated with the Tax Act.

49

MD&ASEGMENT RESULTS - COMMERCIAL RENEWABLES

Commercial Renewables

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a)Certain projects are included in tax-equity structures where investors have differing interests in the project's economic attributes. In 2018, 100 percent of the tax-equity project's capacity is included in the table above.

Year Ended December 31, 2018, as compared to 2017

Commercial Renewables' results were unfavorably impacted by the higher tax benefit in 2017 from the Tax Act. The following is a detailed discussion of the variance drivers by line item.

Operating Revenues. The increase in revenues was primarily due to an increase in the number of EPC agreements at REC Solar, partially offset by unfavorable wind portfolio revenue.

Operating Expenses. The increase in operating expenses was primarily due to an increase in the number of EPC agreements at REC Solar, higher wind portfolio expenses and higher solar development costs, partially offset by lower property taxes due to non-recurring property tax payments made in the prior year and lower impairment charges.

Other Income and Expenses, net. The favorable variance in other income and expenses was primarily due to the bankruptcy court approved NAW and FES settlement agreement, which allowed retention of previously collected cash collateral under the PPAs, sale of the FES unsecured claim, impairment of certain cost investments in the prior year and lower equity losses in the current year.

Income Tax Benefit. The decrease in tax benefit in 2018 was primarily due to the one-time impact of the Tax Act in 2017 and lower statutory federal corporate tax rate under the Tax Act. See the Tax Act section above for additional information.

Loss Attributable to Noncontrolling Interests. The increase is primarily driven by the new tax-equity structures entered into during 2018.

Year Ended December 31, 2017, as compared to 2016 

Commercial Renewables' higher earnings were primarily due to the Tax Act, partially offset by pretax impairment charges. The following is a detailed discussion of the variance drivers by line item.

Operating Revenues. The decrease was primarily due to lower EPC revenues from REC Solar.

Operating Expenses. The increase was primarily due to a $99 million in pretax impairment charges in 2017 related to a wholly owned non-contracted wind project and other investments and higher expenses associated with new wind and solar projects, partially offset by lower operations and maintenance expense at REC Solar due to fewer projects under construction. See Notes 10 and 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Property, Plant and Equipment” and “Goodwill and Intangible Assets,” respectively, for additional information.

Other Income and Expenses, net. The variance was primarily due to a $71 million pretax impairment charge in 2016 related to certain equity method investments. For additional information, see Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Investments in Unconsolidated Affiliates.”

50

MD&ASEGMENT RESULTS - COMMERCIAL RENEWABLES

Interest Expense. The variance was primarily due to new project financings and less capitalized interest due to fewer projects under construction.

Income Tax Benefit. The variance was primarily due to the impact of the Tax Act and higher PTCs, partially offset by lower ITCs. See the Tax Act section above for additional information on the Tax Act and the impact on the effective tax rate.

Matters Impacting Future Commercial Renewables Results

Persistently low market pricing for wind resources, primarily in the Electric Reliability Council of Texas West and PJM West markets and the future expiration of tax incentives including ITCs and PTCs could result in adverse impacts to the future results of operations, financial position and cash flows of Commercial Renewables.

On September 26, 2018, Duke Energy announced it is seeking a minority investor for the commercial renewables business. Duke Energy will continue to develop projects, grow its portfolio and manage its renewables assets. Duke Energy Renewable Services, an operations and maintenance business for third-party customers, and REC Solar are not included in the potential transaction. A sale of a minority interest is dependent on a number of factors and cannot be predicted at this time.

Within this Item 7, see the Tax Act section above as well as Liquidity and Capital Resources below for discussion of risks associated with the Tax Act.

Other

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Year Ended December 31, 2018, as compared to 2017 

Other’s lower net loss was driven by prior year impacts from the Tax Act, partially offset by severance charges, loss on the sale of the retired Beckjord station, higher interest expense and prior year proceeds resulting from the settlement of the shareholder litigation related to the Progress Energy merger. The following is a detailed discussion of the variance drivers by line item.

Operating Revenues. The decrease was primarily due to prior year revenues related to Duke Energy Ohio’s entitlement of capacity and energy from OVEC’s power plants. For the year ended December 31, 2018, the revenues and related expenses for OVEC are reflected in the Electric Utilities and Infrastructure segment due to the PUCO Order that approved Duke Energy to recover or credit amounts through Rider PSR. These amounts are deemed immaterial. Therefore, no prior period amounts were restated. See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, "Regulatory Matters" for additional information.

Operating Expenses. The increase was primarily due to severance charges related to a corporate initiative partially offset by prior year fuel expense related to OVEC, which is reflected in the Electric Utilities and Infrastructure segment for year ended December 31, 2018. See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, "Regulatory Matters" for additional information.

(Losses) Gains on Sales of Other Assets and Other, net. The variance was driven by the loss on sale of the retired Beckjord station, a nonregulated facility retired during 2014, including the transfer of coal ash basins and other real property and indemnification from all potential future claims related to the property, whether arising under environmental laws or otherwise.

Other Income and Expenses, net. The variance was primarily due to insurance proceeds received in the prior year resulting from settlement of the shareholder litigation related to the Progress Energy merger and lower returns on investments that fund certain employee benefit obligations.

51

MD&ASEGMENT RESULTS - OTHER

Interest Expense. The increase was primarily due to an increase in long-term debt as well as higher interest rates on short-term debt.

Income Tax (Benefit) Expense. The variance was primarily due to the prior year impact of the Tax Act and an increase in pretax loss. See the Tax Act section above for additional information on the Tax Act and the impact on the effective tax rate.

Year Ended December 31, 2017, as compared to 2016 

Other’s higher net loss was driven by the Tax Act, partially offset by prior year losses on forward-starting interest rate swaps and other costs related to the Piedmont acquisition, decreased severance charges, donations to the Duke Energy Foundation in 2016 and insurance proceeds resulting from settlement of the shareholder litigation related to the Progress Energy merger. The following is a detailed discussion of the variance drivers by line item.

Operating Revenues. The increase was primarily due to higher OVEC revenues and prior year customer credits related to Piedmont merger commitments. See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, "Acquisitions and Dispositions," for additional information.

Operating Expenses. The decrease was primarily due to lower transaction and integration costs associated with the Piedmont acquisition, prior year severance charges related to cost savings initiatives, donations to the Duke Energy Foundation in 2016 as well as prior year depreciation expense and other integration costs related to the Progress Energy merger. The Duke Energy Foundation is a nonprofit organization funded by Duke Energy shareholders that makes charitable contributions to selected nonprofits and government subdivisions.

Other Income and Expenses, net. The increase was primarily driven by insurance proceeds resulting from settlement of the shareholder litigation related to the Progress Energy merger, higher earnings from the equity method investment in NMC and increased returns on investments that fund certain employee benefit obligations.

Interest Expense. The decrease was primarily due to prior year losses on forward-starting interest rate swaps related to Piedmont pre-acquisition financing, partially offset by higher interest costs on $3.75 billion of debt issued in August 2016 to fund the acquisition. For additional information see Notes 2, 6 and 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, "Acquisitions and Dispositions," "Debt and Credit Facilities" and "Derivatives and Hedging," respectively.

Income Tax Benefit. The variance was primarily due to the impact of the Tax Act and a decrease in pretax loss. See the Tax Act section above for additional information on the Tax Act and the impact on the effective tax rate.

Matters Impacting Future Other Results

Within this Item 7, see the Tax Act section above as well as Liquidity and Capital Resources below for discussion of risks associated with the Tax Act.

INCOME (LOSS) FROM DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS, NET OF TAX

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Year Ended December 31, 2018, as compared to 2017 

The variance was primarily driven by tax adjustments related to the International Disposal Groups. See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, "Acquisitions and Dispositions," for additional information.

Year Ended December 31, 2017, as compared to 2016 

The variance was primarily driven by the prior year loss on the disposal of Duke Energy's Latin American generation business and an impairment charge related to certain assets in Central America, partially offset by a tax benefit related to historic unremitted foreign earnings and immaterial out of period tax adjustments unrelated to the International Disposal Group. See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, "Acquisitions and Dispositions," for additional information.

52

MD&ASUBSIDIARY REGISTRANTS

SUBSIDIARY REGISTRANTS

As a result of the Tax Act, the Subsidiary Registrants revalued their deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities, as of December 31, 2017, to account for the estimated future impact of lower corporate tax rates on these deferred tax amounts. During the year ended December 31, 2018, the Subsidiary Registrants recorded measurement period adjustments to the provisional estimate recorded as of December 31, 2017, in accordance with SAB 118. For the Subsidiary Registrants' regulated operations, where the net reduction in the net accumulated deferred income tax liability is expected to be returned to customers in future rates, the remeasurement has been deferred as a regulatory liability. See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, "Regulatory Matters" for additional information on the Tax Act's impact to the regulatory asset and liability accounts. The change in each Subsidiary Registrant's effective tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2018, was primarily due to the impact of the Tax Act, unless noted below. The following table shows the expense (benefit) recorded on the Subsidiary Registrant's Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Income, and the effective tax rate for each Subsidiary Registrant. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a)Except where noted below, amounts are included within Income Tax Expense From Continuing Operations or Income Tax Expense on the Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Income.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(c)2017 amount primarily relates to the remeasurement of deferred tax liabilities that are excluded for ratemaking purposes related to abandoned assets and certain wholesale fixed rate contracts.

(d)2017 amount primarily relates to the remeasurement of deferred tax liabilities of certain wholesale fixed rate contracts.

(e)2017 amount primarily relates to the remeasurement of deferred tax assets that are excluded for ratemaking purposes related to a prior transfer of certain electric generating assets.

(f)2017 amount primarily relates to the remeasurement of deferred tax liabilities that are excluded for ratemaking purposes related to impaired assets. 

(g)2017 amount includes a $16 million expense recorded within Equity in earnings (losses) of unconsolidated affiliates on the Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Income.

DUKE ENERGY CAROLINAS

Introduction

Management’s Discussion and Analysis should be read in conjunction with the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016.

Basis of Presentation

The results of operations and variance discussion for Duke Energy Carolinas is presented in a reduced disclosure format in accordance with General Instruction (I)(2)(a) of Form 10-K.

53

MD&ADUKE ENERGY CAROLINAS

Results of Operations

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The following table shows the percent changes in GWh sales and average number of customers for Duke Energy Carolinas. The below percentages for retail customer classes represent billed sales only. Total sales includes billed and unbilled retail sales and wholesale sales to incorporated municipalities and to public and private utilities and power marketers. Amounts are not weather-normalized.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Year Ended December 31, 2018, as compared to 2017 

Operating Revenues. The variance was driven primarily by:

•a $263 million decrease in retail sales due to revenues subject to refund to customers associated with the lower statutory federal corporate tax rate under the Tax Act;

•a $68 million decrease in retail rider revenues primarily related to the implementation of new base rates; and 

•an $8 million decrease in wholesale power revenues, net of sharing and fuel, primarily due to wholesale customer refunds in the current year related to a FERC order on a complaint filed by PMPA, partially offset by higher revenues related to recovery of coal ash costs.

Partially offset by:

•a $169 million increase in retail sales, net of fuel revenues, due to favorable weather in the current year; 

•an $83 million increase in retail pricing from impacts of the North Carolina rate case;

•a $49 million increase in other revenues primarily due to the recognition of previously deferred revenues associated with storm restoration costs in South Carolina and favorable transmission revenues; and

•a $36 million increase in weather-normal retail sales volumes.

Operating Expenses. The variance was driven primarily by:

•a $192 million increase in impairment charges primarily due to the impacts of the North Carolina rate order and charges related to coal ash costs in South Carolina;

•a $111 million increase in depreciation and amortization expense primarily due to additional plant in service, new depreciation rates associated with the North Carolina rate case and higher amortization of deferred coal ash costs, partially offset by lower amortization of certain regulatory assets; and

54

MD&ADUKE ENERGY CAROLINAS

•a $109 million increase in operations, maintenance and other expense primarily due to severance charges.

Other Income and Expenses, net. The variance was primarily due to lower AFUDC equity related to the Lee Nuclear Project and W.S. Lee CC and a decrease in recognition of post in-service equity returns for projects that had been completed prior to being reflected in customer rates.

Interest Expense. The variance was primarily due to higher debt outstanding in the current year.

Income Tax Expense. The variance was primarily due to the lower statutory federal corporate tax rate under the Tax Act. The ETRs for the years ended December 31, 2018, and 2017 were 22.1 percent and 34.9 percent, respectively. The decrease in the ETR was primarily due to the lower statutory federal corporate tax rate under the Tax Act and the amortization of state excess deferred taxes.

Matters Impacting Future Results

On May 18, 2016, the NCDEQ issued proposed risk classifications for all coal ash surface impoundments in North Carolina. All ash impoundments not previously designated as high priority by the Coal Ash Act were designated as intermediate risk. Certain impoundments classified as intermediate risk, however, were eligible for reassessment as low-risk pursuant to legislation enacted on July 14, 2016. On November 14, 2018, NCDEQ issued final low risk classifications for these impoundments, indicating that Duke Energy Carolinas had satisfied the permanent replacement water supply and certain dam improvement requirements set out in the Coal Ash Management Act. As the final closure plans and corrective action measures are developed and approved for each site, the closure work progresses, and the closure method scope and remedial action methods are determined, the complexity of work and the amount of coal combustion material could be different than originally estimated and, therefore, could materially impact Duke Energy Carolinas' results of operations, financial position and cash flows. See Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, "Asset Retirement Obligations," for additional information.

Duke Energy Carolinas is a party to multiple lawsuits and subject to fines and other penalties related to operations at certain North Carolina facilities with ash basins. In addition, the order issued in the Duke Energy Carolinas North Carolinas rate case supporting recovery of past coal ash remediation costs has been appealed by various parties. The outcome of these appeals, lawsuits, fines and penalties could have an adverse impact on Duke Energy Carolinas’ results of operations, financial position and cash flows. See Notes 4 and 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, "Regulatory Matters" and “Commitments and Contingencies,” respectively, for additional information.

On June 22, 2018, Duke Energy Carolinas received an order from the NCUC, which denied the Grid Rider Stipulation and deferral treatment of grid improvement costs. Duke Energy Carolinas may petition for deferral of grid modernization costs outside of a general rate case proceeding if it can show financial hardship or a stipulation that includes greater consensus among intervening parties on costs being classified as grid modernization. Duke Energy Carolinas' results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be adversely impacted if grid modernization costs are not ultimately approved for recovery and/or deferral treatment. See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Regulatory Matters,” for additional information.

During the last half of 2018, Duke Energy Carolinas’ service territory was impacted by several named storms. Hurricane Florence, Hurricane Michael and Winter Storm Diego caused flooding, extensive damage and widespread power outages in the service territory. A significant portion of the incremental operation and maintenance expenses related to these storms have been deferred. On December 21, 2018, Duke Energy Carolinas filed with the NCUC a petition for approval to defer the incremental storm costs incurred to a regulatory asset for recovery in the next base rate case. An order from regulatory authorities disallowing the deferral and future recovery of storm restoration costs could have an adverse impact on Duke Energy Carolinas' results of operations, financial position and cash flows. See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, "Regulatory Matters," for additional information.

Appeals of the recently approved rate case for Duke Energy Carolinas are pending at the North Carolina Supreme Court. The North Carolina Attorney General and various intervenors primarily dispute the allowance of recovery of coal ash costs from customers, which was approved by the NCUC. The outcome of these appeals could have an adverse impact to Duke Energy Carolina's results of operations, financial position and cash flows. See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Regulatory Matters,” for additional information.

Within this Item 7, see the Tax Act section above as well as Liquidity and Capital Resources below for discussion of risks associated with the Tax Act.

PROGRESS ENERGY

 Introduction

Management’s Discussion and Analysis should be read in conjunction with the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016.

Basis of Presentation

The results of operations and variance discussion for Progress Energy is presented in a reduced disclosure format in accordance with General Instruction (I)(2)(a) of Form 10-K.

55

MD&APROGRESS ENERGY

Results of Operations

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Year Ended December 31, 2018, as compared to 2017 

Operating Revenues. The variance was driven primarily by:

•a $614 million increase in fuel and capacity revenues primarily due to an increase in fuel and capacity rates billed to retail customers and increased demand;

•a $149 million increase in retail pricing due to the impacts of the Duke Energy Progress North Carolina and South Carolina rate cases and Duke Energy Florida base rate adjustments related to generation assets being placed into service;

•a $108 million increase in retail sales due to favorable weather in the current year, net of lost revenue impacts associated with Hurricane Irma in 2017 and Hurricane Florence in 2018;

•a $96 million increase in wholesale power revenues, net of fuel, primarily due to recovery of coal ash costs and higher peak demand at Duke Energy Progress;

•a $34 million net increase in retail rider revenues in conjunction with the implementation of new base rates at Duke Energy Progress; and

•a $47 million increase in weather-normal retail sales volumes.

Partially offset by:

•a $119 million decrease in retail sales due to revenues subject to refund to customers associated with the lower statutory federal corporate tax rate under the Tax Act at Duke Energy Progress.

Operating Expenses. The variance was driven primarily by:

•a $559 million increase in fuel used in electric generation and purchased power primarily due to higher amortization of deferred fuel and capacity expenses, increased demand and changes in generation mix;

•a $334 million increase in depreciation and amortization expense primarily due to higher amortization of deferred coal ash costs and new depreciation rates associated with the North Carolina rate case at Duke Energy Progress, and accelerated depreciation of Crystal River Units 4 and 5 at Duke Energy Florida;

•a $312 million increase in operation, maintenance and other expense primarily due to higher costs related to storms, vegetation management costs and severance charges; and

•a $26 million increase in property and other taxes primarily due to higher revenue related taxes at Duke Energy Florida.

56

MD&APROGRESS ENERGY

Partially offset by:

•a $69 million decrease in impairment charges primarily due to the write-off of remaining unrecovered Levy Nuclear Project costs in the prior year, offset by the current year impairment of the Citrus County CC at Duke Energy Florida and the impacts associated with the North Carolina rate case at Duke Energy Progress.

Other Income and Expenses, net. The variance was primarily due to lower income from non-service components of employee benefit costs in the current year at Duke Energy Progress and Duke Energy Florida. For additional information on employee benefit costs, see Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, "Employee Benefit Plans."

Interest Expense. The variance was primarily due to new debt issuances at Duke Energy Progress.

Income Tax Expense. The variance was primarily due to the lower statutory federal corporate tax rate under the Tax Act partially offset by the favorable impact of the Tax Act in the prior year. The effective tax rate for the years ended December 31, 2018, and 2017 were 17.4 percent and 17.2 percent, respectively. The change in the effective tax rate was primarily due to the favorable impact of the Tax Act in the prior year mostly offset by the lower statutory federal corporate tax rate under the Tax Act and the amortization of federal and state excess deferred taxes in the current year.

Matters Impacting Future Results

On May 18, 2016, the NCDEQ issued proposed risk classifications for all coal ash surface impoundments in North Carolina. All ash impoundments not previously designated as high priority by the Coal Ash Act were designated as intermediate risk. Certain impoundments classified as intermediate risk, however, were eligible for reassessment as low-risk pursuant to legislation enacted on July 14, 2016. On November 14, 2018, NCDEQ issued final low risk classifications for these impoundments, indicating that Progress Energy had satisfied the permanent replacement water supply and certain dam improvement requirements set out in the Coal Ash Management Act. As the final closure plans and corrective action measures are developed and approved for each site, the closure work progresses, and the closure method scope and remedial action methods are determined, the complexity of work and the amount of coal combustion material could be different than originally estimated and, therefore, could materially impact Progress Energy's results of operations, financial position and cash flows. See Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, "Asset Retirement Obligations," for additional information.

Duke Energy Progress is a party to multiple lawsuits and subject to fines and other penalties related to operations at certain North Carolina facilities with ash basins. As noted above, the order issued in the Duke Energy Progress North Carolinas rate case supporting recovery of past coal ash remediation costs has been appealed by various parties. The outcome of these appeals, lawsuits, fines and penalties could have an adverse impact on Progress Energy’s results of operations, financial position and cash flows. See Notes 4 and 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, "Regulatory Matters" and “Commitments and Contingencies,” respectively, for additional information.

Duke Energy Carolinas received an order from the NCUC, which denied the Grid Rider Stipulation and deferral treatment of grid improvement costs. The NCUC did allow Duke Energy Carolinas to petition for deferral of grid modernization costs outside of a general rate case proceeding if it can show financial hardship or a stipulation that includes greater consensus among intervening parties on costs being classified as grid modernization. While Duke Energy Progress did not request recovery of these costs in its most recent case with the NCUC, Duke Energy Progress may request recovery of certain grid modernization costs in future regulatory proceedings. If the NCUC were to rule similarly, Progress Energy's results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be adversely impacted if grid modernization costs are not ultimately approved for recovery and/or deferral treatment. See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Regulatory Matters,” for additional information.

During the last half of 2018, Duke Energy Progress and Duke Energy Florida’s service territories were impacted by several named storms. Hurricane Florence, Hurricane Michael and Winter Storm Diego caused flooding, extensive damage and widespread power outages to the service territory of Duke Energy Progress. Duke Energy Florida’s service territory was also impacted by Hurricane Michael, a Category 4 hurricane and the most powerful storm to hit the Florida Panhandle in recorded history. A significant portion of the incremental operation and maintenance expenses related to these storms have been deferred. On December 21, 2018, Duke Energy Progress filed with the NCUC a petition for approval to defer the incremental storm costs incurred to a regulatory asset for recovery in the next base rate case. Duke Energy Progress filed a similar request with the PSCSC on January 11, 2019, which also included a request for the continuation of prior deferrals requested for other storms, and on January 30, 2019, the PSCSC issued a directive approving the deferral request. Duke Energy Florida anticipates filing a petition in the first half of 2019 with the FPSC to recover incremental storm costs consistent with the provisions in its 2017 Settlement. An order from regulatory authorities disallowing the deferral and future recovery of storm restoration costs could have an adverse impact on Progress Energy's results of operations, financial position and cash flows. See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, "Regulatory Matters," for additional information.

Appeals of the recently approved rate case for Duke Energy Progress are pending at the North Carolina Supreme Court. The North Carolina Attorney General and various intervenors primarily dispute the allowance of recovery of coal ash costs from customers, which was approved by the NCUC. The outcome of these appeals could have an adverse impact to Progress Energy's results of operations, financial position and cash flows. See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Regulatory Matters,” for additional information.

On February 6, 2018, the FPSC approved a stipulation that would apply tax savings resulting from the Tax Act toward storm costs effective January 2018 in lieu of implementing a storm surcharge. On May 31, 2018, Duke Energy Florida filed for recovery of the storm costs. Storm costs are currently expected to be fully recovered by approximately mid-2021. The commission has scheduled the hearing to begin on May 21, 2019. An order disallowing recovery of these costs could have an adverse impact on Progress Energy's results of operations, financial position and cash flows. See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Regulatory Matters,” for additional information.

Within this Item 7, see the Tax Act section above as well as Liquidity and Capital Resources below for discussion of risks associated with the Tax Act.

57

MD&ADUKE ENERGY PROGRESS

DUKE ENERGY PROGRESS

Introduction

Management’s Discussion and Analysis should be read in conjunction with the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016.

Basis of Presentation

The results of operations and variance discussion for Duke Energy Progress is presented in a reduced disclosure format in accordance with General Instruction (I)(2)(a) of Form 10-K.

Results of Operations

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The following table shows the percent changes in GWh sales and average number of customers for Duke Energy Progress. The below percentages for retail customer classes represent billed sales only. Total sales includes billed and unbilled retail sales and wholesale sales to incorporated municipalities and to public and private utilities and power marketers. Amounts are not weather-normalized.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Year Ended December 31, 2018, as compared to 2017 

Operating Revenues. The variance was driven primarily by:

•a $324 million increase in fuel revenues driven by higher retail sales and changes in generation mix;

•a $125 million increase in retail pricing due to the impacts from the North Carolina and South Carolina rate cases;

•a $96 million increase in wholesale power revenues, net of fuel, primarily due to recovery of coal ash costs and higher peak demand;

•a $34 million net increase in retail rider revenues in conjunction with the implementation of new base rates;

•a $61 million increase in retail sales due to favorable weather in the current year, net of the impact of lost revenues due to Hurricane Florence; and 

•a $35 million increase in weather-normal retail sales volumes.

Partially offset by:

•a $119 million decrease in retail sales due to revenues subject to refund to customers associated with the lower statutory federal corporate tax rate under the Tax Act.

58

MD&ADUKE ENERGY PROGRESS

Operating Expenses. The variance was driven primarily by:

•a $283 million increase in fuel used in electric generation and purchased power primarily due to higher retail sales and changes in generation mix;

•a $266 million increase in depreciation and amortization expense primarily due to higher amortization of deferred coal ash costs and new depreciation rates associated with the North Carolina rate case;

•a $139 million increase in operation, maintenance and other expense primarily due to higher storm costs, impacts associated with the North Carolina rate case and severance charges; and

•a $14 million increase in impairment charges associated with the North Carolina rate case.

Other Income and Expenses, net. The variance was primarily driven by lower income from non-service components of employment benefit costs. For additional information on employee benefit costs, see Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, "Employee Benefit Plans."

Interest Expense. The variance was primarily driven by new debt issuances.

Income Tax Expense. The variance was primarily due to the lower statutory federal corporate tax rate under the Tax Act partially offset by the favorable impact of the Tax Act in the prior year. The effective tax rates for the years ended December 31, 2018, and 2017 were 19.3 percent and 29.0 percent, respectively. The decrease in the effective tax rate was primarily due to the lower statutory federal corporate tax rate under the Tax Act and the amortization of state excess deferred taxes partially offset by the impact of the Tax Act in the prior year.

Matters Impacting Future Results

On May 18, 2016, the NCDEQ issued proposed risk classifications for all coal ash surface impoundments in North Carolina. All ash impoundments not previously designated as high priority by the Coal Ash Act were designated as intermediate risk. Certain impoundments classified as intermediate risk, however, were eligible for reassessment as low-risk pursuant to legislation enacted on July 14, 2016. On November 14, 2018, NCDEQ issued final low risk classifications for these impoundments, indicating that Duke Energy Progress had satisfied the permanent replacement water supply and certain dam improvement requirements set out in the Coal Ash Management Act. As the final closure plans and corrective action measures are developed and approved for each site, the closure work progresses, and the closure method scope and remedial action methods are determined, the complexity of work and the amount of coal combustion material could be different than originally estimated and, therefore, could materially impact Duke Energy Progress' results of operations, financial position and cash flows. See Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, "Asset Retirement Obligations," for additional information.

Duke Energy Progress is a party to multiple lawsuits and subject to fines and other penalties related to operations at certain North Carolina facilities with ash basins. As noted above, the order issued in the Duke Energy Progress North Carolinas rate case supporting recovery of past coal ash remediation costs has been appealed by various parties. The outcome of these appeals, lawsuits, fines and penalties could have an adverse impact on Duke Energy Progress’ results of operations, financial position and cash flows. See Notes 4 and 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, "Regulatory Matters" and “Commitments and Contingencies,” respectively, for additional information.

Duke Energy Carolinas received an order from the NCUC, which denied the Grid Rider Stipulation and deferral treatment of grid improvement costs. The NCUC did allow Duke Energy Carolinas to petition for deferral of grid modernization costs outside of a general rate case proceeding if it can show financial hardship or a stipulation that includes greater consensus among intervening parties on costs being classified as grid modernization. While Duke Energy Progress did not request recovery of these costs in its most recent case with the NCUC, Duke Energy Progress may request recovery of certain grid modernization costs in future regulatory proceedings. If the NCUC were to rule similarly, Duke Energy Progress' results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be adversely impacted if grid modernization costs are not ultimately approved for recovery and/or deferral treatment. See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Regulatory Matters,” for additional information.

During the last half of 2018, Duke Energy Progress' service territory was impacted by several named storms. Hurricane Florence, Hurricane Michael and Winter Storm Diego caused flooding, extensive damage and widespread power outages in the service territory. A significant portion of the incremental operation and maintenance expenses related to these storms have been deferred. On December 21, 2018, Duke Energy Progress filed with the NCUC a petition for approval to defer the incremental storm costs incurred to a regulatory asset for recovery in the next base rate case. Duke Energy Progress filed a similar request with the PSCSC on January 11, 2019, which also included a request for the continuation of prior deferrals requested for other storms, and on January 30, 2019, the PSCSC issued a directive approving the deferral request. An order from regulatory authorities disallowing the deferral and future recovery of storm restoration costs could have an adverse impact on Duke Energy Progress' results of operations, financial position and cash flows. See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, "Regulatory Matters," for additional information.

Appeals of the recently approved rate case for Duke Energy Progress are pending at the North Carolina Supreme Court. The North Carolina Attorney General and various intervenors primarily dispute the allowance of recovery of coal ash costs from customers, which was approved by the NCUC. The outcome of these appeals could have an adverse impact to Duke Energy Progress' results of operations, financial position and cash flows. See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Regulatory Matters,” for additional information.

Within this Item 7, see the Tax Act section above as well as Liquidity and Capital Resources below for discussion of risks associated with the Tax Act.

59

MD&ADUKE ENERGY FLORIDA

DUKE ENERGY FLORIDA

Introduction

Management’s Discussion and Analysis should be read in conjunction with the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016.

Basis of Presentation

The results of operations and variance discussion for Duke Energy Florida is presented in a reduced disclosure format in accordance with General Instruction (I)(2)(a) of Form 10-K.

Results of Operations

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The following table shows the percent changes in GWh sales and average number of customers for Duke Energy Florida. The below percentages for retail customer classes represent billed sales only. Wholesale power sales include both billed and unbilled sales. Total sales includes billed and unbilled retail sales and wholesale sales to incorporated municipalities and to public and private utilities and power marketers. Amounts are not weather-normalized.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Year Ended December 31, 2018, as compared to 2017 

Operating Revenues. The variance was driven primarily by:

•a $290 million increase in fuel and capacity revenues primarily due to an increase in fuel and capacity rates billed to retail customers and increased demand;

•a $47 million increase in retail sales, net of fuel revenues, due to favorable weather in the current year and impacts of lost revenue resulting from Hurricane Irma in the prior year:

•a $24 million increase in retail pricing due to base rate adjustments related to generation assets being placed into service; and

•a $12 million increase in weather-normal retail sales volumes.

Operating Expenses. The variance was driven primarily by:

•a $277 million increase in fuel used in electric generation and purchased power primarily due to higher amortization of deferred fuel and capacity expenses and increased purchased power and demand;

•a $172 million increase in operation, maintenance and other expense primarily due to higher storm cost amortization, vegetation management costs and severance charges, partially offset by lower storm restoration costs in the current year;

60

MD&ADUKE ENERGY FLORIDA

•a $68 million increase in depreciation and amortization expense primarily due to accelerated depreciation of Crystal River Units 4 and 5 and additional plant in service; and 

•a $27 million increase in property and other taxes primarily due to higher revenue related taxes. 

Partially offset by:

•an $84 million decrease in impairment charges primarily due to the write-off of remaining unrecovered Levy Nuclear Project costs in the prior year, offset by the current year impairment of the Citrus County CC.

Other Income and Expenses, net. The variance was driven primarily by lower income from non-service components of employee benefit costs in the current year. For additional information on employee benefit costs, see Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, "Employee Benefit Plans."

Income Tax Expense. The variance was primarily due to the favorable impact of the Tax Act in the prior year partially offset by the lower statutory federal corporate tax rate under the Tax Act in the current year. The effective tax rates for the years ended December 31, 2018, and 2017 were 15.4 percent and 6.1 percent, respectively. The increase in the effective tax rate was primarily due to the favorable impact of the Tax Act in the prior year partially offset by the lower statutory federal corporate tax rate under the Tax Act and the amortization of federal excess deferred taxes in the current year.

Matters Impacting Future Results

On October 10, 2018, Hurricane Michael made landfall on Florida's Panhandle as a Category 4 hurricane, the most powerful storm to hit the Florida Panhandle in recorded history. The storm caused significant damage within the service territory of Duke Energy Florida, particularly from Panama City Beach to Mexico Beach. Duke Energy Florida has not completed the final accumulation of total estimated storm restoration costs incurred. Given the magnitude of the storm, Duke Energy Florida anticipates filing a petition in the first half of 2019 with the FPSC to recover incremental storm costs consistent with the provisions in its 2017 Settlement. An order from regulatory authorities disallowing the future recovery of storm restoration costs could have an adverse impact on Duke Energy Florida's financial position, results of operations and cash flows. See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Regulatory Matters,” for additional information.

On February 6, 2018, the FPSC approved a stipulation that would apply tax savings resulting from the Tax Act toward storm costs effective January 2018 in lieu of implementing a storm surcharge. On May 31, 2018, Duke Energy Florida filed for recovery of the storm costs. Storm costs are currently expected to be fully recovered by approximately mid-2021. The commission has scheduled the hearing to begin on May 21, 2019. An order disallowing recovery of these costs could have an adverse impact on Duke Energy Florida's results of operations, financial position and cash flows. See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Regulatory Matters,” for additional information.

Within this Item 7, see the Tax Act section above as well as Liquidity and Capital Resources below for discussion of risks associated with the Tax Act.

61

MD&ADUKE ENERGY OHIO

DUKE ENERGY OHIO

 Introduction

Management’s Discussion and Analysis should be read in conjunction with the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016.

Basis of Presentation

The results of operations and variance discussion for Duke Energy Ohio is presented in a reduced disclosure format in accordance with General Instruction (I)(2)(a) of Form 10-K.

Results of Operations

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The following table shows the percent changes in GWh sales of electricity, dekatherms of natural gas delivered and average number of electric and natural gas customers for Duke Energy Ohio. The below percentages for retail customer classes represent billed sales only. Total sales includes billed and unbilled retail sales and wholesale sales to incorporated municipalities and to public and private utilities and power marketers. Amounts are not weather-normalized.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

62

MD&ADUKE ENERGY OHIO

Year Ended December 31, 2018, as compared to 2017 

Operating Revenues. In 2018, the revenues and related expenses for OVEC are reflected in regulated electric due to the PUCO Order that approved Duke Energy Ohio to recover or credit amounts, through Rider PSR, that result from wholesale market transactions relating to Duke Energy Ohio's entitlement to capacity and energy from OVEC's power plants. In 2017, the revenues and related expenses for OVEC are reflected in nonregulated electric. See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, "Regulatory Matters" for additional information. 

The variance was driven primarily by:

•a $44 million increase in electric and natural gas retail sales, net of fuel revenues, due to favorable weather in the current year;

•a $17 million increase in rider revenue primarily related to capital investment riders;

•a $16 million increase in financial transmission rights revenues; 

•a $7 million increase in point-to-point transmission revenues; and

•a $6 million increase in fuel revenues due to higher natural gas costs.

Partially offset by:

•a $48 million decrease in regulated revenues due to revenues subject to refund to customers associated with the lower statutory corporate tax rate under the Tax Act; and

•a $7 million decrease in bulk power marketing sales.

Operating Expenses. The variance was driven by:

•a $50 million decrease in operations, maintenance and other expense primarily due to the FERC approved settlement refund of certain transmission costs previously billed by PJM; and

•a $15 million decrease in fuel used in electric generation and purchased power related to the deferral of OVEC purchased power, which is reflected in regulated electric in 2018 and nonregulated electric in 2017, as noted above in the Operating Revenues section.

Partially offset by:

•a $12 million increase in property and other taxes primarily due to higher property taxes and kilowatt tax; 

•a $7 million increase in depreciation and amortization expense primarily due to additional plant in service and increased amortization of regulatory assets; and

•a $6 million increase in cost of natural gas primarily due to an increase in natural gas sales volumes.

(Losses) Gains on Sales of Other Assets and Other, net. The decrease was driven by the loss on the sale of Beckjord, a nonregulated facility retired during 2014, including the transfer of coal ash basins and other real property and indemnification from any and all potential future claims related to the property, whether arising under environmental laws or otherwise.

Income Tax Expense. The variance was primarily due to the lower statutory federal corporate tax rate under the Tax Act and a decrease in pretax income. The effective tax rates for the years ended December 31, 2018, and 2017 were 19.6 percent and 23.4 percent, respectively. The decrease in the effective tax rate was primarily due to the lower statutory federal corporate tax rate under the Tax Act partially offset by the impact of the Tax Act in the prior year.

Matters Impacting Future Results

Within this Item 7, see the Tax Act section above as well as Liquidity and Capital Resources below for discussion of risks associated with the Tax Act.

63

MD&ADUKE ENERGY INDIANA

DUKE ENERGY INDIANA

 Introduction

Management’s Discussion and Analysis should be read in conjunction with the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016.

Basis of Presentation

The results of operations and variance discussion for Duke Energy Indiana is presented in a reduced disclosure format in accordance with General Instruction (I)(2)(a) of Form 10-K.

Results of Operations

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The following table shows the percent changes in GWh sales and average number of customers for Duke Energy Indiana. The below percentages for retail customer classes represent billed sales only. Total sales includes billed and unbilled retail sales and wholesale sales to incorporated municipalities and to public and private utilities and power marketers. Amounts are not weather-normalized.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Year Ended December 31, 2018, as compared to 2017 

Operating Revenues. The variance was driven primarily by:

•a $65 million increase in rate rider revenues primarily related to the Edwardsport IGCC plant and the TDSIC rider;

•a $50 million increase in fuel and other revenues primarily due to higher base fuel, non-native fuel and Midwest Independent System Operator rider revenues;

•a $13 million increase in retail sales, net of fuel revenues, due to favorable weather in the current year; and

•a $13 million increase in weather-normal retail sales volumes.

Partially offset by:

•a $105 million decrease due to revenues subject to refund to customers associated with the lower statutory federal corporate tax rate under the Tax Act; and

•a $27 million decrease in wholesale power revenues, net of fuel, primarily due to contracts that expired in the prior year.

Operating Expenses. The variance was driven primarily by:

•a $62 million increase in depreciation and amortization expense primarily due to additional plant in service and the deferral of certain asset retirement obligations in the prior year;

64

MD&ADUKE ENERGY INDIANA

•a $45 million increase in operation, maintenance and other expense primarily due to amortization of previously deferred expenses, and higher transmission, storm and customer related costs;

•a $34 million increase in fuel used in electric generation and purchased power primarily due to higher natural gas costs; and

•a $12 million increase in impairment charges primarily due to the reduction of a regulatory asset pertaining to the Edwardsport IGCC settlement agreement in the current year, partially offset by the impairment of certain metering equipment in the prior year.

Interest Expense. The variance was primarily due to lower post in-service carrying costs due to three coal ash projects placed in service in December 2017, partially offset by higher intercompany money pool interest expense, higher AFUDC debt balances and higher floating rate debt interest expense.

Income Tax Expense. The variance was primarily due to the lower statutory federal corporate tax rate under the Tax Act. The effective tax rates for the years ended December 31, 2018, and 2017 were 24.6 percent and 46.0 percent, respectively. The decrease in the effective tax rate was primarily due to the lower statutory federal corporate tax rate under the Tax Act and by the impact of the Tax Act in the prior year.

Matters Impacting Future Results

On April 17, 2015, the EPA published in the Federal Register a rule to regulate the disposal of CCR from electric utilities as solid waste. Duke Energy Indiana has interpreted the rule to identify the coal ash basin sites impacted and has assessed the amounts of coal ash subject to the rule and a method of compliance. Duke Energy Indiana's interpretation of the requirements of the CCR rule is subject to potential legal challenges and further regulatory approvals, which could result in additional ash basin closure requirements, higher costs of compliance and greater AROs. Additionally, Duke Energy Indiana has retired facilities that are not subject to the CCR rule. Duke Energy Indiana may incur costs at these facilities to comply with environmental regulations or to mitigate risks associated with on-site storage of coal ash. An order from regulatory authorities disallowing recovery of costs related to closure of ash basins could have an adverse impact on Duke Energy Indiana's results of operations, financial position and cash flows. See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Regulatory Matters,” for additional information.

Within this Item 7, see the Tax Act section above as well as Liquidity and Capital Resources below for discussion of risks associated with the Tax Act.

PIEDMONT

 Introduction

Management’s Discussion and Analysis should be read in conjunction with the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes for the years ended December 31, 2018, and 2017, Piedmont's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended October 31, 2016, and the Form 10-QT as of December 31, 2016, for the transition period from November 1, 2016, to December 31, 2016. The unaudited results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2016, were derived from data previously reported in the reports noted above.

Basis of Presentation

The results of operations and variance discussion for Piedmont is presented in a reduced disclosure format in accordance with General Instruction (I)(2)(a) of Form 10-K.

65

MD&APIEDMONT

Results of Operations

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The following table shows the percent changes in dekatherms delivered and average number of customers. The percentages for all throughput deliveries represent billed and unbilled sales. Amounts are not weather-normalized.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Piedmont's throughput was 557,145,128 dekatherms and 468,259,777 dekatherms for the years ended December 31, 2018, and 2017, respectively. Due to the margin decoupling mechanism in North Carolina and WNA mechanisms in South Carolina and Tennessee, changes in throughput deliveries do not have a material impact on Piedmont's revenues or earnings. The margin decoupling mechanism adjusts for variations in residential and commercial use per customer, including those due to weather and conservation. The WNA mechanisms mostly offset the impact of weather on bills rendered, but do not ensure full recovery of approved margin during periods when winter weather is significantly warmer or colder than normal.

Year Ended December 31, 2018, as compared to 2017 

Operating Revenues. The variance was driven primarily by:

•a $60 million increase primarily due to higher natural gas costs passed through to customers due to higher volumes sold and higher natural gas prices; and

•a $37 million increase primarily due to residential and commercial customer revenue, net of natural gas costs passed through to customers, due to customer growth and IMR rate adjustments and new power generation customers.

Partially offset by:

•a $51 million decrease primarily due to revenues subject to refund to customers associated with the lower statutory corporate tax rate under the Tax Act.

66

MD&APIEDMONT

Operating Expenses. The variance was driven by:

•a $60 million increase in cost of natural gas primarily due to higher volumes sold and higher natural gas costs passed through to customers due to the higher price per dekatherm of natural gas; 

•a $53 million increase in operations, maintenance and other expense primarily due to increased shared services, cost to achieve merger expenses and pension settlement charge; and

•an $11 million increase in depreciation and amortization expense due to additional plant in service.

Partially offset by:

•a $7 million decrease in impairment charges due to an impairment of software recorded in the prior year.

Other Income and Expenses. The variance was driven by:

•a $25 million increase in other income and expenses, net primarily due to higher income from non-service components of employee benefit costs in the current year. For additional information on employee benefit costs, see Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, "Employee Benefit Plans"; and

•a $13 million increase in equity earnings of unconsolidated affiliates from pipeline investments primarily due to favorable earnings partially offset by unfavorable impacts of the Tax Act in the prior year.

Income Tax Expense. The variance was primarily due to the lower statutory federal corporate tax rate under the Tax Act. The effective tax rates for the years ended December 31, 2018, and 2017 were 22.3 percent and 30.8 percent, respectively. The decrease in the effective tax rate was primarily due to the lower statutory federal corporate tax rate under the Tax Act.

Matters Impacting Future Results

Within this Item 7, see the Tax Act section above as well as Liquidity and Capital Resources below for discussion of risks associated with the Tax Act.

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES

Preparation of financial statements requires the application of accounting policies, judgments, assumptions and estimates that can significantly affect the reported results of operations, cash flows or the amounts of assets and liabilities recognized in the financial statements. Judgments made include the likelihood of success of particular projects, possible legal and regulatory challenges, earnings assumptions on pension and other benefit fund investments and anticipated recovery of costs, especially through regulated operations. 

Management discusses these policies, estimates and assumptions with senior members of management on a regular basis and provides periodic updates on management decisions to the Audit Committee. Management believes the areas described below require significant judgment in the application of accounting policy or in making estimates and assumptions that are inherently uncertain and that may change in subsequent periods.

For further information, see Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, "Summary of Significant Accounting Policies."

Regulated Operations Accounting

Substantially all of Duke Energy’s regulated operations meet the criteria for application of regulated operations accounting treatment. As a result, Duke Energy is required to record assets and liabilities that would not be recorded for nonregulated entities. Regulatory assets generally represent incurred costs that have been deferred because such costs are probable of future recovery in customer rates. Regulatory liabilities are recorded when it is probable that a regulator will require Duke Energy to make refunds to customers or reduce rates to customers for previous collections or deferred revenue for costs that have yet to be incurred. 

Management continually assesses whether recorded regulatory assets are probable of future recovery by considering factors such as:

•applicable regulatory environment changes;

•historical regulatory treatment for similar costs in Duke Energy’s jurisdictions;

•litigation of rate orders;

•recent rate orders to other regulated entities;

•levels of actual return on equity compared to approved rates of return on equity; and

•the status of any pending or potential deregulation legislation. 

If future recovery of costs ceases to be probable, asset write-offs would be recognized in operating income. Additionally, regulatory agencies can provide flexibility in the manner and timing of the depreciation of property, plant and equipment, recognition of asset retirement costs and amortization of regulatory assets, or may disallow recovery of all or a portion of certain assets.

As required by regulated operations accounting rules, significant judgment can be required to determine if an otherwise recognizable incurred cost qualifies to be deferred for future recovery as a regulatory asset. Significant judgment can also be required to determine if revenues previously recognized are for entity specific costs that are no longer expected to be incurred or have not yet been incurred and are therefore a regulatory liability.

67

MD&ACRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES

Goodwill Impairment Assessments

Duke Energy performed its annual goodwill impairment tests for all reporting units as of August 31, 2018, and all of the reporting units' estimated fair value of equity substantially exceeded the carrying value of equity, except for the Commercial Renewables reporting units, which recorded impairment charges of $93 million. The fair values of the reporting units were calculated using a weighted combination of the income approach, which estimates fair value based on discounted cash flows, and the market approach, which estimates fair value based on market comparables within the utility and energy industries.

Estimated future cash flows under the income approach are based on Duke Energy’s internal business plan. Significant assumptions used are growth rates, future rates of return expected to result from ongoing rate regulation and discount rates. Management determines the appropriate discount rate for each of its reporting units based on the WACC for each individual reporting unit. The WACC takes into account both the after-tax cost of debt and cost of equity. A major component of the cost of equity is the current risk-free rate on 20-year U.S. Treasury bonds. In the 2018 impairment tests, Duke Energy considered implied WACCs for certain peer companies in determining the appropriate WACC rates to use in its analysis. As each reporting unit has a different risk profile based on the nature of its operations, including factors such as regulation, the WACC for each reporting unit may differ. Accordingly, the WACCs were adjusted, as appropriate, to account for company specific risk premiums. The discount rates used for calculating the fair values as of August 31, 2018, for each of Duke Energy’s reporting units ranged from 5.5 percent to 6.9 percent. The underlying assumptions and estimates are made as of a point in time. Subsequent changes, particularly changes in the discount rates, authorized regulated rates of return or growth rates inherent in management’s estimates of future cash flows, could result in future impairment charges.

One of the most significant assumptions utilized in determining the fair value of reporting units under the market approach is implied market multiples for certain peer companies. Management selects comparable peers based on each peer’s primary business mix, operations, and market capitalization compared to the applicable reporting unit and calculates implied market multiples based on available projected earnings guidance and peer company market values as of August 31.

Duke Energy primarily operates in environments that are rate-regulated. In such environments, revenue requirements are adjusted periodically by regulators based on factors including levels of costs, sales volumes and costs of capital. Accordingly, Duke Energy’s regulated utilities operate to some degree with a buffer from the direct effects, positive or negative, of significant swings in market or economic conditions. However, significant changes in discount rates over a prolonged period may have a material impact on the fair value of equity.

For further information, see Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, "Goodwill and Intangible Assets."

Asset Retirement Obligations

AROs are recognized for legal obligations associated with the retirement of property, plant and equipment at the present value of the projected liability in the period in which it is incurred, if a reasonable estimate of fair value can be made.

The present value of the initial obligation and subsequent updates are based on discounted cash flows, which include estimates regarding timing of future cash flows, selection of discount rates and cost escalation rates, among other factors. These estimates are subject to change. 

Obligations for nuclear decommissioning are based on site-specific cost studies. Duke Energy Carolinas and Duke Energy Progress assume prompt dismantlement of the nuclear facilities after operations are ceased. Duke Energy Florida assumes Crystal River Unit 3 will be placed into a safe storage configuration until eventual dismantlement is completed by 2074. Duke Energy Carolinas, Duke Energy Progress and Duke Energy Florida also assume that spent fuel will be stored on-site until such time that it can be transferred to a yet to be built DOE facility.

Obligations for closure of ash basins are based upon discounted cash flows of estimated costs for site-specific plans, if known, or probability weightings of the potential closure methods if the closure plans are under development and multiple closure options are being considered and evaluated on a site-by-site basis.

For further information, see Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, "Asset Retirement Obligations."

Long-Lived Asset Impairment Assessments, Excluding Regulated Operations

Duke Energy evaluates property, plant and equipment for impairment when events or changes in circumstances (such as a significant change in cash flow projections or the determination that it is more likely than not that an asset or asset group will be sold) indicate the carrying value of such assets may not be recoverable. The determination of whether an impairment has occurred is based on an estimate of undiscounted future cash flows attributable to the assets, as compared with their carrying value.

Performing an impairment evaluation involves a significant degree of estimation and judgment in areas such as identifying circumstances that indicate an impairment may exist, identifying and grouping affected assets and developing the undiscounted future cash flows. If an impairment has occurred, the amount of the impairment recognized is determined by estimating the fair value and recording a loss if the carrying value is greater than the fair value. Additionally, determining fair value requires probability weighting future cash flows to reflect expectations about possible variations in their amounts or timing and the selection of an appropriate discount rate. Although cash flow estimates are based on relevant information available at the time the estimates are made, estimates of future cash flows are, by nature, highly uncertain and may vary significantly from actual results. 

When determining whether an asset or asset group has been impaired, management groups assets at the lowest level that has discrete cash flows.

For further information, see Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, "Property, Plant and Equipment."

68

MD&ACRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES

Equity Method Investments

Equity method investments are assessed for impairment when conditions exist that indicate that the fair value of the investment is less than book value. If the decline in value is considered to be other-than-temporary, an impairment charge is recorded and the investment is written down to its estimated fair value, which establishes a new cost basis in the investment.

Events or changes in circumstances are monitored that may indicate, in management’s judgment, the carrying value of such investments may have experienced an other-than-temporary decline in value. The fair value of equity method investments is generally estimated using an income approach where significant judgments and assumptions include expected future cash flows, the appropriate discount rate, and probability weighted-scenarios, if applicable. In certain instances, a market approach may also be used to estimate the fair value of the equity method investment.

Events or changes in circumstances that may be indicative of an other-than-temporary decline in value will vary by investment, but may include:

•Significant delays in or failure to complete significant growth projects of investees;

•Adverse regulatory actions expected to substantially reduce the investee’s product demand or profitability;

•Expected financial performance significantly worse than anticipated when initially invested;

•Prolonged period the fair value is below carrying value;

•A significant or sustained decline in the market value of an investee;

•Lower than expected cash distributions from investees;

•Significant asset impairments or operating losses recognized by investees; and

•Loss of significant customers or suppliers with no immediate prospects for replacement.

ACP

As of December 31, 2018, the carrying value of the equity method investment in ACP is $0.8 billion, and Duke Energy's maximum exposure to loss for its guarantee of the ACP revolving credit facility is $0.7 billion. During the fourth quarter of 2018, ACP received several adverse court rulings as described in Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, "Regulatory Matters." As a result, Duke Energy evaluated this investment for impairment and determined that fair value approximated carrying value and therefore no impairment was necessary.

Duke Energy estimated the fair value of its investment in ACP using an income approach that primarily considered probability-weighted scenarios of discounted future net cash flows based on the most recent estimate of total construction costs and revenues. These scenarios included assumptions of various court decisions and the impact those decisions may have on the timing and extent of investment, including scenarios assuming the full resolution of permitting issues in addition to a scenario where the project does not proceed. Most of the scenarios reflect phased in-service date assumptions. Certain scenarios within the analysis also included growth expectations from additional compression or other expansion opportunities and reopeners for pricing. A discount rate of 6.1 percent was used in the analysis. Higher probabilities were generally assigned to those scenarios where court approvals were received and the project moves forward under reasonable timelines reflecting interim rates and either current contracted pricing provisions, or prices subject to the reopeners. A very low probability was assigned to the scenario where the project does not proceed.

Judgments and assumptions are inherent in our estimates of future cash flows, discount rates, growth assumptions, and the likelihood of various scenarios. It is reasonably possible that future unfavorable developments, such as a reduced likelihood of success with court approvals, increased estimates of construction costs, material increases in the discount rate, important feedback on customer price increases or further significant delays, could result in a future impairment. The use of alternate judgments and assumptions could result in a different calculation of fair value, which could ultimately result in the recognition of an impairment charge in the consolidated financial statements.

For further information, see Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Investments in Unconsolidated Affiliates.”

Pension and Other Post-Retirement Benefits

The calculation of pension expense, other post-retirement benefit expense and net pension and other post-retirement assets or liabilities require the use of assumptions and election of permissible accounting alternatives. Changes in assumptions can result in different expense and reported asset or liability amounts and future actual experience can differ from the assumptions. Duke Energy believes the most critical assumptions for pension and other post-retirement benefits are:

•the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets;

•the assumed discount rate applied to future projected benefit payments; and 

•the heath care cost trend rate.

Duke Energy elects to amortize net actuarial gain or loss amounts that are in excess of 10 percent of the greater of the market-related value of plan assets or the plan's projected benefit obligation, into net pension or other post-retirement benefit expense over the average remaining service period of active participants expected to benefit under the plan. If all or almost all of a plan's participants are inactive, the average remaining life expectancy of the inactive participants is used instead of average remaining service period. Prior service cost or credit, which represents an increase or decrease in a plan's pension benefit obligation resulting from plan amendment, is amortized on a straight-line basis over the average expected remaining service period of active participants expected to benefit under the plan. If all or almost all of a plan's participants are inactive, the average remaining life expectancy of the inactive participants is used instead of average remaining service period.

69

MD&ACRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES

As of December 31, 2018, Duke Energy assumes pension and other post-retirement plan assets will generate a long-term rate of return of 6.85 percent. The expected long-term rate of return was developed using a weighted average calculation of expected returns based primarily on future expected returns across asset classes considering the use of active asset managers, where applicable. The asset allocation targets were set after considering the investment objective and the risk profile. Equity securities are held for their higher expected returns. Debt securities are primarily held to hedge the qualified pension liability. Real assets, return-seeking fixed income, hedge funds and other global securities are held for diversification. Investments within asset classes are diversified to achieve broad market participation and reduce the impact of individual managers on investments. 

Duke Energy discounted its future U.S. pension and other post-retirement obligations using a rate of 4.3 percent as of December 31, 2018. Discount rates used to measure benefit plan obligations for financial reporting purposes reflect rates at which pension benefits could be effectively settled. As of December 31, 2018, Duke Energy determined its discount rate for U.S. pension and other post-retirement obligations using a bond selection-settlement portfolio approach. This approach develops a discount rate by selecting a portfolio of high quality corporate bonds that generate sufficient cash flow to provide for projected benefit payments of the plan. The selected bond portfolio is derived from a universe of non-callable corporate bonds rated Aa quality or higher. After the bond portfolio is selected, a single interest rate is determined that equates the present value of the plan’s projected benefit payments discounted at this rate with the market value of the bonds selected.

Future changes in plan asset returns, assumed discount rates and various other factors related to the participants in Duke Energy’s pension and post-retirement plans will impact future pension expense and liabilities. Duke Energy cannot predict with certainty what these factors will be in the future. The following table presents the approximate effect on Duke Energy’s 2018 pretax pension expense, pretax other post-retirement expense, pension obligation and other post-retirement benefit obligation if a 0.25 percent change in rates were to occur.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Duke Energy’s other post-retirement plan uses a health care cost trend rate covering both pre- and post-age 65 retired plan participants, which is comprised of a medical care cost trend rate, which reflects the near- and long-term expectation of increases in medical costs, and a prescription drug cost trend rate, which reflects the near- and long-term expectation of increases in prescription drug costs. As of December 31, 2018, the health care cost trend rate was 6.5 percent, trending down to 4.75 percent by 2024. The following table presents the approximate effect on Duke Energy’s 2018 pretax other post-retirement expense and other post-retirement benefit obligation if a 1 percentage point change in the health care cost trend rate were to occur. These plans are closed to new employees. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

For further information, see Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Employee Benefit Plans.”

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

Sources and Uses of Cash

Duke Energy relies primarily upon cash flows from operations, debt and equity issuances and its existing cash and cash equivalents to fund its liquidity and capital requirements. Duke Energy’s capital requirements arise primarily from capital and investment expenditures, repaying long-term debt and paying dividends to shareholders. 

Among other provisions, the Tax Act lowers the corporate federal income tax rate from 35 to 21 percent and eliminates bonus depreciation for regulated utilities. For Duke Energy’s regulated operations, the reduction in federal income taxes is expected to result in lower regulated customer rates. However, due to its existing NOL position and other tax credits, Duke Energy does not expect to be a significant federal cash tax payer through at least 2022. As a result, any reduction in customer rates could cause a material reduction in consolidated cash flows from operations in the short term. Over time, the reduction in deferred tax liabilities resulting from the Tax Act will increase Duke Energy’s regulated rate base investments and customer rates. Impacts of Tax Act to Duke Energy’s cash flows and credit metrics are subject to the regulatory actions of its state commissions and the FERC. See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Regulatory Matters,” for additional information.

The Subsidiary Registrants generally maintain minimal cash balances and use short-term borrowings to meet their working capital needs and other cash requirements. The Subsidiary Registrants, excluding Progress Energy (Parent), support their short-term borrowing needs through participation with Duke Energy and certain of its other subsidiaries in a money pool arrangement. The companies with short-term funds may provide short-term loans to affiliates participating under this arrangement. See Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Debt and Credit Facilities,” for additional discussion of the money pool arrangement.

70

MD&ALIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

Duke Energy and the Subsidiary Registrants, excluding Progress Energy (Parent), may also use short-term debt, including commercial paper and the money pool, as a bridge to long-term debt financings. The levels of borrowing may vary significantly over the course of the year due to the timing of long-term debt financings and the impact of fluctuations in cash flows from operations. From time to time, Duke Energy’s current liabilities exceed current assets resulting from the use of short-term debt as a funding source to meet scheduled maturities of long-term debt, as well as cash needs, which can fluctuate due to the seasonality of its businesses.

Equity Issuance

In order to strengthen its balance sheet and credit metrics and bolster cash flows, Duke Energy plans to issue $500 million of common stock equity per year through 2023 through the DRIP and ATM programs. See Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, "Common Stock," for further information regarding Duke Energy's equity issuances in 2018.

Credit Facilities and Registration Statements

See Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, "Debt and Credit Facilities," for further information regarding credit facilities and shelf registration statements available to Duke Energy and the Duke Energy Registrants. 

CAPITAL EXPENDITURES

Duke Energy continues to focus on reducing risk and positioning its business for future success and will invest principally in its strongest business sectors. Duke Energy’s projected capital and investment expenditures, including debt AFUDC and capitalized interest, for the next three fiscal years are included in the table below.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

DEBT MATURITIES

See Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, "Debt and Credit Facilities," for further information regarding significant components of Current Maturities of Long-Term Debt on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. 

DIVIDEND PAYMENTS

In 2018, Duke Energy paid quarterly cash dividends for the 92nd consecutive year and expects to continue its policy of paying regular cash dividends in the future. There is no assurance as to the amount of future dividends because they depend on future earnings, capital requirements, financial condition and are subject to the discretion of the Board of Directors.

Duke Energy targets a dividend payout ratio of between 65 and 75 percent, based upon adjusted diluted EPS, and expects this trend to continue through 2023. In 2017 and 2018, Duke Energy increased the dividend by approximately 4 percent annually, and the company remains committed to continued growth of the dividend. 

Dividend and Other Funding Restrictions of Duke Energy Subsidiaries

As discussed in Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Regulatory Matters,” Duke Energy’s wholly owned public utility operating companies have restrictions on the amount of funds that can be transferred to Duke Energy through dividends, advances or loans as a result of conditions imposed by various regulators in conjunction with merger transactions. Duke Energy Progress and Duke Energy Florida also have restrictions imposed by their first mortgage bond indentures and Articles of Incorporation, which in certain circumstances, limit their ability to make cash dividends or distributions on common stock. Additionally, certain other Duke Energy subsidiaries have other restrictions, such as minimum working capital and tangible net worth requirements pursuant to debt and other agreements that limit the amount of funds that can be transferred to Duke Energy. At December 31, 2018, the amount of restricted net assets of wholly owned subsidiaries of Duke Energy that may not be distributed to Duke Energy in the form of a loan or dividend does not exceed a material amount of Duke Energy’s net assets. Duke Energy does not have any legal or other restrictions on paying common stock dividends to shareholders out of its consolidated equity accounts. Although these restrictions cap the amount of funding the various operating subsidiaries can provide to Duke Energy, management does not believe these restrictions will have a significant impact on Duke Energy’s ability to access cash to meet its payment of dividends on common stock and other future funding obligations.

71

MD&ALIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES

Cash flows from operations of Electric Utilities and Infrastructure and Gas Utilities and Infrastructure are primarily driven by sales of electricity and natural gas, respectively, and costs of operations. These cash flows from operations are relatively stable and comprise a substantial portion of Duke Energy’s operating cash flows. Weather conditions, working capital and commodity price fluctuations and unanticipated expenses including unplanned plant outages, storms, legal costs and related settlements can affect the timing and level of cash flows from operations.

Duke Energy believes it has sufficient liquidity resources through the commercial paper markets, and ultimately, the Master Credit Facility, to support these operations. Cash flows from operations are subject to a number of other factors, including, but not limited to, regulatory constraints, economic trends and market volatility (see Item 1A, “Risk Factors,” for additional information).

At December 31, 2018, Duke Energy had cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments of $442 million.

DEBT ISSUANCES

Depending on availability based on the issuing entity, the credit rating of the issuing entity, and market conditions, the Subsidiary Registrants prefer to issue first mortgage bonds and secured debt, followed by unsecured debt. This preference is the result of generally higher credit ratings for first mortgage bonds and secured debt, which typically result in lower interest costs. Duke Energy Corporation primarily issues unsecured debt.

In 2019, Duke Energy anticipates issuing additional debt of $7.5 billion, primarily for the purpose of funding capital expenditures and debt maturities. See to Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, "Debt and Credit Facilities," for further information regarding significant debt issuances in 2018.

Duke Energy’s capitalization is balanced between debt and equity as shown in the table below. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Restrictive Debt Covenants

Duke Energy’s debt and credit agreements contain various financial and other covenants. Duke Energy's Master Credit Facility contains a covenant requiring the debt-to-total capitalization ratio to not exceed 65 percent for each borrower, excluding Piedmont, and 70 percent for Piedmont. Failure to meet those covenants beyond applicable grace periods could result in accelerated due dates and/or termination of the agreements or sublimits thereto. As of December 31, 2018, each of the Duke Energy Registrants was in compliance with all covenants related to their debt agreements. In addition, some credit agreements may allow for acceleration of payments or termination of the agreements due to nonpayment, or acceleration of other significant indebtedness of the borrower or some of its subsidiaries. None of the debt or credit agreements contain material adverse change clauses.

72

MD&ALIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

Credit Ratings

Moody’s, S&P and Fitch Ratings, Inc. provide credit ratings for various Duke Energy Registrants. The following table includes Duke Energy and certain subsidiaries’ credit ratings and ratings outlook as of February 2019.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Credit ratings are intended to provide credit lenders a framework for comparing the credit quality of securities and are not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold. The Duke Energy Registrants’ credit ratings are dependent on the rating agencies’ assessments of their ability to meet their debt principal and interest obligations when they come due. If, as a result of market conditions or other factors, the Duke Energy Registrants are unable to maintain current balance sheet strength, or if earnings and cash flow outlook materially deteriorates, credit ratings could be negatively impacted.

Cash Flow Information

The following table summarizes Duke Energy’s cash flows for the three most recently completed fiscal years.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

73

MD&ALIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

OPERATING CASH FLOWS

The following table summarizes key components of Duke Energy’s operating cash flows for the three most recently completed fiscal years.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

For the year ended December 31, 2018, compared to 2017, the variance was driven primarily by:

•a $684 million increase in net income after adjustment for non-cash items primarily due to favorable weather and increased pricing and volumes in the current period; and

•a $38 million decrease in payments to AROs.

Offset by:

•a $122 million increase in contributions to qualified pension plans; and

•a $105 million payment for disposal of Beckjord.

For the year ended December 31, 2017, compared to 2016, the variance was driven primarily by:

•a $1,381 million decrease in working capital due to weather, payment of merger transaction and integration related costs and increased property tax payments in 2017.

Offset by:

•a $969 million increase in net income after non-cash adjustments primarily due to the inclusion of Piedmont's earnings for a full year, favorable pricing and weather-normal retail volumes driven by the residential class in the Electric Utilities and Infrastructure segment combined with continued strong cost control;

•a $136 million decrease in contributions to qualified pension plans; and

•a $37 million decrease in payments to AROs.

INVESTING CASH FLOWS

The following table summarizes key components of Duke Energy’s investing cash flows for the three most recently completed fiscal years.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

74

MD&ALIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

The primary use of cash related to investing activities is capital, investment and acquisition expenditures, detailed by reportable business segment in the following table.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

For the year ended December 31, 2018, compared to 2017, the variance was driven primarily by:

•a $1,470 million increase in capital, investment and acquisition expenditures in all reportable business segments, including expenditures related to W.S. Lee CC, Asheville and Citrus County CC at Duke Energy Carolinas, Duke Energy Progress and Duke Energy Florida, respectively.

For the year ended December 31, 2017, compared to 2016, the variance was driven primarily by:

•a $5,017 million decrease in capital, investment and acquisition expenditures mainly due to the Piedmont acquisition in the prior year.

Partially offset by:

•a $1,418 million decrease in net proceeds from sales of discontinued operations due to the prior year sale of the International business.

FINANCING CASH FLOWS

The following table summarizes key components of Duke Energy’s financing cash flows for the three most recently completed fiscal years.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

For the year ended December 31, 2018, compared to 2017, the variance was driven primarily by:

•a $1,838 million increase in proceeds from the issuance of common stock; and

•a $1,533 million increase in net borrowings from notes payable and commercial paper primarily due to increased funding requirements for capital expenditures and storm costs.

Partially offset by:

•a $2,200 million net decrease in proceeds from issuances of long-term debt primarily due to timing related to refinancing of existing maturities, fund growth and general corporate needs. 

For the year ended December 31, 2017, compared to 2016, the variance was driven primarily by:

•a $2,722 million net decrease in proceeds from issuances of long-term debt driven principally by the prior year $3,750 million of senior unsecured notes used to fund a portion of the Piedmont acquisition, offset primarily by $900 million of first mortgage bonds issued by Duke Energy Florida in the current year to fund capital expenditures for ongoing construction and capital maintenance and for general corporate purposes;

•a $731 million decrease in proceeds from stock issuances used to fund a portion of the Piedmont acquisition in 2016; and

•a $118 million current year increase in dividends paid.

Partially offset by:

•a $1,085 million decrease in net borrowings from notes payable and commercial paper primarily due to the use of proceeds from $1,294 million nuclear asset-recovery bonds issued at Duke Energy Florida in 2016 to pay down outstanding commercial paper.

75

MD&AOFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS AND CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

Duke Energy and certain of its subsidiaries enter into guarantee arrangements in the normal course of business to facilitate commercial transactions with third parties. These arrangements include performance guarantees, standby letters of credit, debt guarantees, surety bonds and indemnifications.

Most of the guarantee arrangements entered into by Duke Energy enhance the credit standing of certain subsidiaries, non-consolidated entities or less than wholly owned entities, enabling them to conduct business. As such, these guarantee arrangements involve elements of performance and credit risk, which are not always included on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. The possibility of Duke Energy, either on its own or on behalf of Spectra Energy Capital, LLC (Spectra Capital) through indemnification agreements entered into as part of the January 2, 2007, spin-off of Spectra Energy Corp, having to honor its contingencies is largely dependent upon the future operations of the subsidiaries, investees and other third parties, or the occurrence of certain future events.

Duke Energy performs ongoing assessments of its respective guarantee obligations to determine whether any liabilities have been incurred as a result of potential increased non-performance risk by third parties for which Duke Energy has issued guarantees. See Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Guarantees and Indemnifications,” for further details of the guarantee arrangements. Issuance of these guarantee arrangements is not required for the majority of Duke Energy’s operations. Thus, if Duke Energy discontinued issuing these guarantees, there would not be a material impact to the consolidated results of operations, cash flows or financial position.

Other than the guarantee arrangements discussed above, normal operating lease arrangements and off-balance sheet debt related to non-consolidated VIEs, Duke Energy does not have any material off-balance sheet financing entities or structures. For additional information, see Notes 5 and 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Commitments and Contingencies" and "Variable Interest Entities," respectively.

Contractual Obligations

Duke Energy enters into contracts that require payment of cash at certain specified periods, based on certain specified minimum quantities and prices. The following table summarizes Duke Energy’s contractual cash obligations as of December 31, 2018.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a)See Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Debt and Credit Facilities.”

(b)Interest payments on variable rate debt instruments were calculated using December 31, 2018, interest rates and holding them constant for the life of the instruments.

(c)See Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Commitments and Contingencies.” Amounts in the table above include the interest component of capital leases based on the interest rates stated in the lease agreements and exclude certain related executory costs. Amounts exclude contingent lease obligations.

(d)Current liabilities, except for current maturities of long-term debt, and purchase obligations reflected on the Consolidated Balance Sheets have been excluded from the above table.

(e)Includes firm capacity payments that provide Duke Energy with uninterrupted firm access to electricity transmission capacity and natural gas transportation contracts, as well as undesignated contracts and contracts that qualify as NPNS. For contracts where the price paid is based on an index, the amount is based on market prices at December 31, 2018, or the best projections of the index. For certain of these amounts, Duke Energy may settle on a net cash basis since Duke Energy has entered into payment netting arrangements with counterparties that permit Duke Energy to offset receivables and payables with such counterparties.

(f)Amounts exclude obligations under the OVEC purchase power agreement. See Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, "Variable Interest Entities," for additional information.

(g)Includes contracts for software, telephone, data and consulting or advisory services. Amount also includes contractual obligations for EPC costs for new generation plants, wind and solar facilities, plant refurbishments, maintenance and day-to-day contract work and commitments to buy certain products. Amount excludes certain open purchase orders for services that are provided on demand, for which the timing of the purchase cannot be determined.

(h)Related to future annual funding obligations to NDTF through nuclear power stations' relicensing dates. See Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, "Asset Retirement Obligations."

(i)Related to Commercial Renewables wind and solar facilities.

76

MD&AOFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS AND CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(k)The table above excludes reserves for litigation, environmental remediation, asbestos-related injuries and damages claims and self-insurance claims (see Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Commitments and Contingencies”) because Duke Energy is uncertain as to the timing and amount of cash payments that will be required. Additionally, the table above excludes annual insurance premiums that are necessary to operate the business, including nuclear insurance (see Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Commitments and Contingencies”), funding of pension and other post-retirement benefit plans (see Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, "Employee Benefit Plans"), AROs, including ash management expenditures (see Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, "Asset Retirement Obligations") and regulatory liabilities (see Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Regulatory Matters”) because the amount and timing of the cash payments are uncertain. Also excluded are Deferred Income Taxes and ITCs recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheets since cash payments for income taxes are determined based primarily on taxable income for each discrete fiscal year. 

QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

Risk Management Policies

The Enterprise Risk Management policy framework at Duke Energy includes strategy, operational, project execution and financial or transaction related risks. Enterprise Risk Management includes market risk as part of the financial and transaction related risks in its framework. 

Duke Energy is exposed to market risks associated with commodity prices, interest rates and equity prices. Duke Energy has established comprehensive risk management policies to monitor and manage these market risks. Duke Energy’s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer are responsible for the overall approval of market risk management policies and the delegation of approval and authorization levels. The Finance and Risk Management Committee of the Board of Directors receives periodic updates from the Chief Risk Officer and other members of management on market risk positions, corporate exposures and overall risk management activities. The Chief Risk Officer is responsible for the overall governance of managing commodity price risk, including monitoring exposure limits.

The following disclosures about market risk contain forward-looking statements that involve estimates, projections, goals, forecasts, assumptions, risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results or outcomes to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements. See Item 1A, “Risk Factors,” and “Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Information” for a discussion of the factors that may impact any such forward-looking statements made herein.

Commodity Price Risk

Duke Energy is exposed to the impact of market fluctuations in the prices of electricity, coal, natural gas and other energy-related products marketed and purchased as a result of its ownership of energy-related assets. Duke Energy’s exposure to these fluctuations is limited by the cost-based regulation of its regulated operations as these operations are typically allowed to recover substantially all of these costs through various cost-recovery clauses, including fuel clauses, formula based contracts, or other cost-sharing mechanisms. While there may be a delay in timing between when these costs are incurred and when they are recovered through rates, changes from year to year generally do not have a material impact on operating results of these regulated operations.

Price risk represents the potential risk of loss from adverse changes in the market price of electricity or other energy commodities. Duke Energy’s exposure to commodity price risk is influenced by a number of factors, including contract size, length, market liquidity, location and unique or specific contract terms. Duke Energy employs established policies and procedures to manage risks associated with these market fluctuations, which may include using various commodity derivatives, such as swaps, futures, forwards and options. For additional information, see Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Derivatives and Hedging.”

The inputs and methodologies used to determine the fair value of contracts are validated by an internal group separate from Duke Energy’s deal origination function. While Duke Energy uses common industry practices to develop its valuation techniques, changes in its pricing methodologies or the underlying assumptions could result in significantly different fair values and income recognition.

Hedging Strategies

Duke Energy closely monitors risks associated with commodity price changes on its future operations and, where appropriate, uses various commodity instruments such as electricity, coal and natural gas forward contracts and options to mitigate the effect of such fluctuations on operations. Duke Energy’s primary use of energy commodity derivatives is to hedge against exposure to the prices of power, fuel for generation and natural gas for customers.

The majority of instruments used to manage Duke Energy’s commodity price exposure are either not designated as hedges or do not qualify for hedge accounting. These instruments are referred to as undesignated contracts. Mark-to-market changes for undesignated contracts entered into by regulated businesses are reflected as regulatory assets or liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Undesignated contracts entered into by unregulated businesses are marked-to-market each period, with changes in the fair value of the derivative instruments reflected in earnings.

Duke Energy may also enter into other contracts that qualify for the NPNS exception. When a contract meets the criteria to qualify as NPNS, Duke Energy applies such exception. Income recognition and realization related to NPNS contracts generally coincide with the physical delivery of the commodity. For contracts qualifying for the NPNS exception, no recognition of the contract’s fair value in the Consolidated Financial Statements is required until settlement of the contract as long as the transaction remains probable of occurring.

77

MD&AQUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

Generation Portfolio Risks 

The Duke Energy Registrants optimize the value of their generation portfolios, which include generation assets, fuel and emission allowances. Modeled forecasts of future generation output and fuel requirements are based on forward power and fuel markets. The component pieces of the portfolio are bought and sold based on models and forecasts of generation in order to manage the economic value of the portfolio in accordance with the strategies of the business units. 

For the Electric Utilities and Infrastructure segment, the generation portfolio not utilized to serve retail operations or committed load is subject to commodity price fluctuations. However, the impact on the Consolidated Statements of Operations is partially offset by mechanisms in these regulated jurisdictions that result in the sharing of net profits from these activities with retail customers. 

Interest Rate Risk

Duke Energy is exposed to risk resulting from changes in interest rates as a result of its issuance or anticipated issuance of variable and fixed-rate debt and commercial paper. Duke Energy manages interest rate exposure by limiting variable-rate exposures to a percentage of total debt and by monitoring the effects of market changes in interest rates. Duke Energy also enters into financial derivative instruments, which may include instruments such as, but not limited to, interest rate swaps, swaptions and U.S. Treasury lock agreements to manage and mitigate interest rate risk exposure. See Notes 1, 6, 14 and 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies,” “Debt and Credit Facilities,” “Derivatives and Hedging,” and “Fair Value Measurements.”

At December 31, 2018, Duke Energy had $1.2 billion of U.S. treasury lock agreements, $644 million notional amount of floating-to-fixed swaps outstanding, $500 million notional amount of fixed-to-floating swaps outstanding and $300 million forward-starting swaps outstanding. Duke Energy had $8.0 billion of unhedged long- and short-term floating interest rate exposure at December 31, 2018. The impact of a 100 basis point change in interest rates on pretax income is approximately $80 million at December 31, 2018. This amount was estimated by considering the impact of the hypothetical interest rates on variable-rate securities outstanding, adjusted for interest rate hedges as of December 31, 2018.

See Note 14, "Derivatives and Hedging," to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information about the forward-starting interest rate swaps related to the Piedmont acquisition.

Credit Risk

Credit risk represents the loss that the Duke Energy Registrants would incur if a counterparty fails to perform under its contractual obligations. Where exposed to credit risk, the Duke Energy Registrants analyze the counterparty's financial condition prior to entering into an agreement and monitor exposure on an ongoing basis. The Duke Energy Registrants establish credit limits where appropriate in the context of contractual arrangements and monitor such limits. 

To reduce credit exposure, the Duke Energy Registrants seek to include netting provisions with counterparties, which permit the offset of receivables and payables with such counterparties. The Duke Energy Registrants also frequently use master agreements with credit support annexes to further mitigate certain credit exposures. The master agreements provide for a counterparty to post cash or letters of credit to the exposed party for exposure in excess of an established threshold. The threshold amount represents a negotiated unsecured credit limit for each party to the agreement, determined in accordance with the Duke Energy Registrants’ internal corporate credit practices and standards. Collateral agreements generally also provide that the inability to post collateral is sufficient cause to terminate contracts and liquidate all positions. 

The Duke Energy Registrants also obtain cash or letters of credit from certain counterparties to provide credit support outside of collateral agreements, where appropriate, based on a financial analysis of the counterparty and the regulatory or contractual terms and conditions applicable to each transaction. See Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Derivatives and Hedging,” for additional information regarding credit risk related to derivative instruments. 

The Duke Energy Registrants’ principal counterparties for its electric and natural gas businesses are regional transmission organizations, distribution companies, municipalities, electric cooperatives and utilities located throughout the U.S. The Duke Energy Registrants have concentrations of receivables from such entities throughout these regions. These concentrations of receivables may affect the Duke Energy Registrants’ overall credit risk in that risk factors can negatively impact the credit quality of the entire sector. 

The Duke Energy Registrants are also subject to credit risk from transactions with their suppliers that involve prepayments in conjunction with outsourcing arrangements, major construction projects and certain commodity purchases. The Duke Energy Registrants’ credit exposure to such suppliers may take the form of increased costs or project delays in the event of non-performance. The Duke Energy Registrants' frequently require guarantees or letters of credit from suppliers to mitigate this credit risk.

Credit risk associated with the Duke Energy Registrants’ service to residential, commercial and industrial customers is generally limited to outstanding accounts receivable. The Duke Energy Registrants mitigate this credit risk by requiring customers to provide a cash deposit, letter of credit or surety bond until a satisfactory payment history is established, subject to the rules and regulations in effect in each retail jurisdiction, at which time the deposit is typically refunded. Charge-offs for retail customers have historically been insignificant to the operations of the Duke Energy Registrants and are typically recovered through retail rates. Management continually monitors customer charge-offs and payment patterns to ensure the adequacy of bad debt reserves. Duke Energy Ohio and Duke Energy Indiana sell certain of their accounts receivable and related collections through CRC, a Duke Energy consolidated variable interest entity. Losses on collection are first absorbed by the equity of CRC and next by the subordinated retained interests held by Duke Energy Ohio, Duke Energy Kentucky and Duke Energy Indiana. See Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Variable Interest Entities.” Duke Energy also provides certain non-tariff services, primarily to large commercial and industrial customers, in which incurred costs are intended to be recovered from the individual customer and therefore are not subject to rate recovery in the event of customer default. Customer credit worthiness is assessed prior to entering into these transactions.

78

MD&AQUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

Duke Energy’s Commercial Renewables business segment enters into long-term agreements with certain creditworthy buyers that may not include the right to call for collateral in the event of a credit rating downgrade, and is therefore exposed to market price risk and credit risk related to these agreements. Credit concentration exists to certain counterparties on these agreements.

Duke Energy Carolinas has third-party insurance to cover certain losses related to asbestos-related injuries and damages above an aggregate self-insured retention. See Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, "Commitments and Contingencies" for information on asbestos-related injuries and damages claims.

The Duke Energy Registrants also have credit risk exposure through issuance of performance and financial guarantees, letters of credit and surety bonds on behalf of less than wholly owned entities and third parties. Where the Duke Energy Registrants have issued these guarantees, it is possible that they could be required to perform under these guarantee obligations in the event the obligor under the guarantee fails to perform. Where the Duke Energy Registrants have issued guarantees related to assets or operations that have been disposed of via sale, they attempt to secure indemnification from the buyer against all future performance obligations under the guarantees. See Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Guarantees and Indemnifications,” for further information on guarantees issued by the Duke Energy Registrants. 

Based on the Duke Energy Registrants’ policies for managing credit risk, their exposures and their credit and other reserves, the Duke Energy Registrants do not currently anticipate a materially adverse effect on their consolidated financial position or results of operations as a result of non-performance by any counterparty. 

Marketable Securities Price Risk

As described further in Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Investments in Debt and Equity Securities,” Duke Energy invests in debt and equity securities as part of various investment portfolios to fund certain obligations. The vast majority of investments in equity securities are within the NDTF and assets of the various pension and other post-retirement benefit plans.

Pension Plan Assets

Duke Energy maintains investments to facilitate funding the costs of providing non-contributory defined benefit retirement and other post-retirement benefit plans. These investments are exposed to price fluctuations in equity markets and changes in interest rates. The equity securities held in these pension plans are diversified to achieve broad market participation and reduce the impact of any single investment, sector or geographic region. Duke Energy has established asset allocation targets for its pension plan holdings, which take into consideration the investment objectives and the risk profile with respect to the trust in which the assets are held. See Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Employee Benefit Plans,” for additional information regarding investment strategy of pension plan assets.

A significant decline in the value of plan asset holdings could require Duke Energy to increase funding of its pension plans in future periods, which could adversely affect cash flows in those periods. Additionally, a decline in the fair value of plan assets, absent additional cash contributions to the plan, could increase the amount of pension cost required to be recorded in future periods, which could adversely affect Duke Energy’s results of operations in those periods.

Nuclear Decommissioning Trust Funds

As required by the NRC, NCUC, PSCSC and FPSC, subsidiaries of Duke Energy maintain trust funds to fund the costs of nuclear decommissioning. As of December 31, 2018, these funds were invested primarily in domestic and international equity securities, debt securities, cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments. Per the NRC, Internal Revenue Code, NCUC, PSCSC and FPSC requirements, these funds may be used only for activities related to nuclear decommissioning. These investments are exposed to price fluctuations in equity markets and changes in interest rates. Duke Energy actively monitors its portfolios by benchmarking the performance of its investments against certain indices and by maintaining, and periodically reviewing, target allocation percentages for various asset classes. 

Accounting for nuclear decommissioning recognizes that costs are recovered through retail and wholesale rates; therefore, fluctuations in investment prices do not materially affect the Consolidated Statements of Operations, as changes in the fair value of these investments are primarily deferred as regulatory assets or regulatory liabilities pursuant to Orders by the NCUC, PSCSC, FPSC and FERC. Earnings or losses of the fund will ultimately impact the amount of costs recovered through retail and wholesale rates. See Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Asset Retirement Obligations,” for additional information regarding nuclear decommissioning costs. See Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Investments in Debt and Equity Securities,” for additional information regarding NDTF assets.

OTHER MATTERS

Environmental Regulations

The Duke Energy Registrants are subject to federal, state and local regulations regarding air and water quality, hazardous and solid waste disposal and other environmental matters. These regulations can be changed from time to time and result in new obligations of the Duke Energy Registrants.

The following sections outline various proposed and recently enacted legislation and regulations that may impact the Duke Energy Registrants. Refer to Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, "Regulatory Matters," for further information regarding potential plant retirements and regulatory filings related to the Duke Energy Registrants.

79

MD&AOTHER MATTERS

Coal Combustion Residuals

In April 2015, EPA published a rule to regulate the disposal of CCR from electric utilities as solid waste. The federal regulation classifies CCR as nonhazardous waste and allows for beneficial use of CCR with some restrictions. The regulation applies to all new and existing landfills, new and existing surface impoundments receiving CCR and existing surface impoundments that are no longer receiving CCR but contain liquid located at stations currently generating electricity (regardless of fuel source). The rule establishes requirements regarding landfill design, structural integrity design and assessment criteria for surface impoundments, groundwater monitoring, protection and remedial procedures and other operational and reporting procedures to ensure the safe disposal and management of CCR. Various industry and environmental parties have appealed EPA's CCR rule in the D.C. Circuit Court. On April 18, 2016, EPA filed a motion with the federal court to settle five issues raised in litigation. On June 14, 2016, the court approved the motion with respect to all of those issues. Duke Energy does not expect a material impact from the settlement or that it will result in additional ARO adjustments. On September 13, 2017, EPA responded to a petition by the Utility Solid Waste Activities Group that the agency would reconsider certain provisions of the final rule, and asked the D.C. Circuit Court to suspend the litigation. The D.C. Circuit Court denied EPA’s petition to suspend the litigation and oral argument was held on November 20, 2017. On August 21, 2018, the D.C. Circuit issued its decision in the CCR rule litigation denying relief for industry petitioners' remaining claims and ruling in favor of environmental petitioners on a number of their challenges, including the regulation of inactive CCR surface impoundments at retired plants and the continued operation of unlined impoundments. 

On March 15, 2018, EPA published proposed amendments to the federal CCR rule, including revisions that were required as part of a CCR litigation settlement, as well as changes that the agency considers warranted due to the passage of the Water Infrastructure Improvements for the Nation Act, which provides statutory authority for state and federal permit programs. On July 17, 2018, EPA issued a rule (Phase 1, Part 1) finalizing certain, but not all, elements included in the agency's March 15, 2018, proposal. The final rule revises certain closure deadlines and groundwater protection standards in the CCR rule. It does not change the primary requirements for groundwater monitoring, corrective action, inspections and maintenance, and closure, and thus does not materially affect Duke Energy’s coal ash basin closure plans or compliance obligations under the CCR rule. On October 22, 2018, a coalition of environmental groups filed a petition for review in the D.C. Circuit Court challenging EPA's final Phase 1, Part 1 revisions to the CCR rule. Briefing in the case concluded in February 2019.

In addition to the requirements of the federal CCR regulation, CCR landfills and surface impoundments will continue to be independently regulated by most states. Cost recovery for future expenditures will be pursued through the normal ratemaking process with federal and state utility commissions and via wholesale contracts, which permit recovery of necessary and prudently incurred costs associated with Duke Energy’s regulated operations. For more information, see Notes 4 and 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, "Regulatory Matters" and "Asset Retirement Obligations," respectively. 

Coal Ash Management Act of 2014

AROs recorded on the Duke Energy Carolinas and Duke Energy Progress Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2018, and December 31, 2017, include the legal obligation for closure of coal ash basins and the disposal of related ash as a result of the Coal Ash Act, the EPA CCR rule and other agreements. The Coal Ash Act includes a variance procedure for compliance deadlines and other issues surrounding the management of CCR and CCR surface impoundments and prohibits cost recovery in customer rates for unlawful discharge of ash impoundment waters occurring after January 1, 2014. The Coal Ash Act leaves the decision on cost recovery determinations related to closure of ash impoundments to the normal ratemaking processes before utility regulatory commissions. 

Consistent with the requirements of the Coal Ash Act, Duke Energy has submitted comprehensive site assessments and groundwater corrective plans to NCDEQ and will submit to NCDEQ site-specific coal ash impoundment closure plans in advance of closure. In support of these closure plans, on November 15, 2018, Duke Energy submitted options analyses, groundwater modeling and net environmental benefits analyses for six sites potentially eligible for closure by cap in place. Separately, on November 16, 2018, Duke Energy submitted a variance application requesting that NCDEQ grant a six-month extension to the closure deadline applicable to the CCR surface impoundments at the Sutton Plant. NCDEQ held a public meeting on January 14, 2019 at which it announced that an extension would be appropriate. A final decision on the variance application is expected by April 15, 2019.

80

MD&AOTHER MATTERS

The current plans for each site are listed in the table below.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a)In November 2018, the closure deadline for these basins was extended to December 31, 2029 as a result of the completion of certain dam improvement projects and alternative drinking water source projects by October 15, 2018.

(b)The Coal Ash Act requires the installation and operation of three large-scale coal ash beneficiation projects to produce reprocessed ash for use in the concrete industry. Duke Energy has selected the Buck, H.F. Lee and Cape Fear plants for these projects. Closure at these sites is required to be completed no later than December 31, 2029.

For further information on ash basins and recovery, see Notes 4 and 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, "Regulatory Matters" and “Asset Retirement Obligations,” respectively.

Estimated Cost and Impacts of Rulemakings

Duke Energy will incur capital expenditures to comply with the environmental regulations and rules discussed above. The following table, as of December 31, 2018, provides five-year estimated costs, excluding AFUDC, of new control equipment that may need to be installed on existing power plants primarily to comply with the Coal Ash Act requirements for conversion to dry disposal of bottom ash and fly ash, CWA 316(b) and ELGs through December 31, 2023. The table excludes ash basin closure costs recorded in Asset retirement obligations on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. For more information related to AROs, see Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The Duke Energy Registrants also expect to incur increased fuel, purchased power, operation and maintenance and other expenses, in addition to costs for replacement generation for potential coal-fired power plant retirements, as a result of these regulations. Actual compliance costs incurred may be materially different from these estimates due to reasons such as the timing and requirements of EPA regulations and the resolution of legal challenges to the rules. The Duke Energy Registrants intend to seek rate recovery of necessary and prudently incurred costs associated with regulated operations to comply with these regulations. 

Other Environmental Regulations

The Duke Energy Registrants are also subject to various federal, state and local regulations regarding air and water quality, hazardous and solid waste disposal and other environmental matters, including the following:

•Clean Water Act

•Steam Effluent Limitation Guidelines

•Cross-State Air Pollution Rule

•Carbon Pollution Standards for New, Modified and Reconstructed Power Plants

•Clean Power Plan/ACE Rule

Duke Energy continues to comply with enacted environmental laws and regulations even as certain of these regulations are in various stages of clarification, revision or legal challenges. The Duke Energy Registrants cannot predict the outcome of these matters.

81

MD&AOTHER MATTERS

Section 126 Petitions

On November 16, 2016, the state of Maryland filed a petition with EPA under Section 126 of the Clean Air Act alleging that 19 power plants, including two plants (three units) that Duke Energy Registrants own and operate, contribute to violations of EPA’s NAAQS for ozone in the state of Maryland. On March 12, 2018, the state of New York filed a petition with EPA, also under Section 126 of the Clean Air Act alleging that over 60 power plants, including four that Duke Energy Registrants own and operate, contribute to violations of EPA’s ozone NAAQS in the state of New York. Both Maryland and New York seek EPA orders requiring the states in which the named power plants operate impose more stringent NOx emission limitations on the plants. On October 5, 2018, EPA published a final rule denying the Maryland petition. That same day, Maryland appealed EPA's denial of their Section 126 petition to the D.C. Circuit Court. The impact of these petitions could be more stringent requirements for the operation of NOx emission controls at these plants. The Duke Energy Registrants cannot predict the outcome of these matters.

Global Climate Change

The Duke Energy Registrants’ GHG emissions consist primarily of CO2 and result primarily from operating a fleet of coal-fired and natural gas-fired power plants. In 2018, the Duke Energy Registrants’ power plants emitted approximately 105 million tons of CO2. Future levels of CO2 emissions will be influenced by variables that include fuel prices, compliance with new or existing regulations, economic conditions that affect electricity demand and the technologies deployed to generate the electricity necessary to meet the customer demand.

The Duke Energy Registrants have taken actions that have resulted in a reduction of CO2 emissions over time. Actions have included the retirement of 47 coal-fired EGUs with a combined generating capacity of 5,425 MW. Much of that capacity has been replaced with state-of-the-art highly efficient natural gas-fired generation that produces far fewer CO2 emissions per unit of electricity generated. Duke Energy also has made investments to expand its portfolio of wind and solar projects, increase energy efficiency offerings and invest in its zero-CO2 emissions hydropower and nuclear plants. These efforts have diversified its system and significantly reduced CO2 emissions. Between 2005 and 2018, the Duke Energy Registrants have collectively lowered the CO2 emissions from their electricity generation by 31 percent, which potentially lowers the exposure to any future mandatory CO2 emission reduction requirements or carbon tax, whether as a result of federal legislation, EPA regulation, state regulation or other as yet unknown emission reduction requirement. Duke Energy will continue to explore the use of currently available and commercially demonstrated technology to reduce CO2 emissions, including energy efficiency, wind, solar, storage and nuclear. Duke Energy will adjust to evolving and innovative technologies in a way that balances the reliability and affordability that customers expect. Under any future scenario involving mandatory CO2 limitations, the Duke Energy Registrants would plan to seek recovery of their compliance costs through appropriate regulatory mechanisms.

The Duke Energy Registrants recognize certain groups associate severe weather events with increasing levels of GHGs in the atmosphere and forecast the possibility these weather events could have a material impact on future results of operations should they occur more frequently and with greater severity. However, the uncertain nature of potential changes in extreme weather events (such as increased frequency, duration and severity), the long period of time over which any potential changes might take place and the inability to predict potential changes with any degree of accuracy, make estimating any potential future financial risk to the Duke Energy Registrants’ operations impossible.

The Duke Energy Registrants annually, biannually or triennially prepare lengthy, forward-looking IRPs. These detailed, highly technical plans are based on the company’s thorough analysis of numerous factors that can impact the cost of producing and delivering electricity that influence long-term resource planning decisions. The IRP process helps to evaluate a range of options, taking into account forecasts of future electricity demand, fuel prices, transmission improvements, new generating capacity, integration of renewables, energy storage, energy efficiency and demand response initiatives. The IRP process also helps evaluate potential environmental and regulatory scenarios to better mitigate policy and economic risks. The IRPs we file with regulators look out 10 to 20 years depending on the jurisdiction.

For a number of years, the Duke Energy Registrants have included a price on CO2 emissions in their IRP planning process to account for the potential regulation of CO2 emissions. Incorporating a price on CO2 emissions in the IRPs allows for the evaluation of existing and future resource needs against potential climate change policy risk in the absence of policy certainty. One of the challenges with using a CO2 price, especially in the absence of a clear and certain policy, is determining the appropriate price to use. To address this uncertainty and ensure the company remains agile, the Duke Energy Registrants typically use a range of potential CO2 prices to reflect a range of potential policy outcomes.

The Duke Energy Registrants routinely take steps to reduce the potential impact of severe weather events on their electric distribution systems by modernizing the electric grid through smart meters, storm hardening, self-healing and targeted undergrounding and applying lessons learned from previous storms to restoration efforts. The Duke Energy Registrants’ electric generating facilities are designed to withstand extreme weather events without significant damage. The Duke Energy Registrants maintain an inventory of coal and oil on-site to mitigate the effects of any potential short-term disruption in fuel supply so they can continue to provide customers with an uninterrupted supply of electricity. 

State Legislation

In July 2017, the North Carolina General Assembly passed House Bill 589, and it was subsequently enacted into law by the governor. The law includes, among other things, overall reform of the application of PURPA for new solar projects in the state, a requirement for the utility to procure approximately 2,600 MW of renewable energy through a competitive bidding process and recovery of costs related to the competitive bidding process through the fuel clause and a competitive procurement rider. The law stipulated certain deadlines for Duke Energy to file for NCUC approval of programs required under the law. Duke Energy has made some regulatory filings since the passage of the law and will continue to implement the requirements of House Bill 589. 

In July 2018, Duke Energy issued an RFP for the first tranche of 680 MW. In accordance with the provisions of HB 589, total procurement will be changed based upon how much generation with no economic dispatch or curtailment occurs over the procurement period. Most of this type of generation is solar procured under PURPA. Based upon the current forecasted amount of such generation that will occur over procurement period, Duke Energy estimates the total under HB 589 competitive procurement will be approximately 1,500 to 2,000 MW.

In various states, legislation is being considered to allow third-party sales of electricity. Deregulation or restructuring in the electric industry may result in increased competition and unrecovered costs. The Duke Energy Registrants cannot predict the outcome of these initiatives.

82

MD&AOTHER MATTERS

Liquefied Natural Gas Facility

Piedmont Natural Gas plans to build a liquefied natural gas facility in Robeson County, North Carolina. The project is expected to be completed in the summer of 2021 at a cost of $250 million. Construction will begin in the summer of 2019.

New Accounting Standards

See Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies,” for a discussion of the impact of new accounting standards.

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK