Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  

 Disclosure Regarding Forward-Looking Statements  

 This report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws. Other than statements of historical facts, all statements which address activities, events, or developments that the Company anticipates will or may occur in the future, including, but not limited to, such things as future capital expenditures, expansion, strategic plans, financial objectives, dividend payments, stock repurchases, growth of the Company’s business and operations, including future cash flows, revenues, and earnings, and other such matters, are forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are based on many assumptions and factors which are detailed in the Company’s filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  

 These forward-looking statements are based largely on our expectations and judgments and are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, many of which are unforeseeable and beyond our control. For additional discussion on risks and uncertainties that may affect forward-looking statements, see “Risk Factors” in Part I, Item 1A. Any changes in such assumptions or factors could produce significantly different results. The Company undertakes no obligation to update forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.  

 Business Overview  

 Foot Locker, Inc., through its subsidiaries, is one of the largest athletic footwear and apparel retailers in the world, operating 3,221 stores in 27 countries. The Foot Locker brand is one of the most widely recognized names in the markets in which we operate, epitomizing premium quality for the active lifestyle customer. We operate websites and mobile apps, aligned with the brand names of our store banners (including footlocker.com, ladyfootlocker.com, six02.com, kidsfootlocker.com, champssports.com, footaction.com, footlocker.ca, footlocker.eu, footlocker.com.au, runnerspoint.com, sidestep-shoes.com, footlocker.hk, footlocker.sg, and footlocker.my). These sites offer some of the largest online selections of athletically inspired shoes and apparel, while providing a seamless link between e-commerce and physical stores. We also operate the websites for eastbay.com, final-score.com, and eastbayteamsales.com.  

 With its various marketing channels and experiences across North America, Europe, Asia, Australia, and New Zealand, the Company's purpose is to inspire and empower youth culture around the world, by fueling a shared passion for self-expression and creating unrivaled experiences at the heart of the sport and sneaker communities.   

 Segment Reporting  

 We identify our operating segments according to how our business activities are managed and evaluated by our chief operating decision maker, our CEO. Prior to 2018, we had two reportable segments, Athletic Stores and Direct-to-Customers. Beginning in 2018, the Company has changed its organizational and internal reporting structure in order to execute our omni-channel strategy. This change resulted in the combination of our stores and direct-to-customer financial results.   

 The Company has determined that it has two operating segments, North America and International. Our North America operating segment includes the results of the following banners operating in the U.S. and Canada: Foot Locker, Kids Foot Locker, Lady Foot Locker, Champs Sports, Footaction, and SIX:02, including each of their related e-commerce businesses, as well as our Eastbay business that includes internet, catalog, and team sales. Our International operating segment includes the results of the following banners operating in Europe, Asia, Australia, and New Zealand: Foot Locker, Runners Point, Sidestep, and Kids Foot Locker, including each of their related e-commerce businesses. We have further aggregated these operating segments into one reportable segment based upon their shared customer base and similar economic characteristics.   

 During 2018, the Company expanded into Asia, we have opened five stores and launched our digital channels across Singapore, Hong Kong, and Malaysia. In addition, we entered China through a limited offering in partnership with Tmall (a Chinese-language platform for business-to-consumer online retail). During the first quarter of 2019, we updated our organizational structure to support an accelerated growth strategy for the region. We opened an Asian headquarters in Singapore and realigned our organization into three distinct geographic regions: Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA), Asia Pacific, and North America. The Company will reevaluate during the first quarter of 2019 our operating segments and reporting units as a result of this change.  

 14  

 Table of Contents  

 Store and Operations Profile  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 We operated 3,221 stores as of the end of 2018. The following is a brief description of each of our banners:  

 Foot Locker — Foot Locker is a leading global youth culture brand that connects the sneaker obsessed consumer with the most innovative and culturally relevant sneakers and apparel. Across all our consumer touchpoints, Foot Locker enables consumers to fulfill their desire to be part of sneaker and youth culture. We curate special product assortments and marketing content that supports our premium position – from leading global brands such as Nike, Jordan, adidas, and Puma, as well as new and emerging brands in the athletic and lifestyle space. We connect emotionally with our consumers through a combination of global brand events and highly targeted and personalized experiences in local markets. Foot Locker’s 1,734 stores are located in 27 countries including 886 in the United States, Puerto Rico, U.S. Virgin Islands, and Guam, 107 in Canada, 642 in Europe, a combined 94 in Australia and New Zealand, and 5 in Asia. Our domestic stores have an average of 2,700 selling square feet and our international stores have an average of 1,700 selling square feet.  

 Kids Foot Locker — Kids Foot Locker offers the largest selection of brand-name athletic footwear, apparel and accessories for children. We feature products, content and experiences geared toward youth sneaker culture. Of our 428 stores, 369 are located in the United States, Puerto Rico, and the U.S. Virgin Islands, 38 in Europe, 19 in Canada, and a combined 2 in Australia and New Zealand. These stores have an average of 1,700 selling square feet.  

 Lady Foot Locker — Lady Foot Locker is a U.S. retailer of athletic footwear, apparel, and accessories dedicated to sneaker-obsessed young women. Our stores provide premium sneakers and apparel, carefully selected to reflect the latest styles. Lady Foot Locker operates 57 stores that are located in the United States and Puerto Rico. These stores have an average of 1,400 selling square feet.  

 Champs Sports — Champs Sports is one of the largest mall-based specialty athletic footwear and apparel retailers in North America. With a focus on the lifestyle expression of sport, Champs Sports’ product categories include athletic footwear and apparel, and sport-lifestyle inspired accessories. This assortment allows Champs Sports to offer the best head-to-toe fashion stories representing the most powerful athletic brands, sports teams, and athletes in North America. Of our 535 stores, 504 are located in the United States, Puerto Rico, and the U.S. Virgin Islands and 31 in Canada. The Champs Sports stores have an average of 3,600 selling square feet.  

 Footaction — Footaction is a North American athletic footwear and apparel retailer that offers the freshest, best edited selection of athletic lifestyle brands and looks. This banner is uniquely positioned at the intersection of sport and style, with a focus on authentic, premium product. The primary consumer is a style-obsessed, confident, influential young male who is always dressed to impress. Of our 250 stores, 246 are located in the United States and Puerto Rico and 4 are in Canada. The Footaction stores have an average of 3,200 selling square feet.  

 15  

 Table of Contents  

 Runners Point — Runners Point specializes in running footwear, apparel, and equipment for both performance and lifestyle purposes. This banner offers athletically inspired premium products and personalized service. Runners Point also caters to local running communities providing technical products, training tips and access to local running and group events, while also serving their lifestyle running needs. Our 107 stores are located in Germany, Austria, and Switzerland. Runners Point stores have an average of 1,300 selling square feet.  

 Sidestep — Sidestep is a predominantly athletic fashion footwear banner. Our 80 stores are located in Germany, Austria, Netherlands, and Switzerland. Sidestep caters to a more discerning, fashion forward consumer. Sidestep stores have an average of 900 selling square feet.  

 SIX:02 — SIX:02 operates 30 stores in the United States and have an average of 2,000 selling square feet. The Company has decided to close the SIX:02 banner during the early part of 2019 and will focus on its women’s business through our other banners.  

 Eastbay  

 Eastbay is a sporting goods direct marketer operating in the United States, providing serious high school and other athletes with a complete sports solution including athletic footwear, apparel, equipment, and team licensed merchandise for a broad range of sports. With 150 sales professionals serving the United States, Eastbay Team Sales connects directly with thousands of high school coaches and athletic directors in offering the best performance product and premium level of service.   

 Franchise Operations  

 The Company operates franchised Foot Locker stores located within the Middle East, as well as franchised stores in Germany under the Runners Point banner. In addition, we entered into a franchise agreement during 2017 with Fox-Wizel Ltd for franchised stores operating in Israel.   

 A total of 122 franchised stores were operating as of February 2, 2019, 10 in Germany and 112 in the Middle East, of which 41 are in Israel.  

 Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Measures  

 In addition to reporting the Company’s financial results in accordance with GAAP, the Company reports certain financial results that differ from what is reported under GAAP. In the following tables, we have presented certain financial measures and ratios identified as non-GAAP such as sales excluding 53rd week, Earnings Before Interest and Taxes (“EBIT”), adjusted EBIT, adjusted EBIT margin, adjusted income before income taxes, adjusted net income, adjusted net income margin, adjusted diluted earnings per share, Return on Invested Capital (“ROIC”), free cash flow, and net debt capitalization. We present these non-GAAP measures because we believe they assist investors in comparing our performance across reporting periods on a consistent basis by excluding items that are not indicative of our core business or which affect comparability. In addition, these non-GAAP measures are useful in assessing our progress in achieving our long-term financial objectives.  

 Additionally, we present certain amounts as excluding the effects of foreign currency fluctuations, which are also considered non-GAAP measures. Throughout the following discussions, where amounts are expressed as excluding the effects of foreign currency fluctuations, such changes are determined by translating all amounts in both years using the prior-year average foreign exchange rates. Presenting amounts on a constant currency basis is useful to investors because it enables them to better understand the changes in our businesses that are not related to currency movements.  

 Fiscal year 2017 represented the fifty-three weeks ended February 3, 2018. Accordingly, certain non-GAAP results have also been adjusted to exclude the effects of the 53rd week to assist in comparability.  

 We estimate the tax effect of the non-GAAP adjustments by applying a marginal rate to each of the respective items. The income tax items represent the discrete amount that affected the period. The non-GAAP financial information is provided in addition to, and not as an alternative to, our reported results prepared in accordance with GAAP. Presented below is a reconciliation of GAAP and non-GAAP results discussed throughout this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Please see the non-GAAP reconciliations for free cash flow and net debt capitalization in the “Liquidity and Capital Resources” section.  

 16  

 Table of Contents  

 Reconciliation:  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 17  

 Table of Contents  

 Notes on Non-GAAP Adjustments:  

   (1)    Litigation and other charges for 2018 includes pension-related litigation charges ($18 million, or $13 million after-tax) and impairment charges ($19 million, or $18 million after-tax). The 2017 amount represented pension-related litigation charges ($178 million, or $111 million after-tax), impairment charges ($20 million, or $14 million after-tax), and severance and related costs ($13 million, or $8 million after-tax). The 2016 amount represented impairment charges of $6 million, or $5 million after-tax. 

 Pension litigation - The Company recorded pre-tax charges $18 million during 2018, in connection with its U.S. retirement plan litigation and required plan reformation. The charge reflected $13 million of adjustments to the estimated cost of the reformation and interest. Additionally, professional fees of $5 million were incurred during 2018 in connection with the plan reformation.   

 Impairment charges – The Company recognized pre-tax impairment charges totaling $19 million, $20 million, and $6 million during the fourth quarters of 2018, 2017, and 2016, respectively. These charges were associated with our SIX:02, Runners Point, and Sidestep businesses and primarily represented the write-down of the Runners Point tradename, store fixtures, and leasehold improvements.   

 Severance and related costs – During the third quarter of 2017, the Company recorded a pre-tax charge of $13 million associated with the reorganization and the reduction of staff taken to improve efficiency.  

   (2)    On December 22, 2017, the United States enacted tax reform legislation that included a broad range of business tax provisions. During the fourth quarter of 2017, the Company recognized a $99 million provisional charge for the mandatory deemed repatriation of foreign sourced net earnings and a corresponding change in our permanent reinvestment assertion under ASC 740-30. During 2018, the Company reduced the provisional amounts by $28 million. This adjustment represented a $21 million reduction in the deemed repatriation tax and a $7 million benefit related to IRS accounting method changes and timing difference adjustments. 

 We exclude the discrete U.S. tax reform effect from our Adjusted diluted EPS as it does not reflect our ongoing tax obligations under U.S. tax reform.  

   (3)    During the fourth quarters of 2018 and 2017, the Company recognized tax expense of $4 million and $2 million, respectively, in connection to separate tax rate reductions in the Netherlands and France, respectively, to write down the value of deferred tax assets. During 2016, the Company recognized tax expense of $2 million related to a separate tax rate reduction in France. 

   (4)    During the second quarter of 2018, the U.S. Treasury issued a notice that delayed the effective date of regulations under Internal Revenue Code Section 987. These regulations, which were promulgated in December 2016, changed our method for determining the tax effects of foreign currency translation gains and losses for our foreign businesses that are operated as branches and are reported in a currency other than the currency of their parent. As a result of the delay in the effective date, the Company updated its calculations for the effect of these regulations, which resulted in an increase to deferred tax assets and a corresponding reduction in our income tax provision in the amount of $1 million. The change in 2016 resulted in an increase to deferred tax assets and a corresponding reduction in our income tax provision of $9 million. 

   (5)    During the fourth quarter of 2017, the Company determined that certain valuation allowances should be established against deferred tax assets associated with the Runners Point and Sidestep stores and e-commerce businesses. 

   (6)    During the third quarter of 2016, we performed a scheduled reassessment of the value of the intellectual property provided to our European business by Foot Locker in the U.S. during the fourth quarter of 2012. The new, higher valuation resulted in catch-up deductions that reduced tax expense by $10 million. 

 Return on Invested Capital  

 ROIC is presented below and represents a non-GAAP measure. We believe it is a meaningful measure because it quantifies how efficiently we generated operating income relative to the capital we have invested in the business. In order to calculate ROIC, we adjust our results to reflect our operating leases as if they qualified for capital lease treatment. Operating leases are the primary financing vehicle used to fund store expansion and, therefore, we believe that the presentation of these leases as if they were capital leases is appropriate. Accordingly, the asset base and net income amounts are adjusted to reflect this in the calculation of ROIC. ROIC, subject to certain adjustments, is also used as a measure in executive long-term incentive compensation.  

 The closest U.S. GAAP measure to ROIC is Return on Assets (“ROA”) and is also represented below. ROA increased to 13.9 percent as compared to 7.3 percent in the prior year. This improvement reflects the increase in net income as compared with the prior year, which included charges related to the pension matter and the effects of tax reform.  

 Our ROIC increased to 12.0 percent in 2018, as compared to 11.0 percent in the prior year. Average invested capital decreased compared with the prior year and after-tax earnings increased, which resulted in the overall increase in ROIC. Average invested capital decreased as a result of the effect of opening fewer new stores, more stores that are operating on a month-to-month basis or paying variable rents coupled with foreign exchange rate fluctuations. The earnings increase is more fully discussed on the following pages.  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

   (1)    Represents net income of $541 million, $284 million, and $664 million divided by average total assets of $3,891 million, $3,901 million, and $3,808 million for 2018, 2017, and 2016, respectively. 

 18  

 Table of Contents  

 Calculation of ROIC:  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

   (1)    The determination of the capitalized operating leases and the adjustments to income have been calculated on a lease-by-lease basis and have been consistently calculated in each of the years presented above. Capitalized operating leases represent the best estimate of the asset base that would be recorded for operating leases as if they had been classified as capital or as if the property were purchased. The present value of operating leases is discounted using various interest rates ranging from 1.7 percent to 14.5 percent, which represents our incremental borrowing rate at inception of the lease. The capitalized operating leases and related income statement amounts disclosed above do not reflect the requirements of Accounting Standards Update 2016‑02, Leases. 

   (2)    The adjusted income tax expense represents the marginal tax rate applied to net operating profit for each of the periods presented. 

   (3)    The adjusted return after taxes does not include interest expense that would be recorded on a capital lease. 

 Overview of Consolidated Results  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 19  

 Table of Contents  

 Highlights of our 2018 financial performance include:  

   ·    Sales and comparable-store sales, as noted in the table below, both increased and benefitted from improved assortments compared with the prior year. We worked closely with our strategic partners to deliver exciting and exclusive product offerings and improved our local product assortments. Additionally, in early 2018 we changed our organizational structure by aligning our stores and e-commerce businesses in support of our omni-channel strategies. The benefits from that realignment are noted in the results of the e-commerce business. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

   ·    Footwear sales represented 82 percent of total sales for all periods presented.  

   ·    Our stores and direct-to-customer sales channels experienced overall comparable-sales gains of 1.1 percent and 12.3 percent, respectively.  

   ·    Sales per square foot increased by 1.8 percent to $504. 

   ·    Sales of our direct-to-customers channel increased by 10.5 percent to $1,225 million, as compared with $1,109 million in 2017 and increased by 110 basis points as a percentage of total sales to 15.4 percent. The direct business has been steadily increasing as a percentage of total sales over the last several years. Our growth reflected our expansion into new geographies and customers’ acceptance of our technology improvements. 

   ·    Gross margin, as a percentage of sales, increased by 20 basis points to 31.8 percent in 2018. The improvement was primarily driven by an increase in our merchandise margin rate, reflecting a lower markdown rate as compared with the prior year.  

   ·    SG&A expenses were 20.3 percent of sales, an increase of 100 basis points as compared with the prior year. The overall increase reflected higher wages, higher incentive compensation expense, and an increase in costs incurred in connection with our ongoing investment in various technology and infrastructure projects.  

   ·    Net income was $541 million, or $4.66 diluted earnings per share, which represented a significant increase from the prior-year period. This increase reflected, in part, the charge recorded in the prior year related to the pension matter and tax reform. Adjusted net income was $547 million, or $4.71 diluted earnings per share, an increase of 18.0 percent from the corresponding non-GAAP prior-year period. 

   ·    Net income margin increased to 6.8 percent as compared with 3.6 percent in the prior year. Our adjusted net income margin increased to 6.9 percent in 2018 as compared to 6.6 percent in the prior year. 

 Highlights of our financial position for the period ended February 2, 2019 include:  

   ·    We ended the year in a strong financial position. At year end, we had $767 million of cash and cash equivalents, net of debt. Cash and cash equivalents at February 2, 2019 were $891 million. 

   ·    Net cash provided by operating activities was $781 million. This result included pension contributions of $128 million and a $97 million payment to class counsel related to the pension litigation matter. Excluding these outflows, operating activities were strong and reflected the Company’s improved working capital management, with inventories declining slightly despite higher sales. 

   ·    Cash capital expenditures during 2018 totaled $187 million and were primarily directed to the remodeling or relocation of 122 stores, the build-out of 45 new stores, as well as other technology and infrastructure projects. 

   ·    We made minority investments of $89 million during 2018, bringing our total investments to $104 million. These investments are part of the Company’s broader strategic initiatives aimed at strengthening and diversifying our role within the sneaker community. Additionally, we expect that these strategic investments allow us to better adapt to the dynamically evolving consumer and retail landscape by strengthening our capabilities, providing diversification, and gaining greater insights into youth culture. 

   ·    During 2018, we returned significant amounts of cash to our shareholders. Dividends totaling $158 million were declared and paid during 2018, and 7.9 million shares were repurchased under our share repurchase program at a cost of $375 million. In February 2019, our Board of Directors approved a dividend increase of 10 percent and approved a new 3-year $1.2 billion share repurchase program. These initiatives demonstrate our commitment to delivering meaningful returns to our shareholders. 

 20  

 Table of Contents  

 Sales  

 All references to comparable-store sales for a given period relate to sales of stores that were open at the period-end and had been open for more than one year. The computation of consolidated comparable-store sales also includes direct-to-customers sales. Stores opened or closed during the period are not included in the comparable-store base; however, stores closed temporarily for relocation or remodeling are included. Computations exclude the effect of foreign currency fluctuations. Comparable-store sales for 2017 does not include the sales from the 53rd week.  

 The information shown below represents certain sales metrics by sales channel:   

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Effective with the first quarter of 2018, the Company discloses one reportable segment and, accordingly, the following discussion describes the changes in sales by banner on an omni-channel basis, meaning that each banner’s results are inclusive of its store and e-commerce activity, unless noted otherwise.   

 2018 compared with 2017  

 Sales of $7,939 million in 2018 increased by 2.0 percent from sales of $7,782 million in 2017. Excluding the effect of foreign currency fluctuations, sales increased by 1.7 percent as compared with 2017. Comparable-store sales increased 2.7 percent during 2018 as compared with the corresponding prior-year period.   

 Both of our sales channels generated positive results as compared with the prior year. The overall comparable sales growth was led by our direct-to-customers channel, which increased by 12.3 percent as compared with the corresponding prior-year period. The improvement in our direct-to-customers channel reflected positive customer sentiment as a result of various e-commerce customer experience enhancements. Our stores channel also performed well and generated a comparable sales increase of 1.1 percent as compared with the corresponding prior-year period. Both channels benefitted from improved product assortments, including higher sales from our marquee business and secondary brands.  

 Excluding the effect of foreign currency fluctuations and the 53rd week in 2017, the increase in total sales was across most of our banners and was led by our North American operations. The largest gains were experienced by Eastbay, Kids Foot Locker, Foot Locker, and Champs Sports. The banners that experienced declines during 2018 included Runners Point, Sidestep, SIX:02, and Footaction. Our operations in Europe ended the year relatively flat as compared with the corresponding prior-year period as the fourth quarter’s high single-digit sales increase was not quite enough to offset the declines experienced earlier in the year.  

 From a product perspective, footwear and apparel sales led the increase. Sales of men’s and children’s footwear increased, while sales of women’s footwear declined. The decline in sales of women’s footwear primarily reflected declines in sales of women’s running and court styles as the prior year included the success of certain women’s offerings with no comparable offerings in the current year. Our apparel sales increased primarily due to improvements in our men’s and children’s product offerings.  

 21  

 Table of Contents  

 2017 compared with 2016  

 Sales of $7,782 million in 2017 increased by 0.2 percent from sales of $7,766 million in 2016. Results from 2017 include the effect of the 53rd week, which represented sales of $95 million. Excluding the effect of foreign currency fluctuations, sales declined 0.5 percent as compared with 2016. Comparable-store sales declined 3.1 percent during 2017 as compared with 2016.  

 The overall decline in comparable-store sales was primarily driven by a decrease in footwear sales. By channel, our direct-to-customers business led the overall result. Comparable-sales for the direct-to-customers channel increased 6.9 percent in 2017 as compared to 2016. The comparable-sales gain primarily reflected growth in our domestic and international store-banner e-commerce businesses coupled with an increase in our Eastbay business. Internationally, we continued to expand the geographies that we serve in 2017, including most notably launching our e-commerce business in Australia.  

 During 2017, we experienced a decline in footwear sales which reflected a lack of depth and variety of innovative new product at the premium end of the athletic footwear market to suit our customers’ quickly-changing style preferences. Children’s and women’s footwear sales were the major contributors to the comparable-store declines in footwear, although men’s footwear also experienced a modest comparable-store decline. Women’s court styles primarily contributed to the comparable-store decline in women’s footwear, particularly in Foot Locker, Lady Foot Locker, and Foot Locker Europe. The comparable store-sales decrease in children’s footwear mostly reflected declines in the basketball category. Gains in men’s lifestyle running shoes were not enough to compensate for the sales declines in basketball and court lifestyle footwear, again due to insufficient product depth.   

 Gross Margin  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Gross margin is calculated as sales minus cost of sales. Cost of sales includes: the cost of merchandise, freight, distribution costs including related depreciation expense, shipping and handling, occupancy and buyers’ compensation. Occupancy costs include rent, common area maintenance charges, real estate taxes, general maintenance, and utilities.  

 The gross margin rate increased to 31.8 percent in 2018 as compared to 31.6 percent in the prior year. The merchandise margin rate improvement primarily reflected lower markdown rates as we increased full-price selling especially as the year progressed. This was partially offset by a continued decline in our shipping and handling revenue as a result of a higher frequency of free shipping offers. The change in the gross margin rate also reflects a 10 basis point increase in the occupancy and buyers’ compensation rate as compared with 2017. Excluding the 53rd week of 2017, the occupancy and buyers’ compensation expense rate improved by 10 basis points.  

 The gross margin rate decreased to 31.6 percent in 2017 as compared to 33.9 percent in 2016. The decline in the merchandise margin rate in 2017 primarily reflected a higher markdown rate. The higher markdowns were the result of a more promotional environment and were necessary to ensure merchandise inventory remained current and in line with the sales trend. Although to a lesser degree, a decline in our shipping and handling revenue also negatively affected the merchandise margin. The decline in the gross margin rate also reflected an increase in the occupancy and buyers’ compensation rate as compared to 2016. Rent-related costs continued to increase while our sales were relatively flat. The increase in rent-related costs was primarily driven by entering into leases for high-profile locations.   

 22  

 Table of Contents  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 SG&A increased by $113 million and 7.5 percent in 2018, as compared with the prior year. As a percentage of sales, the SG&A rate increased by 100 basis points as compared with 2017. Excluding the effect of foreign currency fluctuations, SG&A increased by $105 million and 7.0 percent as compared with the prior year.   

 The higher SG&A expense rate in 2018 reflected higher wages, higher incentive compensation expense, and an increase in costs incurred in connection with our ongoing investment in various technology and infrastructure projects. Higher incentive compensation, including share-based compensation tied to performance, was recorded reflecting our strong performance relative to our financial targets as compared with the prior year that included minimal expense. Additionally, during 2017, the Company recorded hurricane-related expenses of $7 million. A benefit of $5 million was recorded during 2018 relating to insurance recoveries for damaged inventory and fixed assets for losses incurred in 2017 during Hurricane Maria. Together, these two factors affected SG&A expense by $12 million.  

 The rise in the SG&A expense rate during 2017, as compared to 2016, primarily related to our stores, partially offset by a decline in our e-commerce SG&A rate. During 2017, we experienced increases in store-related compensation costs as a result of increased minimum wage levels. Additionally, we incurred higher expenses related to wages, such as payroll taxes and benefits. These increases in the SG&A expense rate were partially offset by declines in incentive compensation and marketing related costs. The 53rd week contributed $16 million of additional expenses in 2017, however, as a percentage of sales, the SG&A rate remained unchanged at 19.3 percent.   

 Depreciation and Amortization  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Depreciation and amortization increased by $5 million in 2018 as compared with 2017. The effect of foreign currency fluctuations on depreciation and amortization for the current year was not significant. The increases in both 2018 and 2017 reflect a rise in capital spending on store improvements, the enhancement of our digital sites, and various other technologies and infrastructure.   

 Division Profit  

 Included in our 2018 division profit were non-cash impairment charges of $19 million related to the write-down of tradenames, store fixtures, and leasehold improvements related to Runners Point, Sidestep, and SIX:02. The effect of the impairment charges decreased the division profit rate by 30 basis points. The Company will be closing its SIX:02 stores during 2019, however lease termination payments are not expected to be significant. While our gross margin rate increased, our expenses grew at a faster rate thereby reducing division profit. The increase in gross margin and expenses are more fully discussed in other sections.   

 Division profit for 2017 also included a non-cash impairment charge of $20 million related to the write-down of primarily store fixtures and leasehold improvements. SIX:02 recorded a charge of $16 million and our Runners Point and Sidestep stores recorded a charge of $4 million. The effect of the impairment charges decreased the division profit rate by 30 basis points. Most of the remaining decline in the division profit rate when comparing 2017 to 2016 was related to a decrease in the merchandise margin rate reflecting higher markdowns coupled with an increase in the SG&A rate. The division profit decline in 2017 was most pronounced in our European business. The 53rd week did not have a significant effect on the overall division profit rate.  

 23  

 Table of Contents  

 Litigation and Other Charges  

 Litigation and other charges recorded totaled $37 million, $211 million, and $6 million for 2018, 2017, and 2016, respectively.  

 Included in division profit are non-cash impairment charges recorded during 2018, 2017, and 2016 of $4 million, $20 million, and $6 million, respectively. These charges related to the write-down of store fixtures and leasehold improvements of our Runners Point, Sidestep, and SIX:02 stores. Additionally, in 2018 we recorded a charge of $15 million to write down the value of the Runners Point tradename.  

 Related to our pension litigation, we recorded charges totaling $18 million during 2018. This amount included charges of $13 million, which represented adjustments to the estimated cost of reformation and interest. Professional fees in connection with the plan reformation were incurred totaling $5 million. During 2017, the Company recorded charges totaling $178 million related to the same matter.  

 We reduced and reorganized our division and corporate staff during 2017, which resulted in a charge of $13 million. The substantial majority of which was for severance and related costs.  

 Corporate Expense  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Corporate expense consists of unallocated general and administrative expenses as well as depreciation and amortization related to the Company’s corporate headquarters, centrally managed departments, unallocated insurance and benefit programs, certain foreign exchange transaction gains and losses, and other items. Depreciation and amortization included in corporate expense was $18 million, $16 million, and $14 million in 2018, 2017, and 2016, respectively.  

 The allocation of corporate expense to the operating divisions is adjusted annually based upon an internal study; accordingly, the allocation increased by $40 million in 2018, thus reducing corporate expense. Excluding the corporate allocation change, corporate expense increased by $64 million as compared with 2017. This increase was primarily due to technology spending related to our various technology initiatives and higher incentive compensation, including the portion of share-based compensation that is tied to the Company’s performance. Share-based compensation increased by $7 million as compared with the prior year.   

 Corporate expense decreased by $22 million in 2017 as compared with 2016. The annual adjustment of the allocation of corporate expense to the operating divisions reduced corporate expense by $4 million. The remaining $18 million decline was primarily due to a $13 million decline in incentive compensation, which reflected the Company’s underperformance relative to its plan. Share-based compensation declined by $7 million and is also primarily related to the portion of share-based compensation that is tied directly to the Company’s performance. Additionally, the decline in corporate expense also reflected a decrease of $4 million relating to the 2016 corporate headquarters relocation costs. These decreases were partially offset by a $2 million litigation charge, increased corporate support costs, such as information technology and real estate management, and increased depreciation and amortization expense. The effect of the 53rd week on corporate expense was not significant.  

 Interest (Income) / Expense, Net  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 24  

 Table of Contents  

 The changes during 2018 and 2017 primarily relate to the amounts earned as interest income. Interest income increased by $6 million in 2018 as compared with 2017 and increased $5 million in 2017 as compared with 2016. The increase for both periods primarily represented increased income due to higher average interest rates on our cash investments. The increase in interest income during 2018 also reflected the effects of cash repatriation to the U.S., where we earned a higher average interest rate. We did not have any short-term borrowings, other than small amounts related to capital leases, for any of the periods presented.  

 Income Taxes  

 Public Law 115-97, informally known as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the “Tax Act”), was enacted on December 22, 2017. The Tax Act significantly revised the U.S. corporate income tax by, among other things, lowering the statutory corporate tax rate from 35 percent to 21 percent, eliminating certain deductions, imposing a mandatory one-time tax on accumulated earnings of foreign subsidiaries, introducing new tax regimes, and changing how foreign earnings are subject to U.S. tax.  

 The Company made estimates of the effects and recorded provisional amounts in its 2017 financial statements as permitted under Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 118, Income Tax Accounting Implications of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (“SAB 118”), which provided guidance on accounting for the Tax Act’s effects. During the fourth quarter of 2018, we completed our accounting for the Tax Act based on the current facts and regulatory guidance available at the end of the SAB 118 measurement period.   

 ﻿  

 Our effective tax rate for 2018 was 24.1 percent, as compared with 50.8 percent in 2017. The decrease was primarily attributable to the absence in 2018 of the substantial one-time Tax Act related charges detailed below, the reduction in the corporate federal income tax rate from 35 percent to 21 percent, and a $28 million benefit from the completion of our accounting for the Tax Act. See also Note 17, Income Taxes for more information under “Item 8. Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.”   

 Partially offsetting these decreases was a 2018 Dutch tax rate reduction that resulted in tax expense of $4 million for the write-down of Dutch deferred tax assets. In 2017, we recorded tax expense of $2 million for a French tax rate reduction.  

 We regularly assess the adequacy of provisions for income tax contingencies in accordance with the applicable authoritative guidance on accounting for income taxes. As a result, reserves for unrecognized tax benefits may be adjusted due to new facts and developments, such as changes to interpretations of relevant tax law, assessments from taxing authorities, settlements with taxing authorities, and lapses of statutes of limitations. The effective tax rate for 2018 and 2017 includes reserve releases totaling $5 million and $1 million, respectively, due to audit settlements and lapses of statutes of limitations.   

 In the fourth quarter of 2017, we recorded a provisional tax of $99 million for the mandatory deemed repatriation of historical foreign sourced net earnings and related items as well as tax expense of $8 million related to the establishment of valuation allowances against certain foreign deferred tax assets. Offsetting these expenses were $9 million of excess tax benefits from share-based compensation reflecting the change required by ASC 718 which we adopted during 2017.   

 ﻿   

 Excluding the reserve releases, foreign tax rate changes, repatriation tax, the establishment of valuation allowances, and the effects of excess tax benefits recorded during 2017, the effective tax rate for 2018 decreased as compared with 2017, due to the federal income tax rate reduction.  

 ﻿  

 The effective tax rate for 2017 was 50.8 percent, as compared with 33.9 percent in 2016. Excluding the provisional repatriation and related items, the establishment of valuation allowances, the effects of excess tax benefits, the effect of the charges recorded during 2017, the IP valuation catch-up deductions in 2016, and the effect of Section 987 Regulations on 2016, the effective tax rate for 2017 decreased as compared with 2016, primarily due to the partial year benefit of the federal income tax rate reduction as well as mix of income.  

 25  

 Table of Contents  

 Liquidity and Capital Resources  

 Liquidity  

 Our primary source of liquidity has been cash flow from operations, while the principal uses of cash have been to: fund inventory and other working capital requirements; finance capital expenditures related to store openings, store remodelings, internet and mobile sites, information systems, and other support facilities; make retirement plan contributions, quarterly dividend payments, and interest payments; and fund other cash requirements to support the development of our short-term and long-term operating strategies. We generally finance real estate with operating leases. We believe our cash, cash equivalents, and future cash flow from operations will be adequate to fund these requirements.  

 The Company may also from time to time repurchase its common stock or seek to retire or purchase outstanding debt through open market purchases, privately negotiated transactions, or otherwise. Such repurchases and retirement of debt, if any, will depend on prevailing market conditions, liquidity requirements, contractual restrictions, and other factors. The amounts involved may be material. As of February 2, 2019, approximately $383 million remained available under our current $1.2 billion share repurchase program. On February 20, 2019, the Board of Directors approved a new 3-year, $1.2 billion share repurchase program extending through January 2022, replacing the previous program.  

 Also on February 20, 2019, the Board of Directors declared a quarterly dividend of $0.38 per share to be paid on May 3, 2019, representing a 10 percent increase over the previous quarterly per share amount.  

 As discussed further in the Legal Proceedings note under “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” during the second quarter of 2018, the Company reformed its U.S. qualified pension plan which required the remeasurement of the pension liabilities, as well as payment to plaintiff’s counsel of $97 million representing class counsel fees awarded in the judgment. During the fourth quarter of 2017, we deposited $150 million into a qualified settlement fund, classified as restricted cash. This fund was used to pay plaintiff’s counsel fees and the balance of the settlement fund will be used for future pension contributions during 2019. The timing and the amount of actual contributions to the pension plan are dependent on the funded status of the plan and various other factors, such as interest rates and the performance of the plan’s assets.  

 Any material adverse change in customer demand, fashion trends, competitive market forces, or customer acceptance of our merchandise mix and retail locations, uncertainties related to the effect of competitive products and pricing, our reliance on a few key suppliers for a significant portion of our merchandise purchases and risks associated with global product sourcing, economic conditions worldwide, the effects of currency fluctuations, as well as other factors listed under the heading “Disclosure Regarding Forward-Looking Statements,” could affect our ability to continue to fund our liquidity needs from business operations.  

 Maintaining access to merchandise that we consider appropriate for our business may be subject to the policies and practices of our key suppliers. Therefore, we believe that it is critical to continue to maintain satisfactory relationships with these key suppliers. In 2018 and 2017, we purchased approximately 90 percent and 93 percent, respectively, of our merchandise from our top five suppliers and expect to continue to obtain a significant percentage of our athletic product from these suppliers in future periods. Approximately 66 percent in 2018 and 67 percent in 2017 was purchased from one supplier — Nike, Inc.  

 Planned capital expenditures in 2019 are $273 million and lease acquisition costs related to our operations in Europe are $2 million. Included in this total is $173 million dedicated to elevating our customers’ in-store experience through continued relocation and remodels in major cities and key markets. It includes the remodeling and expansion of approximately 190 existing stores, as well as the planned opening of approximately 80 stores, including the continued expansion of our “power” stores – pinnacle retail experiences that delivers connected customer interactions through service, experience, product, and a sense of community - and our expansion in Asia with a limited number of locations. Planned spending for 2019 also includes $100 million for digital and other investments, including additional enhancements to our mobile and web platforms, the continued roll-out of our new point-of-sale software, new point-of-sale hardware, expanding data analytics capabilities, and supply chain initiatives. We have the ability to revise and reschedule much of the anticipated capital expenditure program, should our financial position require it.   

 26  

 Table of Contents  

 Free Cash Flow (non-GAAP measure)  

 In addition to net cash provided by operating activities, we use free cash flow as a useful measure of performance and as an indication of our financial strength and our ability to generate cash. We define free cash flow as net cash provided by operating activities less capital expenditures (which is classified as an investing activity). We believe the presentation of free cash flow is relevant and useful for investors because it allows investors to evaluate the cash generated from underlying operations in a manner similar to the method used by management. Free cash flow is not defined under U.S. GAAP. Therefore, it should not be considered a substitute for income or cash flow data prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP and may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies. It should not be inferred that the entire free cash flow amount is available for discretionary expenditures.  

 The following table presents a reconciliation of net cash flow provided by operating activities, the most directly comparable U.S. GAAP financial measure, to free cash flow.  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Operating Activities  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 The amount provided by operating activities reflects income adjusted for non-cash items and working capital changes. Adjustments to net income for non-cash items include non-cash impairment charges, depreciation and amortization, deferred income taxes, and share-based compensation expense.   

 The decline in 2018 in cash provided by operating activities compared with the prior year reflected an increase to net income and higher net inflows associated with changes in working capital, which were more than offset by an increase in pension-related payments. During 2018, $97 million was paid in class counsel fees in connection with the pension litigation matter, and we also contributed $128 million to our U.S. qualified pension plan, as compared with $25 million in 2017. During 2016, we contributed $33 million to the U.S. qualified pension plan and $3 million to our Canadian qualified pension plan. The amounts and timing of pension contributions are dependent on several factors, including asset performance.   

 Cash paid for income taxes were $184 million, $237 million, and $341 million for 2018, 2017, and 2016, respectively.  

 Investing Activities  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Capital expenditures in 2018 were $187 million, a decrease of $87 million as compared with the prior year. This represented a decline in spending on store projects partially offset by an increase related to technology projects. During 2018, we completed the remodeling or relocation of 122 existing stores and opened 45 new stores.   

 Capital expenditures in 2017 were $274 million, primarily related to the remodeling or relocation of 183 existing stores, and the build-out of 94 new stores. The increase in 2017 as compared with 2016 primarily related to our corporate headquarters build out and two new flagship stores.  

 Investing activities for 2018 included $89 million related to various minority investments as compared with $15 million in 2017. The current year also includes $2 million received in insurance proceeds for fixed assets from an insurance claim relating to Hurricane Maria.   

 27  

 Table of Contents  

 Financing Activities  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Cash used in financing activities consisted primarily of our return to shareholders initiatives, including our share repurchase program and cash dividend payments, as follows:  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 During 2018, 2017, and 2016, we repurchased 7,886,705 shares, 12,413,590 shares, and 6,984,643 shares of our common stock under our share repurchase programs, respectively. Additionally, the Company declared and paid dividends representing a quarterly rate of $0.345, $0.31, and $0.275 per share in 2018, 2017, and 2016, respectively. During 2018, 2017 and 2016, we paid $1 million, $10 million and $7 million, respectively, to satisfy tax withholding obligations relating to the vesting of share-based equity awards. Offsetting the amounts above were proceeds received from the issuance of common stock and treasury stock in connection with the employee stock programs of $7 million, $18 million, and $33 million for 2018, 2017, and 2016, respectively.  

 During 2016, we paid fees of $2 million in connection with the credit agreement, see below for further details. Additionally, we made payments during 2016 relating to capital lease obligations of $1 million. These obligations were recorded in connection with the acquisition of the Runners Point Group.  

 Capital Structure  

 On May 19, 2016, we entered into a credit agreement with our banks (“2016 Credit Agreement”). The 2016 Credit Agreement provides for a $400 million asset-based revolving credit facility maturing on May 19, 2021. During the term of the 2016 Credit Agreement, we may also increase the commitments by up to $200 million, subject to customary conditions. Interest is determined, at our option, by the federal funds rate plus a margin of 0.125 percent to 0.375 percent, or a Eurodollar rate, determined by reference to LIBOR, plus a margin of 1.125 percent to 1.375 percent depending on availability under the 2016 Credit Agreement. In addition, we are paying a commitment fee of 0.20 percent per annum on the unused portion of the commitments.  

 The 2016 Credit Agreement provides for a security interest in certain of our domestic store assets, including inventory assets, accounts receivable, cash deposits, and certain insurance proceeds. We are not required to comply with any financial covenants unless certain events of default have occurred and are continuing, or if availability under the 2016 Credit Agreement does not exceed the greater of $40 million and 10 percent of the Loan Cap (as defined in the 2016 Credit Agreement). There are no restrictions relating to the payment of dividends and share repurchases as long as no default or event of default has occurred and the aggregate principal amount of unused commitments under the 2016 Credit Agreement is not less than 15 percent of the lesser of the aggregate amount of the commitments and the Borrowing Base, determined as of the preceding fiscal month and on a proforma basis for the following six fiscal months. We do not currently expect to borrow under the facility in 2019, other than amounts used to support standby letters of credit.  

 Credit Rating  

 As of April 2, 2019, our corporate credit ratings from Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s Investors Service are BB+ and Ba1, respectively. In addition, Moody’s Investors Service has rated our senior unsecured notes Ba2.  

 Debt Capitalization and Equity (non-GAAP Measure)  

 For purposes of calculating debt to total capitalization, we include the present value of operating lease commitments in total net debt. Total net debt including the present value of operating leases is considered a non-GAAP financial measure.   

 28  

 Table of Contents  

 The present value of operating leases is discounted using various interest rates ranging from 1.7 percent to 14.5 percent, which represent our incremental borrowing rate at inception of the lease. Operating leases are the primary financing vehicle used to fund store expansion and, therefore, we believe that the inclusion of the present value of operating leases in total debt is useful to our investors, credit constituencies, and rating agencies.  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Including the present value of operating leases, net debt capitalization percent decreased 270 basis points in 2018, primarily reflecting fewer store openings during the year, additional stores that are operating on a month-to-month basis, additional stores paying variable rents, and foreign exchange fluctuations.   

 Contractual Obligations and Commitments  

 The following tables represent the scheduled maturities of the Company’s contractual cash obligations and other commercial commitments at February 2, 2019:  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

   (1)    The amounts presented above represent the contractual maturities of our long-term debt, including interest; however, it excludes the unamortized gain of the interest rate swap of $6 million. Additional information is included in the Long-Term Debt note under “Item 8. Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.”  

   (2)    The amounts presented represent the future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases. In addition to minimum rent, certain of our leases require the payment of additional costs for insurance, maintenance, and other costs. These costs have historically represented approximately 20 to 25 percent of the minimum rent amount. These additional amounts are not included in the table of contractual commitments as the timing and/or amounts of such payments are unknown. 

   (3)    Other liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheet at February 2, 2019 primarily comprise pension and postretirement benefits, deferred rent liability, income taxes, workers’ compensation and general liability reserves, and various other accruals. The amount presented in the table includes the 2019 scheduled contribution of $55 million to our U.S. qualified pension plan. With regards to amounts payable related to the Tax Act, we have included $9 million in the table above. Other than these liabilities, other amounts (including our unrecognized tax benefits of $34 million) have been excluded from the table above as the timing and/or amount of any cash payment is uncertain. Remaining amounts for which the timing is known have not been included as they are minimal and not useful to the presentation. Additional information is included in the Other Liabilities, Financial Instruments and Risk Management, and Retirement Plans and Other Benefits notes under “Item 8. Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” 

 29  

 Table of Contents  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

   (1)    Represents open purchase orders, as well as other commitments for merchandise purchases, at February 2, 2019. We are obligated under the terms of purchase orders; however, we are generally able to renegotiate the timing and quantity of these orders with certain suppliers in response to shifts in consumer preferences. 

   (2)    Represents payments required by non-merchandise purchase agreements. 

 Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements  

 The majority of our contractual obligations relate to operating leases for our stores. Future scheduled lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases as of February 2, 2019 are described in the table under Contractual Obligations and Commitments on the preceding page and with additional information in the Leases note in “Item 8. Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.”  

 We have not entered into any transactions with unconsolidated entities that expose the Company to material continuing risks, contingent liabilities, or any other obligation under a variable interest in an unconsolidated entity. Also, our financial policies prohibit the use of derivatives for which there is no underlying exposure.  

 In connection with the sale of various businesses and assets, we may be obligated for certain lease commitments transferred to third parties and pursuant to certain normal representations, warranties, or indemnifications entered into with the purchasers of such businesses or assets. Although the maximum potential amounts for such obligations cannot be readily determined, we believe that the resolution of such contingencies will not significantly affect our consolidated financial position, liquidity, or results of operations. We also operate certain stores for which lease agreements are in the process of being negotiated with landlords. Although there is no contractual commitment to make these payments, it is likely that leases will be executed.  

 Critical Accounting Policies  

 Our responsibility for integrity and objectivity in the preparation and presentation of the financial statements requires diligent application of appropriate accounting policies. Generally, our accounting policies and methods are those specifically required by U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Included in the Summary of Significant Accounting Policies note in “Item 8. Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” is a summary of the most significant accounting policies. In some cases, we are required to calculate amounts based on estimates for matters that are inherently uncertain. We believe the following to be the most critical of those accounting policies that necessitate subjective judgments.  

 Merchandise Inventories and Cost of Sales  

 Merchandise inventories for the stores are valued at the lower of cost or market using the retail inventory method (“RIM”). The RIM is commonly used by retail companies to value inventories at cost and calculate gross margins due to its practicality. Under the retail method, cost is determined by applying a cost-to-retail percentage across groupings of similar items, known as departments. The cost-to-retail percentage is applied to ending inventory at its current owned retail valuation to determine the cost of ending inventory on a department basis.  

 The RIM is a system of averages that requires estimates and assumptions regarding markups, markdowns and shrink, among others, and as such, could result in distortions of inventory amounts. Judgment is required for these estimates and assumptions, as well as to differentiate between promotional and other markdowns that may be required to correctly reflect merchandise inventories at the lower of cost or market. Reserves are established based on current selling prices when the inventory has not been marked down to market. The failure to take permanent markdowns on a timely basis may result in an overstatement of cost under the retail inventory method. The decision to take permanent markdowns includes many factors, including the current retail environment, inventory levels, and the age of the item. We believe this method and its related assumptions, which have been consistently applied, to be reasonable.  

 30  

 Table of Contents  

 Impairment of Long-Lived Tangible Assets and Goodwill  

   Long-Lived Tangible Assets         We perform an impairment review when circumstances indicate that the carrying value of long-lived tangible assets may not be recoverable. Our policy for determining whether an impairment indicator exists, a triggering event, comprises measurable operating performance criteria at the division level as well as qualitative measures. If an analysis is necessitated by the occurrence of a triggering event, we use assumptions which are predominately identified from our long-range strategic plans in performing an impairment review. In the calculation of the fair value of long-lived assets, we compare the carrying amount of the asset with the estimated future cash flows expected to result from the use of the asset. If the carrying amount of the asset exceeds the estimated expected undiscounted future cash flows, we measure the amount of the impairment by comparing the carrying amount of the asset with its estimated fair value. The estimation of fair value is measured by discounting expected future cash flows at our weighted-average cost of capital. We believe our policy is reasonable and is consistently applied. Future expected cash flows are based upon estimates that, if not achieved, may result in significantly different results.    

             During 2018, we conducted impairment reviews of the Runners Point, Sidestep, and SIX:02 store-level assets and recorded non-cash impairment charges totaling $4 million. During 2017, we conducted impairment reviews of the Runners Point and Sidestep store-level assets, which resulted in non-cash impairment charges of $4 million. Also during 2017, we recorded a $16 million non-cash impairment charge related to our SIX:02 business.   

   Goodwill         We review goodwill for impairment annually during the first quarter of our fiscal year or more frequently if impairment indicators arise. The review of impairment consists of either using a qualitative approach to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of the assets is less than their respective carrying values or a two-step impairment test, if necessary.   

             In performing the qualitative assessment, we consider many factors in evaluating whether the carrying value of goodwill may not be recoverable, including declines in our stock price and market capitalization in relation to the book value of the Company and macroeconomic conditions affecting retail. If, based on the results of the qualitative assessment, it is concluded that it is not more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit exceeds its carrying value, additional quantitative impairment testing is performed using a two-step test.   

             The initial step requires that the carrying value of each reporting unit be compared with its estimated fair value. The second step — to evaluate goodwill of a reporting unit for impairment — is only required if the carrying value of that reporting unit exceeds its estimated fair value. We use a discounted cash flow approach to determine the fair value of a reporting unit. The determination of discounted cash flows of the reporting units and assets and liabilities within the reporting units requires significant estimates and assumptions. These estimates and assumptions primarily include, but are not limited to, the discount rate, terminal growth rates, earnings before depreciation and amortization, and capital expenditures forecasts. Due to the inherent uncertainty involved in making these estimates, actual results could differ from those estimates. We evaluate the merits of each significant assumption, both individually and in the aggregate, used to determine the fair value of the reporting units, as well as the fair values of the corresponding assets and liabilities within the reporting units.   

 As a result of the first quarter 2018 change in our organizational and internal reporting structure, we have determined that we have one reportable segment. We have reassessed our reporting units in light of this change and have deemed the collective omni-channel banners in North America and International to be the two reporting units at which goodwill is tested. Therefore, goodwill was re-allocated to these reporting units based on their relative fair values. As required, we conducted our 2018 annual impairment review both before and after this change. Neither review resulted in the recognition of impairment, as the fair value of each reporting unit significantly exceeded its carrying value.  

 31  

 Table of Contents  

 Pension and Postretirement Liabilities  

 We review all assumptions used to determine our obligations for pension and postretirement liabilities annually with our independent actuaries, taking into consideration existing and future economic conditions and our intentions with regard to the plans. The assumptions used are:  

   Long-Term Rate of Return         The expected rate of return on plan assets is the long-term rate of return expected to be earned on the plans’ assets and is recognized as a component of pension expense. The rate is based on the plans’ weighted-average target asset allocation, as well as historical and future expected performance of those assets. The target asset allocation is selected to obtain an investment return that is sufficient to cover the expected benefit payments and to reduce the variability of future contributions. The expected rate of return on plan assets is reviewed annually and revised, as necessary, to reflect changes in the financial markets and our investment strategy. The weighted-average long-term rate of return used to determine 2018 pension expense was 5.9 percent.    

             A decrease of 50 basis points in the weighted-average expected long-term rate of return would have increased 2018 pension expense by approximately $3 million. The actual return on plan assets in a given year typically differs from the expected long-term rate of return, and the resulting gain or loss is deferred and amortized into expense over the average life expectancy of the inactive participants.   

   Discount Rate        

 An assumed discount rate is used to measure the present value of future cash flow obligations of the plans and the interest cost component of pension expense and postretirement income. The cash flows are then discounted to their present value and an overall discount rate is determined. The discount rate is determined by reference to the Bond:Link interest rate model based upon a portfolio of highly-rated U.S. corporate bonds with individual bonds that are theoretically purchased to settle the plan’s anticipated cash outflows. The discount rate selected to measure the present value of our Canadian benefit obligations was developed by using that plan’s bond portfolio indices, which match the benefit obligations. The weighted-average discount rates used to determine the 2018 benefit obligations related to our pension and postretirement plans was 4.0 percent. 

 Changing the weighted-average discount rate by 50 basis points would have changed the accumulated benefit obligation of the pension plans at February 2, 2019 by approximately $30 million and $33 million, depending on if the change was an increase or decrease, respectively. A decrease of 50 basis points in the weighted-average discount rate would have increased the accumulated benefit obligation on the postretirement plan by approximately $1 million. Such a decrease would not have significantly changed 2018 pension expense or postretirement income. 

   Trend Rate        

 We maintain two postretirement medical plans, one covering certain executive officers and key employees (“SERP Medical Plan”), and the other covering all other associates. With respect to the SERP Medical Plan, a one percent change in the assumed health care cost trend rate would change this plan’s accumulated benefit obligation by approximately $2 million. 

 With respect to the postretirement medical plan covering all other associates, there is limited risk to us for increases in health care costs since, beginning in 2001, new retirees have assumed the full expected costs and then-existing retirees have assumed all increases in such costs.   

 32  

 Table of Contents  

 Mortality Assumptions        

 The mortality assumption used to value the Company’s 2018 and 2017 U.S. pension obligations was the RP‑2017 mortality table with generational projection using modified MP‑2017 for both males and females. The Company used the RP‑2000 mortality table with generational projection using scale AA for both males and females to value its Canadian pension obligations for both 2018 and 2017.  

 For the SERP Medical Plan, the mortality assumption used to value the 2018 obligation was updated to the RPH‑2018 table with generational projection using MP‑2018, while in the prior year the obligation was valued using the RPH‑2017 table with generational projection using MP‑2017. Each year we update this assumption to the most recent study from the Society of Actuaries.    

 Income Taxes  

 Deferred tax assets are reduced by a valuation allowance, which is established when it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. We are required to estimate taxable income for future years by taxing jurisdiction and to use our judgment to determine whether to record a valuation allowance for part or all of a deferred tax asset. Estimates of taxable income are based upon our long-range strategic plans.   

 ﻿   

 A one percent change in the overall statutory tax rate for 2018 would have resulted in a change of $3 million to the carrying value of the net deferred tax asset and a corresponding charge or credit to income tax expense depending on whether the tax rate change was a decrease or an increase.   

 ﻿   

 We have operations in multiple taxing jurisdictions, and we are subject to audit in these jurisdictions. Tax audits by their nature are often complex and can require several years to resolve. Accruals of tax contingencies require us to make estimates and judgments with respect to the ultimate outcome of tax audits. Actual results could vary from these estimates.   

 ﻿   

 Excluding the effect of any nonrecurring items that may occur, we expect the 2019 effective tax rate to approximate 27.5 percent. The actual tax rate will vary if the level of stock option exercise activity and the stock price at the vesting or exercise date differs from our expectations. Additionally, the tax rate will also depend on the level and mix of income earned in the United States, as compared with our international operations.   

 Recent Accounting Pronouncements  

 Descriptions of the recently issued accounting principles, and the accounting principles adopted by us during the year ended February 2, 2019 are included in the Summary of Significant Accounting Policies note in “Item 8. Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.”  

 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk