ITEM 7A.QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK.

We utilize derivative financial instrument contracts and nonderivative instruments to manage interest rate, foreign exchange and commodity price risks. We have established a control environment that includes policies and procedures for risk assessment and the approval, reporting and monitoring of derivative financial instrument activities. We do not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes.

Commodity Price Risk

The raw materials costs to which our operations are principally exposed include the cost of natural rubber, synthetic rubber, carbon black, fabrics, steel cord and other petrochemical-based commodities. Approximately two-thirds of our raw materials are petroleum-based, the cost of which may be affected by fluctuations in the price of oil. We currently do not hedge commodity prices. We do, however, use various strategies to partially offset cost increases for raw materials, including centralizing purchases of raw materials through our global procurement organization in an effort to leverage our purchasing power, expanding our capabilities to substitute lower-cost raw materials, and reducing the amount of material required in each tire.

Interest Rate Risk

We carefully monitor our fixed and floating rate debt mix. Within defined limitations, we manage the mix using refinancing. At December 31, 2018, 33% of our debt was at variable interest rates averaging 4.92% compared to 34% at an average rate of 4.42% at December 31, 2017.

The following table presents information about long term fixed rate debt, excluding capital leases, at December 31:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The pro forma information assumes a 100 basis point decrease in market interest rates at December 31 of each year, and reflects the estimated fair value of fixed rate debt outstanding at that date under that assumption. The sensitivity of our fixed rate debt to changes in interest rates was determined using current market pricing models.

Foreign Currency Exchange Risk

We will enter into foreign currency contracts in order to manage the impact of changes in foreign exchange rates on our consolidated results of operations and future foreign currency-denominated cash flows. These contracts reduce exposure to currency movements affecting existing foreign currency-denominated assets, liabilities, firm commitments and forecasted transactions resulting primarily from trade purchases and sales, equipment acquisitions, intercompany loans and royalty agreements. Contracts hedging short term trade receivables and payables normally have no hedging designation.

The following table presents foreign currency derivative information at December 31:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The pro forma decrease in fair value assumes a 10% adverse change in underlying foreign exchange rates at December 31 of each year, and reflects the estimated change in the fair value of positions outstanding at that date under that assumption. The sensitivity of our foreign currency positions to changes in exchange rates was determined using current market pricing models.

 45
Fair values are recognized on the Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31 as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

For further information on foreign currency contracts, refer to the Note to the Consolidated Financial Statements No. 15, Financing Arrangements and Derivative Financial Instruments.

Refer to “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources” for a discussion of our management of counterparty risk.

 46
ITEM 8.FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA.