PART I.

ITEM 1. BUSINESS.

BUSINESS OF GOODYEAR

The Goodyear Tire & Rubber Company (the “Company”) is an Ohio corporation organized in 1898. Its principal offices are located at 200 Innovation Way, Akron, Ohio 44316-0001. Its telephone number is (330) 796-2121. The terms “Goodyear,” “Company” and “we,” “us” or “our” wherever used herein refer to the Company together with all of its consolidated U.S. and foreign subsidiary companies, unless the context indicates to the contrary.

We are one of the world’s leading manufacturers of tires, engaging in operations in most regions of the world. In 2018, our net sales were $15,475 million and Goodyear’s net income was $693 million. Together with our U.S. and international subsidiaries, we develop, manufacture, market and distribute tires for most applications. We also manufacture and market rubber-related chemicals for various applications. We are one of the world’s largest operators of commercial truck service and tire retreading centers. In addition, we operate approximately 1,000 tire and auto service center outlets where we offer our products for retail sale and provide automotive repair and other services. We manufacture our products in 47 manufacturing facilities in 21 countries, including the United States, and we have marketing operations in almost every country around the world. We employ approximately 64,000 full-time and temporary associates worldwide.

AVAILABLE INFORMATION

We make available free of charge on our website, http://www.goodyear.com, our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after we file or furnish such reports to the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). The information on our website is not incorporated by reference in or considered to be a part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

DESCRIPTION OF GOODYEAR’S BUSINESS

GENERAL INFORMATION REGARDING OUR SEGMENTS

For the year ended December 31, 2018, we operated our business through three operating segments representing our regional tire businesses: Americas; Europe, Middle East and Africa (“EMEA”); and Asia Pacific.

Our principal business is the development, manufacture, distribution and sale of tires and related products and services worldwide. We manufacture and market numerous lines of rubber tires for:

•automobiles

•trucks

•buses

•aircraft

•motorcycles

•earthmoving and mining equipment

•farm implements

•industrial equipment, and

•various other applications.

In each case, our tires are offered for sale to vehicle manufacturers for mounting as original equipment (“OE”) and for replacement worldwide. We manufacture and sell tires under the Goodyear, Dunlop, Kelly, Debica, Sava and Fulda brands and various other Goodyear owned “house” brands, and the private-label brands of certain customers. In certain geographic areas we also:

•retread truck, aviation and off-the-road ("OTR") tires,

•manufacture and sell tread rubber and other tire retreading materials,

•sell chemical products, and/or

•provide automotive and commercial repair services and miscellaneous other products and services.

 1
Our principal products are new tires for most applications. Approximately 85% of our sales in 2018, and 87% of our sales in 2017 and 2016 were for new tires. Sales of chemical products and natural rubber to unaffiliated customers were 4% in 2018, and 3% in 2017 and 2016, of our consolidated sales (7%, 6% and 5% of Americas total sales in 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively). The percentages of each segment’s sales attributable to new tires during the periods indicated were:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Each segment exports tires to other segments. The financial results of each segment exclude sales of tires exported to other segments, but include operating income derived from such transactions.

Goodyear does not include motorcycle, aviation, race or all-terrain vehicle tires in reported tire unit sales.

Tire unit sales for each segment during the periods indicated were:

GOODYEAR’S ANNUAL TIRE UNIT SALES — SEGMENT

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Our replacement and OE tire unit sales during the periods indicated were:

GOODYEAR’S ANNUAL TIRE UNIT SALES — REPLACEMENT AND OE

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

New tires are sold under highly competitive conditions throughout the world. On a worldwide basis, we have two major competitors: Bridgestone (based in Japan) and Michelin (based in France). Other significant competitors include Continental, Cooper, Hankook, Kumho, Pirelli, Sumitomo, Toyo, Yokohama and various regional tire manufacturers.

We compete with other tire manufacturers on the basis of product design, performance, price and terms, reputation, warranty terms, customer service and consumer convenience. Goodyear and Dunlop brand tires enjoy a high recognition factor and have a reputation for performance and product design. The Kelly, Debica, Sava and Fulda brands and various house brand tire lines offered by us, and tires manufactured and sold by us to private brand customers, compete primarily on the basis of value and price.

We do not consider our tire businesses to be seasonal to any significant degree.

AMERICAS

Americas, our largest segment in terms of revenue, develops, manufactures, distributes and sells tires and related products and services in North, Central and South America, and sells tires to various export markets, primarily through intersegment sales. Americas manufactures tires in six plants in the United States, two plants in Canada and five plants in Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Mexico and Peru.

Americas manufactures and sells tires for automobiles, trucks, buses, earthmoving, mining and industrial equipment, aircraft, and for various other applications.

 2
Goodyear brand radial passenger tire lines sold throughout Americas include the Assurance family of product lines for the premium and mid-tier passenger and cross-over utility segments; the Direction family of product lines for the mid-tier consumer segment; the Eagle family of product lines for the high-performance segment; the Wrangler family of product lines for the sport utility vehicle and light truck segments; and the Ultra Grip family of winter tires. Additionally, we offer Dunlop brand radial tire lines including Signature HP, SP Sport and Direzza for the passenger and performance segments; Grandtrek tire lines for the cross-over, sport utility vehicle and light truck segments; and SP Winter, Winter Maxx and Grandtrek tire lines for the winter tire segment. Americas also manufactures and sells several lines of Kelly brand radial tires for passenger cars and light trucks including the Kelly Edge A/S, Edge HP, Edge AT and Safari TSR. Goodyear’s Americas commercial business provides commercial truck tires, retreads, services, tools and business solutions to trucking fleets. Americas also:

•manufactures tread rubber and other tire retreading materials for trucks, heavy equipment and aviation,

•retreads truck, aviation and OTR tires, primarily as a service to its commercial customers,

•sells products and installation services online through our website, www.goodyear.com,

•provides automotive maintenance and repair services at approximately 570 Company-owned retail outlets primarily under the Goodyear or Just Tires names,

•provides trucking fleets with new tires, retreads, mechanical service, preventative maintenance and roadside assistance from approximately 190 Company-owned Goodyear Commercial Tire & Service Centers,

•sells automotive repair and maintenance items, automotive equipment and accessories and other items to dealers and consumers,

•sells chemical products and natural rubber to Goodyear’s other business segments and to unaffiliated customers, and

•provides miscellaneous other products and services.

In 2018, Americas launched four new consumer tires under the Goodyear brand, the Goodyear Assurance MaxLife, Goodyear Assurance Outlast, Goodyear Cargo Marathon 2 and the Goodyear Eagle Enforcer. Americas also launched the Kelly Edge HT in the Kelly brand family. Americas commercial truck tire business launched eight new tires under the Goodyear Endurance, Goodyear Fuel Max, Goodyear Marathon, Goodyear Armor Max and Goodyear Urban Max lines to service our long haul, regional, mixed service and city service customers. 

During the third quarter of 2018, we formed a 50/50 joint venture with Bridgestone Americas, Inc. (“Bridgestone”) that combined our Company-owned wholesale distribution business and Bridgestone’s tire wholesale warehouse business to create TireHub, LLC (“TireHub”), a national tire distributor in the United States.

Markets and Other Information

Tire unit sales to replacement and OE customers served by Americas during the periods indicated were:

AMERICAS UNIT SALES — REPLACEMENT AND OE

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Americas is a major supplier of tires to most manufacturers of automobiles, trucks, buses, aircraft, and earthmoving, mining and industrial equipment that have production facilities located in the Americas.

Americas' primary competitors are Bridgestone and Michelin. Other significant competitors include Continental, Cooper, Pirelli, and imports from other regions, primarily Asia.

Goodyear, Dunlop and Kelly brand tires are sold in Americas through several channels of distribution, including through TireHub, our sole national wholesale tire distributor in the United States, and a network of aligned U.S. regional wholesale tire distributors. The principal channel for Goodyear brand tires is a large network of independent dealers. Goodyear, Dunlop and Kelly brand tires are also sold to numerous national and regional retailers and in Goodyear Company-owned stores in the United States. 

We are subject to regulation by the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (“NHTSA”), which has established various standards and regulations applicable to tires sold in the United States. NHTSA has the authority to order the recall of automotive products, including tires, having a defect related to motor vehicle safety or that do not comply with a motor vehicle safety standard. In addition, the Transportation Recall Enhancement, Accountability, and Documentation Act (the “TREAD Act”) imposes numerous reporting requirements with respect to tires. The TREAD Act also requires tire manufacturers, among other things, to 

 3
remedy tire safety defects without charge for five years and comply with revised and more rigorous tire testing standards. NHTSA is also in the process of establishing national tire labeling regulations, under which certain tires sold in the United States will be required to be rated for rolling resistance, traction and tread wear.

Our Brazilian operations are subject to a tire certification and labeling regulation which requires that consumers be informed about rolling resistance, wet grip braking and noise characteristics. The tire certification and labeling regulation applies to all radial passenger car, light truck and commercial truck tires sold in Brazil. 

EUROPE, MIDDLE EAST AND AFRICA

Europe, Middle East and Africa, our second largest segment in terms of revenue, develops, manufactures, distributes and sells tires for automobiles, trucks, buses, aircraft, motorcycles, and earthmoving, mining and industrial equipment throughout Europe, the Middle East and Africa under the Goodyear, Dunlop, Debica, Sava and Fulda brands and other house brands, and sells tires to various export markets, primarily through intersegment sales. EMEA manufactures tires in thirteen plants in France, Germany, Luxembourg, Poland, Slovenia, South Africa and Turkey. EMEA also:

•sells aviation tires and manufactures and sells retreaded aviation tires,

•provides various retreading and related services for truck and OTR tires, primarily for its commercial truck tire customers,

•offers automotive repair services at Company-owned retail outlets, and

•provides miscellaneous other products and services.

In 2018, EMEA launched a number of new consumer tires under the Goodyear, Dunlop, Debica, Sava and Fulda brands, including our new Goodyear Eagle F1 Asymmetric 3 SUV, Dunlop Sport Maxx RT2 SUV and Debica Frigo SUV2. EMEA also introduced a number of commercial truck tires including the KMax, Fuel Max Performance and Omnitrac. 

Markets and Other Information

Tire unit sales to replacement and OE customers served by EMEA during the periods indicated were:

EUROPE, MIDDLE EAST AND AFRICA UNIT SALES — REPLACEMENT AND OE

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

EMEA is a significant supplier of tires to most vehicle manufacturers across the region.

EMEA’s primary competitors are Michelin, Bridgestone, Continental, Pirelli, several regional and local tire producers, and imports from other regions, primarily Asia.

Goodyear and Dunlop brand tires are sold for replacement in EMEA through various channels of distribution, principally independent multi-brand tire dealers. In some areas, Goodyear brand tires, as well as Dunlop, Debica, Sava and Fulda brand tires, are distributed through independent dealers, regional distributors and retail outlets, of which approximately 50 are owned by Goodyear.

Our European operations are subject to regulation by the European Union. The Tire Labeling Regulation applies to all passenger car, light truck and commercial truck tires and requires that consumers be informed about the tire's fuel efficiency, wet grip and noise characteristics. 

 4
ASIA PACIFIC 

Our Asia Pacific segment develops, manufactures, distributes and sells tires for automobiles, trucks, buses, aircraft, farm, and earthmoving, mining and industrial equipment throughout the Asia Pacific region, and sells tires to various export markets, primarily through intersegment sales. Asia Pacific manufactures tires in seven plants in China, India, Indonesia, Japan, Malaysia and Thailand. Asia Pacific also:

•retreads truck tires and aviation tires,

•manufactures tread rubber and other tire retreading materials for aviation tires,

•provides automotive maintenance and repair services at Company-owned retail outlets, and

•provides miscellaneous other products and services.

In 2018, Asia Pacific released two new consumer tires under the Goodyear brand, the Goodyear Assurance TripleMax 2 for all markets and the Goodyear EfficientGrip Comfort for the Japanese market. In addition, Asia Pacific began importing the Eagle F1 Asymmetric 3 SUV and Assurance Weather Ready in SUV sizes into the Japanese all-season market. Asia Pacific also launched two commercial tires, the Goodyear S800 RFID for urban fleets and the Goodyear S206 Fuel Max targeting logistics fleets.

Markets and Other Information

Tire unit sales to replacement and OE customers served by Asia Pacific during the periods indicated were:

ASIA PACIFIC UNIT SALES — REPLACEMENT AND OE

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Asia Pacific’s major competitors are Bridgestone and Michelin along with many other global brands present in different parts of the region, including Continental, Dunlop, Hankook and a large number of regional and local tire producers.

Asia Pacific sells primarily Goodyear brand tires throughout the region and also sells the Dunlop brand in Australia and New Zealand. Other brands of tires, such as Blue Streak, Remington, Kelly and Diamondback, are sold in smaller quantities. Tires are sold through a network of licensed and franchised retail stores and multi-brand retailers through a network of wholesale dealers. In Australia, we also operate a network of approximately 200 retail stores under the Beaurepaires brand.

GENERAL BUSINESS INFORMATION

Sources and Availability of Raw Materials

The principal raw materials used by Goodyear are synthetic and natural rubber. Synthetic rubber accounts for approximately 55% of all rubber consumed by us on an annual basis. Our plants located in Beaumont and Houston, Texas supply a major portion of our global synthetic rubber requirements. We purchase all of our requirements for natural rubber in the world market.

Other important raw materials and components we use are carbon black, steel cord, fabrics and petrochemical-based commodities. Substantially all of these raw materials and components are purchased from independent suppliers, except for certain chemicals we manufacture. We purchase most raw materials and components in significant quantities from several suppliers, except in those instances where only one or a few qualified sources are available. We anticipate the continued availability of all raw materials and components we will require during 2019, subject to spot shortages and unexpected disruptions caused by natural disasters such as hurricanes and other events.

Substantial quantities of fuel and other petrochemical-based commodities are used in the production of tires, synthetic rubber and other products. Supplies of such fuels and commodities have been and are expected to continue to be available to us in quantities sufficient to satisfy our anticipated requirements, subject to spot shortages.

 5
Patents and Trademarks

We own approximately 1,800 product, process and equipment patents issued by the United States Patent Office and approximately 3,400 patents issued or granted in other countries around the world. We have approximately 400 applications for United States patents pending and approximately 1,200 patent applications on file in other countries around the world. While such patents and patent applications as a group are important, we do not consider any patent or patent application to be of such importance that the loss or expiration thereof would materially affect Goodyear or any business segment.

We own, control or use approximately 1,500 different trademarks, including several using the word “Goodyear” or the word “Dunlop.” Approximately 8,400 registrations and 400 pending applications worldwide protect these trademarks. While such trademarks as a group are important, the only trademarks we consider material to our business, or to the business of any of our segments, are those using the word “Goodyear,” and with respect to certain of our international business segments, those using the word “Dunlop.” We believe our trademarks are valid and most are of unlimited duration as long as they are adequately protected and appropriately used.

Backlog

Our backlog of orders is not considered material to, or a significant factor in, evaluating and understanding any of our business segments or our businesses considered as a whole.

Employees

At December 31, 2018, we employed approximately 64,000 full-time and temporary people throughout the world, including approximately 38,000 people covered under collective bargaining agreements. Approximately 7,000 of our employees in the United States are covered by a master collective bargaining agreement with the United Steelworkers ("USW"), which expires in July 2022. In addition, approximately 1,000 of our employees in the United States are covered by other contracts with the USW and various other unions. Approximately 15,000 of our employees outside of the United States are covered by union contracts that currently have expired or that will expire in 2019, primarily in Luxembourg, China, South Africa, France and Turkey. Unions represent a major portion of our employees in the United States and Europe.

Compliance with Environmental Regulations

We are subject to extensive regulation under environmental and occupational health and safety laws and regulations. These laws and regulations relate to, among other things, air emissions, discharges to surface and underground waters and the generation, handling, storage, transportation and disposal of waste materials and hazardous substances. We have several continuing programs designed to ensure compliance with federal, state and local environmental and occupational safety and health laws and regulations. We expect capital expenditures for pollution control facilities and occupational safety and health projects to be $40 million annually in 2019 and 2020.

We also incur ongoing expenses to maintain and operate our pollution control facilities and conduct our other environmental activities, including the control and disposal of hazardous substances. These expenditures are expected to be sufficient to comply with existing environmental laws and regulations and are not expected to have a material adverse effect on our competitive position.

In the future, we may incur increased costs and additional charges associated with environmental compliance and cleanup projects necessitated by the identification of new waste sites, the impact of new environmental laws and regulatory standards, or the availability of new technologies. Compliance with federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations in the future may require a material increase in our capital expenditures and could adversely affect our earnings and competitive position.

 6
EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

Set forth below are: (1) the names and ages of all executive officers of the Company at February 8, 2019, (2) all positions with the Company presently held by each such person, and (3) the positions held by, and principal areas of responsibility of, each such person during the last five years.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

 7
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

No family relationship exists between any of the above executive officers or between the executive officers and any director of the Company.

Each executive officer is elected by the Board of Directors of the Company at its annual meeting to a term of one year or until his or her successor is duly elected. In those instances where the person is elected at other than an annual meeting, such person’s term will expire at the next annual meeting.

 8
ITEM 1A.RISK FACTORS.