Item 7.Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

This management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, or MD&A, contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Please see “Forward-Looking Statements” and “Risk Factors” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a discussion of the uncertainties, risks and assumptions associated with these statements. This discussion should be read in conjunction with our historical financial statements and related notes thereto and the other disclosures contained elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The results of operations for the periods reflected herein are not necessarily indicative of results that may be expected for future periods, and our actual results may differ materially from those discussed in the forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, including but not limited to those listed under “Risk Factors” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

This MD&A is a supplement to our consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and is provided to enhance your understanding of our results of operations and financial condition. Our MD&A is organized as follows:

•Overview. This section provides a general description of our Company and operating segments, business and industry trends, our key business strategies and background information on other matters discussed in this MD&A.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•Consolidated Results of Operations and Operating Results by Business Segment. These sections provide our analysis and outlook for the significant line items on our statements of income, as well as other information that we deem meaningful to an understanding of our results of operations on both a consolidated basis and a business segment basis.

•Liquidity and Capital Resources. This section provides an analysis of trends and uncertainties affecting liquidity, cash requirements for our business, sources and uses of our cash and our financing arrangements.

•Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates. This section discusses the accounting policies that we consider important to the evaluation and reporting of our financial condition and results of operations, and whose application requires significant judgments or a complex estimation process.

•Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements. This section provides a summary of the most recent authoritative accounting pronouncements that we will be required to adopt in a future period.

Overview

Our Company

Hanesbrands Inc. is a socially responsible leading marketer of everyday basic innerwear and activewear apparel in the Americas, Europe, Australia and Asia/Pacific under some of the world’s strongest apparel brands, including Hanes, Champion, Bonds, Maidenform, DIM, Bali, Playtex, Bras N Things, Nur Die/Nur Der, Alternative, L’eggs, JMS/Just My Size, Lovable, Wonderbra, Berlei and Gear for Sports. We design, manufacture, source and sell a broad range of basic apparel such as T-shirts, bras, panties, men’s underwear, children’s underwear, activewear, socks and hosiery. Our brands hold either the number one or number two market position by units sold in many of the product categories and geographies in which we compete. 

Acquisitions

On February 12, 2018, we acquired 100% of the outstanding equity of BNT Holdco Pty Limited (“Bras N Things”) for a total purchase price of A$498,236 (U.S. $391,572). The purchase price was subsequently revised to A$495,224 (U.S. $389,205) due to a final working capital adjustment. We funded the acquisition with a combination of short-term borrowings under its existing Revolving Loan Facility and cash on hand. Bras N Things is a leading intimate apparel retailer that sells proprietary bras, panties and lingerie sets through a retail network of approximately 170 brick-and-mortar retail stores at acquisition date in Australia, New Zealand and South Africa and an e-commerce platform. We believe this acquisition will create opportunities for expansion of the Bras N Things consumer-directed sales model.

Our Segments

 Our operations are managed and reported in three operating segments, each of which is a reportable segment for financial reporting purposes: Innerwear, Activewear and International. These segments are organized principally by product category and geographic location. Each segment has its own management team that is responsible for the operations of the segment’s businesses, but the segments share a common supply chain and media and marketing platforms. Other consists of our U.S. value-based (“outlet”) stores and United States hosiery business. In the first quarter of 2018, we eliminated the allocation of certain corporate overhead selling, general and administrative expenses related to legal, human resources, 

25
information technology, finance and real estate departments to the segments, in order to reflect the manner in which the business is managed and results are reviewed by our Chief Executive Officer, who is our chief operating decision maker. Prior year segment operating profit disclosures have been revised to conform to the current year presentation. 

The reportable segments are as follows:

•Innerwear includes sales in the United States of basic branded apparel products that are replenishment in nature under the product categories of men’s underwear, women’s panties, children’s underwear and socks, and intimate apparel, which includes bras and shapewear.

•Activewear includes sales in the United States of basic branded products that are primarily seasonal in nature to both retailers and wholesalers, as well as licensed sports apparel and licensed logo apparel in collegiate bookstores, mass retailers and other channels.

•International includes sales of products in all of our categories outside the United States, primarily in Europe, Australia, Asia, Latin America and Canada.

Outlook for 2019 

Our 2019 guidance includes the following:

•Net sales of $6.885 billion to $6.985 billion, operating profit of $900 million to $930 million, and net income of $583 million to $610 million;

•Pre-tax acquisition, integration and other action-related costs of approximately $55 million reflected in operating profit;

•Interest expense and other expenses to be approximately $224 million combined;

•An annual tax rate of approximately 14%;

•Cash flow from operations of $700 million to $800 million; and 

•Capital expenditure investment of approximately $90 million to $100 million.

Business and Industry Trends

Inflation and Changing Prices

Cotton is the primary raw material used in manufacturing many of our products. While we do not own yarn operations, we are still exposed to fluctuations in the cost of cotton. Increases in the cost of cotton can result in higher costs in the price we pay for yarn from our large-scale yarn suppliers and may result in the need to implement future price increases in order to maintain our margins. Decreases in cotton prices can lead to lower margins for inventory and products produced from cotton we have already purchased, particularly if there is downward price pressure as a result of consumer demand, competition or other factors. 

Our costs for cotton yarn and cotton-based textiles vary based upon the fluctuating cost of cotton, which is affected by, among other factors, weather, consumer demand, speculation on the commodities market, the relative valuations and fluctuations of the currencies of producer versus consumer countries and other factors that are generally unpredictable and beyond our control. We are able to lock in the cost of cotton reflected in the price we pay for yarn from our primary yarn suppliers in an attempt to protect our business from the volatility of the market price of cotton. Under our agreements with these suppliers, we have the ability to periodically fix the cotton cost component of our yarn purchases. When we elect to fix the cotton cost component under these agreements, interim fluctuations in the price of cotton do not impact the price we pay for the specified volume of yarn. The yarn suppliers bear the risk of cotton fluctuations for the yarn volume specified and it is their responsibility to procure the cotton at the agreed upon pricing through arrangements they make with their cotton suppliers. However, our business can be affected by dramatic movements in cotton prices. The cost of cotton used in goods manufactured by us represented only approximately 5% of our cost of sales in 2018. Costs incurred today for materials and labor, including cotton, typically do not impact our results until the inventory is sold approximately six to nine months later.

Inflation can have a long-term impact on us because increasing costs of materials and labor may impact our ability to maintain satisfactory margins. For example, the cost of the materials that are used in our manufacturing process, such as oil-related commodities and other raw materials, such as dyes and chemicals, and other costs, such as fuel, energy and utility costs, can fluctuate as a result of inflation and other factors. Costs incurred for materials and labor are capitalized into inventory and impact our results as the inventory is sold. In addition, a significant portion of our products are manufactured in countries other than the United States and declines in the value of the U.S. dollar may result in higher manufacturing costs. Increases in inflation may not be matched by rises in consumer income, which also could have a negative impact on spending.

26
Other Business and Industry Trends

The basic apparel market is highly competitive and evolving rapidly. Competition is generally based upon brand, comfort, fit, style and price. The majority of our core styles continue from year to year, with variations only in color, fabric or design details. Some products, however, such as intimate apparel, activewear and sheer hosiery, do have more of an emphasis on style and innovation. Our businesses face competition from other large corporations and foreign manufacturers, as well as smaller companies, department stores, specialty stores and other retailers that market and sell basic apparel products under private labels that compete directly with our brands.

Our top 10 customers accounted for 42% of our net sales in 2018. Our largest customers in 2018 were Wal-Mart and Target, which accounted for 16% and 12% of total sales, respectively. The increasing bargaining power of retailers can create pricing pressures as our customers grow larger and seek greater concessions in their purchase of our products, while also demanding exclusivity with respect to some of our products. To counteract these effects, it has become increasingly important to leverage our national brands through investment in our largest and strongest brands as our customers strive to maximize their performance especially in today’s challenging retail economic environment. Brands are important in our core categories to drive traffic and project the quality and value our customers demand.

Consumers are increasingly embracing shopping online through e-commerce platforms. As a result, an increasing portion of our revenue across all channels is being generated online through e-commerce platforms. We are continuing to develop and expand our omnichannel capabilities to allow a consumer to use more than one channel when making a purchase, including in-store, at one of our retail or outlet stores or those of our retail partners, online or with a mobile device, through one of our branded websites, the website of one of our retail partners, or an online pureplay, such as Amazon. In addition to broadening our assortment of product offerings across all online channels, we are also increasing the proportion of our media budget dedicated to digital marketing.

Foreign Exchange Rates

Changes in exchange rates between the U.S. Dollar and other currencies can impact our financial results in two ways; a translation impact and a transaction impact. The translation impact refers to the impact that changes in exchange rates can have on our published financial results. Similar to many multi-national corporations that publish financial results in U.S. Dollars, our revenue and profit earned in local foreign currencies is translated back into U.S. Dollars using an average exchange rate over the representative period. A period of strengthening in the U.S. Dollar results in a negative impact to our published financial results (because it would take more units of a local currency to convert into a dollar). The opposite is true during a period of weakening in the U.S. Dollar. Our biggest foreign currency exposures are the Australian dollar and the Euro. 

The transaction impact on financial results is common for apparel companies that source goods because these goods are purchased in U.S. Dollars. The transaction impact from a strengthening dollar would be negative to our financial results (because the U.S. Dollar-based costs would convert into a higher amount of local currency units, which means a higher local-currency cost of goods, and in turn, a lower local-currency gross profit). The transaction impact from exchange rates is typically recovered over time with price increases. However, during periods of rapid change in exchange rates; pricing is unable to change quickly enough, therefore we hedge against our sourcing costs to minimize our exposure to fluctuating exchange rates. 

Our Key Business Strategies

Our Innovate-to-Elevate strategy integrates our brand superiority, industry-leading innovation and low-cost supply chain to provide higher valued products while lowering production costs. 

The first element of our Innovate-to-Elevate strategy is our brand power. We seek to drive sales growth by consistently offering consumers brands they trust and products with strong value. Our brands have a strong heritage in the basic apparel industry. Our brands hold either the number one or number two U.S. market position by units sold in most product categories in which we compete. Internationally, our commercial markets include Europe, Australasia, Japan, Canada, Mexico, China and Brazil, where we expect a substantial amount of gross domestic product growth outside the United States will be concentrated over the next decade. Our ability to react to changing customer needs and industry trends is key to our success. Our design, research and product development teams, in partnership with our marketing teams, drive our efforts to bring innovations to market. We seek to leverage our insights into consumer demand in the basic apparel industry to develop new products within our existing lines and to modify our existing core products in ways that make them more appealing, addressing changing customer needs and industry trends. We also support our key brands with targeted, effective advertising and marketing campaigns.

27
The second element of our Innovate-to-Elevate strategy is platform innovation. We focus on identifying the long-term megatrends that will impact our categories over the next five to 10 years. Once we have identified these trends, we utilize a disciplined big-idea process to put more science into the art of apparel. Our approach to innovation is to focus on big platforms. Our Tagless apparel platform, Comfort Flex Fit apparel platform, ComfortBlend fabric platform, temperature-control X-Temp fabric platform and FreshIQ advanced odor protection technology fabric platform incorporate big-idea innovation to span brands, product categories, business segments, retailer and distribution channels and geographies. We are focused on driving innovation that is margin accretive and that can leverage our supply chain in order to drive further economies of scale. 

The third element of our Innovate-to-Elevate strategy is our low-cost global supply chain. We seek to expand margins through optimizing our low-cost global supply chain and streamlining our operations to reduce costs. We believe that we are able to leverage our significant scale of operations to provide us with greater manufacturing efficiencies, purchasing power and product design, marketing and customer management resources than our smaller competitors. Our global supply chain spans across both the Western and Eastern hemispheres and provides us with a balanced approach to product supply, which relies on a combination of owned, contracted and sourced manufacturing located across different geographic regions, increases the efficiency of our operations, reduces product costs and offers customers a reliable source of supply. Our global supply chain enables us to expand and leverage our production scale as we balance our supply chain across hemispheres, thereby diversifying our production risks. We have generated significant cost savings, margin expansion and contributions to cash flow and should continue to do so as we further optimize our size, scale and production capability. 

We seek to effectively generate strong cash flow through optimizing our capital structure and managing working capital levels. Our capital allocation strategy is to effectively deploy our significant, consistent cash flow to generate the best long-term returns for our shareholders. Our goal is to use our cash flow for organic growth (via capital expenditures), debt prepayments and dividends. After funding those priorities, to the extent there is remaining cash available or borrowing capacity, we generally intend to invest in strategic acquisitions and share repurchases.

Tax Expense

As a global company, we are subject to income taxes and file income tax returns in more than 100 United States and foreign jurisdictions each year. For the year ended December 29, 2018, a substantial majority of our foreign income was earned by our manufacturing and sourcing operations in El Salvador, Hong Kong, Dominican Republic, Honduras, Vietnam and Thailand. The relatively lower effective tax rates in these jurisdictions as a result of favorable local tax regimes and various free trade zone agreements significantly reduced our consolidated effective tax rate. Our future effective tax rates could be adversely affected by earnings being lower than anticipated in countries where we have lower effective tax rates and higher than anticipated in countries where we have higher effective tax rates, or by changes in tax laws or regulations.

In addition, future acquisitions may affect the proportion of our pre-tax income from foreign jurisdictions, both due to external sales and also increased volume in our self-owned supply chain. We follow a disciplined acquisition strategy focused on acquisitions that meet strict criteria for strong likely returns with relatively low risk. It is difficult to predict whether or when such acquisitions will occur and whether the acquisition targets will be foreign or domestic. Therefore, it is also difficult to predict the effect of acquisitions on the future distribution of our pre-tax income.

We maintain intercompany transfer pricing agreements governing sales within our self-owned supply chain, which can impact the amount of pre-tax income we recognize in foreign jurisdictions. In compliance with applicable tax laws, we regularly review the terms of these agreements utilizing independent third-party transfer pricing studies to ensure that intercompany pricing is consistent with what a seller would charge an independent, arm’s length customer, or what a buyer would pay an independent, arm’s length supplier. Therefore, changes in intercompany pricing are often driven by market conditions, which are also difficult to predict.

The recently enacted Tax Act significantly revised United States corporate income tax law by, among other things, reducing the corporate income tax rate to 21%, imposing a new minimum tax on GILTI and implementing a modified territorial tax system that included a one-time transition tax on deemed repatriated earnings of foreign subsidiaries. In response to the Tax Act, the SEC issued SAB 118 which allowed issuers to recognize provisional estimates of the impact of the Tax Act in their financial statements, during a measurement period not to exceed one year from the date of enactment. We have completed our accounting for the enactment of the Tax Act in accordance with SAB 118 in the fourth quarter of 2018. 

As of December 29, 2018, we have evaluated the effects of the Tax Act and its inherent interplay with our global capital allocation strategy and its impact on our historical permanent reinvestment assertion with respect to the accumulated earnings of our foreign subsidiaries. As a result of this evaluation, we have determined that a portion of our unremitted foreign earnings, totaling approximately $1.4 billion, will no longer be permanently reinvested as we intend to use these earnings to prepay debt held in the United States. The remainder of our foreign earnings will continue to be permanently reinvested to fund working capital requirements and operations abroad. During the first three quarters of 2018, we accrued and incurred income taxes of 

28
$7 million related to actual repatriations of foreign earnings during the year. As of December 29, 2018, and consistent with our change in assertion with respect to certain foreign earnings, we have accrued an additional $56 million with respect to the $1.4 billion we intend to remit in the future. These income tax effects include United States federal, state, foreign and withholding tax implications in accordance with the planned remittance of such foreign earnings.

We regularly assess any significant exposure associated with increases in effective tax rates, and adjustments are made as events occur that warrant adjustment to our tax provisions. See “Risk Factors.” - We have a complex multinational tax structure, and changes in effective tax rates or adverse outcomes resulting from examination of our income tax returns could impact our capital deployment strategy and adversely affect our results.”

2018 Highlights[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•We acquired Bras N Things on February 12, 2018. Bras N Things is a leading intimate apparel retailer and e-commerce business in Australia, New Zealand and South Africa. Bras N Things sells proprietary bras, panties and lingerie sets through a retail network and an e-commerce platform.

•As part of our cash deployment strategy, we paid four quarterly dividends, in March, June, September and December, of $0.15 per share. 

Consolidated Results of Operations — Year Ended December 29, 2018 (“2018”) Compared with Year Ended December 30, 2017 (“2017”)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Net Sales

Higher net sales primarily due to the following:

•Acquisitions of Bras N Things in 2018 and Alternative Apparel in 2017, which added incremental net sales of $177 million in 2018;

•Organic sales on a constant currency basis, defined as sales excluding the impact of foreign currency and businesses acquired within 12 months, increased 2% in 2018, driven by strong growth in our global Champion sales, our 

29
innerwear businesses in Australia, Asia and Americas and online sales offset in part by declines in our United States innerwear business and United States Hanes activewear business; and 

•Favorable impact of foreign currency exchange rates of in our International businesses of approximately $13 million.

Operating Profit

Operating profit as a percentage of net sales was 12.8% in 2018, an increase from the prior year of approximately 130 basis points, primarily due to the following:

•Gross margin expansion of approximately 50 basis points as the increase of International gross profit from acquisition synergies and lower acquisition, integration and other action-related charges were partially offset by higher input costs; and 

•Lower selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of net sales of approximately 30 basis points primarily due to lower acquisition, integration and other action-related costs and cost savings realized from the corporate headcount reduction efforts in 2017, partially offset by increased bad debt charges, primarily related to the Sears Holdings Corporation (“Sears”) bankruptcy filing, increased distribution expenses from investments to support future growth and higher proportion of selling, general and administrative costs at our recently acquired businesses. 

Included within operating profit are charges of approximately $80 million and $191 million related to acquisition, integration and other action-related costs in 2018 and 2017, respectively. Included within acquisition, integration and other action-related costs in 2017, is $28 million related to the change in fair value of contingent consideration resulting in the final settlement ruling of the contingent consideration liability in connection with the Champion Europe acquisition in 2016.

Other Highlights

Other Expenses – Other expenses were lower by $6 million in 2018 compared to 2017 primarily due to $4 million of lower pension expense in 2018 and higher costs in 2017 to refinance credit facilities. 

Interest Expense – Interest expense was higher by $20 million in 2018 compared to 2017 driven by higher debt balances and a higher weighted average interest rate. Our weighted average interest rate on our outstanding debt was 3.91% during 2018, compared to 3.78% during 2017.

Income Tax Expense – Our effective income tax rate was 14.5% and 88% for 2018 and 2017, respectively. The lower tax rate in 2018 compared to 2017 is primarily due to the provisional charge recorded in 2017 related to the Tax Act of $435 million, primarily related to a transition tax charge on deemed repatriated earnings of foreign subsidiaries and a charge for the revaluation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities to the lower corporate income tax rate of 21%.

Discontinued Operations – The results of our discontinued operations in 2017 included the operations of two businesses, Dunlop Flooring and Tontine Pillow, purchased in the Hanes Australasia acquisition and sold in 2017.

Operating Results by Business Segment — Year Ended December 29, 2018 (“2018”) Compared with Year Ended December 30, 2017 (“2017”)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

30
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Innerwear

Innerwear net sales decreased 3% compared to 2017 driven by a 1% decline in our basics business and a 10% decline in our intimate apparel business. Within our basics business, strength in our men’s underwear business was more than offset by declines in our women’s panties, children’s underwear and sock businesses. Net sales in our intimate apparel business decreased primarily driven by declines in our bras product category, which continues to be impacted by door closings and the challenging retail landscape within the mid-tier and department store channel.

Innerwear operating margin was 22.1%, representing a reduction from 2017 of approximately 150 basis points due to the impact from lower sales volume, higher raw material costs and product mix, which was partially offset by lower selling, general and administrative expenses as a result of the prior year’s corporate headcount reduction efforts.

Activewear

Activewear net sales increased as a result of our acquisition of Alternative Apparel in October 2017, which contributed incremental net sales in 2018 of $54 million, as well as approximately 5% increase in net sales among our other activewear businesses. Core Champion sales within our Activewear segment, which we define as Champion sales outside of the mass retail channel, were up 48% in 2018, driven by strong consumer demand, space gains in the sports specialty channels and growth in the online channel. Growth in core Champion sales more than offset declines in our Champion and Hanes activewear businesses within the mass retail channel due to space reductions.

Activewear operating margin was 14.9%, representing a decline from 2017 of approximately 110 basis points as favorable product mix and cost savings associated with prior year’s corporate headcount reduction efforts were more than offset by higher raw material costs, higher distribution costs driven primarily by investments to support future growth and a higher proportion of selling, general and administrative expenses from our recently acquired businesses.

International

Net sales in the International segment were higher as a result of the following:

•Our acquisition of Bras N Things in the first quarter of 2018, which contributed incremental net sales of nearly $123 million;

•Organic sales on a constant currency basis increased driven by our global Champion sales growth, primarily in the Europe and Asia markets, and growth in our innerwear businesses in Australia, Asia and Americas; and

•Favorable impact of foreign currency exchange rates of approximately $13 million. 

International operating margin was 15.0%, an increase from 2017 of approximately 190 basis points primarily due to scale efficiencies, favorable mix and the continued realization of acquisition synergies coupled with high margin contributions from the recently acquired Bras N Things business.

Other

Other net sales were lower as a result of continued declines in hosiery sales in the United States and slower traffic at our outlet stores. Operating margin decreased slightly as the impact from lower sales volume was only partially offset by continued cost control.

31
Corporate

Corporate expenses decreased in 2018 primarily related to lower acquisition, integration and other action-related charges of $111 million, partially offset by increased bad debt charges, primarily related to the Sears bankruptcy filing. Acquisition and integration costs are expenses related directly to an acquisition and its integration into the organization. Smaller acquisitions, business disruption and other action-related costs include acquisition and integration charges for our smaller acquisitions such as Alternative Apparel, expenses associated with natural disasters that impact our business and other action-related costs related to a supply chain network realignment. Contingent consideration related to Champion Europe represents the charge recognized in relation to the final contingent consideration settlement in excess of amounts previously accrued, as further described in Note, “Acquisitions” to our consolidated financial statements. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Consolidated Results of Operations — Year Ended December 30, 2017 (“2017”) Compared with Year Ended December 31, 2016 (“2016”)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Net Sales

Higher net sales primarily due to the following:

•Acquisitions of Hanes Australasia, Champion Europe and It’s Greek to Me, Inc. and GTM Retail, Inc. (“GTM”) in 2016 and Alternative Apparel in 2017, which added incremental net sales of approximately $470 million in 2017; 

•Increased nets sales driven by our global Champion and global online growth initiatives; 

•Increased net sales in our licensed intimate apparel business, along with our sock and men’s underwear product categories; 

•Sales growth in licensed sports apparel in the college bookstore business; and

•Favorable impact of foreign currency exchange rates of approximately $25 million.

32
Partially offset by:

•Lower net sales in our remaining Innerwear product categories as a result of challenging consumer traffic at retail, cautious inventory management by retailers and store closures within the mid-tier and department store channel;

•Lower net sales in our licensed sports apparel business and Hanes activewear apparel within the mass merchant channel; and

•Lower net sales in Other driven by continued declines in hosiery, slower traffic at our outlet stores and the planned exit of our legacy catalog business in the third quarter of 2016.

Operating Profit

Operating profit as a percentage of net sales was 11.5% in 2017, a decrease from prior year of approximately 160 basis points, primarily due to the following:

•Increase in gross profit as a percentage of net sales of approximately 70 basis points as supply chain efficiencies and synergies recognized from the integration of our acquisitions was partially offset by higher acquisition, integration and other action-related costs; and 

•Higher selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of net sales of approximately 190 basis points primarily due to higher distribution expenses as a result of increased volume, increased labor expenses to handle late-quarter customer orders, increased marketing investment, mix of product sold, as well as higher acquisition, integration and other action-related charges and expenses related to our U.S. corporate office headcount reduction efforts. The aforementioned expenses were partially offset by synergy benefits from the integration of prior acquisitions, cost savings from the planned reduction of our legacy catalog distribution and continued cost control. 

Included within operating profit are charges of approximately $191 million and $139 million related to acquisition, integration and other action-related costs in 2017 and 2016, respectively. Included within acquisition, integration and other action-related costs in 2017, is $28 million related to the change in fair value of contingent consideration resulting in the final settlement ruling of the contingent consideration liability in connection with the Champion Europe acquisition in 2016.

Other Highlights

Other Expenses – Other expenses were lower by $34 million in 2017 compared to 2016 primarily due to costs of approximately $47 million associated with the redemption of our 6.375% Senior Notes in 2016, which included a call premium and write-off of unamortized debt issuance costs. In 2017, we refinanced our Senior Secured Credit Facility and incurred costs associated with the refinancing of approximately $5 million, which included a write-off of unamortized debt issuance costs and fees paid to third parties. 

Interest Expense – Interest expense was higher by $22 million in 2017 compared to 2016 primarily due to higher debt balances to help fund acquisitions and share repurchases coupled with a higher weighted average interest rate. Our weighted average interest rate on our outstanding debt was 3.78% during 2017, compared to 3.64% during 2016.

Income Tax Expense – Income tax expense for 2017 included a provisional charge related to the Tax Act of $435 million, which included a $360 million transition tax charge on deemed repatriated earnings of foreign subsidiaries, a charge of $72 million for the revaluation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities to the lower corporate income tax rate of 21% and a $3 million charge related to the deductibility of employee compensation. In addition, we incurred incremental tax costs of approximately $22 million for other impacts of tax reform and other actions taken in 2017.

Discontinued Operations – The results of our discontinued operations included the operations of two businesses, Dunlop Flooring and Tontine Pillow, purchased in the Hanes Australasia acquisition.

33
Operating Results by Business Segment — Year Ended December 30, 2017 (“2017”) Compared with Year Ended December 31, 2016 (“2016”) 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Innerwear

Innerwear net sales decreased in both our basics and intimates apparel businesses. Strength in our licensed intimate apparel, socks and men’s underwear businesses, as well as growth in the online channel was more than offset by declines in other product categories due to challenging consumer traffic at retail and cautious inventory management by retailers. Our intimate apparel business also experienced sales declines driven by the continued impact from retail store closures in the mid-tier and department store channel, partially offset by strong performance from our new Maidenform sport and millennial product offerings.

Decreased operating profit was driven largely by lower sales volume coupled with lower margins from unfavorable product mix, as well as expenses related to Project Booster, our multi-year program to drive investment for sales growth, cost reduction and cash flow, offset partially by continued cost control.

Activewear

Activewear net sales increased as a result of our acquisition of Alternative Apparel in October 2017 and expansion into the teamwear and fanware space with the acquisition of GTM in 2016, growth in our core Champion brand in the sports specialty, mid-tier and department store channels, increased licensed sports apparel sales in the college bookstore business, and growth across Activewear product categories online, partially offset by sales declines in Hanes activewear apparel and licensed sports apparel within the mass merchant channel.

Operating profit increased primarily as a result of increased sales volume and continued cost control offset, in part, by the impact of retailer bankruptcies and higher proportion of selling, general and administrative expenses at our recently acquired Alternative Apparel and GTM businesses. 

International

Net sales in the International segment were higher as a result of the following:

•Incremental net sales from the acquisitions of Hanes Australasia in July of 2016 and Champion Europe in June of 2016;[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•Favorable impact of foreign currency exchange rates of approximately $25 million. 

34
Partially offset by:

•Declining hosiery sales and slower traffic at retail in certain European markets.

Operating profit increased primarily due to higher sales volume, coupled with cost synergies realized in our Hanes Europe Innerwear and Hanes Australasia businesses.

Other

Other net sales were lower as a result of continued declines in hosiery sales in the United States, slower traffic at our outlet stores and the planned exit from our legacy catalog business in 2016. Operating profit decreased as a result of lower sales volume, offset, in part, by continued cost control.

Corporate

Corporate expenses increased in 2017 primarily from higher acquisition, integration and other action-related charges in 2017 compared to 2016 of $52 million and increased amortization expense related to acquired intangible assets in our recent acquisitions. Acquisition and integration costs are expenses related directly to an acquisition and its integration into the organization. Business disruption and other actions are mainly expenses associated with natural disasters that impact our business and other action-related costs. Contingent consideration related to Champion Europe represents the charge recognized in relation to the final contingent consideration settlement in excess of amounts previously accrued, as further described in Note, “Acquisitions” to our consolidated financial statements. Acquisition-related currency transactions represent the foreign exchange gain from financing activities related to the Champion Europe and Hanes Australasia acquisitions.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Liquidity and Capital Resources

Cash Requirements and Trends Affecting Liquidity

We rely on our cash flows generated from operations and the borrowing capacity under our credit facilities to meet the cash requirements of our business. The primary cash requirements of our business are payments to vendors in the normal course of business, capital expenditures, maturities of debt and related interest payments, business acquisitions, contributions to our pension plans, repurchases of our stock, regular quarterly dividend payments and income tax payments. We believe we have sufficient cash and available borrowings for our foreseeable liquidity needs.

We typically use cash during the first half of the year and generate most of our cash flow in the second half of the year. We expect our top priorities of our cash deployment strategy in the future will include organic growth (via capital expenditures), debt prepayments and dividends. After funding those priorities, to the extent there is remaining cash or borrowing capacity available, we generally intend to invest in strategic acquisitions and share repurchases.

Our primary sources of liquidity are cash generated from global operations and cash available under our Revolving Loan Facility, our Accounts Receivable Securitization Facility and our international loan facilities. 

35
We had the following borrowing capacity and availability under our credit facilities as of December 29, 2018:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Borrowing availability under the Accounts Receivable Securitization Facility is subject to a quarterly fluctuating facility limit, not to exceed $225 million and permitted only to the extent that the face of the receivables in the collateral pool, net of applicable reserves and other deductions, exceeds the outstanding loans.

As of December 29, 2018, we had $433 million in cash and cash equivalents. We currently believe that our existing cash balances and cash generated by operations, together with our borrowing availability, will enable us to comply with the terms of our indebtedness and meet foreseeable liquidity requirements.

The following have impacted or are expected to impact liquidity:

•We have principal and interest obligations under our outstanding debt.

•We acquired Bras N Things in February 2018 and Alternative Apparel in October 2017 and we may pursue strategic acquisitions in the future.

•We expect to continue to invest in efforts to accelerate worldwide omnichannel and global growth initiatives, as well as marketing and brand building.

•We expect to continue to invest in efforts to improve operating efficiencies and lower costs.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•We may increase or decrease the portion of the current-year income of our foreign subsidiaries that we remit to the United States, which could impact our effective income tax rate. We have also reevaluated our reinvestment strategy with regards to our historic earnings which were taxed as part of the Tax Act and intend to remit foreign earnings totaling $1.4 billion.

•We are obligated to make installment payments over an eight-year period related to our transition tax liability resulting from the implementation of the Tax Act, which began in 2018, in addition to any estimated income taxes due based on current year taxable income. In 2018, we made an installment payment on our transition tax liability in the amount of $13 million and have a remaining balance due of $107 million to be paid in installment payments through 2025.

•Our Board of Directors has authorized a regular quarterly dividend.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

36
Dividends

The following chart summarizes historical dividend activity and the impact on liquidity.

In February 2019, our Board of Directors declared a regular quarterly cash dividend of $0.15 per share on outstanding common stock to be paid on March 12, 2019 to stockholders of record at the close of business on February 19, 2019.

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

We do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements within the meaning of Item 303(a)(4) of SEC Regulation S-K.

Future Contractual Obligations and Commitments

The following table contains information on our contractual obligations and commitments as of December 29, 2018, and their expected timing on future cash flows and liquidity.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Interest obligations on floating rate debt instruments are calculated for future periods using interest rates in effect at December 29, 2018.

(2)Represents only the required minimum pension contributions to our U.S. qualified pension plan in 2019. In addition to the required cash contributions, we may elect to make voluntary contributions to maintain certain funded levels. For a discussion of our pension plan obligations, see Note, “Defined Benefit Pension Plans,” to our consolidated financial statements.

(3)Represents uncertain tax positions and the transition tax liability resulting from the Tax Act.

(4)Represents the projected payment for long-term liabilities recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheet for certain employee benefit claims, royalty-bearing license agreement payments, post retirement obligations and deferred compensation.

37
Sources and Uses of Our Cash 

The information presented below regarding the sources and uses of our cash flows for the years ended December 29, 2018 and December 30, 2017 was derived from our consolidated financial statements.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Operating Activities 

Our overall liquidity is primarily driven by our strong cash flow provided by operating activities, which is dependent on net income and changes in working capital. As compared to prior year, our operating cash decreased slightly due to the final Champion Europe contingent consideration payment in the first quarter of 2018, $17 million of U.S. pension contributions in 2018 and higher cash payments for inventory as we increased our investments to support the global demand of our Champion products. Higher cash payments mentioned above were partially offset by increased accounts receivable collections and improved payment terms with our trade payable vendors.

Investing Activities

The increased cash used by investing activities is primarily the result of the acquisition of Bras N Things in 2018. In 2017, we received cash as a result of the dispositions of the Dunlop Flooring and Tontine Pillow businesses which were acquired in conjunction with the Hanes Australasia acquisition.

Financing Activities

The lower cash used for financing activities in 2018 was primarily driven by our share repurchase activity. We did not repurchase any shares in 2018, however we repurchased shares for a total cost of $400 million in 2017. 

Financing Arrangements 

We believe our financing structure provides a secure base to support our operations and key business strategies. As of December 29, 2018, we were in compliance with all financial covenants under our credit facilities and other outstanding indebtedness discussed below. We continue to monitor our covenant compliance carefully. We expect to maintain compliance with our covenants during 2019, however economic conditions or the occurrence of events discussed above under “Risk Factors” could cause noncompliance.

For further details regarding our liquidity from our available cash balances and credit facilities see, “Trends and Uncertainties Affecting Liquidity”, above.

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates

We have chosen accounting policies that we believe are appropriate to accurately and fairly report our operating results and financial condition in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. We apply these accounting policies in a consistent manner. Our significant accounting policies are discussed in Note, “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies,” to our consolidated financial statements.

The application of critical accounting policies requires that we make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and related disclosures. These estimates and assumptions are based on historical and other factors believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. We evaluate these estimates and assumptions on an ongoing basis and may retain outside consultants to assist in our evaluation. If actual results ultimately differ from previous estimates, the revisions are included in results of operations in the period in which the actual amounts become known. The 

38
critical accounting policies that involve the most significant management judgments and estimates used in preparation of our consolidated financial statements, or are the most sensitive to change from outside factors, are described below:

Sales Recognition and Incentives

We recognize revenue when obligations under the terms of a contract with a customer are satisfied, which occurs at a point in time, upon either shipment or delivery to the customer. Revenue is measured as the amount of consideration we expect to receive in exchange for transferring goods, which includes estimate for variable consideration. We record provisions for any uncollectible amounts based upon our historical collection statistics and current customer information. Our management reviews these estimates each quarter and makes adjustments based upon actual experience.

Note, “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” — (d) Sales Recognition and Incentives,” to our consolidated financial statements describes a variety of sales incentives that we offer to resellers and consumers of our products. Measuring the cost of these incentives requires, in many cases, estimating future customer utilization and redemption rates. We use historical data for similar transactions to estimate the cost of current incentive programs. Our management reviews these estimates each quarter and makes adjustments based upon actual experience and other available information. We classify the costs associated with cooperative advertising as a reduction of “Net sales” in our Consolidated Statements of Income.

Accounts Receivable Valuation

Accounts receivable consist primarily of amounts due from customers. We carry our accounts receivable at their net realizable value. In determining the appropriate allowance for doubtful accounts, we consider a combination of factors, such as the aging of trade receivables, industry trends, and our customers’ financial strength, credit standing and payment and default history. Changes in the aforementioned factors, among others, may lead to adjustments in our allowance for doubtful accounts. The calculation of the required allowance requires judgment by our management as to the impact of these and other factors on the ultimate realization of our trade receivables. Charges to the allowance for doubtful accounts are reflected in the “Selling, general and administrative expenses” line and charges to the allowance for customer chargebacks and other customer deductions are primarily reflected as a reduction in the “Net sales” line of our Consolidated Statements of Income. Our management reviews these estimates each quarter and makes adjustments based upon actual experience. Because we cannot predict future changes in the financial stability of our customers, actual future losses from uncollectible accounts may differ from our estimates. If the financial condition of our customers were to deteriorate, resulting in their inability to make payments, a large reserve might be required. The amount of actual historical losses has not varied materially from our estimates for bad debts.

Inventory Valuation

We carry inventory on our balance sheet at the estimated lower of cost or market. Cost is determined by the first-in, first-out, or “FIFO,” method for our inventories. We carry obsolete, damaged and excess inventory at the net realizable value, which we determine by assessing historical recovery rates, current market conditions and our future marketing and sales plans. Because our assessment of net realizable value is made at a point in time, there are inherent uncertainties related to our value determination. Market factors and other conditions underlying the net realizable value may change, resulting in further reserve requirements. A reduction in the carrying amount of an inventory item from cost to market value creates a new cost basis for the item that cannot be reversed at a later period. While we believe that adequate write-downs for inventory obsolescence have been provided in the consolidated financial statements, consumer tastes and preferences will continue to change and we could experience additional inventory write-downs in the future.

Rebates, discounts and other cash consideration received from a vendor related to inventory purchases are reflected as reductions in the cost of the related inventory item, and are therefore reflected in cost of sales when the related inventory item is sold.

Income Taxes

Deferred tax assets and liabilities are established for temporary differences between the financial reporting basis and the income tax basis of our assets and liabilities, as well as for realizable operating loss and tax credit carryforwards, at tax rates in effect for the years in which the differences are expected to reverse. Realization of deferred tax assets is dependent on future taxable income in specific jurisdictions, the amount and timing of which are uncertain, and on possible changes in tax laws and tax planning strategies. If in our judgment it appears that it is more likely than not that all or some portion of the asset will not be realized, valuation allowances are established against our deferred tax assets, which increase income tax expense in the period when such determination is made.

39
We recognize the tax benefit from an uncertain tax position only if it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained on examination by the taxing authorities, based on the technical merits of the position. The tax benefits recognized in the consolidated financial statements from such a position are measured based on the largest benefit that has a greater than 50% likelihood of being realized upon ultimate resolution. These assessments of uncertain tax positions contain judgments related to the interpretation of tax regulations in the jurisdictions in which we transact business. The judgments and estimates made at a point in time may change based on the outcome of tax audits, expiration of statutes of limitations, as well as changes to, or further interpretations of, tax laws and regulations. Income tax expense is adjusted in our Consolidated Statements of Income in the period in which these events occur.

We have completed our accounting for the enactment of the Tax Act incorporating assumptions made based upon our current interpretation of the Tax Act and relevant proposed regulations in accordance with SAB 118. We have also accounted for impacts of the Tax Act which became effective in 2018. The amounts recorded as it relates to the Tax Act could change in the future as a result of further guidance and regulations being issued and evaluated.

Assets and Liabilities Acquired in Business Combinations

We account for business combinations using the purchase method, which requires us to allocate the cost of an acquired business to the acquired assets and liabilities based on their estimated fair values at the acquisition date. We recognize the excess of an acquired business’ cost over the fair value of acquired assets and liabilities as goodwill. We use a variety of information sources to determine the fair value of acquired assets and liabilities. We generally use third party appraisers to assist management in determination of the fair value and lives of property and identifiable intangibles, consulting actuaries to assist management in determining the fair value of obligations associated with defined benefit pension plans and legal counsel to assist management in assessing obligations associated with legal and environmental claims.

Trademarks and Other Identifiable Intangibles

Trademarks, license agreements, customer and distributor relationships and computer software are our primary identifiable intangible assets. We amortize identifiable intangibles with finite lives over their estimated useful lives, and we do not amortize identifiable intangibles with indefinite lives. We base the estimated useful life of an identifiable intangible asset upon a number of factors, including the effects of demand, competition, expected changes in distribution channels and the level of maintenance expenditures required to obtain future cash flows. As of December 29, 2018, the net book value of trademarks and other identifiable intangible assets was $1.6 billion, of which we are amortizing a balance of $208 million. We anticipate that our amortization expense for 2019 will be $33 million.

We evaluate identifiable intangible assets subject to amortization for impairment at least annually and as triggering events occur, such as significant adverse changes in business climate, several periods of operating or cash flow losses, forecasted continued losses or a current expectation that an intangible asset’s value will be eliminated prior to the end of its useful life. We estimate an intangible asset’s useful life based on historical experience, future business plans and the period over which the asset will be economically useful to us. Our policies require that we periodically review our assets’ remaining depreciable lives based upon actual experience and expected future utilization. A change in the depreciable life is treated as a change in accounting estimate and the accelerated amortization is accounted for in the period of change and future periods. 

We assess identifiable intangible assets not subject to amortization for impairment at least annually, as of the first day of the third fiscal quarter, and more often as triggering events occur. In order to determine the impairment of identifiable intangible assets, we compare the fair value of the intangible asset to its carrying amount. Fair values of intangible assets are primarily based on future cash flows projected to be generated from that asset. We recognize an impairment loss for the amount by which an identifiable intangible asset’s carrying value exceeds its fair value. 

In connection with our annual impairment testing performed in 2018, we performed a quantitative assessment for each indefinite-lived asset. The tests indicate that the indefinite-lived intangible assets have fair values that exceeded their carrying amounts and no impairment of trademarks or other identifiable intangible assets was identified as a result of our testing conducted in 2018. 

Goodwill

As of December 29, 2018, we had $1.2 billion of goodwill. We do not amortize goodwill, but we assess for impairment at least annually and more often as triggering events occur. The timing of our annual goodwill impairment testing is the first day of the third fiscal quarter. The estimated fair values significantly exceeded the carrying values of each of our reporting units as of the first day of the third fiscal quarter, and no impairment of goodwill was identified as a result of the testing conducted in 2018.

40
In evaluating the recoverability of goodwill in 2018, we estimated the fair value of our reporting units. We relied on a number of factors to determine the fair value of our reporting units and evaluate various factors to discount anticipated future cash flows, including operating results, business plans and present value techniques. As discussed above under “Trademarks and Other Identifiable Intangibles,” there are inherent uncertainties related to these factors, and our judgment in applying them and the assumptions underlying the impairment analysis may change in such a manner that impairment in value may occur in the future. Such impairment will be recognized in the period in which it becomes known.

Defined Benefit Pension Plans

For a discussion of our net periodic benefit cost, plan obligations, plan assets and how we measure the amount of these costs, see Note, “Defined Benefit Pension Plans,” to our consolidated financial statements. The funded status of our defined benefit pension plans are recognized on our balance sheet. Differences between actual results in a given year and the actuarially determined assumed results for that year are deferred as unrecognized actuarial gains or losses in comprehensive income. We measure the funded status of our plans as of the date of our fiscal year end.

The net periodic cost of the pension plans is determined using projections and actuarial assumptions, the most significant of which are the discount rate and the long-term rate of asset return. The net periodic pension income or expense is recognized in the year incurred. Gains and losses, which occur when actual experience differs from actuarial assumptions, are amortized over the average future expected life of participants. As benefits under the Hanesbrands Inc. Pension Plan are frozen, year over year fluctuations in our pension expense are not expected to be material and not expected to have a material impact on our Consolidated Statements of Income. 

Our policies regarding the establishment of pension assumptions are as follows:

•In determining the discount rate, we utilized the Aon Hewitt AA-Only Above Median Curve (rounded to the nearest 10 basis points) in order to determine a unique interest rate for each plan and match the expected cash flows for each plan. We utilized a full series specific spot rates along the Aon Hewitt AA Above Median yield curve in our determination of discount rates, for our U.S. defined benefit plans, in order to determine our interest rate and match to the relevant cash flows for the plans. 

•Salary increase assumptions were based on historical experience and anticipated future management actions. The salary increase assumption only applies to the Canadian plans, certain Hanes Europe Innerwear plans and portions of the Hanesbrands nonqualified retirement plans, as benefits under these plans are not frozen. The benefits under the Hanesbrands Inc. Pension Plan were frozen as of December 31, 2005.

•In determining the long-term rate of return on plan assets we applied a proportionally weighted blend between assuming the historical long-term compound growth rate of the plan portfolio would predict the future returns of similar investments, and the utilization of forward-looking assumptions.

•Retirement rates were based primarily on actual experience while standard actuarial tables were used to estimate mortality. In 2018, the tables used as a basis for the mortality assumption were from the RP-2014 table with Scale MP-2018.

The sensitivity of changes in actuarial assumptions on our annual pension expense and on our plans’ benefit obligations, all other factors being equal, is illustrated by the following:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements

For a summary of recently issued accounting pronouncements, see Note, “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

41
Item 7A.Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk