Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements, the information described under the caption “Risk Factors” in Part I, Item 1A of this report and our Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements at the outset of this report.

OVERVIEW

We are a developer, manufacturer and supplier of premium diagnostics products, medical imaging systems, surgical products and light-based aesthetic and medical treatment systems with an emphasis on women's health. We operate in five segments: Diagnostics, Breast Health, Medical Aesthetics, GYN Surgical and Skeletal Health. We sell and service our products through a combination of direct sales and service personnel and a network of independent distributors and sales representatives.

We offer a wide range of diagnostic products which are used primarily to aid in the diagnosis of human diseases, and through January 31, 2017, we offered products that screened donated human blood and plasma. Our primary diagnostics products include our Aptima family of molecular diagnostic assays, which run on our advanced instrumentation systems (Panther and Tigris), our ThinPrep cytology system, and the Rapid Fetal Fibronectin Test. The Aptima family of molecular diagnostic assays is used to detect, among other things, the infectious microorganisms that cause common sexually transmitted diseases, or STDs, chlamydia and gonorrhea, certain high-risk strains of human papillomavirus, or HPV, and Trichomonas vaginalis, the parasite that causes trichomoniasis. In addition, in 2017 and 2018 we introduced Aptima quantitative viral load tests for HIV, Hepatitis C and Hepatitis B. The Aptima portfolio also includes diagnostic tests for a range of acute respiratory ailments that are run on the Panther Fusion system, a field upgradeable instrument addition to Panther. The ThinPrep System is primarily used in cytology applications, such as cervical cancer screening, and the Rapid Fetal Fibronectin Test assists physicians in assessing the risk of pre-term birth.

Our Breast Health products include a broad portfolio of solutions for breast cancer care for radiology, pathology and surgery. These solutions include breast imaging and analytics, such as our 2D and 3D mammography systems and reading workstations, minimally invasive breast biopsy guidance systems and devices, breast surgery and biopsy site markers and localization, specimen radiology, ultrasound and connectivity solutions. Our most advanced breast imaging platforms, Selenia Dimensions and 3Dimensions, utilizes a technology called tomosynthesis to produce 3D images that show multiple contiguous slice images of the breast, which we refer to as the Genius 3D Mammography exam, as well as conventional 2D full field digital mammography images. Our clinical results for FDA approval demonstrated that conventional 2D digital mammography with the addition of 3D tomosynthesis is superior to 2D digital mammography alone for both screening and diagnostics for women of all ages and breast densities. In addition, through our recent acquisitions of Faxitron and Focal we have expanded our product portfolio to include breast conserving surgery products.

Our Medical Aesthetics segment offers a portfolio of aesthetic treatment systems, including SculpSure, PicoSure and MonaLisa Touch that enable plastic surgeons, dermatologists and other medical practitioners to perform non-invasive and minimally invasive procedures to remove hair, treat vascular and benign pigmented lesions, remove multi-colored tattoos, revitalize the skin, reduce fat through laser lipolysis, reduce cellulite, clear nails infected by toe fungus, ablate sweat glands and improve gynecologic health. This segment also markets TempSure, a radio frequency (or "RF") energy sourced platform that offers both non-surgical and surgical aesthetic treatments and procedures. On November 20, 2019, we executed a definitive agreement to sell our Medical Aesthetics business for a sales price of $205 million in cash subject to certain closing adjustments. Net of these adjustments, we expect net proceeds of approximately $138 million. We expect this disposition to be completed around the end of calendar year 2019. The definitive agreement contains representations and warranties and covenants customary for a transaction of this nature, and the completion of the sale is subject to customary closing conditions, including, among others, the expiration or termination of the applicable waiting period under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, as amended, and certain other competition and regulatory approvals. The definitive agreement also contains certain termination rights for us and the purchaser, including, among other events, (i) if the transaction has not been completed on or prior to March 18, 2020, (ii) following a breach by the other party that would cause a closing condition not to be satisfied and is not or cannot be cured within 60 days’ notice of that breach or (ii) if there is any law, injunction or other judgment permanently prohibiting the Transaction. We cannot assure that we will be able to complete this transaction on a timely basis.

Our GYN Surgical products include our NovaSure Endometrial Ablation System, or NovaSure, and our MyoSure Hysteroscopic Tissue Removal System, or MyoSure, as well as our Fluent Fluid Management system, or Fluent. The NovaSure portfolio is comprised of the NovaSure CLASSIC and NovaSure ADVANCED devices and involves a trans-cervical procedure for the treatment of abnormal uterine bleeding. The MyoSure suite of devices offers four options to provide incision-less removal of fibroids, polyps, and other pathology within the uterus. The Fluent system is a fluid management system that provides liquid distention during diagnostic and operative hysteroscopic procedures.

37
Our Skeletal Health segment's products includes the Horizon DXA, a dual energy x-ray system, which evaluates bone density and performs body composition assessments, and the Fluoroscan Insight FD mini C-arm, which assists in performing minimally invasive orthopedic surgical procedures on a patient's extremities, such as the hand, wrist, knee, foot, and ankle.

Unless the context otherwise requires, references to we, us, Hologic or our company refer to Hologic, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries.

Acquisitions and Dispositions

Cynosure, Inc. 

On March 22, 2017, we completed the acquisition of Cynosure pursuant to which we acquired all of the outstanding shares of Cynosure. The acquisition was funded through available cash, and the total purchase price was $1.66 billion. 

The allocation of the purchase price was based on estimates of the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed as of March 22, 2017. As part of the purchase price allocation, we determined the identifiable intangible assets were developed technology of $736.0 million, in-process research and development of $107.0 million, trade names of $74.0 million, a distribution agreement of $42.0 million and customer relationships of $35.0 million. The fair values of the intangible assets were estimated using the income approach, specifically the excess earning method and relief from royalty method, and the cash flow projections were discounted using rates ranging from 11% to 12%. The cash flows were based on estimates used to price the transaction, and the discount rates applied were benchmarked with reference to the implied rate of return from the transaction model and the weighted average cost of capital. 

The developed technology assets comprised know-how, patents and technologies embedded in Cynosure’s products and relate to currently marketed products. In-process research and development projects related to in-process projects that have not reached technological feasibility as of the acquisition date and have no alternative future use. The primary basis for determining technological feasibility of these projects is obtaining regulatory approval to market the underlying product or expected commercial release depending on the project. We recorded $107.0 million of in-process research and development assets related to three projects, which were expected to be completed during fiscal 2018 and 2019 with a preliminary cost to complete of approximately $18.0 million. All of the in-process research and development assets were valued using the multiple-period excess earnings method approach using discount rates ranging from 14% to 22%.

During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2017, we obtained regulatory approval for two projects with an aggregate fair value of $61.0 million and these assets were reclassified to developed technology. The remaining project, which had an initial fair value of $46.0 million, was abandoned in the second quarter of fiscal 2018 due to unsuccessful clinical results. As a result, the Company recorded a $46.0 million impairment charge in the second quarter of fiscal 2018.

The calculation of the excess of the purchase price over the estimated fair value of the tangible net assets and intangible assets acquired was recorded to goodwill. The factors contributing to the recognition of the amount of goodwill were based on several strategic and synergistic benefits that were expected to be realized from the Cynosure acquisition. These benefits included the expectation that our entry into the aesthetics market would significantly broaden our offering in women’s health. The combined company was expected to benefit from a broader global presence, synergistic utilization of Hologic’s direct sales force, primarily its GYN Surgical sales force, with certain Cynosure products and entry into an adjacent, cash-pay segment. During the second quarter of fiscal 2018, we identified indicators of impairment and performed an interim goodwill impairment test. This analysis resulted in a goodwill impairment charge of $685.7 million recorded in the second quarter of fiscal 2018. 

During fiscal 2019, we identified indicators of impairment for our Medical Aesthetics reporting unit as a result of reductions in forecasts during the year, and in connection with our efforts to sell the business that began prior to the end of fiscal 2019. We executed a definitive agreement on November 20, 2019 to sell the business. Although this agreement was signed subsequent to the balance sheet date, we concluded that it provided evidence regarding the estimate of fair value of the asset group at September 28, 2019 and that there were no events that occurred between September 28, 2019 and the date we entered into the definitive agreement that would significantly affect the fair value of the asset group. As a result of these indicators of impairment we recorded total impairment charges of $685.4 million in fiscal 2019 to record the asset group to its fair value. 

For additional information, please refer to Note 2 and 4 to our consolidated financial statements contained in Item 15 of this Annual Report.

38
Medicor Medical Supply 

On April 7, 2017, we completed the acquisition of MMS Medicor Medical Supplies GmbH, or Medicor, for a purchase price of $19.0 million. Medicor was a long-standing distributor of our Breast and Skeletal Health products in Germany, Austria and Switzerland.

Emsor, S.A.

On December 11, 2017, we completed the acquisition of Emsor S.A., or Emsor, for a purchase price of $16.3 million, which included contingent consideration estimated at $4.9 million as of the measurement date. The contingent consideration is payable upon Emsor achieving predefined amounts of cumulative revenue over a two year period from the date of acquisition. Emsor was a distributor of our Breast and Skeletal Health products in Spain and Portugal.

Faxitron

On July 31, 2018, we completed the acquisition of Faxitron Bioptics, LLC, or Faxitron, for a purchase price of $89.5 million, which included hold-backs of $11.7 million that were payable up to one year from the date of acquisition, and contingent consideration which we estimated at $2.9 million as of the measurement date. The contingent consideration is payable upon meeting certain revenue growth metrics. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2019, we increased the contingent consideration liability by $1.7 million based on updated projections. In fiscal 2019, we paid $6.5 million of the hold-back and have withheld the remaining $5.2 million under the indemnification provisions of the purchase agreement, which the former shareholders are disputing. Faxitron, headquartered in Tucson, Arizona, develops, manufactures, and markets digital radiography systems. Faxitron's results of operations are reported in our Breast Health reportable segment from the date of acquisition. Based on our valuation, we allocated $53.2 million of the purchase price to the value of intangible assets and $45.6 million to goodwill. 

Focal Therapeutics

On October 1, 2018, we completed the acquisition of Focal Therapeutics, Inc., or Focal, for a purchase price of $120.1 million, which included hold-backs of $14.0 million payable up to one year from the date of acquisition. In the second quarter of fiscal 2019, $1.5 million of the hold-back was paid, and the remaining $12.5 million was paid on October 1, 2019. Focal, headquartered in California, manufactures and markets its BioZorb marker, which is an implantable three-dimensional marker that helps clinicians overcome certain challenges in breast conserving surgery. Based on our valuation, we allocated $97.2 million of the purchase price to the value of intangible assets and $31.1 million to goodwill.

SuperSonic Imagine

On August 1, 2019, we acquired approximately 46% of the outstanding shares of SuperSonic Imagine S. A., or SSI. SSI, headquartered in France, specializes in ultrasound imaging and designs, develops and markets an ultrasound platform used in the non-invasive care path for the characterization of breast, liver or prostate diseases. We have accounted for this investment as an equity method investment and as a result we recorded a loss of $3.3 million within other income, net, representing our proportionate share of SSI's loss for the two months ended September 28, 2019. In September 2019, we launched a tender offer to acquire all of the remaining shares of SSI that we did not already own for a price of €1.50 per share in cash. Effective November 21, 2019, we acquired an additional 7.6 million shares for $12.5 million. As a result, we own approximately 78% of the outstanding shares and will launch a second tender offer with similar terms to acquire the remaining shares. We will perform purchase accounting in the first quarter of fiscal 2020 and expect to begin consolidating SSI's results effective November 21, 2019.

Blood Screening Business Disposition

In the first quarter of fiscal 2017, we entered into a definitive agreement to sell our blood screening business to Grifols for a sales price of $1.85 billion in cash, subject to adjustment based on the closing amount of inventory. The transaction closed on January 31, 2017 and we received $1.865 billion. The sale resulted in a gain of $899.7 million recorded in the second quarter of fiscal 2017. As a result of this disposition and proceeds received, we recorded a tax obligation of $649.5 million, which was paid in fiscal 2017. Upon the closing of the transaction, our existing collaboration agreement with Grifols terminated, and a new collaboration agreement was executed as part of this transaction for us to provide certain research and development services to Grifols. In addition, we agreed to provide transition services to Grifols over a two to three year period depending on the nature of the respective service, including the manufacture of inventory, and we are in effect serving as a contract manufacturer of assays for Grifols for a two to three year period from the disposal date. We also agreed to sell Panther 

39
instrumentation and certain supplies to Grifols as part of a long term supply agreement. Following the closing of this disposition, we no longer operate our blood screening business, except to the limited extent we have agreed to support Grifols. Under the long term supply agreement, transition services agreement to manufacture assays, and research and development services, we recognized revenues of $58.5 million and $55.4 million in fiscal 2019 and 2018, respectively. For the disposed blood screening business, in fiscal 2017, revenue was $96.5 million, gross profit was $64.8 million and operating income was $45.8 million. Revenue, gross profit and operating income of the disposed business represents the financial impact of the business as it was operated prior to the date of disposition. The operating expenses include only those that were directly incurred and retained by the disposed business and are now incurred by Grifols. See Note 15 to our consolidated financial statements included herein.

40
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the percentage of total revenues represented by items as shown in our Consolidated Statements of Operations. All dollar amounts in tables are presented in millions.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

41
Fiscal Year Ended September 28, 2019 Compared to Fiscal Year Ended September 29, 2018 

Product Revenues.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

We generated a 4.8% increase in product revenues in fiscal 2019 compared to fiscal 2018 due to increases across all our business segments except Medical Aesthetics, which experienced a decline primarily attributable to a reduction in volume of SculpSure and MonaLisa Touch system sales. In the Breast Health business segment, the acquisitions of Faxitron and Focal contributed combined product revenues of $49.2 million in fiscal 2019.

Diagnostics product revenues increased 5.0% in fiscal 2019 compared to fiscal 2018 primarily due to increases in Molecular Diagnostics (excluding blood screening) of $64.2 million partially offset by decreases in Cytology & Perinatal of $8.6 million. In addition, product revenue from blood screening, which we divested in the second quarter of fiscal 2017, increased $0.6 million under our agreement to provide Grifols manufacturing support through a transition services period and long term access to Panther instrumentation and certain raw material supplies. Molecular Diagnostics product revenue was $665.4 million in fiscal 2019 compared to $601.2 million in fiscal 2018. The increase was primarily attributable to sales volume of our Aptima family of assays, which increased $41.9 million on a worldwide basis primarily due to our increased installed base of Panther instruments. This installed base is driving higher volumes of assay testing. In addition, we had an increase in worldwide sales of our virology and Fusion products for which we have recently received certain international regulatory approvals as part of our strategy to expand our menu of assays on the Panther platform. Cytology and Perinatal product revenue decreased $8.6 million primarily due to lower Perinatal volumes, which we primarily attribute to a shift in ordering patterns, and lower domestic ThinPrep test volumes, which we primarily attribute to screening interval expansion as well as a slight decline in average selling prices, partially offset by an increase in international volumes on a worldwide basis. The increase in revenue was partially offset by the negative foreign currency exchange impact on foreign sales of the strengthening U.S. dollar against a number of currencies.

Breast Health product revenues increased 10.3% in fiscal 2019 compared to fiscal 2018 primarily due to the inclusion of Faxitron and Focal products which contributed $44.7 million of the increase in revenues in fiscal 2019. In addition, we had increased unit volumes of our digital mammography systems, primarily our newest 3Dimensions and 3D Performance systems, which complement our older 3D systems for which we had lower sales, and an increase in our newer workflow products, consisting of Intelligent 2D, Clarity HD, and SmartCurve upgrades, partially offset by lower sales of our Brevera breast biopsy system due to supply constraints, Affirm Prone table and software features, and 3D software upgrades. The increase in revenue was partially offset by the negative foreign currency exchange impact on foreign sales of the strengthening U.S. dollar against a number of currencies.

Medical Aesthetics product revenues decreased (9.2)% in fiscal 2019 compared to fiscal 2018 primarily due to a decrease in Body Contouring product revenues on a worldwide basis primarily driven by lower volumes of SculpSure lasers, Submental upgrades and related PAC keys, which we believe was partially due to challenges in our domestic sales force earlier in the year and increased competition in the non-invasive fat reduction category. Our Medical Aesthetics product revenues were also adversely affected by lower Women's Health product sales primarily from lower sales volume of our MonaLisa Touch device, which we believe is primarily driven by the FDA's public letter in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018 challenging various medical aesthetics companies' marketing of devices for so called "vaginal rejuvenation" procedures relative to their FDA approvals. In November of 2018, we received confirmation from the FDA that we had adequately addressed all of the concerns expressed in their letter and we continue to market our Women’s Health products accordingly. These decreases were partially offset by higher Skin product revenue in fiscal 2019 compared to fiscal 2018 primarily driven by Icon and TempSure system sales. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018 in response to the FDA letter referred to above we voluntarily recalled the Tempsure Vitalia handpieces and reversed revenue for refunds and rebates totaling $6.8 million. In the first quarter of fiscal 2019, we relaunched the TempSure product line. The decrease in revenue was also partly due to the negative foreign currency exchange impact on foreign sales of the strengthening U.S. dollar against a number of currencies.

42
GYN Surgical product revenues increased 3.6% in fiscal 2019 compared to fiscal 2018 primarily due to increases in the volume of MyoSure system sales of $9.7 million and increases in Fluent systems sales of $10.8 million. We launched our Fluent system in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018. In addition, we had an increase in revenues in fiscal 2019 from the launch of our new Omni scope product. These increases were partially offset by decreases in NovaSure systems sales of $14.0 million in fiscal 2019 compared to fiscal 2018. We attribute the decrease in NovaSure sales primarily to increased competition and a stagnant market for endometrial ablation. In addition, we have experienced a slight reduction in average selling prices across many of our MyoSure and Novasure devices, which were partially offset by an increase in sales volume for the higher priced NovaSure ADVANCED device. 

 Skeletal Health product revenues increased 5.1% in fiscal 2019 compared to fiscal 2018 primarily due to higher sales volume of our Horizon DXA systems.

In fiscal 2019, 74.6% of product revenues were generated in the United States, 12.0% in Europe, 8.8% in Asia-Pacific, and 4.6% in other international markets. In fiscal 2018, 74.2% of product revenues were generated in the United States, 12.0% in Europe, 9.0% in Asia-Pacific, and 4.8% in other international markets. The slight increase in the percentage of U.S. revenues was primarily due to the Faxitron and Focal acquisitions which generate the majority of their revenue in the U.S.

Service and Other Revenues.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Service and other revenues are primarily comprised of revenue generated from our field service organization to provide ongoing service, installation and repair of our products. The majority of these revenues are generated within our Breast Health segment, and to a lesser extent, our Medical Aesthetics business. The Breast Health business continues to convert a high percentage of our installed base of digital mammography systems to service contracts upon expiration of the warranty period. Our Medical Aesthetics business represented 10.5% and 10.6% of service and other revenues in fiscal 2019 and fiscal 2018, respectively. Service and other revenues increased 3.8% in fiscal 2019 compared to fiscal 2018 primarily due to higher installation, spare parts, and service contract conversion and renewal rates for our Breast Health business. In addition, in the current year, Breast Health had higher license revenue.

Cost of Product Revenues. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Product gross margin was 33.4% in fiscal 2019 compared to 54.4% in fiscal 2018. Excluding the impairment of intangible assets and equipment, product gross margin would have been 54.3%

Cost of Product Revenues. The cost of product revenues as a percentage of product revenues was 34.2% in the current year compared to 33.5% in the prior year. Cost of product revenues as a percentage of product revenues increased in fiscal 2019 compared to fiscal 2018 primarily due to unfavorable manufacturing variances, product mix, step-up in fair value of inventory acquired in the Focal acquisition that resulted in additional costs of $7.1 million, increased tariff costs for products imported into China of $7.5 million and higher international freight costs.

43
Diagnostics' product costs as a percentage of revenue increased in fiscal 2019 compared to fiscal 2018 primarily due to lower ThinPrep Pap test and Perinatal sales, unfavorable manufacturing variances, and lower gross margin from blood screening based on the increase in sales under our long-term supply agreement with Grifols. These cost increases were partially offset by improved molecular diagnostics' gross margin from increased volume of Aptima assays and viral assays.

Breast Health’s product costs as a percentage of revenue increased in fiscal 2019 compared to fiscal 2018 primarily due to unfavorable manufacturing and purchase price variances, the acquisition of Focal in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 and the related impact of stepping-up the acquired inventory to fair value in purchase accounting that resulted in additional costs of $7.1 million in fiscal 2019, tariff costs in China, an increase in the sales volume of digital mammography systems internationally, which generally have lower average selling prices than domestic system sales, and lower software sales. The increases in costs as a percentage of revenue were partially offset by higher domestic sales volume of the higher margin 3Dimensions system sales and increased sales of the higher margin workflow products, consisting of Intelligent 2D, Clarity HD, and SmartCurve upgrades.

Medical Aesthetics' product costs as a percentage of revenue decreased in fiscal 2019 compared to fiscal 2018 primarily due to fiscal 2018 including a $6.8 million revenue reserve recorded in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018 for the voluntary TempSure Vitalia recall in response to the FDA letter and related inventory charges in fiscal 2018. This was partially offset by lower sales volume, unfavorable product mix as we sold fewer units of our higher margin SculpSure laser and related PAC keys and MonaLisa Touch device, unfavorable manufacturing variances, increased inventory reserves and tariff costs in China.

GYN Surgical’s product costs as a percentage of revenue decreased slightly in fiscal 2019 compared to fiscal 2018 primarily due to favorable manufacturing variances from overall increased volumes. Product costs were relatively consistent in fiscal 2019 compared to fiscal 2018. While there is a continued mix shift to the lower margin MyoSure products from NovaSure comprising a higher percentage of GYN Surgical product sales and increased sales of Fluent, this trend was offset by an increase in sales volume in fiscal 2019 for the higher margin NovaSure ADVANCED device compared to the Classic device.

Skeletal Health’s product costs as a percentage of revenue were relatively consistent in fiscal 2019 compared to fiscal 2018.

Amortization of Intangible Assets. Amortization of intangible assets included in cost of product revenues relates to acquired developed technology, which is generally amortized over its estimated useful life of between 5 and 15 years using a straight-line method or, if reliably determinable, based on the pattern in which the economic benefits of the assets are expected to be consumed. Amortization expense decreased in fiscal 2019 compared to fiscal 2018 primarily due to lower amortization from intangible assets acquired in the Cynosure acquisition which were written down in the second quarter of fiscal 2019 (partially offset by shortening the remaining life of certain assets) and lower amortization of intangible assets acquired in the Cytyc acquisition which reduce over time. These decreases were partially offset by combined amortization expense related to intangible assets acquired in the Faxitron and Focal acquisitions of $12.9 million in the fiscal 2019.

Impairment of Intangible Assets and Equipment. During fiscal 2019, we identified indicators of impairment for our Medical Aesthetics reporting unit as a result of reductions in forecasts during the year, and in connection with our efforts to sell the business that began prior to the end of fiscal 2019 as described above. As a result of these indicators of impairment, we recorded total impairment charges of $685.4 million in fiscal 2019. The impairment charge was allocated to developed technology for $576.9 million and equipment assets for $1.8 million, which is included in cost of revenues. In the first quarter of fiscal 2020, this asset group will meet the assets held-for-sale criteria and will be recorded at fair value less the costs to sell, which could result in additional charges.

Cost of Service and Other Revenues.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Service and other revenues gross margin was 41.2% in fiscal 2019 compared to 45.1% in fiscal 2018. The decrease in gross margin is primarily due to an increase in costs in Breast Health to repair digital mammography systems under service contracts, including an increase in spare parts revenue with unfavorable margins, increased departmental spend and higher 

44
freight costs, and increased field service costs in Medical Aesthetics. In fiscal 2019, the reduced gross margin was partially offset by an increase in Breast Health license revenue, which has a higher gross margin.

Operating Expenses. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Research and Development Expenses. Research and development expenses increased 6.2% in fiscal 2019 compared to fiscal 2018 primarily due to a $4.5 million charge related to the purchase of intellectual property in the third quarter of fiscal 2019, higher compensation expense in Breast Health due to increased headcount and the inclusion of expenses from the Faxitron and Focal acquisitions contributing a $4.8 million increase, and an increase in consulting spend, partially offset by a decrease in project spend and a reduction in Diagnostics from lower headcount. At any point in time, we have a number of different research projects and clinical trials being conducted and the timing of these projects and related costs can vary from period to period.

Selling and Marketing Expenses. Selling and marketing expenses increased 3.7% in fiscal 2019 compared to fiscal 2018 primarily due to expenses attributable to the Faxitron and Focal acquisitions contributing a $19.7 million increase in fiscal 2019, increased sales personnel headcount in Surgical, increased marketing initiatives in Diagnostic, and higher travel partially offset by lower Medical Aesthetics expenses primarily due to lower compensation expense as a result of lower headcount, and a reduction in marketing initiatives spend and trade shows.

General and Administrative Expenses. General and administrative expenses decreased 9.2% in fiscal 2019 compared to fiscal 2018 primarily due to the inclusion in fiscal 2018 of a $34.8 million legal settlement charge related to the Smith & Nephew patent infringement lawsuit related regarding our MyoSure system. Excluding the impact of the Smith & Nephew settlement, general and administrative expenses were consistent in fiscal 2019 compared to fiscal 2018. Fiscal 2019 included higher compensation and benefits due to increased headcount and improved results, higher facility and infrastructure costs, increased acquisition and transactional related expenses including contingent consideration, and an increase in accounting and consulting fees related to the adoption of new accounting standards. Additionally, the first quarter of fiscal 2018 included a $4.0 million benefit due to resolution of a non-income tax matter. Offsetting these increases in fiscal 2019 was lower depreciation expense as fiscal 2018 included accelerated depreciation of Cynosure's SAP ERP system, and a net decrease in legal fees and charges primarily related to the Fuji and Minerva lawsuits, partially offset by settling the Enzo lawsuit in the second quarter of fiscal 2019.

Amortization of Intangible Assets. Amortization of intangible assets results from customer relationships, trade names, distributor relationships and business licenses related to our acquisitions. These intangible assets are generally amortized over their estimated useful lives of between 5 and 30 years using a straight-line method or, if reliably determinable, based on the pattern in which the economic benefits of the assets are expected to be consumed utilizing expected undiscounted future cash flows. Amortization expense decreased 12.3% in fiscal 2019 compared to fiscal 2018 primarily due to lower amortization from the intangible assets acquired in the Cynosure acquisition which were written down in the second quarter of fiscal 2019.

Impairment of Intangible Assets and Equipment. As discussed above, we recorded aggregate impairment charges of $685.4 million during fiscal 2019. The impairment charges were allocated to the long-lived assets and written off to operating expenses in the amounts of $22.4 million to customer relationships, $48.6 million to trade names, $27.7 million to distribution agreements and $8.0 million to equipment.

45
In the second quarter of fiscal 2018, we decided to cancel and abandon an in-process research and development project that was recorded as an intangible asset in the Cynosure acquisition purchase accounting. The project was abandoned due to unsuccessful clinical results. As a result, we recorded a $46.0 million impairment charge to write-off the full value of the asset.

Impairment of Goodwill. During the second quarter of fiscal 2018, in connection with commencing our company-wide annual budgeting and strategic planning process, evaluating the current operating performance of our Medical Aesthetics reporting unit, and abandoning an in-process research and development project, we reduced the short term and long term revenue and operating income forecasts and determined that indicators of impairment existed in our Medical Aesthetics reporting unit. The updated forecast reflected significantly reduced volume and market penetration projections resulting in lower short-term and long-term profitability than expected at the time of the Cynosure acquisition. As a result of those current events and circumstances, we determined that it was more likely than not that this change would reduce the fair value of the reporting unit below its carrying amount. In performing the impairment test, we utilized the single step approach under Accounting Standards Update No. 2017-04, Intangibles-Goodwill and Other (Topic 350): Simplifying the Test for Goodwill Impairment (ASU 2017-04). The goodwill impairment test requires a comparison of the carrying value of the Medical Aesthetics reporting unit to its estimated fair value. To estimate the fair value of the reporting unit, we utilized a DCF analysis. The forecasted cash flows were based on our most recent budget and strategic plan and for periods beyond the strategic plan, our estimates were based on assumed growth rates expected as of the measurement date. We believe our assumptions were consistent with the plans and estimates used to manage the underlying business. The basis of fair value for Medical Aesthetics assumed the reporting unit would be purchased or sold in a non-taxable transaction, and the discount rate of 12.0% applied to the after-tax cash flows was consistent with that used in the purchase accounting performed in fiscal 2017. We believe our assumptions used to determine the fair value of the reporting unit were reasonable. For additional information pertaining to impairment of goodwill, please refer to Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements contained in Item 15 of this Annual Report.

Restructuring Charges. In fiscal 2017, in connection with our acquisition of Cynosure, we implemented certain organizational changes, and we also eliminated certain research and development positions in Breast Health and manufacturing positions primarily in our Diagnostics division. In fiscal 2018, we finalized our decision to consolidate legacy international accounting and customer service organizations into our Manchester, UK location and decided to eliminate positions in Belgium, France, Italy, Spain and Germany. This transition was completed in fiscal 2019. We also eliminated certain sales and marketing personnel in our Diagnostics and Medical Aesthetics divisions. Additionally, we decided to close our Hicksville, New York facility which manufactured certain Cynosure products and the employees were notified of termination and related benefits in the third quarter of fiscal 2018. In fiscal 2019, we decided to transfer certain shared services positions to our Costa Rica facility from our Marlborough location and made other employee termination actions. Pursuant to U.S. GAAP, the related severance and benefit charges are recognized either ratably over the respective required employee service periods or up-front for contractual benefits. In fiscal 2019 and 2018, we recorded aggregate charges of $6.6 million and $14.2 million, respectively, from these actions, primarily for severance and benefits and to a lesser extent lease obligation charges for facility closure costs. For additional information, please refer to Note 6 to our consolidated financial statements contained in Item 15 of this Annual Report.

Interest Expense.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Interest expense in fiscal 2019 and 2018 consists primarily of the cash interest costs and the related amortization of the debt discount and deferred issuance costs on our outstanding debt. Interest expense in fiscal 2019 decreased compared to fiscal 2018 primarily from refinancing our 2022 Senior Notes with our 2025 and 2028 Senior Notes that carry lower rates, extinguishing our Convertible Notes in fiscal 2017 and 2018. Fiscal 2018 interest expense also included issuance costs expensed from refinancing of our credit facilities and issuance of the 2025 Senior Notes and 2028 Senior Notes in fiscal 2018. These decreases in fiscal 2019 were partially offset by increased interest expense under our 2018 Credit Agreement due to an increase in LIBOR and average amounts outstanding and net lower gains earned under our interest rate cap agreements that hedge the variable interest rate under our credit facilities in fiscal 2019 as compared to fiscal 2018.

46
Debt Extinguishment Losses.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

In the first quarter of fiscal 2019, we entered into the 2018 Credit Agreement with Bank of America, N.A. The proceeds under the 2018 Agreement were used to pay off the Term Loan and Revolver outstanding under the 2017 Credit Agreement. In connection with this transaction, we recorded a debt extinguishment loss of $0.8 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2019. 

In the first quarter of fiscal 2018, we entered into the 2017 Credit Agreement with Bank of America, N.A. The proceeds under the 2017 Credit Agreement were used to pay off the Term Loan and Revolver outstanding under the Prior Credit Agreement. In connection with this transaction, we recorded a debt extinguishment loss of $1.0 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2018. In the second quarter of fiscal 2018, we completed a private placement of $1.0 billion aggregate principal amount of senior notes allocated between the 2025 Senior Notes and 2028 Senior Notes. The proceeds under the 2025 Senior Notes and 2028 Senior Notes offering and our available cash were used to redeem the 2022 Senior Notes in the same principal amount. In connection with this transaction, we recorded a debt extinguishment loss of $44.9 million in the second quarter of fiscal 2018. 

Other Income, net.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

In fiscal 2019, this account primarily consisted of net foreign currency exchange gains of $5.1 million primarily due to hedging activities, a gain of $0.9 million on the sale of an investment and a gain of $0.4 million on the cash surrender value of life insurance contracts related to our deferred compensation plans, partially offset by a $3.3 million loss related to our proportionate share of investment in SSI, which is being accounted for an equity method investment.

In fiscal 2018, this account primarily consisted of net foreign currency exchange gains of $5.9 million primarily due to hedging activities, a gain of $3.2 million on the cash surrender value of life insurance contracts related to our deferred compensation plan, partially offset by a realized loss of $0.6 million on the sale of a marketable security.

(Benefit) for Income Taxes.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Our effective tax rate for fiscal 2019 was 21.0% compared to 73.4% in fiscal 2018. Our effective tax rate in fiscal 2019, applied to an overall pre-tax loss resulting in a benefit, was equal to the statutory tax rate primarily due to the offsetting impacts of a discrete benefit related to an internal restructuring, earnings in jurisdictions subject to lower tax rates, reserves for uncertain tax positions and releases resulting from statute of limitations expirations and favorable audit settlements, a valuation allowance resulting from the Medical Aesthetics impairment charge, and finalizing the impact of the enactment of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the "Act") in the first quarter of fiscal 2019. As of December 29, 2018, we completed our accounting for the tax effects of enactment of the Act, recording a benefit reduction of $5.0 million in the three months ended December 29, 2018. We recognized a final net benefit amount of $341.2 million related to the Act, which was included as a component of income tax expense.

Our effective tax rate in fiscal 2018, applied to an overall pre-tax loss resulting in a benefit, differed from the statutory tax rate primarily due to the favorable impact of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the "Act"), which required us to remeasure our U.S. net deferred tax liabilities at a lower rate, partially offset by the unfavorable impact of the Medical Aesthetics goodwill impairment charge, substantially all of which was non-deductible. The net result of implementing the Act was a benefit of $346.2 million representing our best estimate based on our interpretation of the Act. As of September 29, 2018, we were still accumulating data to finalize the underlying calculations, and the U.S. Treasury was expected to issue further guidance on the application of certain provisions of the Act.

47
Segment Results of Operations

We report our business as five segments: Diagnostics, Breast Health, Medical Aesthetics, GYN Surgical and Skeletal Health. The accounting policies of the segments are the same as those described in the footnotes to the accompanying consolidated financial statements contained in Item 15 of this Annual Report. We measure segment performance based on total revenues and operating income. Revenues from product sales of each of these segments are described in further detail above. The discussion that follows is a summary analysis of total revenues and the primary changes in operating income or loss by segment.

Diagnostics.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Diagnostics revenues increased in fiscal 2019 compared to fiscal 2018 primarily due to the increase in product revenues discussed above.

Operating income for this business segment increased in fiscal 2019 compared to fiscal 2018 primarily due to an increase in gross profit from higher revenues partially offset by an increase in operating expenses. Gross margin was 47.3% in the current year compared with 47.1% in the prior year. The increase in gross margin was primarily due to improved molecular diagnostics' gross margin from increased volume of Aptima assays and lower amortization expense, partially offset by lower ThinPrep Pap test and Perinatal volumes, unfavorable manufacturing variances, lower gross margins on blood screening revenues, and the negative foreign currency impact of the strengthening U. S. dollar.

Operating expenses increased in fiscal 2019 compared to fiscal 2018 primarily due to the $10.5 million settlement charge recorded in the second quarter of fiscal 2019 related to the Enzo litigation, an increase in marketing initiatives and trade shows, an increase in consulting spend and higher sales expense partially offset by lower compensation expense due to a decrease in headcount, lower clinical trial expenses based on the timing of projects, a reduction in legal fees, lower restructuring costs and lower amortization expense.

Breast Health.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Breast Health revenues increased in fiscal 2019 compared to fiscal 2018 primarily due to an increase of $78.3 million in product revenue and a $17.7 million in service and other revenue as discussed above.

Operating income for this business segment was consistent in fiscal 2019 compared to fiscal 2018 primarily due to an increase in gross profit from higher revenue offset by an increase in operating expenses in the current year. The overall gross margin decreased to 57.8% in the current year compared to 60.2% in the prior year primarily due to a $12.9 million increase in amortization expense from the Faxitron and Focal acquisitions, the fair value adjustment related to Focal inventory of $7.1 million, an increase in lower margin service revenue, increased service costs related primarily to spare parts, tariff costs in China, lower software sales and the negative foreign currency impact of the strengthening U. S. dollar. These reductions in gross margins were partially offset by favorable product gross margins from sales volume increases in the 3Dimensions and 3D Performance systems, which have higher average selling prices, and an increase in license revenue. 

Operating expenses increased in fiscal 2019 compared to fiscal 2018 due to an increase in compensation from higher headcount in the Breast Health segment, the inclusion of expenses from the Faxitron and Focal acquisitions aggregating $29.4 million, increased travel expenses, increased R&D project expenses, higher acquisition related expenses including integration, 

48
a $1.7 million increase to contingent consideration related to Faxitron, increased commissions from higher sales. These increases were partially offset by lower legal expenses as a result of a benefit from settling the Fuji litigation and lower activity in fiscal 2019 compared to fiscal 2018.

Medical Aesthetics.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Medical Aesthetics revenue decreased in fiscal 2019 compared to fiscal 2018 primarily due to decrease of $25.5 million in product revenue discussed above, partially offset by increase of $1.9 million in service revenue.

The operating loss in fiscal 2019 included intangible asset and equipment impairment charges of $443.8 million and $241.6 million recorded in the second quarter and fourth quarter of fiscal 2019, respectively. The operating loss in fiscal 2018 included impairment charges aggregating $731.7 million for goodwill and an in-process research and development intangible asset recorded in the second quarter of fiscal 2018. Excluding the impairment charges, the operating loss for this business segment would have been $95.8 million in fiscal 2019 compared to $113.0 million in fiscal 2018, a decrease of $17.2 million. The reduction of the operating loss was primarily due to a decrease in operating expenses partially offset by a reduction in gross profit from lower revenues. Gross margin, excluding impairment charges, decreased primarily due to lower sales volume of our higher margin MonaLisa Touch device and SculpSure laser and related PAC keys, higher sales of lower margin Icon and TempSure systems, unfavorable manufacturing variances, an increase in inventory reserves, increased service costs, and tariffs in China. These decreases in gross profit were partially offset by the effect of the revenue reversal of $6.8 million in the prior year period related to the TempSure Vitalia voluntary recall.

Offsetting the decrease in gross profit, operating expenses other than impairment charges were lower in fiscal 2019 compared to fiscal 2018 primarily due to a decrease in compensation related to lower headcount across the organization from attrition and initiatives to right-size spending relative to operating results, lower depreciation expense as the prior year period included accelerated depreciation expense related to the abandonment of Cynosure's SAP ERP system, a reduction in restructuring and integration charges, lower amortization expense as a result of impairing the intangible assets in the second quarter of fiscal 2019, lower marketing initiative spend, lower travel and trade show spend, and lower consulting, partially offset by an increase in legal fees.

GYN Surgical.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

GYN Surgical revenues increased in fiscal 2019 compared to fiscal 2018 due to the increase in product revenues discussed above.

Operating income for this business segment increased in fiscal 2019 compared to fiscal 2018 primarily due to the inclusion of a legal settlement charge of $34.8 million related to settling the Smith & Nephew patent infringement lawsuit related to the MyoSure system in fiscal 2018. Excluding the impact of the Smith & Nephew settlement, operating income increased $6.1 million in fiscal 2019 compared to fiscal 2018 primarily due to increased gross profit driven by higher revenue. Gross margin increased to 64.3% in the current year compared to 63.1% in the prior year primarily due to lower amortization expense, increased volumes and favorable manufacturing variances.

Excluding the impact of the Smith & Nephew settlement, operating expenses increased in fiscal 2019 compared to fiscal 2018 primarily due to increased compensation from higher sales headcount and increased commissions, a $4.5 million charge in research and development expenses related to the purchase of certain intellectual property in the third quarter of fiscal 2019, 

49
higher research project spend and because the prior year period included a $3.2 million benefit related to the resolution of a tax matter, partially offset by a decrease in marketing initiatives. 

Skeletal Health.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Skeletal Health revenues increased in fiscal 2019 compared to fiscal 2018 primarily due to the increase in product revenues discussed above. 

Operating income decreased in fiscal 2019 compared to the prior year primarily due to higher operating expenses. Gross margin decreased to 37.4% in the current year compared to 39.7% in the prior year primarily due to pricing pressures and unfavorable manufacturing variances. Operating expenses increased in fiscal 2019 compared to fiscal 2018 primarily due to facility closure costs incurred for the Bedford facility of $1.4 million in fiscal 2019, increased research and development spending and consulting spend. 

50
Fiscal Year Ended September 29, 2018 Compared to Fiscal Year Ended September 30, 2017 

Product Revenues. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

We generated a 4.2% increase in product revenues in fiscal 2018 compared to fiscal 2017 primarily due to our acquisition of Cynosure on March 22, 2017 and an increase in Breast Health sales. Cynosure's results (after the date of the acquisition) are reported in our Medical Aesthetics segment. Cynosure is the sole business in this segment. Partially offsetting the increase, our Diagnostics business product revenues declined as a result of the sale of our blood screening business effective January 31, 2017, and we had lower revenues in GYN Surgical. Excluding blood screening, Diagnostics revenues increased $46.6 million in fiscal 2018 compared to fiscal 2017. In addition, fiscal 2018 was a 52-week year compared to a 53-week year in fiscal 2017. 

Diagnostics product revenues decreased 3.6% in fiscal 2018 compared to fiscal 2017 primarily due to the decrease in blood screening revenues of $88.2 million in the fiscal 2018 as a result of the divestiture of the business during the second quarter of fiscal 17. In connection with the divestiture agreement, we committed to providing Grifols manufacturing support through the defined transition services period and long term access to Panther instrumentation and certain supplies. Product revenue under the long term supply agreement and transition services agreement to manufacture assays for Grifols was $45.4 million and $37.1 million for fiscal 2018 and fiscal 2017, respectively. Excluding the divestiture of the blood screening business, diagnostic product revenues grew driven by increases in Molecular Diagnostics of $43.6 million in fiscal 2018, while Cytology & Perinatal revenues were slightly higher by $3.0 million year over year primarily due to higher international sales volume.

Molecular Diagnostics product revenue was $601.2 million in fiscal 2018 compared to $557.6 million in fiscal 2017. The increase was primarily attributable to sales of our Aptima family of assays on a worldwide basis due to our increased installed base of Panther instruments, which is driving higher volumes of assay testing. In addition, we had an increase in the number of our virology products, as we received additional international regulatory approvals. These increases were partially offset by a slight decline in average selling prices, lower instrument sales and the loss of one week in fiscal 2018 compared to fiscal 2017. Cytology & Perinatal product revenue increased due to higher international ThinPrep volumes, partially offset by lower domestic ThinPrep test volumes, which we primarily attribute to screening internal expansion, as well as a slight decline in average selling prices on a worldwide basis.

Breast Health product revenues increased 7.1% in fiscal 2018 compared to fiscal 2017 primarily due to increased unit volumes of our newest 3Dimensions, which also have higher average selling prices, and 3D Performance systems, both of which complement our older 3D systems, increased sales volume of our Affirm Prone table and Brevera breast biopsy system, which was recently commercially released in the U.S., an increase in Eviva and ATEC volumes internationally, and the positive foreign currency exchange impact of the weakening U.S. dollar against a number of currencies. In addition, the acquisition of Medicor and Emsor, former distributors of our products, resulted in higher mammography system revenues, primarily attributable to higher direct sales prices in their respective territories. These increases were partially offset by lower sales volume of our 2D Dimensions systems on a worldwide basis and lower 3D upgrades primarily as a result of a shift to 3D systems.

Our Medical Aesthetics business commenced in fiscal 2017 as a result of the acquisition of Cynosure effective March 22, 2017. Product revenue increased 56.1% in fiscal 2018 compared to fiscal 2017 primarily due to year over year increases in Body Contouring, Skin, Women’s Health and Other product revenues as fiscal 2018 was a full year period compared to slightly more than six months of activity in fiscal 2017. The fourth quarter and annual period were affected by our decision to voluntary recall the TempSure Vitalia system in response to a letter we received from the FDA expressing concerns regarding “vaginal rejuvenation” procedures using energy-based devices, which specifically mentioned our MonaLisa Touch laser. We believed our MonaLisa Touch laser had the appropriate FDA approvals. However, in considering the FDA’s broader concerns we elected to suspend marketing and distribution of our TempSure Vitalia handpieces and single-use probes until we have assessed the 

51
implications of recent FDA considerations for devices in this category. As a result, we requested our customers to return any Vitalia handpieces and unused probes they purchased and we recorded a $6.8 million reserve to revenue for issuing refunds and rebates.

GYN Surgical product revenues decreased 1.2% in fiscal 2018 compared to fiscal 2017 primarily due to lower NovaSure system sales of $25.0 million from lower U.S. volumes partially offset by an increase in MyoSure system sales on a worldwide basis of $14.6 million. We attributed the decrease in NovaSure sales primarily to increased competition and a stagnant market for endometrial ablation, partially offset by a slight increase in average selling prices from a mix shift to the higher priced NovaSure ADVANCED device. In addition, fiscal 2018 was a 52-week year compared to a 53-week year in fiscal 2017. Offsetting these decreases is the positive effect of foreign currency exchange rates from a weaker U.S. dollar.

 Skeletal Health product revenues increased 3.1% in fiscal 2018 compared to fiscal 2017 primarily due to higher sales volume of our Horizon osteoporosis assessment product revenues in the U.S., which was partially offset by a decrease in our mini C-arm sales, which we attributed primarily to competitive pressures.

In fiscal 2018, 74.2% of product revenues were generated in the United States, 12.0% in Europe, 9.0% in Asia-Pacific, and 4.8% in other international markets. In fiscal 2017, 76.7% of product revenues were generated in the United States, 10.3% in Europe, 8.5% in Asia-Pacific, and 4.5% in other international markets. The slight decrease in the percentage of U.S. revenues was primarily due higher revenues in other international markets as a result of our Cynosure, Medicor, and Emsor acquisitions, and increased international sales volume of 3Dimensions systems, ThinPrep Pap tests and Aptima products in Europe and Asia-Pacific.

Service and Other Revenues.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Service and other revenues are primarily comprised of revenue generated from our field service organization to provide ongoing service, installation and repair of our products. The majority of these revenues are generated within our Breast Health segment, and to a lesser extent, our Medical Aesthetics business. The Breast Health business continues to convert a high percentage of our installed base of digital mammography systems to service contracts upon expiration of the warranty period. Our Medical Aesthetics business represented 10.6% and 5.6% of service and other revenues in fiscal 2018 and fiscal 2017, respectively. Service and other revenues increased 10.2% in fiscal 2018 compared to fiscal 2017 primarily due to higher service contract conversion and renewal rates, higher spare parts sales, and the Cynosure acquisition contributing an additional $31.5 million of revenue due to a full year of operations in fiscal 2018 compared to slightly more than six months of activity in fiscal 2017. Partially offsetting these increases was the prior year included $9.5 million of non-recurring royalty revenue recorded in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2017.

Cost of Product Revenues.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Product gross margin increased to 54.4% in fiscal 2018 compared to 53.6% in fiscal 2017.

Cost of Product Revenues. The cost of product revenues as a percentage of product revenues was 33.5% in fiscal 2018, compared to 34.7% in fiscal 2017. Cost of product revenues as a percentage of product revenues in fiscal 2018 was lower than fiscal 2017 primarily due to the acquisition of Cynosure in the prior year and the related impact of stepping-up the acquired inventory to fair value in purchase accounting, resulting in additional costs of $39.3 million in fiscal 2017.

Diagnostics’ product costs as a percentage of revenue decreased slightly in fiscal 2018 compared to fiscal 2017 primarily due to increased Aptima assay volumes and higher volumes of our newer virology products, partially offset by an increase in 

52
international sales which have lower average selling prices and the divestiture of the higher margin blood screening business that occurred during the second quarter of fiscal 2017. The products that we supply to Grifols under the supply and collaboration agreements are at significantly lower gross margins than we earned in the disposed business. 

Breast Health’s product costs as a percentage of revenue increased slightly in fiscal 2018 compared to fiscal 2017 primarily due to decrease in 3D upgrades and C-View software sales, which have higher gross margins than capital equipment sales, lower average sales prices of 3D Dimensions systems in the U.S. from a mix shift to our lower margin 3D Performance system and increase in the sales volume of digital mammography systems internationally, which have lower average selling prices. The decreases were partially offset by higher sales volume of the new 3Dimensions system, Affirm Prone table and the Brevera breast biopsy system, higher average selling prices for Eviva and ATEC devices.

Medical Aesthetics product costs as a percentage of revenue decreased in fiscal 2018 compared to fiscal 2017 primarily due to the impact of the step-up in inventory recorded in fiscal 2017 from the application of purchase accounting. Partially offsetting this impact, in the current year we recorded a revenue reserve for the Tempsure Vitalia recall of $6.8 million and additional inventory charges.

GYN Surgical’s product costs as a percentage of revenue increased slightly in fiscal 2018 compared to fiscal 2017 primarily due to lower NovaSure volumes and continued mix shift to MyoSure products comprising a higher percentage of GYN Surgical product sales. MyoSure devices have a lower gross margin than NovaSure devices. In addition, we had higher international sales which have lower average selling prices.

Skeletal Health’s product costs as a percentage of revenue increased in fiscal 2018 compared to fiscal 2017 primarily due to unfavorable manufacturing variances and to a lesser extent pricing pressures on our Horizon system. 

Amortization of Intangible Assets. Amortization of intangible assets relates to acquired developed technology. These intangible assets are generally amortized over their estimated useful lives of between 8 and 15 years using a straight-line method or, if reliably determinable, based on the pattern in which the economic benefits of the assets are expected to be consumed. Amortization expense increased in fiscal 2018 compared to fiscal 2017 primarily due to an increase of $36.2 million related to intangible assets acquired in the Cynosure acquisition, partially offset by a decrease in amortization expense related to the divestiture of the blood screening business of $5.4 million, lower amortization expense related to the Cytyc acquisition intangibles, which are being amortized based on the pattern of economic benefits, and having one less week of expense in fiscal 2018 compared to fiscal 2017. 

Cost of Service and Other Revenues.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Service and other revenues gross margin was 45.1% in fiscal 2018 compared to 50.3% in fiscal 2017. The decrease in gross margin is primarily related to the lower margin Cynosure service business being a higher percentage of the overall service business in fiscal 2018 from a full year of operations, the inclusion in fiscal 2017 of $9.5 million of non-recurring royalty revenue that had no corresponding costs, and to a lesser extent an increase in costs to repair older digital mammography systems under service contracts in our Breast Health business. The decrease was partially offset by the Breast Health business continued strength to convert a high percentage of our installed base of digital mammography systems to service contracts upon expiration of the warranty period leveraging our service infrastructure.

53
Operating Expenses.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

** - Percentage not meaningful

Research and Development Expenses. Research and development expenses decreased 6.1% in fiscal 2018 compared to fiscal 2017 primarily due to lower project spend, including development materials and clinical spending, a reduction of outside consulting spend across the divisions and a reduction in headcount primarily in Diagnostics, Breast Health and Medical Aesthetics. Expenses were also lower in fiscal 2018 primarily due to the divestiture of the blood screening business and one less week of expenses partially offset by an increase of Cynosure research and development expenses of $9.0 million due to a full year in fiscal 2018 compared to slightly more than six months of activity in the prior year. At any point in time, we have a number of different research projects and clinical trials being conducted and the timing of these projects and related costs can vary from period to period.

Selling and Marketing Expenses. Selling and marketing expenses increased 9.2% in fiscal 2018 compared to fiscal 2017 primarily due to the inclusion of Cynosure, which increased $49.9 million in fiscal 2018 representing a full year of activity; however, headcount was lower compared to the prior year as this business's expenses were aligned to reflect its operating results. Excluding Cynosure, selling and marketing expenses related to Hologic's legacy business decreased $5.0 million in fiscal 2018 compared to fiscal 2017 primarily due to lower marketing initiatives and consulting expenses, lower spend on travel, a decline in sales personnel headcount in Diagnostics and one less week of expenses, partially offset by higher salary compensation from increased headcount in Breast Health and to a lesser extent GYN Surgical, and an increase in commissions and third-party commissions primarily in Breast Health.

General and Administrative Expenses. General and administrative expenses increased 6.6% in fiscal 2018 compared to fiscal 2017 primarily due to the inclusion of Cynosure, which increased $22.1 million in fiscal 2018 representing a full year of activity; however, headcount has been reduced as this business is integrated into our corporate structure. Excluding the impact of Cynosure, expenses related to Hologic’s legacy business increased slightly in fiscal 2018 compared to fiscal 2017 primarily due to increased legal fees including settling the Smith & Nephew patent infringement lawsuit related to the MyoSure system for $34.8 million, fees incurred in the Fuji and Minerva lawsuits, increased international infrastructure costs, increased bad debt expense primarily from international and Cynosure customers, higher tax consulting and accounting fees and increased information systems infrastructure and project costs. These increases were partially offset by lower costs in fiscal 2018 as fiscal 2017 expenses included a $23.2 million net charge for non-income tax related matters, which was net of the benefit from the Medical Device Excise tax refunds, acquisition and divestiture transaction expenses of $23.2 million, higher integration and consolidation charges primarily related to the Cynosure acquisition, and the prior year period included an additional week of expenses.

54
Amortization of Intangible Assets. Amortization of intangible assets results from customer relationships, trade names, distributor relationships and business licenses related to our acquisitions. These intangible assets are generally amortized over their estimated useful lives of between 2 and 30 years using a straight-line method or, if reliably determinable, based on the pattern in which the economic benefits of the assets are expected to be consumed utilizing expected undiscounted future cash flows. Amortization expense decreased 5.1% in fiscal 2018 compared to fiscal 2017 primarily due to lower amortization from intangible assets related to the blood screening business of $10.4 million that was disposed of in the second quarter of fiscal 2017 and one less week of expenses. This decrease was partially offset by an increase of $8.9 million of amortization expense related to Cynosure intangible assets, and increases from the Medicor and Emsor acquisitions.

Impairment of Intangible Asset. In the second quarter of fiscal 2018, we decided to cancel and abandon an in-process research and development project that was recorded as an intangible asset in the Cynosure acquisition purchase accounting. The project was abandoned due to unsuccessful clinical results. As a result, we recorded a $46.0 million impairment charge to write-off the full value of the asset.

Impairment of Goodwill. During the second quarter of fiscal 2018, in connection with commencing our company-wide annual budgeting and strategic planning process, evaluating the current operating performance of our Medical Aesthetics reporting unit, and abandoning an in-process research and development project, we reduced the short term and long term revenue and operating income forecasts and determined that indicators of impairment existed in our Medical Aesthetics reporting unit. The Medical Aesthetics reporting unit is solely comprised of the Cynosure business, which we acquired on March 22, 2017. The updated forecast reflected significantly reduced volume and market penetration projections resulting in lower short-term and long-term profitability than expected at the time of the Cynosure acquisition. As a result of these current events and circumstances, we determined that it was more likely than not that this change would reduce the fair value of the reporting unit below its carrying amount. To estimate the fair value of the reporting unit, we utilized the income approach. The income approach is based on a discounted cash flow (DCF) analysis and calculates the fair value by estimating the after-tax cash flows attributable to the reporting unit and then discounting the after-tax cash flows to present value using a risk-adjusted discount rate. Assumptions used in the DCF require significant judgment, including judgment about appropriate discount rates and terminal values, growth rates, and the amount and timing of expected future cash flows. The forecasted cash flows were based on our most recent budget and strategic plan. For the period beyond the strategic plan period, our estimates were based on assumed growth rates expected as of the measurement date. We believed our assumptions are consistent with the plans and estimates used to manage the underlying business. The discount rate used was intended to reflect the risks inherent in future cash flow projections and was based on an estimate of the weighted average cost of capital (WACC) of market participants relative to the reporting unit. The basis of fair value for Medical Aesthetics assumed the reporting unit would be purchased or sold in a non-taxable transaction, and the discount rate of 12.0% applied to the after-tax cash flows was consistent with that used in the purchase accounting performed in fiscal 2017. For additional information pertaining to impairment of goodwill, please refer to Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements contained in Item 15 of this Annual Report.

Gain on Sale of Business. In the second quarter of fiscal 2017, we completed the sale of our blood screening business to Grifols and recorded a gain of $899.7 million. 

Restructuring Charges. In fiscal 2016, we implemented organizational changes to our international operations. In fiscal 2017, in connection with our acquisition of Cynosure, we implemented certain organizational changes, and we also eliminated certain research and development positions in Breast Health and manufacturing positions primarily in our Diagnostics division. In fiscal 2018, we finalized our decision to consolidate legacy international accounting and customer service organizations into our Manchester, UK location and will be eliminating positions in Belgium, France, Italy, Spain and Germany. This transition was completed in fiscal 2019. We also eliminated certain sales and marketing personnel in our Diagnostics and Medical Aesthetics divisions. Additionally, we decided to close our Hicksville, New York facility which manufactures certain Cynosure products and the employees were notified of termination and related benefits in the third quarter of fiscal 2018. Pursuant to U.S. GAAP, the related severance and benefit charges were recognized either ratably over the respective required employee service periods or up-front for contractual benefits. In fiscal 2018 and 2017, we recorded aggregate charges of $14.2 million and $13.3 million, respectively, from these actions, primarily for severance and benefits and to a lesser extent lease obligation charges for facility closure costs. For additional information, please refer to Note 6 to our consolidated financial statements contained in Item 15 of this Annual Report.

55
Interest Expense.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Interest expense in fiscal 2018 and 2017 consists primarily of the cash interest costs and the related amortization of the debt discount and deferred issuance costs on our outstanding debt. Interest expense in fiscal 2018 decreased compared to fiscal 2017 primarily due to refinancing our 2022 Senior Notes with our 2025 and 2028 Senior Notes that carry lower rates, extinguishing our Convertible Notes in fiscal 2017 and 2018, receiving interest payments under our interest rate cap agreements, and fiscal 2017 included an additional week of expense. These decreases were partially offset by issuance costs expensed from the refinancing of our credit facilities in the first quarter of fiscal 2018, issuance costs expensed from the issuance of the 2025 Senior Notes and 2028 Senior Notes in the second quarter of fiscal 2018, and an increase in the LIBOR rate under our Amended and Restated Credit Agreement.

Debt Extinguishment Losses.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

In the first quarter of fiscal 2018, we entered into the 2017 Credit Agreement with Bank of America, N.A. The proceeds under the 2017 Credit Agreement of were used to pay off the Term Loan and Revolver outstanding under the Prior Credit Agreement. In connection with this transaction, we recorded a debt extinguishment loss of $1.0 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2018. In the second quarter of fiscal 2018, we completed private placement of $1.0 billion aggregate principal of senior notes allocated between the 2025 Senior Notes and 2028 Senior Notes. The proceeds under the 2025 Senior Notes and 2028 Senior Notes offering and our available cash were used to redeem the 2022 Senior Notes in the same principal amount. In connection with this transaction, we recorded a debt extinguishment loss of $44.9 million in the second quarter of fiscal 2018. 

On various dates during the third and fourth quarters of fiscal 2017, we entered into privately negotiated repurchase transactions and extinguished $117.9 million and $168.0 million principal amount of our 2012 and 2013 Notes, respectively, for an aggregate payment of $375.1 million, which includes a premium conversion resulting from our stock price on the date of the transactions being in excess of the conversion prices. In connection with these transactions, we recorded a debt extinguishment loss of $0.9 million and $2.3 million on the 2012 and 2013 Notes, respectively, related to the difference between the fair value of their respective liability components and carrying values at the repurchase dates. The remaining cash payments were allocated to the reacquisition of the equity component and recorded within additional paid-in capital, a component of stockholders' equity.

Other Income, net.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

In fiscal 2018, this account primarily consisted of net foreign currency exchange gains of $5.9 million primarily due to hedging activities, a gain of $3.2 million on the cash surrender value of life insurance contracts related to our deferred compensation plan, partially offset by a realized loss of $0.6 million on the sale of a marketable security.

In fiscal 2017, this account primarily consisted of a gain of $4.9 million on the cash surrender value of life insurance contracts related to our deferred compensation plan, $2.3 million in net foreign currency exchange gains partially due to hedging activities and $5.6 million of net realized gains on the sale of investments. 

56
(Benefit) Provision for Income Taxes.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Our effective tax rate for fiscal 2018 was 73.4% compared to 38.6% in fiscal 2017. Our effective tax rate in fiscal 2018, applied to an overall pre-tax loss resulting in a benefit, was higher than the statutory rate primarily due to the favorable impact of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the "Act"), which required us to remeasure our U.S. net deferred tax liabilities at a lower rate, partially offset by the unfavorable impact of the Medical Aesthetics goodwill impairment charge, substantially all of which is non-deductible. The net result of implementing the Act was a benefit of $346.2 million representing our best estimate based on our interpretation of the Act.

Our effective tax rate in fiscal 2017 was higher than the statutory rate primarily due to non-deductible goodwill related to the sale of the Blood Screening business, partially offset by the release of valuation allowances for capital losses utilized against the capital gain generated on the sale of the Blood Screening business, earnings in jurisdictions subject to lower tax rates, the domestic production activities deduction benefit, the release of reserves for uncertain tax positions due to statutes of limitations expirations and audit settlements, stock compensation benefits, and federal and state tax credits.

Segment Results of Operations

Diagnostics. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Diagnostics revenues decreased in fiscal 2018 compared to fiscal 2017 primarily due to the decrease in product revenues discussed above. The primary driver of the reduction in revenues was the divestiture of the blood screening business in the second quarter of fiscal 2017. 

Operating income for this business segment decreased in fiscal 2018 compared to fiscal 2017 primarily due to fiscal 2017 including a one-time gain on the disposition of the blood screening business of $899.7 million in the second quarter of fiscal 2017 and a decrease in gross profit in fiscal 2018 primarily due to the blood screening divestiture. Excluding the impact of the gain from this divestiture, operating income decreased $9.0 million in the current year compared to the prior year primarily due to the blood screening divestiture, partially offset by the improvements in sales of our Aptima assays. Gross margin was 47.1% in the current year compared with 47.8% in the prior year. The decrease in gross margin was primarily due to lower revenues as a result of the disposition of the higher-margin blood screening business and lower margins generated under the new supply and collaboration arrangement with Grifols. This gross margin decrease was partially offset by the impact of the increase in Aptima assay volumes, and lower amortization expense.

Exclusive of the impact of the gain on the sale of the blood screening business, operating expenses decreased in fiscal 2018 compared to fiscal 2017 primarily due to lower amortization expense primarily as a result of the blood screening divestiture, lower research and development expenses related to a reduction in project spending as well as the divestiture of the blood screening business, lower headcount in research and development and sales, no disposition transaction fees in fiscal 2018, and one less week of expenses in fiscal 2018, partially offset by restructuring charges for fiscal 2018. In addition, fiscal 2017 included a $5.5 million credit related to a refund received from amending our Medical Device Excise tax filings.

57
Breast Health.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Breast Health revenues increased in fiscal 2018 compared to fiscal 2017 primarily due to an increase of $50.4 million in product revenue discussed above and $29.5 million in service revenue.

Operating income for this business segment increased in fiscal 2018 compared to fiscal 2017 primarily due to an increase in gross profit from higher revenue partially offset by an increase in operating expenses in the current year. The overall gross margin decreased slightly to 60.2% in the current year compared to 60.9% in the prior year primarily due to the increase in service revenue which has lower margins, decrease in C-View software and 3D upgrades, which have higher gross margins than capital equipment sales, and an increase in international sales, which have lower average selling prices. The gross margin decreases were partially offset by higher gross margins from sales volume increases in the Affirm Prone table and the Brevera breast biopsy system, and higher average selling prices of Eviva and ATEC devices, and sales volume increase in the 3Dimensions and 3D Performance systems.

Operating expenses increased in fiscal 2018 compared to fiscal 2017 primarily due to an increase in salary compensation from increased headcount in the Breast Health sales organization as well as higher commissions and third-party commissions as a result of sales growth, an increase in legal expenses for the Fuji litigation, increased expenses from the Faxitron, Medicor and Emsor acquisitions, higher restructuring expenses and the fiscal 2017 included a credit of $4.5 million from amending the our Medical Device Excise tax filings partially offset by a reduction in marketing initiatives. These increases in operating expenses were partially offset by one less week of expenses in fiscal 2018 and the fiscal 2017 included charges for non-income tax related matters of $5.8 million.

Medical Aesthetics.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

** - Percentage not meaningful

Medical Aesthetics revenue increased in fiscal 2018 compared to fiscal 2017 primarily due an increase of $100.1 million in product revenue discussed above and $31.5 million in service revenue. We had Cynosure for the full year period in fiscal 2018 compared to slightly more than six months of activity in fiscal 2017.

The operating loss in fiscal 2018 includes impairment charges for goodwill of $685.7 million and an in-process research and development intangible asset of $46.0 million recorded in the second quarter of fiscal 2018, intangible asset amortization expense of $88.8 million and restructuring and integration charges of $9.5 million. These expenses combined with functional operating expenses are partially offset by gross profit, which increased due to a full year of operating activity and the prior year period included a $39.3 million charge from the step-up to fair value for inventory from the application of purchase accounting. 

The operating loss in fiscal 2017 was primarily due to acquisition expenses of $18.8 million, amortization of intangible assets of $43.7 million, step-up to fair value of inventory sold of $39.3 million, restructuring and retention costs and integration expenses, including legal and professional consulting fees and accelerated depreciation expense, aggregating $25.7 million partially offset by gross profit from revenues.

58
GYN Surgical.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

GYN Surgical revenues decreased in fiscal 2018 compared to fiscal 2017 due to the decrease in product revenues discussed above.

Operating income for this business segment decreased in fiscal 2018 compared to fiscal 2017 primarily due to increase in operating expense related to a legal settlement charge of $34.8 million recorded in the fourth quarter of 2018. Fiscal 2017 also included a charge recorded for non-income tax matters of $26.1 million. Excluding the impact of the legal settlement and non-income tax matter, operating income in fiscal 2018 compared to fiscal 2017 would have increased $2.1 million due to a decrease in operating expenses primarily due to lower compensation from a decrease in sales personnel headcount, lower product development spend, and one less week of expenses in fiscal 2018. Gross margin was relatively consistent at 63.1% in fiscal 2018 compared to 63.6% in fiscal 2017. The decline is driven by lower Novasure sales, which carry higher gross margins than Myosure system sales, partially offset by lower amortization expense.

Skeletal Health.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Skeletal Health revenues increased in fiscal 2018 compared to fiscal 2017 primarily due to the increase in product revenues discussed above. 

Operating income increased in fiscal 2018 compared to the prior year primarily due to lower operating expenses. Gross margin rate was 39.7% in fiscal 2018 compared to 42.2% in fiscal 2017 primarily due to pricing pressures and negative manufacturing variances. This business also had lower operating expenses from lower research and development project spend, one less week of expenses, and the prior year included facility closure costs incurred for the Bedford facility of $4.8 million.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

At September 28, 2019, we had working capital of $723.0 million, and our cash and cash equivalents totaled $601.8 million. Our cash and cash equivalents balance decreased by $64.9 million during fiscal 2019 principally due to cash used in financing and investing activities related to net repayments of debt, repurchases of common stock and net cash paid for acquisitions, partially offset by cash generated through cash flow from our core operating activities. 

In fiscal 2019, our operating activities provided us with $649.5 million of cash. We incurred a net loss of $203.6 million which was offset by non-cash intangible asset and equipment impairment charges aggregating $685.4 million, non-cash charges for depreciation and amortization aggregating $463.1 million, stock-based compensation expense of $62.0, and non-cash interest expense of $8.6 million related to our outstanding debt. These adjustments to net loss were partially offset by a decrease in net deferred tax liabilities of $235.7 million primarily from the impairment of intangible assets and to a lesser extent amortization of intangible assets. Cash provided by operations included a net cash outflow of $156.3 million from changes in our operating assets and liabilities. Changes in our operating assets and liabilities were driven primarily by an increase in accounts receivable of $76.5 million as a result of an increase in fourth quarter revenues of $52.3 million compared to the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018 and an increase in days sales outstanding, an increase in inventory of $63.0 million primarily to meet anticipated demand, build up safety stock, and launch newer products, and a decrease in accrued expenses of $16.5 million primarily due to the Smith & Nephew legal settlement payment of $34.8 million partially offset by an increase to the bonus accrual for fiscal 2019. Partially offsetting these cash outflows was an increase in deferred revenue of $14.4 million 

59
primarily due to an increase in deferred revenue for service contracts as the Breast Health business continues to convert a high percentage of our installed base of digital mammography systems to service contracts upon expiration of the warranty period.

In fiscal 2019, our investing activities used cash of $280.7 million primarily related to acquisition payments of $110.6 million principally for the Focal acquisition, $109.1 million for capital expenditures, which consisted of the placement of equipment under customer usage agreements and purchases of manufacturing equipment and computer hardware, an $18.2 million payment for our investment in SSI and $28.4 million in loans to SSI to assist them in paying off some debt and to support their operations.

In fiscal 2019, our financing activities used cash of $431.5 million, primarily for payments of $1.46 billion to pay off the term loan outstanding under the 2017 Credit Agreement, $300.0 million of net repayments on amounts borrowed under our revolving credit line, $200.1 million for repurchases of our common stock, and payments of $12.8 million for employee-related taxes withheld for the net share settlement of vested restricted stock units. Partially offsetting these uses of cash were proceeds of $1.5 billion from the term loan under the 2018 Credit Agreement and $49.8 million from our equity plans, primarily the exercise of stock options.

Debt

We had total recorded debt outstanding of $3.1 billion at September 28, 2019, which was comprised of our Term Loan under our 2018 Credit Agreement of $1.49 billion (principal $1.50 billion), 2025 Senior Notes of $937.3 million (principal of $950.0 million), 2028 Senior Notes of $393.9 million (principal of $400.0 million), and amounts outstanding under the accounts receivable securitization program of $234.0 million.

2018 Credit Agreement

On December 17, 2018, we refinanced our term loan and revolving credit facility by entering into an Amended and Restated Credit and Guaranty Agreement, dated as of December 17, 2018 (the "2018 Credit Agreement") with Bank of America, N.A. in its capacity as Administrative Agent, Swing Line Lender and L/C Issuer, and certain other lenders. The 2018 Credit Agreement amended and restated our prior credit and guaranty agreement, dated as of October 3, 2017 ("2017 Credit Agreement"). 

The credit facilities under the 2018 Credit Agreement consist of:

•A $1.5 billion secured term loan ("2018 Amended Term Loan") with a maturity date of December 17, 2023; and 

•A secured revolving credit facility ("2018 Amended Revolver"; together with the 2018 Amended Term Loan, the "Amended Credit Facilities") under which the Company may borrow up to $1.5 billion, subject to certain sublimits, with a maturity date of December 17, 2023.

Borrowings made under the 2018 Credit Agreement, bear interest, at a variable rate plus an applicable margin. The applicable margin is based upon our total net leverage ratio as defined in the 2018 Credit Agreement. As of September 28, 2019, we had no amounts outstanding under our 2018 Amendment Revolver and the interest rate under our Term loan was 3.43%.

We are required to make scheduled principal payments under the 2018 Amended Term Loan in increasing amounts ranging from $9.375 million per three-month period commencing with the three-month period ending on December 27, 2019 to $28.125 million per three-month period commencing with the three-month period ending on December 29, 2022 and ending on September 29, 2023. The remaining balance of the 2018 Amended Term Loan after the scheduled principal payments, which is $1.2 billion as of September 28, 2019, and any amounts outstanding under the 2018 Amended Revolver are due at maturity. In addition, subject to the terms and conditions set forth in the 2018 Credit Agreement, we may be required to make certain mandatory prepayments from the net proceeds of specified types of asset sales (subject to certain reinvestment rights), debt issuances and insurance recoveries (subject to certain reinvestment rights). These mandatory prepayments are required to be applied by us, first, to the 2018 Amended Term Loan, second, to any outstanding amount under any Swing Line Loans, third, to the 2018 Amended Revolver, fourth to prepay any outstanding reimbursement obligations with respect to Letters of Credit and fifth, to cash collateralize any Letters of Credit. Subject to certain limitations, the Company may voluntarily prepay any of the 2018 Credit Facilities without premium or penalty.

Borrowings are secured by first-priority liens on, and a first-priority security interest in, substantially all of the assets of the Company and its U.S. subsidiaries, with certain exceptions. For example, borrowings under the 2018 Credit Agreement are not secured by those accounts receivable that are transferred to the special purpose entity under our Accounts Receivable Securitization program. 

60
The 2018 Credit Agreement contains affirmative and negative covenants customarily applicable to senior secured credit facilities, including covenants restricting our ability, subject to negotiated exceptions, to incur additional indebtedness and grant additional liens on its assets, engage in mergers or acquisitions or dispose of assets, enter into sale-leaseback transactions, pay dividends or make other distributions, voluntarily prepay other indebtedness, enter into transactions with affiliated persons, make investments, and change the nature of their businesses. In addition, the 2018 Credit Agreement requires us to maintain certain financial ratios. The 2018 Credit Agreement also contains customary representations and warranties and events of default, including payment defaults, breach of representations and warranties, covenant defaults, cross defaults and an event of default upon a change of control of the company.

The 2018 Credit Agreement contains two financial covenants (a total net leverage ratio and an interest coverage ratio) measured as of the last day of each fiscal quarter. As of September 28, 2019, we were in compliance with these covenants.

2025 Senior Notes

The total aggregate principal balance of 2025 Senior Notes is $950.0 million. The 2025 Senior Notes are general senior unsecured obligations of the Company and are guaranteed on a senior unsecured basis by certain of the Company's domestic subsidiaries. The 2025 Senior Notes were issued pursuant to an indenture, dated as of October 10, 2017 and a supplement to such indenture, dated as of January 19, 2018, each among the Company, the guarantors and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as trustee. The 2025 Senior Notes mature on October 15, 2025 and bear interest at the rate of 4.375% per year, payable semi-annually on April 15 and October 15 of each year, commencing on April 15, 2018. We may redeem the 2025 Senior Notes at any time prior to October 15, 2020 at a price equal to 100% of the aggregate principal amount so redeemed, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the redemption date and a make-whole premium set forth in the Indenture. We may also redeem up to 35% of the aggregate principal amount of the 2025 Senior Notes with the net cash proceeds of certain equity offerings at any time and from time to time before October 15, 2020, at a redemption price equal to 104.375% of the aggregate principal amount so redeemed, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the redemption date. We also have the option to redeem the 2025 Senior Notes on or after: October 15, 2020 through October 14, 2021 at 102.188% of par; October 15, 2021 through October 14, 2022 at 101.094% of par; and October 15, 2022 and thereafter at 100% of par. In addition, if there is a change of control coupled with a decline in ratings, as provided in the indenture, we will be required to make an offer to purchase each holder’s 2025 Senior Notes at a price equal to 101% of their principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the repurchase date.

2028 Senior Notes

The total aggregate principal balance of the 2028 Senior Notes is $400.0 million. The 2028 Senior Notes are general senior unsecured obligations of the Company and are guaranteed on a senior unsecured basis by certain of the Company's domestic subsidiaries. The 2028 Senior Notes were issued pursuant to an indenture, dated as of January 19, 2018, among the Company, the guarantors and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as trustee. The 2028 Senior Notes mature on February 1, 2028 and bear interest at the rate of 4.625% per year, payable semi-annually on February 1 and August 1 of each year, commencing on August 1, 2018. We may redeem the 2028 Senior Notes at any time prior to February 1, 2023 at a price equal to 100% of the aggregate principal amount so redeemed, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the redemption date and a make-whole premium set forth in the indenture. We may also redeem up to 35% of the aggregate principal amount of the 2028 Senior Notes with the net cash proceeds of certain equity offerings at any time and from time to time before February 1, 2021, at a redemption price equal to 104.625% of the aggregate principal amount so redeemed, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the redemption date. We also have the option to redeem the 2028 Senior Notes on or after: February 1, 2023 through February 1, 2024 at 102.312% of par; February 1, 2024 through February 1, 2025 at 101.541% of par; February 1, 2025 through February 1, 2026 at 100.770% of par; and February 1, 2026 and thereafter at 100% of par. In addition, if there is a change of control coupled with a decline in ratings, as provided in the indenture, we will be required to make an offer to purchase each holder’s 2028 Senior Notes at a price equal to 101% of their principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the repurchase date.

Accounts Receivable Securitization Program

On April 25, 2016, we entered into a one-year $200.0 million accounts receivable securitization program (the "Securitization Program") with several of our wholly owned subsidiaries and certain financial institutions. Under the terms of the Securitization Program, we and certain of our wholly-owned subsidiaries sell our customer receivables to a bankruptcy remote special purpose entity, which is wholly-owned by us. In addition, we also contributed a portion of our customer receivables to the special purpose entity in connection with its establishment. We retain servicing responsibility. The special purpose entity, as borrower, and we, as servicer, have entered into a Credit and Security Agreement with several lenders pursuant to which the special purpose entity may borrow from the lenders up to the maximum borrowing amount allowed, with 

61
the loans secured by the receivables. The amount that the special purpose entity may borrow at a given point in time is determined based on the amount of qualifying receivables that are present in the special purpose entity at such point in time. The assets of the special purpose entity secure the amounts borrowed and cannot be used to pay our other debts or liabilities.

We extended the program for an additional year in April 2017 and again in April 2018. Effective April 18, 2019, we entered into another amendment to extend the Securitization Program an additional year to April 17, 2020. Under the amendment, the maximum borrowing amount increased from $225.0 million to $250.0 million. As of September 28, 2019, $234.0 million was outstanding under this program. 

Borrowings outstanding under the Securitization Program bear interest at LIBOR plus the applicable margin of 0.7% and are included as a component of current liabilities in our consolidated balance sheet, while the accounts receivable securing these obligations remain as a component of net receivables in our consolidated balance sheet. As of September 28, 2019, the interest rate under the Securitization Program was 2.76% on the outstanding amounts. We and the special purpose entity are operated and maintained as separate legal entities. The assets of the special purpose entity secure the amounts borrowed and cannot be used to pay our other debts or liabilities. The special purpose entity was not a guarantor under our Credit Agreement and is not a guarantor under our Amended and Restated Credit Agreement or of our 2022 and 2025 Senior Notes.

The Credit and Security Agreement contains customary representations and warranties and events of default, including payment defaults, breach of representations and warranties, covenant defaults, and an event of default upon a change of control. In addition, it contains financial covenants consistent with that of the Credit Agreement. As of September 28, 2019, the Company was in compliance with the Credit and Security Agreement covenants.

Investment in SSI

On August 1, 2019, we acquired 46% of the outstanding shares of SSI for $18.2 million. In September 2019, we launched a cash tender offer to acquire the remaining shares outstanding, which we expect will be completed in the first quarter of fiscal 2020. As of September 28, 2019, the value of the remaining shares at the cash tender offer price was approximately $20.9 million. Effective November 21, 2019, we acquired an additional 7.6 million shares for $12.5 million. As a result, we own approximately 78% of the outstanding shares and will launch a second tender offer with similar terms to acquire the remaining shares.

Stock Repurchase Program

On June 13, 2018, the Board of Directors authorized a share repurchase plan to repurchase up to $500.0 million of our outstanding common stock. This share repurchase plan, which replaced the prior plan, was effective August 1, 2018 and expires on June 13, 2023. Under this authorization, during fiscal 2019, we repurchased 4.8 million shares of our common stock for a total consideration of $200.1 million. As of September 28, 2019, $211.5 million was available under this authorization. 

On November 19, 2019, our Board of Directors authorized us to repurchase up to $205 million of our outstanding shares, to be in addition to the prior authorization. Pursuant to this authorization, we entered into a definitive agreement to conduct a $205 million accelerated share repurchase. On November 25, 2019, we have initially repurchased 3.3 million shares pursuant to this arrangement, subject to adjustment on the settlement date pursuant to customary terms.

62
Contractual Obligations

The following table summarizes our contractual obligations and commitments as of September 28, 2019:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)The financing leases represent two leases for two separate manufacturing facilities, which were required to be recorded on our balance sheet under U.S. GAAP. See Note 13 to our consolidated financial statements contained in Item 15 of this Annual Report.

(2)Purchase obligations primarily represent minimum purchase commitments for inventory and instruments and, to a lesser extent, other operating expense commitments.

(3)Pension obligations do not include our obligation under our deferred compensation plans of $51.9 million at September 28, 2019, which is recorded as a current liability. Deferred compensation plan benefits are generally paid out at retirement or termination of employment.

The above table does not reflect our long-term liabilities associated with reserves for uncertain tax positions recorded under FIN 48 (codified primarily in ASC 740, Income Taxes) totaling $101.6 million. Due to the complexity associated with tax uncertainties, we cannot reasonably make a reliable estimate of the period in which we expect to settle these non-current liabilities. See Note 9 to our consolidated financial statements contained in Item 15 of this Annual Report for more information on our unrecognized tax benefits. 

Future Liquidity Considerations

We expect to continue to review and evaluate potential strategic transactions (both acquisitions and dispositions) and alliances that we believe will complement or enhance our business and stockholder value. Subject to the Risk Factors set forth in Part I, Item 1A of this Annual Report and the general disclaimers set forth in our Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements at the outset of this Annual Report, we believe that our cash and cash equivalents, cash flows from operations, the cash available under our 2018 Amended Revolver and our Securitization Program will provide us with sufficient funds in order to fund our expected normal operations and debt payments over the next twelve months. Our longer-term liquidity is contingent upon future operating performance. We may also require additional capital in the future to fund capital expenditures, repayment of debt, acquisitions, strategic transactions or other investments. As described above, we have significant indebtedness outstanding under our 2018 Credit Agreement, 2025 Senior Notes, 2028 Senior Notes and the Securitization Program. These capital requirements could be substantial. Our operating performance may also be affected by matters discussed under the above-referenced Risk Factors set forth elsewhere in this report. These risks, trends and uncertainties may also adversely affect our long-term liquidity.

Legal Contingencies

We are currently involved in certain legal proceedings and claims. In connection with these legal proceedings and claims, management periodically reviews estimates of potential costs to be incurred by us in connection with the adjudication or settlement, if any, of these proceedings. These estimates are based on an analysis of potential litigation outcomes and settlement strategies. In accordance with ASC 450, Contingencies, loss contingencies are accrued if, in the opinion of management, an adverse outcome is probable and such outcome can be reasonably estimated. It is possible that future results for any particular quarter or annual period may be materially affected by changes in our assumptions or the effectiveness of our strategies relating to these proceedings.

63
Guarantees and Other Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

We do not have guarantees or other off-balance sheet financing arrangements, including variable interest entities, of a magnitude that we believe could have a material impact on our financial condition or liquidity.

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES

The discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. The preparation of these consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. On an on-going basis, we evaluate our estimates, including those related to revenue recognition for multiple element arrangements, allowance for doubtful accounts, reserves for excess and obsolete inventories, valuations, purchase price allocations and contingent consideration related to business combinations, expected future cash flows including growth rates, discount rates, terminal values and other assumptions used to evaluate the recoverability of long-lived assets and goodwill, estimated fair values of intangible assets and goodwill, amortization methods and periods, warranty reserves, certain accrued expenses, restructuring and other related charges, stock-based compensation, contingent liabilities, tax reserves and recoverability of our net deferred tax assets and related valuation allowances. We base our estimates on historical experience and various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results could differ from these estimates if past experience or other assumptions do not turn out to be substantially accurate. Any differences may have a material impact on our financial condition and results of operations.

The following is a discussion of what we believe to be the more significant critical accounting policies and estimates used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements.

Inventory

Our inventories include material, labor and overhead, and are stated at the lower of cost (first-in, first-out) or market. As a developer and manufacturer of high technology medical equipment and diagnostic test kits, we may be exposed to a number of economic and industry factors that could result in portions of our inventory becoming either obsolete or in excess of anticipated usage. Our policy is to establish inventory reserves when conditions exist that suggest that our inventory may be in excess of anticipated demand or is obsolete based upon our assumptions about future demand for our products and market conditions. Although considerable effort is made to ensure the accuracy of our forecasts of future product demand, any significant unanticipated changes in demand or expected usage could have a significant negative impact on the value of our inventory and our operating results.

Business Combinations

We record tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed in business combinations under the purchase method of accounting. Amounts paid for each acquisition are allocated to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their fair values at the dates of acquisition. Contingent consideration, which is not deemed to be linked to continuing employment, is recorded at fair value as measured on the date of acquisition. The value recorded is based on estimates of future financial projections under various potential scenarios, which are generally probability weighted as to the outcome of each scenario. These cash flow projections are discounted with a risk adjusted rate. Quarterly until such contingent amounts are earned, the fair value of the liability is reassessed at each reporting period and adjusted as a component of operating expenses based on changes to the underlying assumptions. The estimates used to determine the fair value of the contingent consideration liability are subject to significant judgment and actual results are likely to differ from the amounts originally recorded.

The fair value of identifiable intangible assets is based on detailed valuations that use information and assumptions provided by management, which consider management’s best estimate of inputs and assumptions that a market participant would use. We allocate any excess purchase price over the fair value of the net tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed to goodwill. 

We generally use the income approach in which cash flow projections on an after-tax basis are discounted using a risk adjusted rate to determine the estimated fair value of certain identifiable intangible assets including developed technology, in-process research and development projects, customer relationships, and trade names.

With respect to property, plant and equipment, we estimate the fair value of these assets using a combination of the cost and market approaches, depending on the component. Generally, we apply the cost or income approach as the primary methods in estimating the fair value of land and buildings as the market approach is less reliable based on potential significant differences between the property being valued and the potentially comparable sales of similar properties.

64
Goodwill

We test goodwill at the reporting unit level for impairment on an annual basis and between annual tests if events and circumstances indicate it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value. Events that could indicate impairment and trigger an interim impairment assessment include, but are not limited to current economic and market conditions, including a decline in market capitalization, a significant adverse change in legal factors, business climate, operational performance of the business or key personnel, and an adverse action or assessment by a regulator. Our annual impairment test date is the first day of our fiscal fourth quarter.

In performing the test, we either use the qualitative assessment permitted by ASC 350 or the single step quantitative approach prescribed under ASC 350 including amendments under ASU 2017-04. Under the qualitative approach we consider a number of factors, including the amount by which the previous quantitative test's fair value exceeded the carrying value of the reporting units, the forecasts in our current 5 year strategic plan compared to the forecasts in the previous quantitative test, an evaluation of discount rates, long-term growth rates including the terminal year rate, if tax rates would have significantly changed, an evaluation of current economic factors for both the worldwide economy and specifically the medical device industry, and any significant changes in customer and supplier relationships. We weigh these factors to determine if it is more likely than not that the fair value of the reporting unit exceeds its carrying value. If after performing a qualitative assessment, indicators are present, or we identify factors that cause us to believe it is appropriate to perform a more precise calculation of fair value, we would move beyond the qualitative assessment and perform a quantitative impairment test.

Under the quantitative impairment test, we perform a comparison of the reporting unit’s carrying value to its fair value. We consider a number of factors to determine the fair value of a reporting unit, including an independent valuation to conduct this test. The valuation is based upon expected future discounted operating cash flows of the reporting unit as well as analysis of recent sales and ratio comparisons of similar companies. We base the discount rate on the weighted average cost of capital, or WACC, of market participants. If the carrying value of a reporting unit exceeds its estimated fair value, we apply the single step approach under ASU 2017-04. As a result of this simplified approach the goodwill impairment is calculated as the amount by which the carrying value of the reporting unit exceeds its fair value to the extent of the goodwill balance. We adopted this ASU in fiscal 2018. 

We conducted our fiscal 2019 annual impairment test on the first day of the fourth quarter and utilized the qualitative approach. As a result of completing the qualitative assessment for each of our reporting units, we concluded that it was more likely than not that the fair value of each reporting exceeded its carrying value by a significant amount and the performance of a discounted cash flow analysis to estimate fair value was unnecessary.

At September 28, 2019, we believe that our reporting units, with goodwill aggregating $2.6 billion, were not at risk of failing Step 1 of the goodwill impairment test based on the current forecasts.

If the current economic environment were to deteriorate or if there was a significant negative impact on the factors considered for the qualitative assessment, this would likely result in a lower fair value and we may be required to perform a DCF to estimate the fair value of our reporting units. When there is a deterioration in such factors, this typically results in a higher WACC because market participants would require a higher rate of return. In the DCF as the WACC increases, the fair value decreases. The other significant factor in the DCF is our projected financial information (i.e., amount and timing of expected future cash flows and growth rates) and if these assumptions were to be adversely impacted, this could result in a reduction of the fair value of a reporting unit.

Intangible Assets

Intangible assets are initially recorded at fair value and stated net of accumulated amortization and impairments. We amortize intangible assets that have finite lives using either the straight-line method, or if reliably determinable, based on the pattern in which the economic benefit of the asset is expected to be utilized. We evaluate the recoverability of our definite lived intangible assets whenever events or changes in circumstances or business conditions indicate that the carrying value of these assets may not be recoverable based on expectations of future undiscounted cash flows for each asset group. If the carrying value of an asset or asset group exceeds its undiscounted cash flows, the Company estimates the fair value of the assets, generally utilizing a discounted cash flow analysis based on the present value of estimated future cash flows to be generated by the assets using a risk-adjusted discount rate. To estimate the fair value of the assets, the Company uses market participant assumptions pursuant to ASC 820.

Revenue Recognition

We generate revenue from the sale of our products, primarily medical imaging systems, aesthetic treatment systems and diagnostic and surgical disposable products, and related services, which are primarily support and maintenance services on our medical imaging systems. See Note 3 for further discussion of revenue recognition.

65
We consider revenue to be earned when all of the following criteria are met: we have a contract with a customer that creates enforceable rights and obligations; promised products or services are identified; the transaction price, or the amount that we expect to receive, including an estimate of uncertain amounts subject to a constraint to ensure revenue is not recognized in an amount that would result in a significant reversal upon resolution of the uncertainty, is determinable; and we have transferred control of the promised items to the customer. A performance obligation is a promise in a contract to transfer a distinct good or service to the customer, and is the unit of account in the contract. The transaction price for the contract is measured as the amount of consideration we expect to receive in exchange for the goods and services expected to be transferred. A contract's transaction price is allocated to each distinct performance obligation and recognized as revenue when, or as, control of the distinct good or service is transferred. Transfer of control for our products is generally at shipment or delivery, depending on contractual terms, but occurs when title and risk of loss transfers to the customer which represents the point in time when the customer obtains the use of and substantially all of the remaining benefit of the product. As such, the performance obligation related to product sales is satisfied at a point in time. Revenue from support and maintenance contracts and extended warranties are recognized over time based on the contract term, which represents a faithful depiction of the transfer of goods and services given the stand-ready nature of the performance obligations. Service revenue related to professional services for installation, training and repairs is recognized as the services are performed based on the specific nature of the service.

We recognize receivables when we have an unconditional right to payment. Payment terms are typically 30 days in the U.S. but may be longer in international markets. We treat shipping and handling costs performed after a customer obtains control of the good as a fulfillment cost and record these costs within costs of product revenue when the corresponding revenue is recognized.

Some of our contracts have multiple performance obligations. For contracts with multiple performance obligations, we are required to allocate the transaction price to each performance obligation using our best estimate of the standalone selling price of each distinct good or service in the contract. We determine the best estimate of standalone selling price using average selling prices over 3 to 12 month periods of data depending on the products or nature of the services coupled with current market considerations. If the product or service does not have a history of sales or if sales volume is not sufficient, we rely on prices set by our pricing committees or applicable marketing department adjusted for expected discounts. 

We also place instruments (or equipment) at customer sites but retain title to the instrument (for example, the ThinPrep Processor, ThinPrep Imaging System, and the Panther system). The customer has the right to use the instrument for a period of time, and then we recover the cost of providing the instrument through the sales of disposables, namely tests and assays in Diagnostics and handpieces in GYN Surgical. These types of agreements include an embedded operating lease for the right to use an instrument and no instrument revenue is recognized at the time of instrument delivery. We recognize a portion of the revenue allocated to the embedded lease concurrent with the sale of disposables over the term of the agreement.

Income Taxes

We use the asset and liability method for accounting for income taxes in accordance with ASC 740, Income Taxes. Under this method, we recognize deferred income taxes for the future tax consequences of differences between the tax and financial accounting bases of assets and liabilities at each reporting period. We measure deferred tax assets and liabilities using enacted tax rates and laws applicable to the period in which we expect the differences to affect taxable income. We establish a valuation allowance when necessary to reduce deferred tax assets to the amounts expected to be realized.

We have recognized $258.1 million in net deferred tax liabilities at September 28, 2019 and $485.3 million at September 29, 2018. The significant reduction was primarily due to intangible asset impairment charges recorded in fiscal 2019. The liabilities primarily relate to deferred taxes associated with our acquisitions. The tax assets relate primarily to net operating loss carryforwards, accruals and reserves, stock-based compensation, and research credits. We record a valuation allowance to reduce our deferred tax assets to the amount that is more likely than not to be realized. While we have considered future taxable income and the character of such income in assessing the need for the valuation allowance, in the event we determine that we could realize our deferred tax assets in the future in excess of the net recorded amount, an adjustment to the deferred tax assets would increase income in the period such determination is made. Likewise, should we determine that we would not be able to realize all or part of our net deferred tax assets in the future, an adjustment to the deferred tax assets would be charged to income in the period such determination is made.

At September 28, 2019, we had $101.6 million in gross unrecognized tax benefits excluding interest, of which $87.3 million, if recognized, would reduce our effective tax rate. At September 29, 2018, we had $89.5 million in gross unrecognized tax benefits excluding interest, of which $79.0 million, if recognized, would have reduced our effective tax rate. The $12.1 million increase in gross unrecognized tax benefits from fiscal 2018 primarily related to our internal restructuring and other current year tax positions, partially offset by audit settlements and the expiration of statutes of limitations. In the next twelve 

66
months it is reasonably possible that we will reduce our gross unrecognized tax benefits by up to $13.4 million due to expiring statutes of limitations.

In the ordinary course of business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax outcome is uncertain. Judgment is required in determining our worldwide income tax provision. In our opinion, we have made adequate provisions for income taxes for all years subject to audit. While we consider our estimates reasonable, no assurance can be given that the final tax outcome will not be different than amounts reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals. If our assumptions are incorrect, the differences could have a material impact on our income tax provision and operating results in the period in which such determination is made.

Recent Accounting Pronouncements

See Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements contained in Item 15 of this Annual Report.

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk