Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 

(Dollars in millions, except per share amounts) 

The following Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations is intended to help the reader understand the results of operations and financial condition of Honeywell International Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries (“Honeywell” or “the Company”) for the three years ended December 31, 2018. All references to Notes relate to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. 

On October 29, 2018, the Company completed the tax-free spin-off to Honeywell shareowners of its Homes and Global Distribution business, part of Home and Building Technologies (renamed Honeywell Building Technologies following the spin-off), into a standalone publicly-traded company, Resideo Technologies, Inc. (“Resideo”). The assets and liabilities associated with Resideo have been removed from the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheet as of the effective date of the spin-off. The results of operations for Resideo are included in the Consolidated Statement of Operations through the effective date of the spin-off. 

On October 1, 2018, the Company completed the tax-free spin-off to Honeywell shareowners of its Transportation Systems business, part of Aerospace, into a standalone publicly-traded company, Garrett Motion Inc. (“Garrett”). The assets and liabilities associated with Garrett have been removed from the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheet as of the effective date of the spin-off. The results of operations for Garrett are included in the Consolidated Statement of Operations through the effective date of the spin-off. 

On October 1, 2016, the Company completed the tax-free spin-off to Honeywell shareowners of its Resins and Chemicals business, part of Performance Materials and Technologies, into a standalone, publicly-traded company (named AdvanSix Inc. (“AdvanSix”)). The assets and liabilities associated with AdvanSix have been removed from the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheet as of the effective date of the spin-off. The results of operations for AdvanSix are included in the Consolidated Statement of Operations through the effective date of the spin-off. 

On September 16, 2016, the Company completed the sale of the Aerospace government services business, Honeywell Technology Solutions Inc (“HTSI” or “government services business”). The assets and liabilities associated with HTSI have been removed from the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheet as of the effective date of the sale. The results of operations for HTSI are included in the Consolidated Statement of Operations through the effective date of the sale. 

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 

During 2018, Honeywell continued to deliver on our financial commitments and to create long-term shareowner value. We grew net sales 3% to $41,802 million and grew income before taxes 8% to $7,487 million. The improvement in year over year income before taxes was attributable to both sales growth as well as operational improvements that increased operating margins. We believe our ability to consistently grow earnings derives from the consistent, rigorous deployment of the Honeywell Operating System as well as a long history of identifying and investing in productivity initiatives. We have continued our focus on commercial excellence processes, such as Velocity Product Development (“VPD”), to drive higher sales at better margins. 

We are careful not to allow the attainment of short-term financial results to imperil the creation of long-term, sustainable shareowner value. Hence, as part of the announcement in October 2017 of the results of our portfolio review, we affirmed our commitment to a strategy and investments that are intended to enable us to become one of the world’s leading software industrial companies. Our refocused strategy and investments are intended to take better advantage of our core technological and software strengths in high growth businesses that participate in six attractive industrial end markets. Each of these end markets is characterized by favorable global mega-trends including energy efficiency, infrastructure investment, urbanization and safety. 

17 

In 2018 we deployed capital of $7.6 billion, including the following: [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

CONSOLIDATED RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 

Net Sales [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The change in net sales is attributable to the following: [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

A discussion of net sales by segment can be found in the Review of Business Segments section of this Management’s Discussion and Analysis. 

The foreign currency translation impact in 2018 compared with 2017 was principally driven by the strengthening on average year over year of the Euro against the U.S. Dollar. 

The foreign currency translation impact in 2017 compared with 2016 was flat. The strengthening of the Euro was offset by the weakening of the British Pound against the U.S. Dollar. 

Cost of Products and Services Sold [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Cost of products and services sold increased in 2018 compared with 2017 principally due to increased direct material costs of approximately $790 million (driven by higher sales volume and inflation partially offset by divestitures and productivity) and higher repositioning and other charges of approximately $70 million. 

Gross margin percentage decreased in 2018 compared with 2017 principally due to higher repositioning and other charges (approximately 0.2 percentage point impact) partially offset by higher gross margin in the segments (approximately 0.1 percentage point impact collectively). 

Cost of products and services sold increased in 2017 compared with 2016 principally due to increased direct material costs of approximately $290 million (driven by higher sales volume and acquisitions partially offset by divestitures and productivity, net of inflation), higher repositioning and 

18 

other charges of approximately $220 million and higher depreciation and amortization of approximately $90 million, partially offset by decreased indirect material costs of approximately $70 million and lower labor costs of approximately $60 million. 

Gross margin percentage increased in 2017 compared with 2016 principally due to higher gross margin in Aerospace and Performance Materials and Technologies (approximately 1.7 percentage point impact collectively), partially offset by higher repositioning and other charges (approximately 0.5 percentage point impact) and by lower gross margin in Home and Building Solutions and Safety and Productivity Solutions (approximately 0.3 percentage point impact collectively). 

Selling, General and Administrative Expenses [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Selling, general and administrative expenses decreased in 2018 compared with 2017 primarily due to productivity and divestiture impacts, partially offset by labor inflation and higher repositioning charges. 

Selling, general and administrative expenses increased in 2017 compared with 2016 primarily due to increased labor costs (driven primarily by acquisitions, net of divestitures, investment for growth and merit increases), and higher repositioning charges. 

Other (Income) Expense [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Other (income) expense increased in 2018 compared with 2017 primarily due to an increase in pension ongoing income–non-service, favorable impacts of foreign currency and an increase in interest income, partially offset by separation costs associated with the spin-offs of our Homes and Global Distribution business and Transportation Systems business. 

Other (income) expense increased in 2017 compared with 2016 primarily due to due to an increase in pension ongoing income–non-service. 

Tax Expense [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The effective tax rate for 2018 was lower than the U.S. federal statutory rate of 21% primarily attributable to internal restructuring initiatives that resulted in a reduction of accrued withholding taxes of approximately $1.1 billion related to unremitted foreign earnings. In addition, we recorded a tax benefit of approximately $440 million as a reduction to our 2017 provisional estimate of impacts from what is commonly referred to as the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (“U.S. Tax Reform”), which was partially offset by $411 million of tax costs associated with the internal restructuring of the Homes and Global Distribution business and the Transportation Systems business in advance of their spin-offs. 

The effective tax rate for 2017 was higher than the U.S. federal statutory rate of 35% primarily from the estimated impacts of U.S. Tax Reform of approximately $3.8 billion, partially offset by lower tax rates on non-U.S. earnings. 

The effective tax rate for 2016 was lower than the U.S. federal statutory rate of 35% primarily from lower tax rates on non-U.S. earnings. 

For further discussion of changes in the effective tax rate, see Note 5 Income Taxes of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 

19 

Net Income Attributable to Honeywell [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Earnings per share of common stock–assuming dilution increased in 2018 compared with 2017 primarily driven by the lower income tax expenses (due to reduction of accrued withholding taxes and the higher comparative income taxes in 2017 from U.S. Tax Reform), higher segment profit, increased pension and other postretirement income, and lower share count, partially offset by separation costs and higher repositioning and other charges. 

Earnings per share of common stock–assuming dilution decreased in 2017 compared with 2016 primarily driven by additional income tax expense from U.S. Tax Reform, higher repositioning and other charges, partially offset by higher segment profit across all segments, lower pension mark-to-market expense and increased pension and other postretirement income. 

BUSINESS OVERVIEW 

Our consolidated results are principally impacted by: [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Our 2019 areas of focus, most of which are applicable to each of our segments include: 

    •    Driving profitable growth through research and development and technological excellence to deliver innovative products that customers value, and through expansion and localization of our footprint in high growth regions;  

    •    Executing on our strategy to become a software-industrial company, which for us means products and services that facilitate the connected plane, building and factory;  

    •    Expanding margins by optimizing the Company’s cost structure through manufacturing and administrative process improvements, repositioning, and other productivity actions;  

    •    Executing disciplined, rigorous M&A and integration processes to deliver growth through acquisitions;  

    •    Controlling corporate costs, including costs incurred for asbestos and environmental matters, pension and other post-retirement benefits; and  

    •    Increasing availability of capital through strong cash flow conversion from effective working capital management and proactively managing debt levels to enable the Company to smartly deploy capital for strategic acquisitions, dividends, share repurchases and capital expenditures.    

20 

Review of Business Segments [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Aerospace [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

2018 compared with 2017 

Aerospace sales increased due to organic sales growth, due to both volume and price, the favorable impact of foreign currency translation, the impact of the adoption of the new revenue 

21 

recognition accounting standard (included within Acquisitions, divestitures and other, net in the table above), offset by the spin-off of the Transportation Systems business on October 1, 2018. 

    •    Commercial Original Equipment sales increased 14% (increased 11% organic) primarily due to increased demand from business aviation, and air transport and regional original equipment manufacturers (OEM), lower OEM incentives and the impact from the classification of nonrecurring engineering and development funding resulting from the adoption of the new revenue recognition accounting standard.  

    •    Commercial Aftermarket sales increased 5% (increased 5% organic) primarily due to growth in business aviation and air transport and regional.  

    •    Defense and Space sales increased 15% (increased 15% organic) primarily driven by growth in U.S. and international defense.  

    •    Transportation Systems sales decreased 17% driven by divestiture impacts following its October 1, 2018 spin-off. For the nine-month period prior to the spin-off, sales increased 7% organic driven by higher volumes in light vehicle gas turbos and commercial vehicles.    

Aerospace segment profit increased due to an increase in operational segment profit, the favorable impact of foreign currency translation, and the impact on service programs from the adoption of the new revenue recognition accounting standard, partially offset by the Transportation Systems divestiture. The increase in operational segment profit was driven primarily by higher organic sales volume, price, productivity net of inflation, and lower OEM incentives, partially offset by the spin-off of the Transportation Systems business. Cost of products and services sold increased primarily due to higher organic sales volume, the impact of foreign currency translation and inflation, partially offset by the Transportation Systems divestiture. 

2017 compared with 2016 

Aerospace sales were flat due to organic sales growth, offset by the government services business divestiture. 

    •    Commercial Original Equipment sales decreased 2% (decreased 2% organic) primarily due to lower shipments to business jet OEMs, partially offset by lower air transport and regional OEM incentives.  

    •    Commercial Aftermarket sales increased 6% (increased 6% organic) primarily driven by higher repair and overhaul activities and increased spares shipments.  

    •    Defense and Space sales decreased 7% (increased 1% organic) primarily due to the government services business divestiture and lower Space sales, partially offset by growth in U.S. defense.  

    •    Transportation Systems sales increased 3% (increased 2% organic) primarily driven by higher commercial vehicle volumes, gas turbo penetration and the favorable impact from foreign currency translation, partially offset by lower diesel turbo volumes.    

Aerospace segment profit increased due to an increase in operational segment profit, partially offset by the government services business divestiture. The increase in operational segment profit was driven primarily by productivity, net of inflation, including restructuring benefits, lower OEM incentives and higher organic sales volume, partially offset by the government services business divestiture. Cost of products and services sold decreased primarily driven by the government services business divestiture and productivity, net of inflation, partially offset by higher organic sales volume. 

22 

Honeywell Building Technologies [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

2018 compared with 2017 

Honeywell Building Technologies sales decreased primarily due to the Homes divestiture partially offset by an increase in organic growth, due to both volume and price, and the favorable impact of foreign currency translation. 

    •    Sales in Homes decreased 12% driven by divestiture impacts following its October 29, 2018 spin-off. For the period prior to the spin-off, sales increased 6% organic driven by both Products and Distribution (ADI) businesses.  

    •    Sales in Buildings increased 1% (flat organic) due to the organic growth in Building Solutions and the favorable impact of foreign currency translation, offset by lower sales in Building Management Systems and Building Products.    

Honeywell Building Technologies segment profit decreased due to the Homes divestiture, partially offset by an increase in operational segment profit and the favorable impact of foreign currency translation. The increase in operational segment profit was primarily driven by price and productivity, partially offset by inflation and higher sales of lower margin products. Cost of products and services decreased due to the Homes divestiture, partially offset by higher organic sales. 

2017 compared with 2016 

Honeywell Building Technologies sales increased primarily due to an increase in organic sales, price, and acquisitions. 

    •    Sales in Homes increased 2% (increased 2% organic) due to an increase in organic sales growth in Distribution, partially offset by lower sales volume in Products.  

    •    Sales in Buildings increased 4% (increased 3% organic) due to organic sales growth in Building Products, Building Management Systems, Building Solutions, and acquisitions.    

Honeywell Building Technologies segment profit increased due to an increase in operational segment profit and the favorable impact of foreign currency translation. The increase in operational segment profit was primarily driven by productivity, net of inflation, and price, partially offset by higher sales of lower margin products. Cost of products and services increased due to higher organic sales and acquisitions. 

23 

Performance Materials and Technologies [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

2018 compared with 2017 

Performance Materials and Technologies sales increased primarily due to organic growth, mainly due to price, and the favorable impact of foreign currency translation. 

    •    UOP sales increased 3% (increased 3% organic) driven primarily by increases in engineering revenues and increased catalyst volumes, partially offset by lower gas processing equipment revenues.  

    •    Process Solutions sales increased 4% (increased 3% organic) driven primarily by increases in maintenance and migration services, increased revenues in projects, and higher field products sales.  

    •    Advanced Materials sales increased 2% (flat organic) driven primarily by increased volumes in fluorine products, partially offset by lower other specialty products sales.    

Performance Materials and Technologies segment profit increased primarily due to an increase in operational segment profit and the favorable impact of foreign currency translation. The increase in operational segment profit is primarily due to productivity and price, partially offset by inflation, higher sales of lower margin products, and continued investments for growth. Cost of products and services sold increased primarily due to inflation, higher sales of lower margin products, and foreign currency translation, partially offset by productivity. 

2017 compared with 2016 

Performance Materials and Technologies sales decreased primarily due to divestitures, partially offset by organic growth. 

    •    UOP sales increased 12% (increased 12% organic) driven primarily by higher gas processing project revenues, increased catalyst volumes, increased equipment sales, and increased engineering revenues, partially offset by decreased licensing revenues.  

    •    Process Solutions sales increased 3% (increased 3% organic) driven primarily by higher revenue in smart energy, services, thermal solutions, and software, partially offset by lower field products sales.  

    •    Advanced Materials sales decreased 16% (increased 11% organic) driven primarily by the spin-off of the former resins and chemicals business, partially offset by increased volumes in fluorine products.    

Performance Materials and Technologies segment profit increased primarily due to an increase in operational segment profit, partially offset by divestitures. The increase in operational segment profit is primarily due to productivity, net of inflation, higher organic sales volume and pricing, partially offset by unfavorable product mix and continued investments for growth. Cost of products and services sold 

24 

decreased primarily due to divestitures and productivity, net of inflation, partially offset by higher organic sales volumes. 

Safety and Productivity Solutions [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

2018 compared with 2017 

Safety and Productivity Solutions sales increased primarily due to organic sales growth, mainly due to sales volume and a modest impact due to price. 

    •    Sales in Safety increased 5% (increased 4% organic) due to increased sales volume in both Industrial Safety and Retail.  

    •    Sales in Productivity Solutions increased 17% (increased 16% organic) primarily due to increased sales volume in Intelligrated, Sensing and IoT, and Productivity Products.    

Safety and Productivity Solutions segment profit increased primarily due to an increase in operational segment profit. The increase in operational segment profit was driven by higher sales volume and price. Cost of products and services increased primarily due to higher organic sales. 

2017 compared with 2016 

Safety and Productivity Solutions sales increased primarily due to acquisitions and organic sales volume. 

    •    Sales in Safety increased 5% (increased 4% organic) due to increased sales volume in the Industrial Safety business, higher distribution in the Retail business, and the favorable impact of foreign currency translation.  

    •    Sales in Productivity Solutions increased 36% (increased 6% organic) principally due to growth from acquisitions (Intelligrated was acquired in August 2016).    

Safety and Productivity Solutions segment profit increased due to an increase from operational segment profit and acquisitions. The increase in operational segment profit is driven by higher productivity, net of inflation, and sales volume. Cost of products and services increased primarily due to acquisitions and higher sales volume offset by productivity, net of inflation. 

Repositioning Charges 

See Note 3 Repositioning and Other Charges of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of our repositioning actions and related charges incurred in 2018, 2017 and 2016. Cash spending related to our repositioning actions was $285 million, $177 million and $228 million in 2018, 2017 and 2016, and was funded through operating cash flows. In 2019, we expect cash spending for repositioning actions to be approximately $300 million and to be funded through operating cash flows. 

25 

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES 

The Company continues to manage its businesses to maximize operating cash flows as the primary source of liquidity. In addition to our available cash and operating cash flows, additional sources of liquidity include committed credit lines, short-term debt from the commercial paper market, long-term borrowings, access to the public debt and equity markets and the ability to access non-U.S. cash as a result of the U.S. Tax Reform. We continue to balance our cash and financing uses through investment in our existing core businesses, acquisition activity, share repurchases and dividends. 

Cash Flow Summary 

Our cash flows from operating, investing and financing activities, as reflected in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows, are summarized as follows: [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

2018 compared with 2017 

Cash provided by operating activities increased by $468 million primarily due to a $239 million increase in customer advances and deferred income and lower cash tax payments of $185 million. 

Cash provided by investing activities increased by $4,601 million primarily due to a net $4,302 million decrease in investments, primarily short-term marketable securities, and a $620 million favorable change in settlements of foreign currency exchange contracts used as economic hedges on certain non-functional currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities, partially offset by an increase in cash paid for acquisitions of $453 million. 

Cash used for financing activities increased by $1,516 million primarily due to an increase in net debt payments of $2,622 million, an increase in net repurchases of common stock of $1,364 million and an increase in cash dividends paid of $153 million, partially offset by net spin separation funding of $2,622 million net of spin-off cash. 

2017 compared with 2016 

Cash provided by operating activities increased by $468 million primarily due to a $504 million increase in segment profit and a $294 million favorable impact from working capital (favorable accounts payable partially offset by inventory and accounts receivable), partially offset by higher cash tax payments of $609 million. 

Cash used for investing activities increased by $232 million primarily due to (i) a net $2,056 million increase in investments, primarily short-term marketable securities, (ii) an increase of $500 million of settlement payments of foreign currency exchange contracts used as economic hedges on certain non-functional currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities and (iii) a decrease in proceeds from the sales of businesses of $296 million (most significantly Honeywell Technology Solutions Inc. in 2016), partially offset by a decrease in cash paid for acquisitions of $2,491 million (most significantly Intelligrated in 2016). 

Cash provided by financing activities increased by $3,862 million primarily due to a decrease in the net proceeds from debt issuances of $2,827 million, an increase in net repurchases of common stock of $699 million and an increase in cash dividends paid of $204 million. 

26 

Liquidity 

Each of our businesses is focused on implementing strategies to increase operating cash flows through revenue growth, margin expansion and improved working capital turnover. Considering the current economic environment in which each of the businesses operate and their business plans and strategies, including the focus on growth, cost reduction and productivity initiatives, we believe that cash balances and operating cash flow will continue to be our principal source of liquidity. In addition to the available cash and operating cash flows, additional sources of liquidity include committed credit lines, short-term debt from the commercial paper markets, long-term borrowings, and access to the public debt and equity markets. To date, the Company has not experienced any limitations in our ability to access these sources of liquidity. 

We monitor the third-party depository institutions that hold our cash and cash equivalents on a daily basis. Our emphasis is primarily safety of principal and secondarily maximizing yield of those funds. We diversify our cash and cash equivalents among counterparties to minimize exposure to any one of these entities. 

A source of liquidity is our ability to issue short-term debt in the commercial paper market. Commercial paper notes are sold at a discount or premium and have a maturity of not more than 365 days from date of issuance. Borrowings under the commercial paper program are available for general corporate purposes as well as for financing acquisitions. The weighted average interest rate on short-term borrowings and commercial paper outstanding as of December 31, 2018 was (0.31%) and as of December 31, 2017 was (0.17%). 

Our ability to access the commercial paper market, and the related cost of these borrowings, is affected by the strength of our credit rating and market conditions. Our credit ratings are periodically reviewed by the major independent debt-rating agencies. As of December 31, 2018, Standard and Poor’s (S&P), Fitch, and Moody’s have ratings on our long-term debt of A, A and A2 and short-term debt of A-1, F1 and P1. S&P, Fitch and Moody’s have Honeywell’s rating outlook as “stable.” 

We also have a current shelf registration statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission under which we may issue additional debt securities, common stock and preferred stock that may be offered in one or more offerings on terms to be determined at the time of the offering. Net proceeds of any offering would be used for general corporate purposes, including repayment of existing indebtedness, share repurchases, capital expenditures and acquisitions. 

See Note 2 Acquisitions and Divestitures and Note 13 Long-term Debt and Credit Agreements of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion of items impacting our liquidity. 

In 2018, the Company repurchased $4,000 million of outstanding shares to offset the dilutive impact of employee stock based compensation plans, including option exercises, restricted unit vesting and matching contributions under our savings plans, and to reduce share count when attractive opportunities arise. In December 2017, the Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to a total of $8 billion of Honeywell common stock, of which $3.7 billion remained available as of December 31, 2018 for additional share repurchases. This authorization included amounts remaining under and replaced the previously approved share repurchase program. Honeywell presently expects to repurchase outstanding shares from time to time to offset the dilutive impact of employee stock based compensation plans, including option exercises, restricted unit vesting and matching contributions under our savings plans. We will continue to seek to reduce share count via share repurchases as and when attractive opportunities arise. 

In addition to our normal operating cash requirements, our principal future cash requirements will be to fund capital expenditures, share repurchases, dividends, strategic acquisitions and debt repayments. 

Specifically, we expect our primary cash requirements in 2019 to be as follows: 

    •    Capital expenditures—we expect to spend approximately $800 million for capital expenditures in 2019 primarily for growth, production and capacity expansion, cost reduction, maintenance, and replacement.    

27 

    •    Share repurchases—under the Company’s share repurchase program, $3.7 billion is available as of December 31, 2018 for additional share repurchases. Honeywell presently expects to repurchase outstanding shares from time to time to offset the dilutive impact of employee stock-based compensation plans, including option exercises, restricted unit vesting and matching contributions under our savings plans. Additionally, we will seek to reduce share count via share repurchases as and when attractive opportunities arise. The amount and timing of future repurchases may vary depending on market conditions and our level of operating, financing and other investing activities.  

    •    Dividends—we increased our quarterly dividend rate by 10% to $0.82 per share of common stock effective with the fourth quarter 2018 dividend. The Company intends to continue to pay quarterly dividends in 2019.    

We continuously assess the relative strength of each business in our portfolio as to strategic fit, market position, profit and cash flow contribution in order to upgrade our combined portfolio and identify business units that will most benefit from increased investment. We identify acquisition candidates that will further our strategic plan and strengthen our existing core businesses. We also identify businesses that do not fit into our long-term strategic plan based on their market position, relative profitability or growth potential. These businesses are considered for potential divestiture, restructuring or other repositioning actions subject to regulatory constraints. In 2018, we realized $2,622 million in net cash proceeds from the spin-off of non-strategic businesses. 

Based on past performance and current expectations, we believe that our operating cash flows will be sufficient to meet our future operating cash needs. Our available cash, committed credit lines and access to the public debt and equity markets, provide additional sources of short-term and long-term liquidity to fund current operations, debt maturities, and future investment opportunities. 

Contractual Obligations and Probable Liability Payments 

Following is a summary of our significant contractual obligations and probable liability payments at December 31, 2018: [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

    (1)    Assumes all long-term debt is outstanding until scheduled maturity.  

    (2)    Purchase obligations are entered into with various vendors in the normal course of business and are consistent with our expected requirements.  

    (3)    The payment amounts in the table only reflect the environmental liabilities which are probable and reasonably estimable as of December 31, 2018.  

    (4)    These amounts are estimates of asbestos related cash payments for NARCO and Bendix based on our asbestos related liabilities which are probable and reasonably estimable as of December 31, 2018. See Asbestos Matters in Note 20 Commitments and Contingencies of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.   

28 

    (5)    These amounts represent our insurance recoveries that are deemed probable for asbestos related liabilities as of December 31, 2018. See Asbestos Matters in Note 20 Commitments and Contingencies of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.  

    (6)    The table excludes tax liability payments, including those for unrecognized tax benefits. See Note 5 Income Taxes of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.  

    (7)    The table excludes expected proceeds from the indemnification and reimbursement agreements entered into with Garrett and Resideo. See Note 20 Commitments and Contingencies of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.    

Environmental Matters 

Accruals for environmental matters deemed probable and reasonably estimable were $395 million, $287 million and $195 million in 2018, 2017 and 2016. In addition, in 2018, 2017 and 2016 we incurred operating costs for ongoing businesses of approximately $95 million, $82 million and $83 million relating to compliance with environmental regulations. 

Spending related to known environmental matters was $218 million, $212 million and $228 million in 2018, 2017 and 2016 and is estimated to be approximately $175 million in 2019. We expect to fund expenditures for these environmental matters from operating cash flow. The timing of cash expenditures depends on several factors, including the timing of litigation and settlements of remediation liability, personal injury and property damage claims, regulatory approval of cleanup projects, execution timeframe of projects, remedial techniques to be utilized and agreement with other parties. 

Reimbursements from Resideo for spending for environmental matters at certain sites as defined in the indemnification and reimbursement agreement was $25 million in 2018 and is expected to be $140 million in 2019. Such reimbursements will offset operating cash outflows incurred by the Company. 

See Note 20 Commitments and Contingencies of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of our environmental matters and the indemnification and reimbursement agreement entered into with Resideo. 

Financial Instruments 

The following table illustrates the potential change in fair value for interest rate sensitive instruments based on a hypothetical immediate one percentage point increase in interest rates across all maturities and the potential change in fair value for foreign exchange rate sensitive instruments based on a 10% weakening of the U.S. Dollar versus local currency exchange rates across all maturities at December 31, 2018 and 2017. [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

29 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

See Note 15 Financial Instruments and Fair Value Measures of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion on the agreements. 

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES 

The preparation of our consolidated financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles is based on the selection and application of accounting policies that require us to make significant estimates and assumptions about the effects of matters that are inherently uncertain. We consider the accounting policies discussed below to be critical to the understanding of our financial statements. Actual results could differ from our estimates and assumptions, and any such differences could be material to our consolidated financial statements. 

Contingent Liabilities—We are subject to a number of lawsuits, investigations and claims (some of which involve substantial dollar amounts) that arise out of the conduct of our global business operations or those of previously owned entities, including matters relating to commercial transactions, government contracts, product liability (including asbestos), prior acquisitions and divestitures, employee benefit plans, intellectual property, legal and environmental, health and safety matters. We continually assess the likelihood of any adverse judgments or outcomes to our contingencies, as well as potential amounts or ranges of probable losses, and recognize a liability, if any, for these contingencies based on a thorough analysis of each matter with the assistance of outside legal counsel and, if applicable, other experts. Such analysis includes making judgments concerning matters such as the costs associated with environmental matters, the outcome of negotiations, the number and cost of pending and future asbestos claims, and the impact of evidentiary requirements. Because most contingencies are resolved over long periods of time, liabilities may change in the future due to new developments (including new discovery of facts, changes in legislation and outcomes of similar cases through the judicial system), changes in assumptions or changes in our settlement strategy. See Note 20 Commitments and Contingencies of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of management’s judgment applied in the recognition and measurement of our environmental and asbestos liabilities which represent our most significant contingencies. 

Asbestos Related Liabilities and Insurance Recoveries, and Indemnification Receivables—Honeywell’s involvement in asbestos related personal injury actions relates to two predecessor companies. Regarding North American Refractories Company (“NARCO”) asbestos related claims, we accrued for pending claims based on terms and conditions in agreements with NARCO, its former parent company, and certain asbestos claimants, and an estimate of the unsettled claims pending as of the time NARCO filed for bankruptcy protection. We also accrued for the estimated value of future NARCO asbestos related claims expected to be asserted against the NARCO Trust. The estimate of future NARCO claims was prepared in 2002, in the same year NARCO filed for bankruptcy protection, using NARCO tort system litigation experience based on a commonly accepted methodology used by numerous bankruptcy courts addressing 524(g) trusts. Accordingly, the estimated value of future NARCO asbestos claims was prepared before there was data on claims filings and payment rates in the NARCO Trust under the Trust Distribution Procedures and prepared when the stay of all NARCO asbestos claims was in effect (which remained in effect until NARCO emerged from Bankruptcy protection). Some critical assumptions underlying this commonly accepted methodology included claims filing rates, disease criteria and payment values contained in the Trust Distribution Procedures, 

30 

estimated approval rates of claims submitted to the NARCO Trust and epidemiological studies estimating disease instances. This estimate resulted in a range of estimated liability of $743 million to $961 million. We believe that no amount within this range is a better estimate than any other amount and accordingly, we have recorded the minimum amount in the range. Given the Trust’s lack of sufficiently reliable claims data since NARCO emerged from bankruptcy protection, it is not yet possible to update our estimated future claim costs based on actual NARCO Trust experience. Regarding Bendix Friction Materials (“Bendix”) asbestos related claims, we accrued for the estimated value of pending claims using average resolution values for the previous five years. We also accrued for the estimated value of future claims related to Bendix over the full term of epidemiological projections through 2059 based on historic and anticipated claims filing experience and dismissal rates, disease classifications, and average resolution values in the tort system for the previous five years. 

In connection with the recognition of liabilities for asbestos related matters, we record asbestos related insurance recoveries that are deemed probable. In assessing the probability of insurance recovery, we make judgments concerning insurance coverage that we believe are reasonable and consistent with our historical dealings and our knowledge of any pertinent solvency issues surrounding insurers. While the substantial majority of our insurance carriers are solvent, some of our individual carriers are insolvent, which has been considered in our analysis of probable recoveries. Projecting future events is subject to various uncertainties that could cause the insurance recovery on asbestos related liabilities to be higher or lower than that projected and recorded. Given the inherent uncertainty in making future projections, we reevaluate our projections concerning our probable insurance recoveries considering any changes to the projected liability, our recovery experience or other relevant factors that may impact future insurance recoveries. 

Additionally, in conjunction with the Garrett spin-off, the Company entered into an indemnification and reimbursement agreement with a Garrett subsidiary, pursuant to which Garrett’s subsidiary has an obligation to make cash payments to Honeywell as reimbursement for asbestos liabilities. Accordingly, the Company has recorded an indemnification receivable and we monitor the recoverability of such receivable, which is subject to terms of applicable credit agreements of Garrett and its general ability to pay. 

See Note 20 Commitments and Contingencies of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of management’s judgments applied in the recognition and measurement of our asbestos-related liabilities and related insurance recoveries, and additional details regarding the indemnification and reimbursement agreement. 

Defined Benefit Pension Plans—We sponsor both funded and unfunded U.S. and non-U.S. defined benefit pension plans. For financial reporting purposes, net periodic pension (income) expense is calculated annually based upon a number of actuarial assumptions, including a discount rate for plan obligations and an expected long-term rate of return on plan assets. Changes in the discount rate and expected long-term rate of return on plan assets could materially affect the annual pension (income) expense amount. Annual pension (income) expense is comprised of service and interest cost, assumed return on plan assets, prior service amortization (Pension Ongoing (Income) Expense) and a potential mark-to-market adjustment (MTM Adjustment). 

The key assumptions used in developing our 2018, 2017 and 2016 net periodic pension (income) expense for our U.S. plans included the following: [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

31 

The MTM Adjustment represents the recognition of net actuarial gains or losses in excess of 10% of the greater of the fair value of plan assets or the plans’ projected benefit obligation (the corridor). Net actuarial gains and losses occur when the actual experience differs from any of the various assumptions used to value our pension plans or when assumptions change. The primary factors contributing to actuarial gains and losses are changes in the discount rate used to value pension obligations as of the measurement date each year and the difference between expected and actual returns on plan assets. The mark-to-market accounting method results in the potential for volatile and difficult to forecast MTM Adjustments. MTM charges were $37 million, $87 million and $273 million in 2018, 2017 and 2016. 

We determine the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets utilizing historical plan asset returns over varying long-term periods combined with our expectations of future market conditions and asset mix considerations (see Note 21 Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for details on the actual various asset classes and targeted asset allocation percentages for our pension plans). We plan to use an expected rate of return on plan assets of 6.75% for 2019 down from 7.75% for 2018 reflecting a re-balancing of assets to more fixed income during 2018. 

The discount rate reflects the market rate on December 31 (measurement date) for high-quality fixed-income investments with maturities corresponding to our benefit obligations and is subject to change each year. The discount rate can be volatile from year to year as it is determined based upon prevailing interest rates as of the measurement date. We used a 4.35% discount rate to determine benefit obligations as of December 31, 2018, reflecting the increase in the market interest rate environment since the prior year-end. 

In addition to the potential for MTM Adjustments, changes in our expected rate of return on plan assets and discount rate resulting from economic events also affects future pension ongoing (income) expense. The following table highlights the sensitivity of our U.S. pension obligations and ongoing (income) expense to changes in these assumptions, assuming all other assumptions remain constant. These estimates exclude any potential MTM Adjustment: [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Pension ongoing income for our world-wide pension plans is expected to be approximately $590 million in 2019 compared with pension ongoing income of $992 million in 2018. The expected decrease in pension income is primarily due to lower actual asset returns in 2018 and a lower expected return on asset assumption for 2019 in our U.S. and UK plans. Also, if required, an MTM Adjustment will be recorded in the fourth quarter of 2019 in accordance with our pension accounting method as previously described. It is difficult to reliably forecast or predict whether there will be a MTM Adjustment in 2019, and if one is required, what the magnitude of such adjustment will be. MTM Adjustments are primarily driven by events and circumstances beyond the control of the Company such as changes in interest rates and the performance of the financial markets. 

Long-Lived Assets (including Tangible and Finite-Lived Intangible Assets)—The determination of useful lives (for depreciation/amortization purposes) and whether or not tangible and intangible assets are impaired involves the use of accounting estimates and assumptions, changes in which could materially impact our financial condition or operating performance if actual results differ from such estimates and assumptions. We evaluate the recoverability of the carrying amount of our long-lived assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of a long-lived asset group may not be fully recoverable. The principal factors in considering when to perform an impairment review are as follows: 

32 

   [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Once it is determined that an impairment review is necessary, recoverability of assets is measured by comparing the carrying amount of the asset grouping to the estimated future undiscounted cash flows. If the carrying amount exceeds the estimated future undiscounted cash flows, the asset grouping is considered to be impaired. The impairment is then measured as the difference between the carrying amount of the asset grouping and its fair value. We endeavor to utilize the best information available to measure fair value, which is usually either market prices (if available), level 1 or level 2 of the fair value hierarchy, or an estimate of the future discounted cash flow, level 3 of the fair value hierarchy. The key estimates in our discounted cash flow analysis include assumptions as to expected industry and business growth rates, sales volume, selling prices and costs, cash flows, and the discount rate selected. These estimates are subject to changes in the economic environment, including market interest rates and expected volatility. Management believes the estimates of future cash flows and fair values are reasonable; however, changes in estimates due to variance from assumptions could materially affect the valuations. 

Goodwill and Indefinite-Lived Intangible Assets Impairment Testing—Goodwill and intangible assets deemed to have indefinite lives are not amortized, but are subject to annual, or more frequent if necessary, impairment testing. In testing goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets, the fair value is estimated utilizing a discounted cash flow approach utilizing cash flow forecasts in our five year strategic and annual operating plans adjusted for terminal value assumptions. These impairment tests involve the use of accounting estimates and assumptions, changes in which could materially impact our financial condition or operating performance if actual results differ from such estimates and assumptions. To address this uncertainty we perform sensitivity analysis on key estimates and assumptions. 

Income Taxes—On a recurring basis, we assess the need for a valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets by considering all available positive and negative evidence, such as past operating results, projections of future taxable income, enacted tax law changes and the feasibility and impact of tax planning initiatives. Our projections of future taxable income include a number of estimates and assumptions regarding our volume, pricing and costs, as well as the timing and amount of reversals of taxable temporary differences. 

For further discussion of additional income tax policies and provision items recorded in regards to U.S Tax Reform, see Note 1 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Note 5 Income Taxes of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Sales Recognition on Long-Term Contracts—We recognize sales for long-term contracts with performance obligations satisfied over time using either an input or output method. We recognize revenue over time as we perform on these contracts based on the continuous transfer of control to the customer. With control transferring over time, revenue is recognized based on the extent of progress towards completion of the performance obligation. We generally use the cost-to-cost input method of progress for our contracts because it best depicts the transfer of control to the customer that occurs as we incur costs. Under the cost-to-cost method, the extent of progress towards completion is measured based on the proportion of costs incurred to date to the total estimated costs at completion of the performance obligation. Due to the nature of the work required to be performed on many of our performance obligations, the estimation of total revenue and cost at completion requires judgment. Contract revenues are largely determined by negotiated contract prices and quantities, modified by our assumptions regarding contract options, change orders, incentive and award provisions associated with technical performance and price adjustment clauses (such as inflation or index-based clauses). Cost estimates are largely based on negotiated or estimated purchase contract terms, historical performance trends and other economic projections. Significant factors that influence these estimates 

33 

include inflationary trends, technical and schedule risk, internal and subcontractor performance trends, business volume assumptions, asset utilization, and anticipated labor agreements. Revenue and cost estimates are regularly monitored and revised based on changes in circumstances. Impacts from changes in estimates of net sales and cost of sales are recognized on a cumulative catch-up basis, which recognizes in the current period the cumulative effect of the changes on current and prior periods based on a performance obligation’s percentage of completion. Anticipated losses on long-term contracts are recognized when such losses become evident. We maintain financial controls over the customer qualification, contract pricing and estimation processes to reduce the risk of contract losses. 

34 

OTHER MATTERS 

Litigation 

See Note 20 Commitments and Contingencies of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of environmental, asbestos and other litigation matters. 

Recent Accounting Pronouncements 

See Note 1 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of recent accounting pronouncements. 

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risks