ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 

FINANCIAL OVERVIEW

A summary of our fiscal year 2019 results is as follows:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

222019 Form 10-K | H&R Block, Inc.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Our subsidiaries provide assisted, DIY, and virtual tax preparation solutions through multiple channels (including in-person, online and mobile applications, virtual, and desktop software) and distribute H&R Block-branded products and services, including those of our financial partners, to the general public primarily in the U.S., Canada, Australia, and their respective territories. Tax returns are either prepared by H&R Block tax professionals (in company-owned or franchise offices, virtually or via an internet review) or prepared and filed by our clients through our DIY tax solutions. We operate as a single segment that includes all of our continuing operations, which are designed to enable clients to obtain tax preparation services seamlessly.

H&R Block, Inc. | 2019 Form 10-K23
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(2) Net average charge is calculated as tax preparation fees divided by tax returns prepared. For DIY, net average charge excludes IRS Free File.

(3) Net average charge related to H&R Block Franchise Operations represents tax preparation fees collected by H&R Block franchisees divided by returns prepared in franchise offices. H&R Block will recognize a portion of franchise revenues as franchise royalties based on the terms of franchise agreements.

We provide Net Average Charge as a key operating metric because we consider it an important supplemental measure useful to analysts, investors, and other interested parties as it provides insights into pricing and tax return mix relative to our customer base, which are significant drivers of revenue. Our definition of Net Average Charge may not be comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies.

242019 Form 10-K | H&R Block, Inc.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) We reclassified $31.0 million of supplies expense from its own financial statement line to other expenses for fiscal year 2018 to conform to the current year presentation. 

(2) See "Non-GAAP Financial Information" at the end of this item for a reconciliation of non-GAAP measures. 

FISCAL 2019 COMPARED TO FISCAL 2018 

Revenues decreased $65.1 million, or 2.1%, compared to the prior year. 

U.S. assisted tax preparation fees decreased $88.2 million, or 4.5%, primarily due to a decrease in net average charge of 4.0% due to lower prices. 

U.S. DIY tax preparation fees increased $16.9 million, or 7.0%, primarily due to higher online volumes. 

H&R Block, Inc. | 2019 Form 10-K25
Total operating expenses increased $71.2 million or 3.0% from the prior year. Field wages increased $10.7 million, or 1.4%, due to higher office labor cost, including short-term incentives. Other wages increased $25.1 million, or 13.1%, primarily due to higher information technology wages and short-term incentive increases. Occupancy expenses were consistent with the prior year, largely due to prior year write-offs of leasehold improvements for approximately 400 offices that we decided to permanently close, offset by lease buyout payments related to those offices in the current year. Marketing expenses increased $20.7 million, or 8.3%, primarily due to higher online advertising. Depreciation and amortization decreased $16.6 million, or 9.1%, primarily due to lower depreciation on equipment and amortization of internally developed software.

Other expenses increased $28.3 million, or 7.2%, primarily associated with increased investments in information technology. The components of other expenses are as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Pretax income for fiscal year 2019 decreased $123.6 million, or 18.5%. Net income from continuing operations decreased $181.7 million, or 29.0%, from the prior year. Income taxes increased $58.1 million from the prior year. The increase is due to our effective tax rate increasing to 18.3% compared to 6.3% in the prior year. The reduced effective tax rate in the prior year resulted primarily from the decrease in the U.S. federal corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21%, effective January 1, 2018. The impact of the rate decrease is exaggerated in fiscal year 2018 due to the seasonality of our business and our differing year ends for corporate income tax filing and financial reporting purposes. See Item 8, note 10 to the consolidated financial statements for additional discussion.

Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations decreased 27.9% from the prior year to $2.15 due to lower net income offset by share repurchases during fiscal year 2019. 

Losses of our discontinued mortgage operations resulted primarily from litigation expenses. See the discussion of the risk of contingent losses related to our discontinued operations in Item 1A, "Risk Factors" and in Item 8, notes 12 and 13 to the consolidated financial statements.

FISCAL 2018 COMPARED TO FISCAL 2017 

The comparison of fiscal year 2018 to 2017 has been omitted from this Form 10–K, but can be found in our Form 10–K for the fiscal year ended April 30, 2018, filed on June 15, 2018.

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES 

We consider the estimates discussed below to be critical to understanding our financial statements, as they require the use of significant judgment and estimation in order to measure, at a specific point in time, matters that are inherently uncertain. Specific methods and assumptions for these critical accounting estimates are described in the following paragraphs. We have reviewed and discussed each of these estimates with the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors. For all of these estimates, we caution that future events rarely develop precisely as forecasted and estimates routinely require adjustment and may require material adjustment.

See Item 8, note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, which discusses accounting policies and new or proposed accounting standards that may affect our financial reporting in the future.

262019 Form 10-K | H&R Block, Inc.
LITIGATION AND OTHER RELATED CONTINGENCIES – 

Nature of Estimates Required. We accrue liabilities related to certain legal matters for which we believe it is probable that a loss has been incurred and the amount of such loss can be reasonably estimated. Assessing the likely outcome of pending or threatened litigation, indemnification and contribution claims, and other related loss contingencies, including the amount of potential loss, if any, is highly subjective. 

Assumptions and Approach Used. We are subject to pending or threatened litigation claims and claims for indemnification and contribution, and other related loss contingencies, which are described in Item 8, note 13 to the consolidated financial statements. It is our policy to routinely assess the likelihood of any adverse judgments or outcomes related to legal matters, as well as ranges of probable losses. A determination of the amount of the liability required to be accrued, if any, for these contingencies is made after analysis of each known issue and an analysis of historical experience. In cases where we have concluded that a loss is only reasonably possible or remote, or is not reasonably estimable, no liability is accrued. 

Sensitivity of Estimate to Change. It is reasonably possible that future litigation and other related loss contingencies may vary from the amounts accrued. Our estimate of the aggregate range of reasonably possible losses includes (1) matters where a liability has been accrued and there is a reasonably possible loss in excess of the amount accrued for that liability, and (2) matters where a liability has not been accrued but we believe a loss is reasonably possible. This aggregate range represents only those losses as to which we are currently able to estimate a reasonably possible loss or range of loss. It does not represent our maximum loss exposure. As of April 30, 2019, we believe the estimate of the aggregate range of reasonably possible losses in excess of amounts accrued, where the range of loss can be estimated, was not material.

However, our judgments on whether a loss is probable, reasonably possible, or remote, and our estimates of probable loss amounts may differ from actual results due to difficulties in predicting changes in, or interpretations of, laws, predicting the outcome of jury trials, arbitration hearings, settlement discussions and related activity, predicting the outcome of class certification actions, and numerous other uncertainties. Due to the number of claims which are periodically asserted against us, and the magnitude of damages sought in those claims, actual losses in the future may significantly differ from our current estimates. 

INCOME TAXES – UNCERTAIN TAX POSITIONS –

Nature of Estimates Required. The income tax laws of jurisdictions in which we operate are complex and subject to different interpretations by the taxpayer and applicable government taxing authorities. Income tax returns filed by us are based on our interpretation of these rules. The amount of income taxes we pay is subject to ongoing audits by federal, state and foreign tax authorities, which may result in proposed assessments, including interest or penalties. We accrue a liability for unrecognized tax benefits arising from uncertain tax positions reflecting our judgment as to the ultimate resolution of the applicable issues. 

Assumptions and Approach Used. Differences between a tax position taken or expected to be taken in our tax returns and the amount of benefit recorded in our financial statements result in unrecognized tax benefits. Unrecognized tax benefits are recorded in the balance sheet as either a liability or reductions to recorded tax assets, as applicable. Our uncertain tax positions arise from items such as apportionment of income for state purposes, transfer pricing, and the deductibility of related party transactions. We evaluate each uncertain tax position based on its technical merits. For each position, we consider all applicable information including relevant tax laws, the taxing authorities potential position, our tax return position, and the possible settlement outcomes to determine the amount of liability to record. In making this determination, we assume the tax authority has all relevant information at its disposal. 

Sensitivity of Estimate to Change. Our assessment of the technical merits and measurement of tax benefits associated with uncertain tax positions is subject to a high degree of judgment and estimation. Actual results may differ from our current judgments due to a variety of factors, including changes in law, interpretations of law by taxing authorities that differ from our assessments, changes in the jurisdictions in which we operate and results of routine tax examinations. We believe we have adequately provided for any reasonably foreseeable outcome related to these matters. However, our future results may include favorable or unfavorable adjustments to our estimated tax liabilities in the period the assessments are made or resolved, or when statutes of limitation on potential assessments expire. As a result, our effective tax rate may fluctuate on a quarterly basis. 

H&R Block, Inc. | 2019 Form 10-K27
See the additional discussion in Item 8, note 10 to the consolidated financial statements.

NEW ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS

See Item 8, note 1 to the consolidated financial statements for a discussion of recently issued accounting pronouncements.

FINANCIAL CONDITION

These comments should be read in conjunction with the consolidated balance sheets and consolidated statements of cash flows included in Item 8.

CAPITAL RESOURCES AND LIQUIDITY – 

OVERVIEW – Our primary sources of capital and liquidity include cash from operations (including changes in working capital), draws on our 2018 CLOC, and issuances of debt. We use our sources of liquidity primarily to fund working capital, service and repay debt, pay dividends, repurchase shares of our common stock, and acquire businesses. 

Our operations are highly seasonal and substantially all of our revenues and cash flow are generated during the period from February through April. Therefore, we require the use of cash to fund losses and working capital needs from May through January, and typically rely on available cash balances from the prior tax season and borrowings to meet our off-season liquidity needs.

Given the likely availability of a number of liquidity options discussed herein, we believe that, in the absence of any unexpected developments, our existing sources of capital as of April 30, 2019 are sufficient to meet our future operating and financing needs.

DISCUSSION OF CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS – The following table summarizes our statements of cash flows for fiscal years 2019 and 2018. See Item 8 for the complete consolidated statements of cash flows for these periods.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Operating Activities. Cash provided by operating activities decreased $243.5 million from fiscal year 2018. The decrease from the prior year was primarily due to lower net income and higher taxes paid compared to the prior year.

Investing Activities. Cash used in investing activities totaled $155.1 million compared to $112.1 million in the prior year. This change is principally due to a $40.0 million investment in an available-for-sale debt security in the current fiscal year. 

Financing Activities. Cash used in financing activities increased $213.0 million. This increase resulted primarily from higher share repurchase activity in the current year and lower stock option exercises compared to the prior year.

CASH REQUIREMENTS –

Dividends and Share Repurchase. Returning capital to shareholders in the form of dividends and the repurchase of outstanding shares has historically been a significant component of our capital allocation plan.

We have consistently paid quarterly dividends. Dividends paid totaled $205.5 million and $200.5 million in fiscal years 2019 and 2018, respectively. Although we have historically paid dividends and plan to continue to do so, there can be no assurances that circumstances will not change in the future that could affect our ability or decisions to pay dividends.

282019 Form 10-K | H&R Block, Inc.
In September 2015, our Board of Directors approved a $3.5 billion share repurchase program, effective through June 2019. As a part of the repurchase program, in the current year, we purchased $184.8 million of our common stock at an average price of $23.51 per share. See Item 8, note 8 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information. 

In June 2019, our Board of Directors extended its previous share repurchase authorization for three years. Approximately $1.0 billion remains under this authorization, which now expires in June 2022. These repurchases may be effectuated through open market transactions, some of which may be effectuated under SEC Rule 10b5-1. The Company may cancel, suspend, or extend the time period for the purchase of shares at any time. Any repurchases will be funded primarily through available cash and cash from operations. Although we may continue to repurchase shares, there is no assurance that we will purchase up to the full Board authorization.

Capital Investment. Capital expenditures totaled $95.5 million and $98.6 million in fiscal years 2019 and 2018, respectively. In addition, we expended net cash totaling $43.6 million and $42.5 million in fiscal years 2019 and 2018, respectively, to acquire franchisee and competitor businesses. Our capital expenditures relate primarily to improvements to retail offices, as well as investments in computers, software and related assets. 

As discussed in Item 1, Recent Developments, on June 10, 2019 we entered into a definitive agreement to acquire Wave, a rapidly growing financial solutions platform focused on changing the way small business owners manage their finances. Under the terms of the agreement, H&R Block will acquire all outstanding shares of Wave for $405 million, subject to customary adjustments for working capital, debt and transaction expenses. The acquisition will be funded with available cash. 

FINANCING RESOURCES – We had no balance outstanding on our 2018 CLOC as of April 30, 2019. As of April 30, 2019, amounts available to borrow under the 2018 CLOC were limited by the debt-to-EBITDA covenant to approximately $1.2 billion; however, our cash needs at April 30 generally do not require us to borrow on our CLOC at that time. See Item 8, note 7 to the consolidated financial statements for discussion of the Senior Notes and our 2018 CLOC. 

The following table provides ratings for debt issued by Block Financial as of April 30, 2019 and 2018:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

CASH AND OTHER ASSETS – As of April 30, 2019, we held cash and cash equivalents, excluding restricted amounts, of $1.6 billion, including $107.6 million held by our foreign subsidiaries. 

Foreign Operations. Seasonal borrowing needs of our Canadian operations are typically funded by our U.S. operations. To mitigate foreign currency risk, we sometimes enter into foreign exchange forward contracts. There were no forward contracts outstanding as of April 30, 2019. 

We do not currently intend to repatriate non-borrowed funds held by our foreign subsidiaries. 

The impact of changes in foreign exchange rates during the period on our international cash balances resulted in a decrease of $3.7 million during fiscal year 2019 compared to a decrease of $1.1 million in fiscal year 2018. 

H&R Block, Inc. | 2019 Form 10-K29
CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS AND COMMERCIAL COMMITMENTS – A summary of our borrowings and known or estimated contractual obligations as of April 30, 2019, and the timing and effect that such commitments are expected to have on our liquidity and capital requirements in future periods is as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The table above does not reflect unrecognized tax benefits of $185.1 million due to the high degree of uncertainty regarding the future cash flows associated with these amounts.  

EAs are originated by Axos and are offered from mid-November to mid-January. We purchase a 90% participation interest, at par, in all EAs originated by Axos in accordance with our participation agreement. 

See discussion of contractual obligations and commitments in Item 8, within the notes to the consolidated financial statements.

REGULATORY ENVIRONMENT – The federal government, various state, local, provincial and foreign governments, and some self-regulatory organizations have enacted statutes and ordinances, or adopted rules and regulations, regulating aspects of our business. These aspects include, but are not limited to, commercial income tax return preparers, income tax courses, the electronic filing of income tax returns, the offering of RTs, privacy and data security, consumer protection, advertising, franchising, antitrust and competition, sales methods and banking. We work to comply with those laws that are applicable to us or our services or products, and we continue to monitor developments in the regulatory environment in which we operate.

On November 17, 2017, the CFPB published its final rule changing the regulation of certain consumer credit products, including payday loans, vehicle title loans, and high-cost installment loans (Payday Rule). Certain limited provisions of the Payday Rule became effective on January 16, 2018, but most provisions do not become effective until August 19, 2019. On November 6, 2018, a judge from the U.S. District Court for the Western District of Texas issued a stay of the August 19, 2019 compliance date until further notice from the Court. On February 6, 2019, the CFPB issued a notice of proposed rulemaking to delay the August 19, 2019 compliance date for the mandatory underwriting provisions of the Payday Rule for 15 months, until November 19, 2020. Also on February 6, 2019, the CFPB issued a separate notice of proposed rulemaking to rescind the Payday Rule’s mandatory underwriting requirements, including the ability to repay determination, for certain loans. On June 6, 2019, the CFPB issued a final rule delaying the August 19, 2019 compliance date for the mandatory underwriting provisions until November 19, 2020.

Given these judicial and regulatory developments, we are unsure whether, when, or in what form the Payday Rule may go into effect. The outcomes of the rulemaking process and litigation are unclear. Depending on how the Payday Rule is revised during the pending rulemaking process, the Payday Rule may have a material adverse impact on the Emerald AdvanceTM product, our business, and our consolidated financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. We will continue to analyze the potential impact on the Company as the court case and the CFPB’s pending rulemaking process progress.

From time to time, we receive inquiries from governmental authorities regarding the applicability of laws to our services and products and other matters relating to our business. We cannot predict what effect future laws, changes in interpretations of existing laws or the results of future governmental inquiries with respect to services and products or other matters relating to our business may have on our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows. We have received certain governmental inquiries relating to our IRS Free File Program. We may also be subject to future inquiries or other proceedings regarding this program or other aspects of our business. Regulatory inquiries may result in the incurrence of additional expense, diversion of management's attention, adverse judgments, 

302019 Form 10-K | H&R Block, Inc.
settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions or other relief. See additional discussion of legal matters in Item 8, note 13 to the consolidated financial statements.

NON-GAAP FINANCIAL INFORMATION

Non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered as a substitute for, or superior to, measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP. Because these measures are not measures of financial performance under GAAP and are susceptible to varying calculations, they may not be comparable to similarly titled measures for other companies. 

We consider our non-GAAP financial measures to be performance measures and a useful metric for management and investors to evaluate and compare the ongoing operating performance of our business.

We may consider whether significant items that arise in the future should be excluded from our non-GAAP financial measures.

We measure the performance of our business using a variety of metrics, including earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) from continuing operations, EBITDA margin from continuing operations and free cash flow. We also use EBITDA from continuing operations and pretax income of continuing operations, each subject to permitted adjustments, as performance metrics in incentive compensation calculations for our employees.

The following is a reconciliation of EBITDA from continuing operations to net income:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) EBITDA margin from continuing operations is computed as EBITDA from continuing operations divided by revenues from continuing operations.

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK