ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK 

INTEREST RATE RISK

GENERAL – We have a formal investment policy that strives to minimize the market risk exposure of our cash equivalents, which are primarily affected by credit quality and movements in interest rates. The guidelines in our investment policy focus on managing liquidity and preserving principal and earnings.

Our cash equivalents are primarily held for liquidity purposes and are comprised of high quality, short-term investments, including money market funds. Because our cash and cash equivalents have a short maturity, our portfolio's market value is relatively insensitive to interest rate changes.

As our CLOC borrowings are generally seasonal, interest rate risk typically increases through our third fiscal quarter and is largely eliminated by fiscal year end. While the market value of our CLOC borrowings is relatively insensitive to interest rate changes, interest expense on CLOC borrowings will increase and decrease with changes in the underlying short-term interest rates. We had no balance outstanding under the 2018 CLOC as of April 30, 2019. 

Our long-term debt as of April 30, 2019, consists primarily of fixed-rate Senior Notes; therefore, a change in interest rates would have no impact on consolidated pretax earnings until these notes mature or are refinanced. The fixed-rate interest payable on our Senior Notes is subject to adjustment based upon our credit ratings. See Item 8, note 7 to the consolidated financial statements.

H&R Block, Inc. | 2019 Form 10-K31
FOREIGN EXCHANGE RATE RISK

Our operations in international markets are exposed to movements in currency exchange rates. The currencies primarily involved are the Canadian dollar and the Australian dollar. We translate revenues and expenses related to these operations at the average of exchange rates in effect during the period. Assets and liabilities of foreign subsidiaries are translated into U.S. dollars at exchange rates prevailing at the end of the year. Translation adjustments are recorded as a separate component of other comprehensive income in stockholders' equity. Translation of financial results into U.S. dollars does not presently materially affect, and has not historically materially affected, our consolidated financial results, although such changes do affect the year-to-year comparability of the operating results in U.S. dollars of our international businesses. The impact of changes in foreign exchange rates during the period on our international cash balances resulted in a decrease of $3.7 million during fiscal year 2019 compared to a decrease of $1.1 million in fiscal year 2018. We estimate a 10% change in foreign exchange rates by itself would impact consolidated pretax income in fiscal years 2019 and 2018 by $2.5 million and $2.0 million, respectively, and cash balances, excluding restricted balances, as of April 30, 2019 and 2018 by $9.4 million and $9.0 million, respectively. 

We generally use foreign exchange forward contracts to mitigate foreign currency exchange rate risk for loans we advance to our Canadian operations. We had no forward contracts outstanding at April 30, 2019 or 2018 .

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA