QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

We are affected by changes in currency exchange and interest rates, as well as equity and commodity prices. Our risk management programs reduce, but may not entirely eliminate, the impacts of these risks. All of the following potential changes are based on sensitivity analyses performed on our financial positions as of December 29, 2018 and December 30, 2017. Actual results may differ materially. 

CURRENCY EXCHANGE RATES

We are exposed to currency exchange risks of non-U.S.-dollar-denominated investments in debt instruments and loans receivable, and may economically hedge this risk with foreign currency contracts, such as currency forward contracts or currency interest rate swaps. Gains or losses on these non-U.S.-currency investments are generally offset by corresponding losses or gains on the related hedging instruments. We are exposed to currency exchange risks from our non-U.S.-dollar-denominated debt indebtedness and may use foreign currency contracts designated as cash flow hedges to manage this risk.

Substantially all of our revenue is transacted in U.S. dollars. However, a significant portion of our operating expenditures and capital purchases are incurred in other currencies, primarily the euro, the Japanese yen, the Israeli shekel, and the Chinese yuan. We have established currency risk management programs to protect against currency exchange rate risks associated with non-U.S. dollar forecasted future cash flows and existing non-U.S. dollar monetary assets and liabilities. We may also hedge currency risk arising from funding of foreign currency-denominated future investments. We may utilize foreign currency contracts, such as currency forwards or option contracts in these hedging programs. We considered the historical trends in currency exchange rates and determined that it was reasonably possible that a weighted average adverse change of 20% in currency exchange rates could be experienced in the near term. Such an adverse change, after taking into account balance sheet hedges only and offsetting recorded monetary asset and liability positions outstanding as of December 29, 2018 and December 30, 2017, would result in an adverse impact on income before taxes of less than $46 million and less than $95 million, respectively.

INTEREST RATES

We are exposed to interest rate risk related to our fixed-rate investment portfolio and outstanding debt. The primary objective of our investment policy is to preserve principal and the financial flexibility to fund our business while maximizing yields, which generally track the U.S. dollar three-month LIBOR. We generally enter into interest rate contracts to convert the returns on our fixed-rate debt investment with remaining maturities longer than six months into U.S. dollar three-month LIBOR-based returns. We also enter into swaps to convert fixed-rate coupon payments into floating-rate coupon payments for our existing indebtedness. Gains or losses on these instruments are generally offset by corresponding losses or gains on the related hedging instruments.

A hypothetical increase in benchmark interest rates of up to 1.0%, after taking into account investment hedges, would have resulted in a decrease in the fair value of our investment portfolio of approximately $110 million as of December 29, 2018 (a hypothetical decrease of 1.0% would have resulted in an increase of approximately $100 million as of December 30, 2017).

Taking into account floating-rate debt, and fixed-rate debt that is swapped to floating-rate debt, a hypothetical increase in interest rates of up to 1.0% would result in an increase in annual interest expense on our indebtedness of approximately $215 million from debt outstanding as of December 29, 2018 (an increase of approximately $140 million from debt outstanding as of December 30, 2017). We have changed our presentation from the prior year to show the impact of interest rate changes on interest expense rather than on fair value of debt in order to present information that could hypothetically impact our net income and cash flows. 

EQUITY PRICES

Our investments include marketable equity securities and equity derivative instruments. We typically do not attempt to reduce or eliminate our equity market exposure through hedging activities at the inception of our investments. In the event we do decide to enter into hedge arrangements, before doing so we evaluate legal, market, and economic factors, as well as the expected timing of disposal, to determine whether hedging is appropriate. Our equity market risk management program may include equity derivatives with or without hedge accounting designation that utilize warrants, equity options, or other equity derivatives. 

We also utilize total return swaps to offset changes in liabilities related to the equity market risks of certain deferred compensation arrangements. Gains or losses from changes in fair value of these total return swaps are generally offset by the losses or gains on the related liabilities.

 MD&A Consolidated Results and Analysis43
As of December 29, 2018, the fair value of our marketable equity investments and our equity derivative instruments, including hedging positions, was $1.4 billion ($4.2 billion as of December 30, 2017). A substantial majority of our marketable equity investments portfolio as of December 29, 2018 was concentrated in our investment in ASML of $1.1 billion ($3.6 billion as of December 30, 2017). To determine reasonably possible decreases in the market value of our marketable equity investments, we have analyzed the historical market price sensitivity of our marketable equity investment portfolio. Assuming a decline of 40% in market prices, and after reflecting the impact of hedges and offsetting positions, the aggregate value of our marketable equity investments could decrease by approximately $0.6 billion, based on the value as of December 29, 2018 (a decrease in value of approximately $1.1 billion, based on the value as of December 30, 2017 using an assumed decline of 25%). Beginning in 2018, as explained in "Note 3: Recent Accounting Standards" within the Consolidated Financial Statements, changes in the fair value of our marketable equity securities will be measured and recorded at fair value with changes in fair value recorded through the income statement. 

Many of the same factors that could result in an adverse movement of equity market prices affect our non-marketable equity investments, although we cannot always quantify the impacts directly. Financial markets are volatile, which could negatively affect the prospects of the companies we invest in, their ability to raise additional capital, and the likelihood of our ability to realize value in our investments through liquidity events such as initial public offerings, mergers, and private sales. These types of investments involve a great deal of risk, and there can be no assurance that any specific company will grow or become successful; consequently, we could lose all or part of our investment. Our non-marketable equity securities had a carrying amount of $3.0 billion as of December 29, 2018 ($2.6 billion as of December 30, 2017) and included our investment in Unisoc of $658 million ($658 million for Unisoc as of December 30, 2017). The carrying amount of our equity method investments was $1.6 billion as of December 29, 2018 ($1.8 billion as of December 30, 2017). Substantially all of our equity method investments balance as of December 29, 2018 was concentrated in our IMFT investment of $1.6 billion ($1.5 billion for IMFT as of December 30, 2017).

COMMODITY PRICE RISK

Although we operate facilities that consume commodities, we are not directly affected by commodity price risk to a material degree. We have established forecasted transaction risk management programs to protect against fluctuations in commodity prices. We may use commodity derivatives contracts, such as commodity swaps, in these hedging programs. In addition, we have sourcing plans in place that mitigate the risk of a potential supplier concentration for our key commodities. 

 MD&A Consolidated Results and Analysis44
OTHER KEY INFORMATION

SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

1 In Q1 2018, we adopted "Retirement Benefits - Improving the Presentation of Net Periodic Pension Cost and Net Periodic Postretirement Benefit Cost" on a retrospective basis. As a result of the adoption of this standard, cost of sales, operating expenses, and interest and other, net for periods 2017 and 2016 in the preceding table have been restated. 

2 In Q4 2017, we recognized a $5.4 billion higher income tax expense as a result of one-time impacts from Tax Reform. In 2018, our effective tax rate benefited from the reduction of the U.S. statutory federal tax rate.   

 OTHER KEY INFORMATION 45
SALES AND MARKETING

CUSTOMERS

We sell our products primarily to original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) and original design manufacturers (ODMs). ODMs provide design and manufacturing services to branded and unbranded private-label resellers. In addition, our customers include other manufacturers and service providers, such as industrial and communication equipment manufacturers and cloud service providers, who buy our products through distributor, reseller, retail, and OEM channels throughout the world. For more information about our customers, including customers who accounted for greater than 10% of our net consolidated revenue, see "Note 4: Operating Segments" within the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Our worldwide reseller sales channel consists of thousands of indirect customers—systems builders that purchase Intel® processors and other products from our distributors. We have incentive programs that allow distributors to sell our microprocessors and other products in small quantities to customers of systems builders. Our microprocessors and other products are also available in direct retail outlets.

SALES ARRANGEMENTS

Our products are sold through sales offices throughout the world. Sales of our products are frequently made via purchase order acknowledgments that contain standard terms and conditions covering matters such as pricing, payment terms, and warranties, as well as indemnities for issues specific to our products, such as patent and copyright indemnities. From time to time, we may enter into additional agreements with customers covering, for example, changes from our standard terms and conditions, new product development and marketing, and private-label branding. Our sales are routinely made using electronic and web-based processes that allow the customer to review inventory availability and track the progress of specific goods ordered. Pricing on particular products may vary based on volumes ordered and other factors. We also offer discounts, rebates, and other incentives to customers to increase acceptance of our products and technology.

In accordance with contract terms, revenue for product sales is recognized at the time of product shipment from our facilities or delivery to the customer location, as determined by the agreed-upon shipping terms. Our standard terms and conditions of sale typically provide that payment is due at a later date, 30 days after shipment or delivery. We assess credit risk through quantitative and qualitative analysis. From this analysis, we establish shipping and credit limits, and determine whether we will seek to use one or more credit support protection devices, such as obtaining a parent guarantee, standby letter of credit, or credit insurance. Credit losses may still be incurred due to bankruptcy, fraud, or other failure of the customer to pay. 

Our sales to distributors are typically made under agreements allowing for price protection on unsold merchandise and a right of return on stipulated quantities of unsold merchandise. Under the price protection program, we give distributors credits for the difference between the original price paid and the current price that we offer. Our products typically have no contractual limit on the amount of price protection, nor is there a limit on the time horizon under which price protection is granted. The right of return granted generally consists of a stock rotation program in which distributors are able to exchange certain products based on the number of qualified purchases made by the distributor. 

DISTRIBUTION

Distributors typically handle a wide variety of products, including those that compete with our products, and fill orders for many customers. Customers may place orders directly with us or through distributors. We have several distribution warehouses that are located in proximity to key customers.

SEASONAL TRENDS

Historically, our net revenue has typically been higher in the second half of the year than in the first half of the year, accelerating in the third quarter and peaking in the fourth quarter.

MARKETING

Our global marketing objectives are to build a strong, well-known, differentiated, and meaningful Intel corporate brand that drives preference with businesses and consumers, and to offer a limited number of meaningful and valuable brands in our portfolio to aid businesses and consumers in making informed choices about technology purchases. The Intel Core processor family and the Intel® Quark™, Intel Atom®, Intel® Celeron®, Intel® Pentium®, Intel® Xeon®, Intel® Xeon Phi™, and Intel® Itanium® trademarks make up our processor brands.

We promote brand awareness and preference, and generate demand through our own direct marketing, as well as through co-marketing programs. Our direct marketing activities primarily include advertising through digital and social media and television, as well as consumer and trade events, industry and consumer communications, and press relations. We market to consumer and business audiences, and focus on building awareness and generating demand for our performance leadership products. Our key messaging focuses on increased performance, improved energy efficiency, and other capabilities such as connectivity and communications.

 OTHER KEY INFORMATION 46
Certain customers participate in cooperative advertising and marketing programs such as the Intel Inside program. These cooperative advertising and marketing programs broaden the reach of our brands beyond the scope of our own direct marketing. Certain customers are licensed to place Intel® logos on computing devices containing our microprocessors and processor technologies, and to use our brands in their marketing activities. The program partially reimburses customers for marketing activities for products featuring Intel® brands, subject to customers meeting defined criteria. These marketing activities primarily include advertising through digital and social media and television, as well as press relations. We have also entered into joint marketing arrangements with certain customers.

COMPETITION

The computing industry is continuously evolving. New and existing technology providers regularly introduce new and enhanced technologies and products. The marketplace can change quickly in response to such technologies and products, as well as to changes in customer and end-user requirements, expectations, and preferences. As technologies evolve and new market segments emerge, the boundaries between the market segments that we compete in may also change. We face significant competition in the development and market acceptance of our products in this environment.

In addition, in connection with our strategic transformation to a data-centric company, we have pursued a broader market opportunity by entering new areas and introducing adjacent products. We face new sources of competition in these market segments, including from incumbent competitors with well-established technologies and customer bases, more industry experience, significant financial resources, and greater brand recognition. 

COMPETITORS

Our broad product portfolio offers end-to-end solutions to help our customers process, analyze, store, and transfer data, including platform products that range from high-performance platforms for cloud computing workloads to low-power platforms for edge computing devices. We face intense competition across each part of this portfolio from other companies that offer platform products, such as Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. (AMD); accelerator products such as GPUs, including NVIDIA Corporation (NVIDIA), as well as accelerator products such as ASICs, application-specific standard products, and FPGAs; memory and storage products; or connectivity products such as cellular modems. Some of these competitors have developed or utilize competing computing architectures for specific market segments or applications, such as low-power applications or emerging AI workloads. We also compete with internally developed semiconductors from OEMs, cloud service providers, and others, including customers. These companies may choose to vertically integrate their own proprietary semiconductor designs with their software assets, to offer greater product differentiation or increase product margins, or to customize such designs for their specific computing workloads. We may also face new sources of competition as a result of changes in industry participants through, for example, acquisitions or business collaborations, as well as new entrants, which could have a significant impact on our competitive position.

•CCG. We are a leading provider of platforms for notebooks, 2-in-1 systems, and desktops, including high-end enthusiast PCs. We face existing and emerging competition in these product areas. Tablets, phones, and other mobile devices offered by numerous vendors are significant competitors to traditional PCs for many usages, and considerable blurring of system form factors currently exists in the marketplace. We face strong competition from AMD as well as from vendors who use applications processors that are based on the ARM* architecture, feature low-power or long battery-life operation, and are built in SoC formats that integrate numerous functions on one chip. We are competing with a number of large companies in the development of 5G cellular modems. 

•DCG. We are a leading provider of data center platforms, and face competition from incumbent competitors such as AMD, providers of accelerator products such as NVIDIA, and companies using ARM architecture, as well as from new entrants developing products customized for specific data center workloads and from internally developed solutions by cloud service providers and others. We see cloud computing, storage, and networking as areas of significant opportunity in our DCG business, as we seek to help our customers process, analyze, store, and transfer increasing amounts of data in connection with AI, autonomous driving, and other applications. We face strong competition in these areas. 

•IOTG. We have a long-standing position as a supplier of components and software for embedded products. This marketplace continues to expand significantly, with increasing types and numbers of smart and connected devices for retail, industrial, and consumer uses, including smart video. As this market segment evolves, we face numerous large and small incumbent processor competitors, as well as new entrants that use ARM architecture and other operating systems and software. In addition, the Internet of Things requires a broad range of connectivity solutions and we face competition from companies providing traditional wireless solutions such as cellular, WiFi, and Bluetooth®, as well as several new entrants who are taking advantage of new focused communications protocols.

•NSG. We compete against other providers of NAND flash memory products. We focus our efforts primarily on incorporating NAND flash memory into solution products, such as SSDs supporting enterprise and consumer applications. Our innovative Intel Optane technology offers a unique combination of performance, density, power, non-volatility, and cost advantages that redefines the memory storage hierarchy between conventional DRAM memory and NAND. We believe that our memory offerings, including our Intel Optane technology, complement our product offerings in our other segments.

 OTHER KEY INFORMATION 47
•PSG. We are a leading provider of programmable semiconductors and related products, including FPGAs and SoC FPGAs. We face competition from other programmable logic companies, as well as companies that make other types of semiconductor products, such as ASICs, application-specific standard products, GPUs, digital signal processors, and CPUs. Targeted growth areas for our programmable solutions include communications, data center, industrial, and military applications. The FPGA life cycle is long relative to other Intel products—from the time that a design win is secured, it generally takes three or more years before a customer starts volume production and we receive the associated revenue from such design win.

COMPETITIVE FACTORS

Our products primarily compete based on performance, energy efficiency, integration, ease-of-use, innovative design, features, price, quality, reliability, security features, software ecosystem and developer support, time-to-market, brand recognition, customer support and customization, and availability. The importance of these factors varies by the type of end system for the products. For example, performance might be among the most important factors for our products for data center servers, while energy efficiency and price, as well as density and non-volatility, might be among the most important factors for our memory products.

Our key competitive advantages include:

•Well-positioned for growth in a new era of data-centric computing. The proliferation of data from the cloud, to the network, and out to the edge; the impending transition to 5G; and the growth of AI and analytics have driven a profound shift in computing, creating massive amounts of largely untapped data and a significant opportunity. We believe we are one of the few companies with a product portfolio that spans this new data-centric world. With products to help our customers process, analyze, store, and transfer large amounts of data, we have the opportunity to be the leading end-to-end platform provider for our customers.

•Combination of our network of manufacturing and assembly and test facilities with our global architecture design teams. We have made significant capital and R&D investments in our integrated manufacturing network, which enables us to have more direct control over our design, development, and manufacturing processes; quality control; product cost; production timing; performance; power consumption; and manufacturing yield. We also have the scale and expertise necessary to enable deep engagement with our customers on their product needs. The increased cost of constructing new fabrication facilities to support smaller transistor geometries and larger wafers has led to a reduced number of companies that can build and equip leading-edge manufacturing facilities. Most of our competitors rely on third-party foundries, such as Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company, Ltd. or Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd., and subcontractors for manufacturing and assembly and test needs.

We also face competitive challenges associated with the development and implementation of our next-generation process technology. We announced earlier in 2018 that volume production on our 10nm process technology was being delayed from the second half of 2018 into 2019. We have made progress on improving 10nm yields during 2018, and we expect 10nm-based volume client systems on retail shelves for the 2019 holiday season. However, the delays in our transition to next-generation process technology may allow competitors to take advantage of potential improvements in performance, energy efficiency, cost and/or other features that may be offered by new process technologies developed by third-party foundries. While we believe we derive significant competitive advantages from being an integrated device manufacturer as discussed above, we are also subject to the inherent risks of next-generation process development.

INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS AND LICENSING

Intel owns and develops significant IP and related IP rights around the world that relate to our products, services, R&D, and other activities and assets. Our IP portfolio includes patents, copyrights, trade secrets, trademarks, trade dress rights, and maskwork rights. We actively seek to protect our global IP rights and to deter unauthorized use of our IP and other assets. Such efforts can be difficult, however, particularly in countries that provide less protection to IP rights and in the absence of harmonized international IP standards. For a discussion of the risks related to IP and our IP rights, please see “We are subject to IP risks and risks associated with litigation and regulatory proceedings” in “Risk Factors” within Other Key Information. While our IP rights are important to our success, our business as a whole is not significantly dependent on any single patent, copyright, or other IP right. 

We have obtained patents in the U.S. and other countries. Because of the fast pace of innovation and product development, and the comparative pace of governments’ patenting processes, our products are often obsolete before the patents related to them expire; in some cases, our products may be obsolete before the patents related to them are granted. As we expand our product offerings into new industries, we also seek to extend our patent development efforts to patent such products. In addition to developing patents based on our own R&D efforts, we may purchase or license patents from third parties. Established competitors in existing and new industries, as well as companies that purchase and enforce patents and other IP, may already have patents covering similar products. There is no assurance that we will be able to obtain patents covering our own products, or that we will be able to obtain licenses from other companies on favorable terms or at all.

The software that we distribute, including software embedded in our component-level and platform products, is entitled to copyright and other IP protection. To distinguish our products from our competitors’ products, we have obtained trademarks and trade names for our products, and we maintain cooperative advertising programs with customers to promote our brands and to identify products containing genuine Intel components. We also protect details about our processes, products, and strategies as trade secrets, keeping confidential the information that we believe provides us with a competitive advantage.

 OTHER KEY INFORMATION 48
CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES

The methods, assumptions, and estimates that we use in applying our accounting policies may require us to apply judgments regarding matters that are inherently uncertain. We consider an accounting policy to be a critical estimate if: (1) we must make assumptions that were uncertain when the judgment was made, and (2) changes in the estimate assumptions, or selection of a different estimate methodology could have a significant impact on our financial position and the results that we report in our consolidated financial statements. While we believe that our estimates, assumptions, and judgments are reasonable, they are based on information available when the estimate was made.

Refer to "Note 2: Accounting Policies" within the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on our critical accounting estimates and policies, which are as follows:

•Inventories - the transition of manufacturing costs to inventory, excluding factory excess capacity costs. Inventory reflected at the lower of cost or net realizable value considering future demand and market conditions; 

•Property, plant and equipment - the useful life determination and the related timing of when depreciation begins;

•Long-lived assets - the valuation methods and assumptions used in assessing the impairment of property, plant and equipment, identified intangibles, and goodwill, including the determination of asset groupings and the identification and allocation of goodwill to reporting units;

•Non-marketable equity investments - the valuation estimates and assessment of impairment and observable price adjustments; 

•Business combinations - the assumptions used to allocate the purchase price paid for assets acquired and liabilities assumed in connection with our acquisitions;

•Income taxes - the identification and measurement of deferred tax assets and liabilities, and estimates associated with Tax Reform; and

•Loss contingencies - the estimation of when a loss is probable and reasonably estimable.

RISK FACTORS

The following risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, cash flows, and results of operations, and the trading price of our common stock could decline. These risk factors do not identify all risks that we face; our operations could also be affected by factors that are not presently known to us or that we currently consider to be immaterial to our operations. Due to risks and uncertainties, known and unknown, our past financial results may not be a reliable indicator of future performance, and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. Refer also to the other information set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including in MD&A and our financial statements and the related notes.

CHANGES IN PRODUCT DEMAND CAN ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR FINANCIAL RESULTS.

Demand for our products is variable and hard to predict. Our products are used in different market segments, and demand for our products may vary within or among the market segments served by our PC-centric and data-centric businesses. It is difficult to forecast these changes and their impact. For example, demand for our platform products may increase in one or more market segments while decreasing in others. Changes in the demand for our products, particularly our CCG and DCG platform products, may reduce our revenue, lower our gross margin, or require us to write down the value of our assets.

Important factors that could lead to variation in the demand for our products include:

•business conditions, including downturns in the market segments in which we operate, or in the global or regional economies;

•consumer confidence or income levels, and the levels of customer capital spending, which may be impacted by changes in market conditions, including changes in government borrowing, taxation, or spending policies; the credit market; or expected inflation, employment, and energy or other commodity prices;

•our ability to timely introduce competitive products; 

•competitive and pricing pressures, including new product introductions and other actions taken by competitors;

•the level of our customers’ inventories;

•customer order patterns, including order cancellations, which may be affected by maturing product cycles, disruptions affecting customers, and other factors;

•market acceptance and industry support of our new and maturing products, including the introduction and availability of products used together with our products; and

•customer product needs and emerging technology trends, including changes in the levels and nature of customer and end-user computing workloads.

 OTHER KEY INFORMATION 49
Due to the complexity of our manufacturing operations, we may be unable to timely respond to fluctuations in demand and we may incur significant charges and costs. Because we own and operate high-tech fabrication facilities, our operations have high costs that are fixed or difficult to reduce in the short term, including our costs related to utilization of existing facilities, facility construction and equipment, R&D, and the employment and training of a highly skilled workforce. If product demand decreases or we fail to forecast demand accurately, we could be required to write off inventory or record excess capacity charges, which would lower our gross margin. If the demand decrease is prolonged, our manufacturing or assembly and test capacity could be underutilized, and we may be required to write down our long-lived assets, which would increase our expenses. We may also be required to shorten the useful lives of under-used facilities and equipment and accelerate depreciation. Conversely, if product demand increases, we may be unable to add capacity fast enough to meet market demand, which could result in a loss of revenue opportunities or market share, legal claims, and/or damage to customer relationships.

We face significant competition. The industry in which we operate is highly competitive and subject to rapid technological and market developments, changes in industry standards, changes in customer needs, and frequent product introductions and improvements. If we do not anticipate and respond to these developments, our competitive position may weaken, and our products or technologies might be uncompetitive or become obsolete. Our products primarily compete based on performance, energy efficiency, integration, ease-of-use, innovative design, features, price, quality, reliability, security features, software ecosystem and developer support, time-to-market, brand recognition, customer support and customization, and availability. The importance of these factors may vary by product—for example, if we do not continue to introduce data center platform products with performance leadership, our competitive position and market segment share in our DCG business may be adversely affected. We will not realize our strategic goal to become the leading end-to-end provider for the new data-centric era of computing if our products do not meet our customers’ needs in an increasingly competitive landscape.

We face intense competition across our product portfolio from companies offering platform products; accelerator products such as GPUs, ASICs, application-specific standard products, and FPGAs; memory and storage products; connectivity products such as cellular modems; and other semiconductor products. Some of these competitors have developed or utilize competing computing architectures for specific market segments or applications, and these architectures can produce beneficial network effects for competitors if an ecosystem of customers and application developers for such architectures grows at scale. We also compete with internally developed semiconductors from OEMs, cloud service providers, and others, including customers, and with new entrants. Introduction of competitive new products, aggressive pricing, and other actions taken by competitors could harm demand for our products and our business. Additionally, a number of business combinations and strategic partnerships in the semiconductor industry have occurred over the last several years, and more could occur in the future. Consolidation could lead to fewer customers, partners, or suppliers, any of which could negatively affect our financial results.

To compete successfully, we must maintain a successful R&D effort, develop new products and production processes, and improve our existing products and processes ahead of competitors. For example, we invest substantially in our network of manufacturing and assembly and test facilities, including the construction of new fabrication facilities to support smaller transistor geometries, and in the development of the advanced manufacturing technologies to produce such transistors. We do not expect all of our R&D investments to be successful. We may be unable to develop and market new products successfully, and the products and technologies we invest in and develop may not be well received by customers. Our R&D investments may not contribute to our future operating results for several years, if at all, and such contributions may not meet our expectations or even cover the costs of such investments. Additionally, the products and technologies offered by others may affect demand for, or pricing of, our products.

If we are not able to compete effectively, our financial results will be adversely affected, including reduced revenue and gross margin, and we may be required to accelerate the write-down of the value of certain assets.

Our investments in new businesses, products, and technologies are inherently risky and may not succeed. In recent years, in connection with our strategic transformation to a data-centric company, we have entered new areas and introduced adjacent products in programmable solutions, AI, and autonomous driving. We have also expanded our adjacent product offerings in client computing, the data center, the Internet of Things, and memory, with offerings such as modems, silicon photonics solutions, and Intel Optane technology products. As a result, we face new sources of competition, including, in certain of these market segments, from incumbent competitors with established technologies and customer bases and greater brand recognition. These developing products and market segments may require significant investment, may not grow as significantly as projected, or at all, or may utilize technologies that are different from the ones that we develop and manufacture, and we may not realize an adequate return on our investments. For example, AI and machine learning are increasingly driving innovations in technology, but if they fail to deliver the benefits anticipated, or if our customers use competing technologies for these workloads, we may not realize a return on our investments in these areas. To be successful, we need to cultivate new industry relationships with customers and partners in these market segments. In addition, we must continually improve the cost, performance, integration, and energy efficiency of our products, as well as expand our software capabilities to provide customers with comprehensive computing solutions. Despite our ongoing efforts, there is no guarantee that we will achieve or maintain market demand or acceptance for our products and services in these various market segments.

Changes in the mix of products sold may impact our financial results. Our pricing and margins vary across our products and market segments due in part to marketability of our products and differences in their features or manufacturing costs. For example, our platform product offerings range from lower-priced and entry-level platforms, such as those based on Intel Atom processors, to higher-end platforms based on Intel Xeon processors. Our adjacent products also typically have significantly lower margins than our higher-priced platform products. If demand shifts from our higher-priced to lower-priced platform products in any of our market segments, or if our adjacent products represent an increasingly greater share of our mix of products sold, our gross margin percentage may decrease.

 OTHER KEY INFORMATION 50
WE OPERATE GLOBALLY AND ARE SUBJECT TO SIGNIFICANT RISKS IN MANY JURISDICTIONS.

Global or regional conditions may harm our financial results. We have manufacturing, assembly and test, R&D, sales, and other operations in many countries, and some of our business activities may be concentrated in one or more geographic areas. Moreover, sales outside the U.S. accounted for approximately 84% of our revenue for the fiscal year ended December 29, 2018. As a result, our operations and our financial results, including our ability to manufacture, assemble and test, design, develop, or sell products, and the demand for our products, may be adversely affected by a number of global and regional factors outside of our control. 

Adverse changes in global or regional economic conditions, including recession or slowing growth, changes or uncertainty in fiscal or monetary policy, higher interest rates, tighter credit, inflation, lower capital expenditures by businesses including on IT infrastructure, increases in unemployment, and lower consumer confidence and spending, could significantly harm demand for our products and make it more challenging to forecast our operating results and make business decisions, including regarding prioritization of investments in our business. An economic downturn or increased uncertainty may also lead to increased credit and collectibility risks, higher borrowing costs or limits on our access to capital markets, reduced liquidity, adverse impacts on our suppliers, failures of counterparties and other financial institutions, and declines in the value of our financial instruments.

International trade disputes may result in increased tariffs, trade barriers, and other protectionist measures that could increase our manufacturing costs, make our products less competitive, reduce consumer demand, or impede or slow the movement of our goods across borders. Increasing protectionism and economic nationalism may lead to further changes in trade policy, domestic sourcing initiatives, or other formal and informal measures that could make it more difficult to sell our products in some markets.

We may be adversely affected by other global and regional factors, including:

•geopolitical and security issues, such as armed conflict and civil or military unrest, political instability, human rights concerns, and terrorist activity;

•natural disasters, public health issues, and other catastrophic events;

•inefficient infrastructure and other disruptions, such as supply chain interruptions and large-scale outages or unreliable provision of services from utilities, transportation, data hosting, or telecommunications providers;

•formal or informal imposition of new or revised export, import, or doing-business regulations, including trade sanctions and tariffs, which could be changed without notice;

•government restrictions on, or nationalization of our operations in any country, or restrictions on our ability to repatriate earnings from a particular country;

•differing employment practices and labor issues;

•ineffective legal protection of our IP rights in certain countries;

•local business and cultural factors that differ from our current standards and practices;

•continuing uncertainty regarding social, political, immigration, and tax and trade policies in the U.S. and abroad, including as a result of the United Kingdom's vote to withdraw from the European Union; and

•fluctuations in the market values of our domestic and international investments, which can be negatively affected by liquidity, credit deterioration or losses, interest rate changes, financial results, political risk, sovereign risk, or other factors.

We are subject to laws and regulations worldwide that may differ among jurisdictions, affecting our operations in areas including, but not limited to: IP ownership and infringement; tax; import and export requirements; anti-corruption; foreign exchange controls and cash repatriation restrictions; data privacy requirements; competition; advertising; employment; product regulations; environment, health, and safety requirements; and consumer laws. Compliance with such requirements may be onerous and expensive, and may otherwise impact our business operations negatively. For example, unfavorable developments with evolving laws and regulations worldwide related to 5G or autonomous driving technology may limit global adoption, impede our strategy, and negatively impact our long-term expectations for our investments in these areas. Although we have policies, controls, and procedures designed to help ensure compliance with applicable laws, there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors, suppliers, and/or agents will not violate such laws or our policies. Violations of these laws and regulations could result in fines; criminal sanctions against us, our officers, or our employees; prohibitions on the conduct of our business; and damage to our reputation.

We may be affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates. We are potentially exposed to adverse as well as beneficial movements in currency exchange rates. Although most of our sales occur in U.S. dollars, expenses may be paid in local currencies. An increase in the value of the dollar could increase the real cost to our customers of our products in those markets outside the U.S. where we sell in dollars, and a weakened dollar could increase the cost of expenses such as payroll, utilities, tax, and marketing expenses, as well as overseas capital expenditures. We also conduct certain investing and financing activities in local currencies. Our hedging programs may not be effective to offset any, or more than a portion, of the adverse impact of currency exchange rate movements; therefore, changes in exchange rates could harm our results of operations and financial condition.

 OTHER KEY INFORMATION 51
Catastrophic events could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial results. Our operations and business, and those of our customers and suppliers, could be disrupted by natural disasters; industrial accidents; public health issues; cybersecurity incidents; interruptions of service from utilities, transportation, telecommunications, or IT systems providers; or other catastrophic events. Our headquarters and many of our operations and facilities are in locations that are prone to earthquakes and other natural disasters. Global climate change may result in certain natural disasters occurring more frequently or with greater intensity, such as drought, wildfires, storms, sea-level rise, and flooding, and could disrupt the availability of water necessary for the operation of our fabrication facilities located in semi-arid regions. Catastrophic events could make it difficult or impossible to manufacture or deliver products to our customers, receive production materials from our suppliers, or perform critical functions, which could adversely affect our revenue and require significant recovery time and expenditures to resume operations. While we maintain business recovery plans that are intended to enable us to recover from natural disasters or other events that can be disruptive to our business, some of our systems are not fully redundant and we cannot be sure that our plans will fully protect us from all such disruptions. Furthermore, even if our operations are unaffected or recover quickly, if our customers cannot timely resume their own operations due to a catastrophic event, they may reduce or cancel their orders, which may adversely affect our results of operations.

We maintain a program of insurance coverage for a variety of property, casualty, and other risks. The types and amounts of insurance we obtain vary depending on availability, cost, and decisions with respect to risk retention. Some of our policies have large deductibles and broad exclusions. In addition, one or more of our insurance providers may be unable or unwilling to pay a claim. Losses not covered by insurance may be large, which could harm our results of operations and financial condition.

Damage to our reputation could damage our business. Our reputation is a critical factor in our relationships with customers, employees, governments, suppliers, and other stakeholders. If we fail to address, or appear to fail to address, issues that give rise to reputational risk, including those described throughout this "Risk Factors" section, we could significantly harm our reputation and our brands. Our reputation may also be damaged by how we respond to corporate crises. Corporate crises can arise from catastrophic events as well as from incidents involving unethical behavior or misconduct; product quality, security, or safety issues; allegations of legal noncompliance; internal control failures; corporate governance issues; data breaches; workplace safety incidents; environmental incidents; the use of our products for illegal or objectionable applications; marketing practices; media statements; the conduct of our suppliers or representatives; and other issues or incidents that, whether actual or perceived, result in adverse publicity. If we fail to respond quickly and effectively to address such crises, the ensuing negative public reaction could significantly harm our reputation and our brands and could lead to increases in litigation claims and asserted damages or subject us to regulatory actions or restrictions. 

Damage to our reputation could reduce demand for our products and adversely affect our business and operating environment. It could reduce investor confidence in us, adversely affecting our stock price. It may also limit our ability to be seen as an employer of choice when competing for highly skilled employees. Moreover, repairing our reputation and brands may be difficult, time-consuming, and expensive.

WE ARE VULNERABLE TO PRODUCT AND MANUFACTURING-RELATED RISKS.

We are subject to risks associated with the development and implementation of new manufacturing process technology. Production of integrated circuits is a complex process. Realizing the economics of Moore’s Law is a strategic priority, and we are continually engaged in the development of next-generation process technologies at increasingly advanced nodes. We may not be successful or efficient in developing or implementing new process nodes and production processes. Our efforts to innovate involve significant expense and carry inherent risks, including difficulties in designing and developing such next-generation process technologies, failures to realize the expected benefits of next-generation process technologies, and investments in manufacturing assets and facilities that are made years in advance of the process node introduction. 

Risks inherent in the development of next-generation process technologies include production timing delays, lower-than-anticipated manufacturing yields, and product defects and errata. For example, we announced earlier in 2018 that volume production on our 10nm process technology was being delayed from the second half of 2018 into 2019. We have made progress on improving 10nm yields during 2018, and we expect 10nm-based volume client systems on retail shelves for the 2019 holiday season. However, the delays in our transition to next-generation process technology may allow competitors to take advantage of potential improvements in performance, energy efficiency, cost and/or other features that may be offered by new process technologies developed by third-party foundries. Furthermore, without the benefit of next-generation process nodes, including additional competitive features on our products may result in larger die size products, manufacturing supply constraints and increased product costs.

Disruptions in the production process can also result from errors, defects in materials, delays in obtaining or revising operating permits and licenses, interruptions in our supply of materials or resources, and disruptions at our fabrication and assembly and test facilities due to accidents, maintenance issues, or unsafe working conditions—all of which could affect the timing of production ramps and yields. 

Production issues can lead to increased costs and may affect our ability to meet product demand, which could adversely impact our business and the results of operations. In addition, if we face delays in the timing of our product introductions, we could become less competitive and lose revenue opportunities, and our gross margin could be adversely affected because we incur significant costs up front in the product development stage and earn revenue to offset these costs over time.

 OTHER KEY INFORMATION 52
We face supply chain risks. Thousands of suppliers provide materials and equipment that we use in production and other aspects of our business. Where possible, we seek to have several sources of supply. However, for certain materials and equipment, including photolithography tools, we may rely on a single or a limited number of suppliers, or upon suppliers in a single location. In addition, supplier consolidation or business failures could impact the nature, quality, availability, and pricing of the products and services available to us. The inability of suppliers to deliver necessary production materials or equipment could disrupt our production processes and make it more difficult for us to implement our business strategy. Production could be disrupted by the unavailability of resources, such as water, silicon, electricity, gases, and other materials. The unavailability or reduced availability of materials or resources may require us to reduce production or incur additional costs, which could harm our business and results of operations. Our manufacturing operations and ability to meet product demand may also be impacted by IP or other litigation between our suppliers, where an injunction against Intel or a supplier could interrupt the availability of goods or services supplied to Intel by others.

We also rely on third-party providers to manufacture and assemble and test certain components or products. These have included components and products related to networking, communications, programmable semiconductor solutions, and memory, and may include these and other components and products in the future. If any of these third parties are unable to perform these services on a timely or cost-effective basis, in sufficient volumes, or at all, we may encounter supply delays or disruptions or incur additional costs that could adversely affect our business and financial results. For example, while we have an agreement providing for the supply of 3D XPoint memory from IMFT for a period following the close of Micron’s purchase of our interest in IMFT, we will need to fund and develop internal manufacturing options to continue 3D XPoint memory supply in the longer term.

In addition, increased regulation or stakeholder expectations regarding responsible sourcing practices could cause our compliance costs to increase or result in publicity that negatively affects our reputation. Moreover, given that we use many materials in the manufacturing of our products and rely on many suppliers to provide these materials, but do not directly control the procurement or employment practices of such suppliers, we could be subject to similar financial or reputational risks as a result of our suppliers' conduct.

We are subject to the risks of product defects, errata, or other product issues. Product defects and errata (deviations from published specifications) may result from problems in our product design or our manufacturing and assembly and test processes. Components and products we purchase or license from third-party suppliers, or attain through acquisitions, may also contain defects. We could face risks if products that we design, manufacture, or sell, or that include our technology, cause personal injury or property damage, even where the cause is unrelated to product defects or errata. These risks may increase as our products are introduced into new devices, market segments, technologies, or applications, including transportation and autonomous driving, healthcare, communications, and financial services, and other industrial, infrastructure, and consumer uses. Costs from defects, errata, or other product issues could include:

•writing off some or all of the value of inventory;

•recalling products that have been shipped;

•providing product replacements or modifications;

•reimbursing customers for certain costs they incur;

•defending against litigation and/or paying resulting damages; and

•paying fines imposed by regulatory agencies.

These costs could be large and may increase expenses and lower gross margin, and result in delay or loss of revenue. Any product defects, errata, or other issues could also damage our reputation, negatively affect product demand, delay product releases, or result in legal liability. The announcement of product defects or errata could cause customers to purchase products from competitors. Any of these occurrences could harm our business and financial results. In addition, although we maintain liability insurance, our coverage has certain exclusions and/or may not adequately cover liabilities incurred. Our insurance providers may be unable or unwilling to pay a claim, and losses not covered by insurance could be large, which could harm our financial condition.

We are subject to risks associated with environmental, health, and safety regulations. The manufacturing and assembly and test of our products require the use of hazardous materials that are subject to a broad array of environmental, health, and safety laws and regulations. Our failure to comply with these laws or regulations could result in:

•regulatory penalties, fines, and legal liabilities;

•suspension of production;

•alteration of our manufacturing and assembly and test processes;

•damage to our reputation; and

•restrictions on our operations or sales.

Our failure to manage the use, transportation, emissions, discharge, storage, recycling, or disposal of hazardous materials could lead to increased costs or future liabilities. Our ability to expand or modify our manufacturing capability in the future may be impeded by environmental regulations, such as air quality and wastewater requirements. Environmental laws and regulations could also require us to acquire additional pollution abatement or remediation equipment, modify product designs, or incur other expenses. Regulations in response to climate change could result in increased manufacturing costs associated with air pollution requirements, and increased compliance and energy costs. Many new materials that we are evaluating for use in our operations may be subject to regulation under environmental laws and regulations. These restrictions could harm our business and results of operations by increasing our expenses or requiring us to alter manufacturing and assembly and test processes.

 OTHER KEY INFORMATION 53
WE ARE SUBJECT TO CYBERSECURITY AND PRIVACY RISKS.

We face risks related to cybersecurity threats and incidents. We regularly face attempts by others to gain unauthorized access through the Internet, or to introduce malicious software, to our IT systems. Additionally, individuals or organizations, including malicious hackers, state-sponsored organizations, insider threats including employees and third-party service providers, or intruders into our physical facilities, may attempt to gain unauthorized access and corrupt the processes of hardware and software products that we manufacture and services we provide. Due to the widespread use of our products, we are a frequent target of computer hackers and organizations that intend to sabotage, take control of, or otherwise corrupt our manufacturing or other processes, products, and services. We are also a target of malicious attackers who attempt to gain access to our network or data centers or those of our customers or end users; steal proprietary information related to our business, products, employees, and customers; or interrupt our systems and services or those of our customers or others. Such attempts are increasing in number and in technical sophistication, and if successful, could expose us and the affected parties to risk of loss or misuse of proprietary or confidential information or disruptions of our business operations. Our IT infrastructure also includes products and services provided by third parties, and these providers may experience breaches of their systems and products that impact the security of our systems and our proprietary or confidential information.

From time to time, we encounter intrusions or unauthorized access to our network, products, services, or infrastructure. To date, none have resulted in any material adverse impact to our business or operations. Such incidents, whether or not successful, could result in our incurring significant costs related to, for example, rebuilding internal systems, writing down inventory value, implementing additional threat protection measures, providing modifications to our products and services, defending against litigation, responding to regulatory inquiries or actions, paying damages, providing customers with incentives to maintain the business relationship, or taking other remedial steps with respect to third parties, as well as reputational harm. In addition, these threats are constantly evolving, thereby increasing the difficulty of successfully defending against them or implementing adequate preventative measures. While we seek to detect and investigate all unauthorized attempts and attacks against our network, products, and services, and to prevent their recurrence where practicable through changes to our internal processes and tools and/or changes or updates to our products and services, we remain potentially vulnerable to additional known or unknown threats. In some instances, we, our customers, and the users of our products and services may be unaware of an incident or its magnitude and effects.

We face risks related to security vulnerabilities in our products. We or third parties regularly identify security vulnerabilities with respect to our processors and other products, as well as the operating systems and workloads running on them. As we have become a more data-centric company, our processors and other products are being used in more and different critical application areas that create new or increased cybersecurity and privacy risks, including applications that gather and process large amounts of data, such as the cloud or Internet of Things, and critical infrastructure and automotive applications. The security vulnerabilities identified in our processors include a category known as side-channel exploits, such as the variants referred to as “Spectre” and “Meltdown.” Additional categories and variants have been and may continue to be identified. Publicity about these and other security vulnerabilities and attempted or successful exploits, whether accurate or inaccurate, may result in increased attempts by third parties to identify additional vulnerabilities. Although vulnerabilities have often been discovered and mitigated in advance of being exploited, it is possible that vulnerabilities may not be mitigated before they become known. We, our customers, and the users of our products may not promptly learn of or be able to fully assess the magnitude or effects of a vulnerability, including the extent, if any, to which a vulnerability has been exploited. Subsequent events or new information could develop that changes our assessment of the impact of a security vulnerability, including additional information learned as we develop and deploy mitigations or updates, become aware of additional variants, evaluate the competitiveness of existing and new products, address future warranty or other claims or customer satisfaction considerations, as well as developments in the course of any litigation or regulatory inquiries or actions over these matters.

Mitigation techniques designed to address security vulnerabilities, including software and firmware updates or other preventative measures, may not be available on a timely basis—or at all—or may not operate as intended or effectively resolve vulnerabilities for all applications. In addition, we may be required to rely on third parties, including hardware, software, and services vendors, as well as our customers and end users, to develop and deploy mitigation techniques, and the availability, effectiveness, and performance impact of mitigation techniques may depend solely or in part on the actions of these third parties in determining whether and how to develop and deploy mitigations. We and such third parties may make prioritization decisions about which vulnerabilities to address, which could delay or limit development or deployment of a mitigation and harm our reputation. Security vulnerabilities and/or mitigation techniques may result in adverse performance effects, reboots, system instability or unavailability, loss of functionality, data loss or corruption, unpredictable system behavior, decisions by customers and end users to limit or change the applications in which they use our products or product features, or the misappropriation of data by third parties.

Security vulnerabilities and any limitations of, or adverse effects resulting from, mitigation techniques can adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, customer relationships, prospects, and reputation in a number of ways, any of which may be material. For example, whether or not they involve attempted or successful exploits, they may result in our incurring significant costs related to developing and deploying updates and mitigations, writing down inventory value, defending against product claims and litigation, responding to regulatory inquiries or actions, paying damages, addressing customer satisfaction considerations, providing product replacements or modifications, or taking other remedial steps with respect to third parties. Adverse publicity about security vulnerabilities or mitigations could damage our reputation with customers or users and reduce demand for our products and services. These effects may be greater to the extent that competing products are not susceptible to the same vulnerabilities or if vulnerabilities can be more effectively mitigated in competing products. Moreover, third parties may release information regarding potential vulnerabilities of our products before mitigations are available, which, in turn, could lead to attempted or successful exploits, adversely affect our ability to introduce mitigations, or otherwise harm our business and reputation. For example, information on the “Spectre” and “Meltdown” side-channel variants was prematurely reported publicly before mitigation techniques to address all vulnerabilities were made widely available, and certain of the mitigation techniques did not operate as intended.

 OTHER KEY INFORMATION 54
We may be subject to theft, loss, or misuse of personal data about our employees, customers, or other third parties, which could increase our expenses, damage our reputation, or result in legal or regulatory proceedings. The theft, loss, or misuse of personal data collected, used, stored, or transferred by us to run our business could result in significantly increased business and security costs or costs related to defending legal claims. Global privacy legislation, enforcement, and policy activity in this area are rapidly expanding and creating a complex regulatory compliance environment. Costs to comply with and implement these privacy-related and data protection measures could be significant, and noncompliance could expose us to significant monetary penalties, damage to our reputation, suspension of online services or sites in certain countries, and even criminal sanctions. Even our inadvertent failure to comply with federal, state, or international privacy-related or data protection laws and regulations could result in audits, regulatory inquiries, or proceedings against us by governmental entities or other third parties.

WE ARE SUBJECT TO IP RISKS AND RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH LITIGATION AND REGULATORY PROCEEDINGS.

We may be unable to enforce or protect our IP rights. We regard our patents, copyrights, trade secrets, and other IP rights as important to the success of our business. We rely on IP law—as well as confidentiality and licensing agreements with our customers, employees, technology development partners, and others—to protect our IP rights. Our ability to enforce these rights is subject to general litigation risks, as well as uncertainty as to the enforceability of our IP rights in various countries. Enforcement may be costly and time-consuming and may divert management attention. When we seek to enforce our rights, we may be subject to claims that our IP rights are invalid, not enforceable, or licensed to an opposing party. Our assertion of IP rights may result in another party seeking to assert claims against us, which could harm our business. Governments may adopt regulations—and governments or courts may render decisions—requiring compulsory licensing of IP rights, or governments may require products to meet standards that favor local companies. Our inability to enforce our IP rights under any of these circumstances may harm our competitive position and business. In addition, the theft or unauthorized use or publication of our trade secrets and other confidential business information could harm our competitive position and reduce acceptance of our products; as a result, the value of our investment in R&D, product development, and marketing could be reduced.

Our licenses with other companies and participation in industry initiatives may allow competitors to use our patent rights. Technology companies often bilaterally license patents between each other to settle disputes or as part of business agreements. Our competitors may have licenses to our patents, and under current case law, some of the licenses may exhaust our patent rights as to licensed product sales under some circumstances. Our participation in industry standards organizations or with other industry initiatives may require us to license our patents to companies that adopt industry-standard specifications. Depending on the rules of the organization, government regulations, or court decisions, we might have to grant licenses to our patents for little or no cost, and as a result, we may be unable to enforce certain patents against others, our costs of enforcing our licenses or protecting our patents may increase, and the value of our IP rights may be impaired.

Third parties may assert claims based on IP rights against us or our products, which could harm our business. We may face claims based on IP rights from individuals and companies, including claims from those who have aggregated patents acquired from multiple sources to form a new, larger portfolio to assert claims against us and other companies. Additionally, large patent portfolio owners may divest portions of their portfolios to more than one individual or company, increasing the number of parties who own IP rights previously all held by a single party. We are typically engaged in a number of disputes involving IP rights. Claims that our products or processes infringe the IP rights of others, regardless of their merits, could cause us to incur large costs to respond to, defend, and resolve the claims, and they may divert the efforts and attention of our management and technical personnel from our business and operations. In addition, we may face claims based on the alleged theft or unauthorized use or disclosure of third-party trade secrets or confidential information or end-user data that we obtain in conducting our business. Any such incidents and claims could severely disrupt our business, and we could suffer losses, including the cost of product recalls and returns, and reputational harm. Furthermore, we have agreed to indemnify customers for certain IP rights claims against them. IP rights claims against our customers could also limit demand for our products or disrupt our customers’ businesses, which could in turn adversely affect our results of operations.

As a result of IP rights claims, we could:

•pay monetary damages, including payments to satisfy indemnification obligations, or royalties;

•stop manufacturing, using, selling, offering to sell, or importing products or technology subject to claims; 

•need to develop other products or technology not subject to claims, which could be time-consuming or costly; and/or

•enter into settlement and license agreements, which agreements may not be available on commercially reasonable terms.

These IP rights claims could harm our competitive position, result in expenses, or require us to impair our assets. If we alter or stop production of affected items, our revenue could be harmed.

We rely on access to third-party IP, which may not be available to us on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Many of our products include third-party technology and/or implement industry standards, and may require licenses from third parties. Based on past experience and industry practice, we believe such licenses generally can be obtained on commercially reasonable terms. However, there is no assurance that the necessary licenses can be obtained on acceptable terms or at all. Failure to obtain the right to use third-party technology, or to license IP on commercially reasonable terms, could preclude us from selling certain products or otherwise have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and operating results.

 OTHER KEY INFORMATION 55
We are subject to risks associated with litigation and regulatory proceedings. We may face legal claims or regulatory matters involving stockholder, consumer, competition, commercial, IP, and other issues on a global basis. As described in "Note 20: Commitments and Contingencies" within the Consolidated Financial Statements, we are engaged in a number of litigation and regulatory matters. Litigation and regulatory proceedings are inherently uncertain, and adverse rulings could occur, including monetary damages, or an injunction stopping us from manufacturing or selling certain products, engaging in certain business practices, or requiring other remedies, such as compulsory licensing of patents. An unfavorable outcome may result in a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. In addition, regardless of the outcome, litigation and regulatory proceedings can be costly, time-consuming, disruptive to our operations, and distracting to management.

WE MUST ATTRACT, RETAIN, AND MOTIVATE KEY EMPLOYEES.

To be competitive, we must attract, retain, and motivate executives and other key employees. Hiring and retaining qualified executives, scientists, engineers, technical staff, and sales representatives are critical to our business, and competition for highly skilled employees in our industry can be intense. In addition, changes in immigration policies may impair our ability to recruit and hire technical and professional talent. Changes in the interpretation and application of employment-related laws to our workforce practices may also result in increased operating costs and less flexibility in how we meet our changing workforce needs. To help attract, retain, and motivate qualified employees, we use share-based awards, such as RSUs, and performance-based cash incentive awards. Our employee hiring and retention also depend on our ability to build and maintain a diverse and inclusive workplace culture and be viewed as an employer of choice. If our share-based or other compensation programs and workplace culture cease to be viewed as competitive, our ability to attract, retain, and motivate employees could be weakened, which could harm our results of operations. Furthermore, changes in our management team may disrupt our business, and the failure to successfully transition and assimilate key employees could adversely affect our results of operations.

WE ARE SUBJECT TO RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH OUR STRATEGIC TRANSACTIONS.

Our acquisitions, divestitures, and other strategic transactions could fail to achieve our financial or strategic objectives, disrupt our ongoing business, and adversely impact our results of operations. In furtherance of our business strategy, we routinely evaluate opportunities and enter into agreements for possible acquisitions, divestitures, and other strategic transactions. These transactions involve numerous risks, including:

•we may not be able to identify opportunities in a timely manner or on terms acceptable to us;

•the transaction may not advance our business strategy and its anticipated benefits may never materialize;

•we may experience disruption of our ongoing operations and our management’s attention may be diverted;

•we may fail to complete a transaction in a timely manner, if at all, due to our inability to obtain required government or other approvals, IP disputes or other litigation, difficulty in obtaining financing on terms acceptable to us, or other unforeseen factors;

•we may not realize a satisfactory return on our investment, potentially resulting in an impairment of goodwill and other assets, and restructuring charges;

•we may be unable to effectively enter new market segments through our strategic transactions or retain customers and partners of acquired businesses;

•we may be unable to retain key personnel of acquired businesses or may have difficulty integrating employees, business systems, and technology;

•controls, processes, and procedures of acquired businesses may not adequately ensure compliance with laws and regulations, and we may fail to identify compliance issues or liabilities;

•we may fail to identify, or may underestimate, commitments, liabilities, and other risks associated with acquired businesses or assets; and/or

•our acquisitions may result in dilutive issuances of our equity securities or significant additional debt.

Moreover, our resources are limited and our decision to pursue a transaction has opportunity costs; accordingly, if we pursue a particular transaction, we may need to forgo the prospect of entering into other transactions that could help us achieve our financial or strategic objectives.

Any of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, or cash flows, particularly in the case of a large acquisition or several concurrent acquisitions.

We invest in public and private companies and may not realize a return on our investments. We make investments in public and private companies around the world to further our strategic and financial objectives and to support certain key business initiatives. Companies in which we invest range from early-stage companies still defining their strategic direction to mature companies with established revenue streams and business models. Many of the instruments in which we invest are non-marketable and illiquid at the time of our initial investment, and we may not be able to achieve a return, if any, in a timely fashion. Our ability to realize a return on our investment in a private company, if any, is typically dependent on the company participating in a liquidity event, such as a public offering or acquisition. To the extent our investments are in marketable equity securities, as is typically the case for our public company investments, fluctuations in the fair value of those securities are recognized as gains or losses in our income statement, and consequently, declines in the fair value of these investments can reduce our net income. If any of the companies in which we invest are not successful, which may include failures to achieve business objectives as well as bankruptcy filings, we could recognize an impairment and/or lose all or part of our investment.

 OTHER KEY INFORMATION 56
WE ARE SUBJECT TO SALES-RELATED RISKS.

We face risks related to sales through distributors and other third parties. We sell a significant portion of our products through third parties such as distributors, value-added resellers, and channel partners (collectively referred to as distributors), as well as OEMs and ODMs. We depend on many distributors to help us create end-customer demand, provide technical support and other value-added services to customers, fill customer orders, and stock our products. We may rely on one or more key distributors for a product, and a material change in our relationship with one or more of these distributors or their failure to perform as expected could reduce our revenue. Our ability to add or replace distributors for some of our products may be limited. In addition, our distributors' expertise in the determination and stocking of acceptable inventory levels for some of our products may not be easily transferable to a new distributor; as a result, end customers may be hesitant to accept the addition or replacement of a distributor. Using third parties for distribution exposes us to many risks, including competitive pressure and concentration, credit, and compliance risks. Distributors and other third parties may sell products that compete with our products, and we may need to provide financial and other incentives to focus them on the sale of our products. They may face financial difficulties, including bankruptcy, which could harm our collection of accounts receivable and financial results. Violations of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act or similar laws by distributors or other third-party intermediaries could have a material impact on our business. Failure to manage risks related to our use of distributors and other third parties may reduce sales, increase expenses, and weaken our competitive position.

We receive a significant portion of our revenue from a limited number of customers. Collectively, our three largest customers accounted for approximately 39% of our net revenue in 2018 and 40% of our net revenue in 2017. We expect a small number of customers will continue to account for a significant portion of our revenue in the foreseeable future. Industry trends, such as the increasing shift of data center workloads to the public cloud, may increase customer concentration for certain of our data-centric businesses. If one of our key customers stops purchasing from us, materially reduces its demand for our products, or delays its orders for our products, we may experience a reduction in revenue, which could harm our results of operations and financial condition. To the extent we differentiate our products through customization to meet customer specifications, order changes, delays, or cancellations may result in non-recoverable costs. For more information about our customers, including customers who accounted for greater than 10% of our net consolidated revenue, see "Note 4: Operating Segments" within the Consolidated Financial Statements.

We face risks related to business transactions with U.S. government entities. We receive proceeds from services and products we provide to the U.S. government. U.S. government demand and payment may be affected by public sector budgetary cycles and funding authorizations. U.S. government contracts are subject to oversight, including special rules on accounting, IP rights, expenses, reviews, information handling, and security. Failure to comply with these rules could result in civil and criminal penalties and sanctions, including termination of contracts, fines, and suspensions, or debarment from future business with the U.S. government.

CHANGES IN OUR EFFECTIVE TAX RATE MAY REDUCE OUR NET INCOME.

A number of factors may increase our effective tax rates, which could reduce our net income, including: 

•changes in the volume and mix of profits earned across jurisdictions with varying tax rates;

•the resolution of issues arising from tax audits, including payment of interest and penalties;

•changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, and in deferred tax valuation allowances;

•adjustments to income taxes upon finalization of tax returns;

•increases in expenses not deductible for tax purposes, including impairments of goodwill;

•changes in available tax credits;

•changes in our ability to secure new or renew existing tax holidays and incentives;

•changes in U.S. federal, state, or foreign tax laws or their interpretation, including changes in the U.S. to the taxation of manufacturing enterprises and of non-U.S. income and expenses;

•changes in accounting standards; and

•our decision to repatriate non-U.S. earnings for which we have not previously provided for local country withholding taxes incurred upon repatriation.

WE MAY HAVE FLUCTUATIONS IN THE AMOUNT AND FREQUENCY OF OUR STOCK REPURCHASES.

We are not obligated to make repurchases under our stock repurchase program, and the amount, timing, and execution of our repurchases may fluctuate based on our priorities for the use of cash for other purposes—such as investing in our business, including operational spending, capital spending, and acquisitions, and returning cash to our stockholders as dividend payments—and because of changes in cash flows, tax laws, and the market price of our common stock.

 OTHER KEY INFORMATION 57
NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES

In addition to disclosing financial results in accordance with GAAP, this document contains references to the non-GAAP financial measures described below. We believe these non-GAAP financial measures provide investors with useful supplemental information about the financial performance of our business, enable comparison of financial results between periods where certain items may vary independent of business performance, and allow for greater transparency with respect to key metrics used by management in operating our business and measuring our performance. 

Our non-GAAP operating income and diluted earnings per share reflect adjustments for the following items, as well as the related income tax effects. Income tax effects have been calculated using an appropriate tax rate for each adjustment. We also provide a non-GAAP financial measure of free cash flow, as described below. These non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered a substitute for, or superior to, financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP, and the financial results calculated in accordance with GAAP and reconciliations from these results should be carefully evaluated. 

ACQUISITION-RELATED ADJUSTMENTS

Deferred revenue write-down: Sales to distributors are made under agreements allowing for subsequent price adjustments and returns, and prior to 2018, were deferred until the products were resold by the distributor. Business combination accounting principles require us to write down to fair value the deferred revenue assumed in our acquisitions, as we have limited performance obligations associated with this deferred revenue. Our GAAP revenue and related cost of sales for the subsequent reselling by distributors to end customers after an acquisition do not reflect the full amounts that would have been reported if the acquired deferred revenue was not written down to fair value. The non-GAAP adjustments made in Q1 2016 eliminated the effect of the deferred revenue write-down associated with our acquisition of Altera. We believe these adjustments are useful to investors as an additional means to reflect revenue and gross margin trends of our business.

Inventory valuation adjustments: Business combination accounting principles require us to measure acquired inventory at fair value. The fair value of inventory reflects the acquired company’s cost of manufacturing plus a portion of the expected profit margin. The non-GAAP adjustments to our cost of sales exclude the expected profit margin component that is recorded under business combination accounting principles associated with our acquisitions of Mobileye and Altera. We believe the adjustments are useful to investors as an additional means to reflect cost of sales and gross margin trends of our business.

Amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets: Amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets consists of amortization of intangible assets such as developed technology, brands, and customer relationships acquired in connection with business combinations. We record charges related to the amortization of these intangibles within both cost of sales and operating expenses in our GAAP financial statements. Amortization charges for our acquisition-related intangible assets are inconsistent in size and are significantly impacted by the timing and valuation of our acquisitions. Consequently, our non-GAAP adjustments exclude these charges to facilitate an evaluation of our current operating performance and comparisons to our past operating performance.

Other acquisition-related charges: Other acquisition-related charges exclude the impact of other charges associated with the acquisitions of Mobileye and Altera. These charges primarily include bankers' fees, compensation-related costs, and valuation charges for stock-based compensation incurred related to the acquisitions. We believe these adjustments are useful to investors as an additional means to reflect the spending trends of our business. 

RESTRUCTURING AND OTHER CHARGES

Restructuring charges are costs associated with a formal restructuring plan and are primarily related to employee severance and benefit arrangements. Other charges include asset impairments, pension charges, and costs associated with the ISecG divestiture. We exclude restructuring and other charges, including any adjustments to charges recorded in prior periods, for purposes of calculating certain non-GAAP measures. We believe that these costs do not reflect our current operating performance. Consequently, our non-GAAP adjustments exclude these charges to facilitate an evaluation of our current operating performance and comparisons to our past operating performance.

ONGOING MARK-TO-MARKET ON MARKETABLE EQUITY SECURITIES

We exclude gains and losses resulting from ongoing mark-to-market adjustments of our marketable equity securities, after the initial mark-to-market adjustment is recorded upon a security becoming marketable, when calculating certain non-GAAP measures, as we do not believe this volatility correlates to our core operational performance. Consequently, our non-GAAP earnings per share figures exclude these impacts to facilitate an evaluation of our current performance and comparisons to our past operating performance.

GAINS OR LOSSES FROM DIVESTITURE

We divested ISecG in Q2 2017 and Wind River in Q2 2018. We exclude gains or losses and related tax impacts resulting from divestitures when calculating certain non-GAAP measures. We believe making these adjustments facilitates a better evaluation of our current operating performance and comparisons to our past operating performance.

 OTHER KEY INFORMATION 58
TAX REFORM ADJUSTMENT

We recognized a higher income tax expense in Q4 2017 as a result of Tax Reform and have made adjustments to the original estimate in 2018. We exclude the Q4 2017 provisional tax estimate and 2018 provisional tax adjustments relating to the transition tax on our previously untaxed foreign earnings and the remeasurement of our deferred income taxes to the new U.S. statutory tax rate for purposes of calculating certain non-GAAP measures. We believe making this adjustment facilitates a better evaluation of our current operating performance and comparisons to past operating results.

FREE CASH FLOW

We reference a non-GAAP financial measure of free cash flow, which is used by management when assessing our sources of liquidity, capital resources, and quality of earnings. We believe this non-GAAP financial measure is helpful to investors in understanding our capital requirements and provides an additional means to reflect the cash flow trends of our business.

Following are the reconciliations of our most comparable GAAP measures to our non-GAAP measures presented:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

 OTHER KEY INFORMATION 59
PROPERTIES

As of December 29, 2018, our major facilities consisted of:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Our principal executive offices are located in the U.S. and approximately half of our wafer manufacturing activities in 2018 were also located in the U.S. For more information on our wafer fabrication and our assembly and test facilities, see "Manufactured Capital" within Fundamentals of Our Business.

We believe that the facilities described above are suitable and adequate for our present purposes and that the productive capacity in our facilities is being utilized or in the process of being prepared for utilization as we continue to invest capital to meet demand.

We do not identify or allocate assets by operating segment, as they are interchangeable in nature and used by multiple operating segments. For information on net property, plant and equipment by country, see "Note 7: Other Financial Statement Details" within the Consolidated Financial Statements.

MARKET FOR OUR COMMON STOCK

The principal U.S. market on which Intel’s common stock (symbol INTC) is traded is the Nasdaq Global Select Market. For dividend information, see "Financial Information by Quarter (Unaudited)" within the Consolidated Financial Statements.

As of January 26, 2019, there were approximately 116,000 registered holders of record of Intel’s common stock. A substantially greater number of holders of Intel common stock are "street name" or beneficial holders, whose shares of record are held by banks, brokers, and other financial institutions.

ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES

We have an ongoing authorization, originally approved by our Board of Directors in 2005, and subsequently amended, to repurchase shares of our common stock in open market or negotiated transactions. As of December 29, 2018, we were authorized to repurchase up to $90.0 billion, of which $17.3 billion remained available. This amount includes an increase of $15.0 billion in the authorization limit approved by our Board of Directors in November 2018. 

Common stock repurchase activity under our publicly announced stock repurchase program during each quarter of 2018 was as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Common stock repurchase activity under our stock repurchase program during Q4 2018 was as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

 OTHER KEY INFORMATION 60
We issue RSUs as part of our equity incentive plans. In our consolidated financial statements, we treat shares of common stock withheld for tax purposes on behalf of our employees in connection with the vesting of RSUs as common stock repurchases because they reduce the number of shares that would have been issued upon vesting. These withheld shares of common stock are not considered common stock repurchases under our authorized common stock repurchase plan, and accordingly are not included in the common stock repurchase totals in the preceding table. 

AVAILABILITY OF COMPANY INFORMATION

Our Internet address is www.intel.com. We publish voluntary reports on our website that outline our performance with respect to corporate responsibility, including environmental, health, and safety compliance.

We use our Investor Relations website, www.intc.com, as a routine channel for distribution of important information, including news releases, analyst presentations, financial information, corporate governance practices, and corporate responsibility information. We post our filings at www.intc.com/sec the same day they are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC, including our annual and quarterly reports on Forms 10-K and 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K; our proxy statements; and any amendments to those reports or statements. We post our quarterly and annual earnings results at www.intc.com/results.cfm, and do not distribute our financial results via a news wire service. All such postings and filings are available on our Investor Relations website free of charge. In addition, our Investor Relations website allows interested persons to sign up to automatically receive e-mail alerts when we post financial information. The SEC’s website, www.sec.gov, contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. The content on any website referred to in this Form 10-K is not incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K unless expressly noted.

 OTHER KEY INFORMATION 61
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTAL DETAILS