Item 7A.QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

We do not enter into derivative financial instruments for trading, speculation or other purposes that would expose the Company to market risk. In the normal course of business, our results of operations are exposed to risks associated with fluctuations in interest rates and currency exchange rates.

Interest Rate Risk

Please see the Note 10- Borrowings in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements beginning on Page F-1 of this Annual report on Form 10-K, which is incorporated herein by reference, for a discussion of the New Credit Agreement, Term Loan Facility and Note Purchase Agreement. 

Our Term Loan Facility, New Credit Agreement and certain other debt obligations are subject to variable rate interest which could be adversely affected by an increase in interest rates. As of September 27, 2019, we had an aggregate of $703.8 million in outstanding borrowings under our Term Loan Facility and our New Credit Agreement. Interest on amounts borrowed under these agreements is subject to adjustment based on the Company’s Consolidated Leverage Ratio (as defined in the credit agreements governing the Term Loan Facility and New Credit Agreement). Depending on the Company’s Consolidated Leverage Ratio, borrowings under the Term Loan Facility bear interest at a Eurocurrency rate plus a margin of between 1.0% and 1.5% or a base rate plus a margin of between 0% and 0.5% and borrowings under the New Credit Agreement bear interest at a Eurocurrency rate plus a margin of between 0.875% and 1.5% or a base rate plus a margin of between 0% and 0.5%. Additionally, if our consolidated leverage ratio exceeds a certain amount, the interest on the Senior Notes may increase by 75 basis points. 

For the year ended September 27, 2019, our weighted average floating rate borrowings were approximately $1.6 billion. If floating interest rates had increased by 1.00%, our interest expense for the year ended September 27, 2019 would have increased by approximately $16.6 million.

Page 61

JACOBS ENGINEERING GROUP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Foreign Currency Risk

In situations where our operations incur contract costs in currencies other than their functional currency, we attempt to have a portion of the related contract revenues denominated in the same currencies as the costs. In those situations, where revenues and costs are transacted in different currencies, we sometimes enter into foreign exchange contracts in order to limit our exposure to fluctuating foreign currencies. We follow the provisions of ASC No. 815, Derivatives and Hedging in accounting for our derivative contracts. The Company does not currently have exchange rate sensitive instruments that would have a material effect on our consolidated financial statements or results of operations.

Item 8.FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA