Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.

(Dollars in millions)

INTEREST RATE RISK

For our long-term debt of $2,685, our exposure to interest rate risk is primarily limited to changes in fair value. As our debt is primarily fixed-rate, changes in interest rates do not significantly impact our cash flows. However, changes in interest rates increase or decrease the fair value of our debt, depending on whether market rates are lower or higher than our fixed rates. In addition, our $500 term loan will mature in 2020, and if we refinance this debt, we are at risk of interest rate changes with respect to any difference between the existing interest rate and the interest rate on its replacement. As of February 2, 2019, the fair value of our long-term debt was $2,692 (see Note 8: Debt and Credit Facilities and Note 9: Fair Value Measurements in Item 8).

We are exposed to interest rate risk primarily from changes in short-term interest rates. Interest rate fluctuations can affect our interest income and interest expense. As of February 2, 2019, we had cash and cash equivalents of $957 which generate interest income at variable rates. 

FOREIGN CURRENCY EXCHANGE RISK

The majority of our revenues, expenses and capital expenditures are transacted in U.S. Dollars. Our U.S. operation periodically enters into merchandise purchase orders denominated in British Pounds or Euros. From time to time, we may use forward contracts to hedge against fluctuations in foreign currency prices. As of February 2, 2019, our outstanding forward contracts did not have a material impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements.

We have six full-line stores and six Nordstrom Rack stores in Canada. The functional currency of our Canadian operation is the Canadian Dollar. We translate assets and liabilities into U.S. Dollars using the exchange rate in effect at the balance sheet date, while we translate revenues and expenses using a weighted-average exchange rate for the period. We record these translation adjustments as a component of accumulated other comprehensive loss on the Consolidated Balance Sheets in Item 8. Our Canadian operation enters into merchandise purchase orders denominated in U.S. Dollars for some portion of its inventory. As sales in Canada are denominated in the Canadian Dollar, gross profit for our Canadian operation can be impacted by foreign currency fluctuations. 

In addition, our U.S. operation incurs certain expenditures denominated in Canadian Dollars and our Canadian operation incurs certain expenditures denominated in U.S. Dollars. This activity results in transaction gains and losses that arise from exchange rate fluctuations, which are recorded as gains or losses in the Consolidated Statements of Earnings in Item 8. As of February 2, 2019, activities associated with foreign currency exchange risk have not had a material impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements. 

34
Item 8: Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.