Item 1. Business

Overview

L3 Technologies, Inc. (L3 Technologies, Inc. and, together with our subsidiaries, referred to herein as L3) is a prime contractor in Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance (ISR) systems, aircraft sustainment (including modifications and fleet management of special mission aircraft), simulation and training, night vision and image intensification equipment, and security and detection systems. L3 is also a leading provider of a broad range of communication, electronic and sensor systems used on military, homeland security and commercial platforms. Our customers include the United States (U.S.) Department of Defense (DoD) and its prime contractors, U.S. Government intelligence agencies, the U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS), foreign governments, and domestic and foreign commercial customers.

In 2018, we embarked on a multi-year L3 3.0 transformation focused on integration, collaboration and innovation. Our goal is to leverage the best of L3’s entrepreneurial culture with the scale and capabilities of a large enterprise. By integrating our technology capabilities and engineering talent, we seek to move up the value chain to pursue larger opportunities and to become a non-traditional 6th prime (also referred to as a mission solutions prime), by bringing disruptive technology to market faster and partnering more closely with our defense and commercial customers. L3 is a federation of business units across a broad scope of products and capabilities. Historically, our business units pursued individual strategies and were responsible solely for their own operational performance, emphasizing a de-centralized or holding company model. Recently, we have increased our collaboration across segments to bundle capabilities to better serve our customers. We are now pursuing an operational and cultural transformation to centralize and integrate our businesses, emphasizing an operating company model. To that end, we began in 2018 to develop common processes and procedures across many key functional areas including business development, information technology, human resources and engineering. We seek to drive higher growth and increased efficiencies through these initiatives, leveraging new tools including L365 continuous improvement and enterprise-wide customer relationship management (CRM) system. 

L3 is a leading defense technology company. We will continue to take portfolio shaping actions to better align our business with this technology focus, including acquisitions, technology partnerships and divestitures of non-strategic assets. We will also continue to invest in talent and R&D to develop next generation capabilities.

We operate in a large and attractive core market in defense electronics, ISR and communications. We seek to extend our leadership by leveraging our strong customer relationship and differentiated technology. We expect to gain market share with innovative and affordable solutions and by building on the trust that results from many years of demonstrated past performance. Financially, our emphasis is to grow sales, operating income, earnings per share and cash flow, as well as increase operating margins. We also intend to continue to seek new and existing routes for efficiencies and cost reduction in order to streamline our organization. Although still early in our transformation, we believe our strategy will lead to faster growth, higher profitability and greater cash flow, which we intend to return to shareholders in a balanced and discipline manner.

For the year ended December 31, 2018, we generated sales of $10,244 million, operating income of $1,120 million and cash from continuing operations of $1,042 million. The table below presents a summary of our 2018 sales by major category of end customer. For a more detailed presentation of our sales by end customer, see “Major Customers” within this Business section.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

1
In the third quarter of 2018, we completed a realignment of our business segments to maximize growth and improve our integration and collaboration across the enterprise. As a result of the realignment, L3’s structure consists of the following three reportable segments: (1) ISR Systems (ISRS), (2) Communications and Networked Systems (C&NS) and (3) Electronic Systems. Financial information for our segments, including sales by geographic area, is included in “Part II — Item 7 — Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and in Note 22 to our audited consolidated financial statements.

Vertex Aerospace Divestiture: On June 29, 2018, we completed the sale of our Vertex Aerospace businesses for a sales price of $540 million subject to customary closing net working capital adjustments. In connection with the sale, we recognized: (1) a pre-tax gain from continuing operations of $42 million ($19 million after income taxes) related to the Crestview Aerospace and TCS businesses (the "Crestview & TCS Businesses") and (2) a pre-tax gain from discontinued operations of $234 million ($177 million after income taxes) related to the Vertex Aerospace business. The divestiture of the Vertex Aerospace business represents a strategic shift by us to exit the logistics solution and maintenance services business for military aircraft where we do not provide complex ISR systems integration and modification. The Vertex Aerospace business generated sales of $0.6 billion in 2018, $1.4 billion in 2017 and $1.3 billion in 2016. The assets and liabilities and results of operations of the Vertex Aerospace business are reported as discontinued operations for all periods presented. 

All references made to financial data in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are to L3’s continuing operations, unless otherwise specifically noted.

Planned Merger with Harris Corporation

On October 14, 2018, L3 and Harris Corporation (“Harris”) announced an agreement to combine in an all stock merger of equals. Under the terms of the Agreement and Plan of Merger (the “Merger Agreement”) governing the proposed transaction, which was unanimously approved by the boards of directors of both companies, L3 shareholders will receive a fixed exchange ratio of 1.30 shares of Harris common stock for each share of L3 common stock they hold. Upon completion of the merger, Harris shareholders will own approximately 54% and L3 shareholders will own approximately 46% of the combined company, which will be renamed L3 Harris Technologies, Inc. The merger is expected to close in the middle of 2019, subject to customary closing conditions, including the receipt of regulatory approvals and approval by the shareholders of both L3 and Harris. 

Business Acquisitions and Divestitures

During the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, we used net cash of $369 million, $316 million and $388 million for business acquisitions, respectively. See “Part II — Item 7 — Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Business Acquisitions and Divestitures” for additional information regarding our business acquisitions and divestitures.

Products and Services

Our three reportable segments provide a wide range of products and services to various customers and are described below. See “Part II — Item 7 — Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Results of Operations — Reportable Segment Results of Operations” and Note 22 to our audited consolidated financial statements for financial information about each segment.

2
ISRS Reportable Segment

In 2018, ISRS had net sales of $4,441 million, representing 43% of our total net sales. The businesses in this reportable segment provide products and services for the global ISR mission solutions from seabed to space and Command, Control and Communications (C3) markets, specializing in signals intelligence (SIGINT) and multi-intelligence platforms, including engineering, modernization and sustainment solutions for military and various government aircraft, ground support equipment and other platforms. These strategic and tactical products and services provide warfighters with the ability to detect, collect, identify, analyze and disseminate information from command centers, communication nodes and air defense systems for real-time situational awareness and response. Other major capabilities and mission solutions include space avionics and imaging payloads, Counter Unmanned Aircraft Systems (CUAS) mission solutions, cyber and electronic warfare, special mission command & control, modeling & simulation and life cycle support. The table below provides a summary of the segment’s sectors and the percentage that each contributed to ISRS net sales in 2018.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

ISR Systems is a systems integration organization specializing in complex ISR capabilities including fleet management support services, sensor development, modifications and periodic depot maintenance for ISR and airborne systems. These products and services are critical elements for a substantial number of major C3 and intelligence gathering systems. Key customers include DoD and classified customers within the U.S. Government, U.K. Ministry of Defence (MoD) and select foreign militaries.

Airborne Sensor Systems provides multi-spectral and multi-intelligence ISR and targeting sensor systems designed for manned and unmanned platforms for ISR military, law enforcement and government missions. Key customers include DoD, foreign ministries of defense, intelligence and security agencies and law enforcement agencies.

Warrior Sensor Systems provides multi-domain warfighter mission integration including networked augmented reality systems, advanced night vision and electro-optical technology and systems, weapon sights, integrated information systems and rangefinding systems. Key customers include DoD, federal agencies, law enforcement agencies, foreign militaries, commercial hunting and professional shooting communities.

Space & Sensor Systems provides avionics, payloads and exploitation systems for DoD, intelligence and commercial space exploration, including space launch vehicle avionics, space imaging and information systems, and tactical imaging systems. Key customers include National Aeronautics Space Administration (NASA), DoD and commercial space companies.

Aircraft Systems provides procurement, systems integration, modernization, modifications and maintenance for special mission aircraft systems. Key customers include U.S. Navy (USN), U.S. Air Force (USAF), select foreign militaries, commercial customers and aircraft Original Equipment Manufacturers (OEMs).

Military Aviation Services (MAS) is a provider of modernization and life extension maintenance upgrade and support services for military aircraft, which include structural modifications and inspections, installation of mission equipment, navigation and avionics products and interior modifications. Key customers include the Canadian Department of National Defence, USN, USAF and select foreign militaries.

Intelligence & Mission Systems provides solutions that gather and protect intelligence to deliver successful mission outcomes including cyber and electronic warfare solutions, situational awareness for border security and maritime surveillance, and the protection of the most sensitive of information with leading edge, government grade cyber security. Key customers include U.K. MoD, Australian Defence Force, other international military and security agencies and commercial customers.

3
Advanced Programs provides prime mission systems integration and sensor development for military ISR aircraft platforms and ground systems, advanced ISR and special mission capabilities, directed energy, special mission command and control, modeling & simulation, networked system of system capabilities, unmanned systems and CUAS, space situational awareness and geospatial application technology programs for cueing system software, hardware and wide-area sensor integration solutions. Key customers include USAF, U.S Special Operations Command (USSOCOM), USN and other DoD agencies.

C&NS Reportable Segment

In 2018, C&NS had net sales of $3,059 million, representing 30% of our total net sales. The businesses in this reportable segment provide network and communication systems, secure communications products, radio frequency (RF) components, satellite communication terminals and space, microwave and telemetry products. These products include secure data links that are used to connect a variety of space, airborne, ground and sea-based communication systems and are used in transmission, processing, recording, monitoring and dissemination functions of these communication systems. Other major capabilities include integrated maritime mission solutions, directed energy, lightweight unmanned undersea vehicles and naval power delivery on submarines and surface ships. The table below provides a summary of the segment’s sectors and the percentage that each contributed to C&NS net sales in 2018.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Broadband Communication Systems is focused on the development, design, manufacturing and integration of secure networked communications equipment. Offerings include airborne, space and surface data link terminals, ground stations, and transportable tactical satellite communications (SATCOM) systems used on manned aircraft, unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) and naval ships. Key customers include DoD, USSOCOM, USAF, U.S. Army and U.S. intelligence agencies.

Naval Power Systems (NPS) is a provider of maritime power and distribution solutions. Offerings include electric propulsion, conversion, distribution and protection for naval submarines, surface ships and aircraft carriers. In addition, NPS provides integrated bridge equipment including Command, Control, Communications, Computers and Navigation (C4N) systems. Key customers include the USN, the U.S. Coast Guard (USCG), U.S. Army, foreign navies and commercial ship owners.

Advanced Communications is a provider of secure communications terminals and equipment, secure network encryption products, shipboard communications systems, advance radar antennas and radomes. Offerings include secure and non-secure voice, data and video communication for office, battlefield and secure internet protocol (IP) network applications, and surveillance and radar detection. In addition, Advanced Communications provides managed communications security (COMSEC) satellite networks and integrated remote very small aperture terminals (VSAT) satellite systems. Key customers include DoD, USSOCOM, USAF, U.S. Army, U.S. intelligence agencies, USN, USCG, foreign navies and commercial customers.

Space & Power Systems is a provider of traveling wave tube amplifiers, telemetry and instrumentation systems, and low-power SATCOM products. Offerings include microwave vacuum electron devices and power modules for unmanned and manned platforms, including satellites, radar systems, communication systems, UAVs, various missile programs and commercial broadcast. Additional offerings include spacecraft telemetry tracking and control encryption as well as high data rate transmitters and tactical intelligence receivers. Key customers include DoD, foreign militaries, commercial customers and aircraft and satellite OEMs.

Maritime Sensor Systems provides integrated maritime mission solutions for surface and undersea acoustic, imaging and detection systems, including surface electro-optical/infrared systems for surface ships and submarines, dipping sonar systems, towed arrays, maritime command and control systems, undersea platforms and ranges, directed energy, cabled ocean systems, undersea warfare and anti-submarine systems, and integrated, multi-intelligence autonomous undersea vehicles. Key customers include USN, allied navies and other military customers.

4
Electronic Systems Reportable Segment

In 2018, Electronic Systems had net sales of $2,744 million, representing 27% of our total net sales. The businesses in this reportable segment provide a broad range of products and services, including components, products, subsystems, systems and related services to military and commercial customers. These products and services serve markets such as commercial and military aircraft simulation and training, cockpit avionics, airport security and precision weapons. The table below provides a summary of the segment’s sectors and the percentage that each contributed to Electronic Systems’ net sales in 2018.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Commercial Aviation Solutions (CAS) is a provider of cockpit and mission displays, airborne traffic and collision avoidance systems, terrain awareness warning systems, advanced cockpit avionics, solid state voice and flight data recorders and flight training services for both rotary and fixed wing aircraft and support and maintenance services. In addition, CAS is a leading supplier of commercial aircraft flight simulators and advanced flight simulation technologies as well as pilot training services for commercial pilots and Ab-Initio instruction. Key customers include commercial airlines, aircraft OEMs and various commercial transport, business, regional and military aircraft manufacturers.

Precision Engagement Systems (PES) is a prime and component provider of precision weapon systems including fuzing and ordinance systems, unmanned systems and radar-based sensors and systems. In addition, PES provides combat vehicle engines, transmissions and global positioning system receivers for guided projectiles and precision munitions as well as navigation systems for fire control systems. Key customers include DoD, U.S. Government and foreign militaries.

Link Training & Simulation (Link) is a leading supplier of military aircraft flight simulators and advanced flight simulation technologies. In addition, Link provides flight training services for both rotary and fixed wing aircraft and support and maintenance services. Key customers include DoD, foreign militaries and aircraft OEMs.

Security & Detection Systems (SDS) is a leading provider of integrated security solutions for airports, ports, border crossings and other critical infrastructure. Offerings include airport security screening solutions, explosive detection systems and whole body scanning systems as well as non-intrusive systems for threat and contraband detection. In addition, SDS provides automation and integration services for airports, automotive manufacturing and other industries. Key customers include the U.S. Transportation Security Administration, domestic and international airports, the U.S. Customs and Border Protection agency and international equivalents, automotive manufacturers and domestic and international port operators.

Funded Backlog and Orders

We define funded backlog as the value of funded orders received from customers, less the cumulative amount of sales recognized on such orders. We define funded orders as the value of contract awards received from the U.S. Government, for which the U.S. Government has appropriated funds, plus the value of contract awards and orders received from customers other than the U.S. Government. The table below presents our funded backlog, percentage of funded backlog at December 31, 2018 expected to be recorded as sales in 2019 and funded orders for each of our reportable segments and on a consolidated basis.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

5
Our funded backlog does not include the full potential value of our contract awards, including those pertaining to multi-year, cost-plus type contracts, which are generally funded on an annual basis. Funded backlog also excludes the potential future orders and related sales from unexercised priced contract options that may be exercised by customers under existing contracts and the potential future orders and related sales of purchase orders that we may receive in the future under indefinite quantity contracts or basic ordering agreements during the term of such agreements.

Major Customers

The table below presents a summary of our sales by end customer and the percent contributed by each to our total sales. For additional information regarding domestic and international sales, see Note 22 to our audited consolidated financial statements.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Direct sales to the end customer represented approximately 64% of our consolidated 2018 sales, and sales as a subcontractor or supplier represented the remaining 36%.

Our sales are predominantly derived from contracts with agencies of, and prime system contractors to, the U.S. Government. Various U.S. Government agencies and contracting entities exercise independent and individual purchasing decisions, subject to annual appropriations by the U.S. Congress. For the year ended December 31, 2018, our five largest contracts (revenue arrangements) generated 15% of our consolidated sales.

With respect to our sales to foreign customers, we continue to evaluate the potential effect of the United Kingdom’s (UK) planned departure from the European Union (EU) (commonly referred to as “Brexit”) on our business operations and financial results, including the impacts if the UK fails to reach an agreement with the EU on Brexit by the March 29, 2019 deadline. We anticipate that the most probable near-term effects are likely to reflect the pressure Brexit is placing on the UK government, which may influence the government’s ability to make decisions on programs of the type we perform and result in volatility in foreign currencies. Brexit may also have adverse tax effects on movement of products or sustainment activities between the UK and EU.

Competition

While we believe that we are a major provider for many of the products and services we offer to our DoD, government and commercial customers, our businesses generally encounter significant competition.

Our ability to compete for existing and new business depends on a variety of factors, including:

•the effectiveness and innovation of our technologies, systems and research and development programs;

•our ability to offer superior program performance at an affordable and competitive cost;

•historical, technical, cost and schedule performance;

•our ability to attain supplier positions on contracts;

6
•our ability to maintain an effective supplier and vendor base;

•our ability to retain our employees and hire new ones, particularly those who have U.S. Government security clearances;

•the capabilities of our facilities, equipment and personnel to undertake the business for which we compete; and

•our ability to quickly and flexibly meet customer requirements and priorities.

L3 is an aerospace and defense contractor with a broad and diverse portfolio of products and services. We have prime contractor and subcontractor positions. We supply our products and services to other prime system contractors. However, we also compete directly with other large prime system contractors for: (1) certain products, subsystems and systems, where they have vertically integrated businesses, and (2) niche areas where we are a prime contractor. We also compete with numerous other aerospace and defense contractors, which generally provide similar products, subsystems, systems or services. 

In addition, our ability to compete for select contracts may require us to team with one or more of the other prime system contractors that bid and compete for major platform programs, and our ability to team with them is often dependent upon the outcome of a competition for subcontracts they award.

Patents and Licenses

Generally, we do not believe that our patents, trademarks and licenses are material to our operations. Furthermore, most of our U.S. Government contracts generally permit us to use patents owned by other U.S. Government contractors. Similar provisions in U.S. Government contracts awarded to other companies prohibit us from preventing the use of our patents in most DoD work performed by other companies for the U.S. Government.

Raw Materials

Although we generated 70% of our 2018 sales from products and systems, our businesses are generally engaged in limited manufacturing activities and have minimal exposure to fluctuations in the supply of raw materials. For those businesses that manufacture and sell products and systems, most of the value that we provide is labor oriented, such as design, engineering, assembly and test activities. In manufacturing our products, we use our own production capabilities as well as a diverse base of third party suppliers and subcontractors. Although certain aspects of our manufacturing activities require relatively scarce raw materials, we have not experienced difficulty in our ability to procure raw materials, components, sub-assemblies and other supplies required in our manufacturing processes.

Contracts

Generally, the sales prices for our contracts are either fixed-price, cost-plus or time-and-material type. Fixed-price type contracts generally offer higher profit margin potential than cost-plus type or time-and-material type contracts due to the greater levels of risk we assume on a fixed-price type contract.

On a fixed-price type contract (revenue arrangement), we agree to perform the contractual statement of work for a predetermined sales price. Although a fixed-price type contract generally permits us to retain profits if the total actual contract costs are less than the estimated contract costs, we bear the risk that increased or unexpected costs may reduce our profit or cause us to sustain losses on the contract. Accounting for the sales on a fixed-price type contract for which progress is measured using the cost-to-cost percentage of completion method involves the preparation of estimates of: (1) transaction price and (2) total costs at completion, which is equal to the sum of the actual incurred costs to date on the contract and the estimated costs to complete the contract’s statement of work. Adjustments to original estimates for a contract’s transaction price, estimated costs at completion and estimated total profit or loss may be required as work progresses under a contract, as experience is gained, as facts and circumstances change and as new information is obtained, even though the scope of work required under the contract may not change.

On a cost-plus type contract (revenue arrangement), we are paid our allowable incurred costs plus a profit which can be fixed or variable depending on the contract’s fee arrangement up to predetermined funding levels determined by our customers. Cost-plus type contracts with award and incentive fee provisions are our primary variable contract fee arrangement. Award fees provide for a fee based on actual performance relative to contractually specified performance criteria. Incentive fees provide for a fee based on the relationship which total allowable costs bear to target cost. Award and incentive fees earned were not material to our results of operations for 2018, 2017 and 2016.

7
On a time-and-material type contract (revenue arrangement), we are paid on the basis of direct labor hours expended at specified fixed-price hourly rates (that include wages, overhead, allowable general and administrative expenses and profit) and materials at cost. Therefore, on cost-plus type and time-and-material type contracts, we do not bear the risks of unexpected cost overruns, provided that we do not incur costs that exceed the predetermined funded amounts.

Substantially all of our cost-plus type contracts and time-and-material type contracts are with U.S. Government customers, while sales to foreign government and commercial customers are generally transacted under fixed-price sales arrangements and are included in our fixed-price contract type sales. The table below presents the percentage of our total sales generated from each contract type.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

__________________[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

For additional information on total net sales disaggregated by contract type, see Note 22 to our audited consolidated financial statements.

Regulatory Environment

Most of our revenue arrangements with agencies of the U.S. Government, including the DoD, are subject to unique procurement and administrative rules. These rules are based on both laws and regulations, including the U.S. Federal Acquisition Regulation, that: (1) impose various profit and cost controls, (2) regulate the allocations of costs, both direct and indirect, to contracts and (3) provide for the non-reimbursement of unallowable costs. Unallowable costs include, but are not limited to, lobbying expenses, interest expenses and certain costs related to business acquisitions, including, for example, the incremental depreciation and amortization expenses arising from fair value increases to the historical carrying values of acquired assets. Our contract administration and cost accounting policies and practices are also subject to oversight by government inspectors, technical specialists and auditors. See “Part I — Item 1A — Risk Factors” for a discussion of certain additional business risks specific to our government contracts.

Our U.S. Government contracts are subject to extensive legal and regulatory requirements and, from time to time, agencies of the U.S. Government investigate whether our operations are being conducted in accordance with these requirements. Investigations could result in administrative, civil or criminal liabilities, including repayments, disallowance of certain costs, or fines and penalties. As is common in the U.S. defense industry, we are subject to business risks, including changes in the U.S. Government’s procurement policies (such as greater emphasis on competitive procurement), governmental appropriations, national defense policies or regulations, service modernization plans and availability of funds. A reduction in expenditures by the U.S. Government for products and services of the type we manufacture and provide, lower margins resulting from increasingly competitive procurement policies, a reduction in the volume of contracts or subcontracts awarded to us or the incurrence of substantial contract cost overruns could materially adversely affect our business.

In 2018, sales under foreign military sales (FMS) agreements, which are included in the international (foreign governments) category in the “Major Customers” table within this Business section, were $299 million, or 3% of our total consolidated sales. FMS agreements are made directly between the U.S. Government and foreign governments. In such cases, because we serve only as the supplier, we do not have unilateral control over the terms of the agreements. Certain of our sales are direct commercial sales to foreign governments. These sales are subject to U.S. Government approval and licensing under the Arms Export Control Act. Legal restrictions on sales of sensitive U.S. technology also limit the extent to which we can sell our products to foreign governments or private parties.

All of our U.S. Government contracts can be terminated by the U.S. Government either for its convenience or if we default by failing to perform under the contract. Termination for convenience provisions provide only for our recovery of costs incurred or committed settlement expenses and profit on the work completed prior to termination. Termination for default provisions provide 

8
for the contractor to be liable for excess costs incurred by the U.S. Government in procuring undelivered items from another source. Our contracts with foreign governments generally contain similar provisions relating to termination at the convenience of the customer.

Environmental Matters

Our operations are subject to various environmental laws and regulations relating to the discharge, storage, treatment, handling, disposal and remediation of certain materials, substances and wastes used in our operations. We continually assess our obligations and compliance with respect to these requirements.

We have also assessed the risk of environmental contamination for our various manufacturing facilities, including our acquired businesses and, where appropriate, have obtained indemnification, either from the sellers of those acquired businesses or through pollution liability insurance. We believe that our current operations are in substantial compliance with all existing applicable environmental laws and permits. We believe our current expenditures will allow us to continue to be in compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations. While it is difficult to determine the timing and ultimate cost to be incurred in order to comply with these laws, based upon available internal and external assessments, with respect to those environmental loss contingencies of which we are aware, we believe there are no environmental loss contingencies that, individually or in the aggregate, would be material to our consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash flows.

Employees

At December 31, 2018, we employed approximately 31,000 full-time and part-time employees (excluding employees of discontinued operations), 79% of whom were located in the United States. Of these employees, approximately 10% are covered by approximately 36 separate collective bargaining agreements with various labor unions. The success of our business is, to a large extent, dependent upon the knowledge of our employees and on the management, contracting, engineering and technical skills of our employees. In addition, our ability to grow our businesses, obtain additional orders for our products and services and to satisfy contractual obligations under certain of our existing revenue arrangements is largely dependent upon our ability to attract and retain employees who have U.S. Government security clearances, particularly those with clearances of top-secret and above. Historically, we have renegotiated labor agreements without significant disruptions to operating activities, and we believe that relations with our employees are positive.

Available Information

We are subject to the informational requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and, in accordance therewith, file reports, including annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission the (“SEC”). Such material may also be accessed electronically by means of the SEC’s home page on the Internet at http://www.sec.gov.

You may also obtain a free copy of our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and proxy statement for the annual shareholders’ meeting, as well as any amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after electronic filing with the SEC through our website on the Internet at http://www.L3T.com.

We also have a Corporate Governance webpage. You can access our Corporate Governance Guidelines and charters for the audit and ethics, compensation and nominating and governance committees of our Board of Directors through our website, http://www.L3T.com, by clicking on the “Corporate Governance” link under the heading “Investor Relations.” You can access our Code of Ethics and Business Conduct by clicking on the “Code of Ethics and Business Conduct” link under the heading “Code of Ethics.” Our Code of Ethics and Business Conduct applies to all directors, officers and employees, including our chairman, chief executive officer and president, our senior vice president and chief financial officer and our vice president, controller and principal accounting officer. We will post any amendments to the Code of Ethics and Business Conduct, and any waivers that are required to be disclosed by the rules of either the SEC or the New York Stock Exchange, Inc. (NYSE), on our website within the required periods. The information on or accessible through our website is not incorporated by reference into this report.

To learn more about L3, please visit our website at http://www.L3T.com. From time to time, we use our website as a channel of distribution of material company information. Financial and other material information regarding L3 is routinely posted on our website and is readily accessible.

9
Item 1A. Risk Factors