Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Overview and Outlook

L3’s Business

L3 is a prime contractor in Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance (ISR) systems, aircraft sustainment (including modifications and fleet management of special mission aircraft), simulation and training, night vision and image intensification equipment, and security and detection systems. L3 is also a leading provider of a broad range of communication, electronic and sensor systems used on military, homeland security and commercial platforms. Our customers include the United States (U.S.) Department of Defense (DoD) and its prime contractors, U.S. Government intelligence agencies, the U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS), foreign governments, and domestic and foreign commercial customers.

In the third quarter of 2018, we completed a realignment of our business segments to maximize growth and improve our integration and collaboration across the enterprise. As a result of the realignment, L3’s structure consists of the following three reportable segments: (1) ISR Systems (ISRS), (2) Communications and Networked Systems (C&NS) and (3) Electronic Systems. Financial information for our segments is included in Note 22 to our audited consolidated financial statements.

ISRS provides products and services for the global ISR and Command, Control and Communications (C3) markets, specializing in ISR mission solutions from seabed to space, signals intelligence (SIGINT) and multi-intelligence platforms, including engineering, modernization and sustainment solutions for military and various government aircraft, ground support equipment and other platforms. These strategic and tactical products and services provide warfighters with the ability to detect, collect, identify, analyze and disseminate information from command centers, communication nodes and air defense systems for real-time situational awareness and response. Other major capabilities and mission solutions include space avionics and imaging payloads, Counter Unmanned Aircraft Systems mission solutions, cyber and electronic warfare, special mission command & control, modeling & simulation and life cycle support. ISRS sells these products and services primarily to the DoD and select foreign governments. The ISRS sectors are ISR Systems, Airborne Sensor Systems, Warrior Sensor Systems, Space & Sensor Systems, Aircraft Systems, MAS, Intelligence & Mission Systems and Advanced Programs. 

C&NS provides network and communication systems, secure communications products, radio frequency (RF) components, satellite communication terminals and space, microwave and telemetry products. These products include secure data links that are used to connect a variety of space, airborne, ground and sea-based communication systems and are used in transmission, processing, recording, monitoring and dissemination functions of these communication systems. Other major capabilities include integrated maritime mission solutions, directed energy, lightweight unmanned undersea vehicles and naval power delivery on submarines and surface ships. C&NS sells these products and services primarily to the DoD and select foreign governments. The C&NS sectors are Broadband Communication Systems, Naval Power Systems, Advanced Communications, Space & Power Systems and Maritime Sensor Systems. 

23
Electronic Systems provides a broad range of products and services, including components, products, subsystems, systems and related services to military and commercial customers. These products and services serve markets, such as commercial and military aircraft simulation and training, cockpit avionics, airport security and precision weapons. Electronic Systems sells these products and services primarily to the DoD and select foreign governments. The Electronic Systems sectors are Commercial Aviation Solutions, Precision Engagement Systems, Link Training & Simulation and Security & Detection Systems. 

We adopted Accounting Standards Update (ASU) 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (commonly known as ASC 606), effective January 1, 2018 using the modified retrospective transition method. In accordance with the modified retrospective transition method, the year ended December 31, 2018 is presented under ASC 606, while the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 are presented under ASC 605, Revenue Recognition, the accounting standard in effect for periods ending prior to January 1, 2018. The cumulative effect of the change in accounting for periods prior to January 1, 2018 was recognized through retained earnings at the date of adoption.

Vertex Aerospace Divestiture: On June 29, 2018, we completed the sale of our Vertex Aerospace businesses for a sales price of $540 million subject to customary closing net working capital adjustments. In connection with the sale, we recognized: (1) a pre-tax gain from continuing operations of $42 million ($19 million after income taxes) related to the Crestview Aerospace and TCS businesses (the "Crestview & TCS Businesses") and (2) a pre-tax gain from discontinued operations of $234 million ($177 million after income taxes) related to the Vertex Aerospace business. The divestiture of the Vertex Aerospace business represents a strategic shift by us to exit the logistics solution and maintenance services business for military aircraft where we do not provide complex ISR systems integration and modification. The Vertex Aerospace business generated sales of $0.6 billion in 2018, $1.4 billion in 2017 and $1.3 billion in 2016. The assets and liabilities and results of operations of the Vertex Aerospace business are reported as discontinued operations for all periods presented. 

All references made to financial data in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are to L3’s continuing operations, unless specifically noted.

We generated sales of $10,244 million and $9,573 million for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively, and our primary customer was the DoD. See “Part I — Item 1 — Business — Major Customers” for additional information regarding a summary of our sales by end customer and the percent contributed by each to our total sales.

Most of our contracts (revenue arrangements) with the U.S. Government are subject to U.S. Defense Contract Audit Agency audits and various cost and pricing regulations and include standard provisions for termination for the convenience of the U.S. Government. Multiyear U.S. Government contracts and related orders are subject to cancellation if funds for contract performance for any subsequent year become unavailable. Foreign government contracts generally include comparable provisions relating to termination for the convenience of the relevant foreign government.

Planned Merger with Harris Corporation

On October 14, 2018, L3 and Harris Corporation (“Harris”) announced an agreement to combine in an all stock merger of equals. Under the terms of the Agreement and Plan of Merger (the “Merger Agreement”) governing the proposed transaction, which was unanimously approved by the boards of directors of both companies, L3 shareholders will receive a fixed exchange ratio of 1.30 shares of Harris common stock for each share of L3 common stock they hold. Upon completion of the merger, Harris shareholders will own approximately 54% and L3 shareholders will own approximately 46% of the combined company, which will be renamed L3 Harris Technologies, Inc. The merger is expected to close in the middle of 2019, subject to customary closing conditions, including the receipt of regulatory approvals and approval by the shareholders of both L3 and Harris. 

Business Environment

U.S. Government Markets. Sales to U.S. Government customers represented 70% of our 2018 sales and were primarily to DoD customers, which comprised 66% of our sales. Therefore, our annual sales are generally highly correlated to changes in U.S. Government spending levels, especially DoD budget levels.

The total DoD budget for FY 2017 was $606 billion ($523 billion base budget, $83 billion Overseas Contingency Operations (OCO)), an increase of 4% compared to the appropriated FY 2016 DoD budget. 

Because the FY 2018 DoD Appropriations bill was not enacted into law prior to start of fiscal year 2018 (October 1, 2017), the DoD’s FY 2018 funding was addressed through a series of Continuing Resolutions (CR). However, on February 9, 2018, President Trump signed into law the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2018 (BBA), a bipartisan two-year budget and debt ceiling agreement that provides a level of stability in the U.S. Government budget process over the next two fiscal years (FYs 2018 and 

24
2019). The BBA included a short-term CR extension to March 23, 2018, to allow for completion of the FY 2018 appropriations process (including enactment of the FY 2018 DoD Appropriations bill). On March 23, 2018, Congress passed, and President Trump signed into law, the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2018 (2018 Appropriations Act), a $1.3 trillion spending package that funded the government through September 30, 2018. The 2018 Appropriations Act included $665 billion for the DoD ($599 billion base budget, $66 billion OCO). While 2018 BBA raised the spending caps for FY 2018 and FY 2019 previously constrained by the Budget Control Act of 2011 (BCA) and temporarily suspended the statutory debt ceiling through March 1, 2019, it did not modify the BCA’s spending caps or sequestration mechanism beyond FY 2019. 

On February 12, 2018, the Trump Administration submitted its FY 2019 DoD budget request to Congress, totaling $686 billion ($617 billion base budget, $69 billion OCO funding) and representing an increase of 3% compared to FY 2018 enacted levels. On May 24, 2018, the House passed its version of the FY 2019 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA), and on June 18, 2018, the Senate passed its version of the FY19 NDAA. Both the House and Senate versions of the FY19 NDAA authorized a base DoD budget of $617 billion and $69 billion in OCO funding, consistent with the President’s FY 2019 budget request. The final versions of the FY19 NDAA were passed by the House and Senate on July 26 and August 1, 2018, respectively, and President Trump signed it into law on August 13, 2018. 

On June 28, 2018, the House passed its version of the Fiscal Year 2019 Defense Appropriations Bill, providing $674.4 billion for the Department of Defense and the Intelligence Community - funding levels aligned to those authorized in the NDAA. On August 23, 2018, the Senate passed its version of the Fiscal Year 2019 Defense Appropriations Bill, consistent with the total funding level included in the House’s version. On September 13, 2018, House and Senate conferees announced a final conference agreement on the Fiscal Year 2019 Defense Appropriations Bill, and on September 28, 2018, the President signed the conference agreement into law. The enactment of the annual Defense Appropriations bill prior to the beginning of the fiscal year had not occurred in over a decade. 

The table below presents the FY 2012 through FY 2019 DoD enacted budgets and the FY 2019 DoD Future Years Defense Plan (FYDP), as proposed within the FY 2019 DoD Budget Request. Although the budgets below are presented through FY 2023, they are subject to change each year.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

__________________

Source: United States Department of Defense FY 2019 Budget Request.

While the BBA and the Fiscal Year 2019 Defense Appropriations Bill provide a level of stability, future DoD budgets and spending levels are determined by a number of factors beyond our control, including changes to U.S. procurement policies, current and future domestic and international budget conditions, presidential administration priorities and changing national security and defense requirements. Furthermore, the U.S. Government’s overall fiscal challenges remain, including uncertainties regarding BCA sequestration cuts after FY 2019, and, therefore, future DoD budgets and spending levels are difficult to predict. Although uncertainty exists, we believe that L3 will benefit from several of the DoD’s focus areas such as ISR, unmanned systems, undersea warfare, precision strike, secure communications, missile defense and space programs, electronic warfare, aircraft readiness and the ability to project power in denied environments. For more information on the risks and uncertainties related to our U.S. Government contracts, see “Part I — Item 1A — Risk Factors” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

25
International and Commercial Markets. Sales to end customers other than the U.S. Government represented 30% of our 2018 sales. We expect sales to international and commercial customers to represent approximately 30% of our consolidated 2019 sales. These sales are generally affected by global economic conditions, geopolitical and security conditions and commodity prices, as well as our competitive success in winning new business and increasing our market share. We believe that L3 will benefit from a large addressable international market with sales directly to foreign allied governments and under foreign military sales agreements between the U.S. Government and foreign governments. Although our international sales are experiencing near-term softness, we believe the focus of our international markets in areas such as ISR, simulators, communication systems, night vision products and sensors systems will benefit L3 in the long term. We also believe that the commercial markets in which we participate such as aviation products, security and screening, simulation and training, and RF microwave and power have long-term favorable fundamentals.

Key Performance Measures

The primary financial performance measures that we use to manage our businesses and monitor results of operations are (i) sales, (ii) operating income and (iii) net cash from operating activities (Operating Cash Flow). Management believes that these financial performance measures are the primary growth drivers for our earnings per share. Generally, in evaluating our businesses and contract performance, we focus on net sales, operating income, operating margin, which we define as operating income as a percentage of sales, and the financial performance measure of Operating Cash Flow, and not the type or amount of operating costs.

One of our primary business objectives is to increase sales organically and through select business acquisitions. We define organic sales as net sales excluding the sales impact of acquisitions and divestitures. Sales declines related to business divestitures are sales from divestitures that are included in our actual results for a twelve-month period prior to the divestitures. Sales increases related to acquired businesses are sales from acquisitions that are included in our actual results for less than a twelve-month period. We expect to supplement, strengthen and enhance our existing businesses by selectively acquiring businesses that: (1) add important new technologies and products, (2) provide access to select customers, programs and contracts and (3) provide attractive returns on investment. Another important financial performance measure that we use is operating margin, because sales growth combined with operating margin levels determine our operating income levels. Operating Cash Flow is also an important financial performance measure because Operating Cash Flow measures our ability to convert operating income into cash after paying income taxes and interest expenses and investing in working capital.

Sales Trends. For the year ended December 31, 2018, consolidated net sales of $10,244 million increased by 7%, compared to the year ended December 31, 2017. Organic sales increased $635 million, or 7%, to $10,138 million, and net sales from business acquisitions was $106 million, or 1%. These increases were partially offset by divestitures of $70 million, or 1%. Our average annual sales increased for the five years ended December 31, 2018 by approximately 1% primarily due to an increase in average annual organic sales of approximately 1%. See “Results of Operations,” including segment results below for a further discussion of sales.

We derived approximately 66% of our 2018 sales from DoD customers; as a result, our sales are highly correlated to DoD budget levels. DoD budgets are a function of several factors and uncertainties beyond our control, including, but not limited to, changes in U.S. procurement policies, budget considerations, current and future economic conditions, presidential administration priorities, U.S. military engagements, changing national security and defense requirements, geo-political developments, actual fiscal year congressional appropriations for defense budgets, and sequestration and other DoD budget reductions. Any of these factors could result in a significant increase, decrease or redirection of DoD budgets and impact L3’s future results of operations, including our sales and operating income growth rates. Additionally, L3’s future results of operations will be affected by our ability to retain our existing business, including our revenue arrangements with DoD customers, and to successfully re-compete for existing business and compete for new business, which largely depends on: (1) our successful performance on existing contracts, (2) the effectiveness and innovation of our technologies and research and development activities, (3) our ability to offer better program performance than our competitors at an affordable cost and (4) our ability to retain our employees and hire new ones, particularly those employees who have U.S. Government security clearances and those with clearances of top-secret and above. We expect our 2019 consolidated and organic sales to increase by approximately 5% compared to 2018. We expect organic sales to the DoD and U.S. Government to increase by approximately 4% and organic international sales to increase by approximately 1%. We expect organic commercial sales to increase by approximately 10% primarily for commercial aviation products.

Operating Income and Margin Trends. For the year ended December 31, 2018, our consolidated operating income was $1,120 million, and our consolidated operating margin was 10.9%. Our consolidated operating income and consolidated operating margin for the year ended December 31, 2018 were impacted by the gain on sale of the Crestview & TCS Businesses of $42 million and merger and acquisition related expenses of $28 million. The gain on sale of the Crestview & TCS Businesses and merger and acquisition related expenses are excluded from segment operating income because they are excluded by management for purposes 

26
of evaluating the operating performance of our business segments. Our segment operating income was $1,106 million for the year ended December 31, 2018, an increase of 7% from $1,031 million for the year ended December 31, 2017, and our segment operating income as a percentage of sales (segment operating margin) was 10.8% for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017. See “Results of Operations”, including segment results below, for a further discussion of operating margin. In addition, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of sales was 15.6% for the year ended December 31, 2018, compared to 15.9% for the year ended December 31, 2017.

Our effective management of labor, material, subcontractor and other direct costs is an important element of cost control and favorable contract performance. We believe that proactively re-sizing our businesses to their anticipated sales, combined with continuous cost improvement, will enable us to increase our cost competitiveness. While we continue to undertake cost management actions, such as reducing our indirect costs, curtailing pension benefits for salaried employees, resizing select business units and improving our productivity and contract performance in an effort to maintain or increase operating margin, these efforts may not be successful and may be partially or fully offset by other cost increases. Furthermore, as a U.S. Government contractor, we do not retain the benefit of all cost management actions, particularly on cost-plus type contracts or on contracts where we are the sole-source provider. Although we expect our 2019 annual consolidated and segment operating margin to increase as compared to 2018, changes in the competitive environment and DoD procurement practices and changes in annual pension expense, including related assumptions such as the benefit obligation discount rates, among other factors, could result in lower operating margin. Furthermore, select business acquisitions and new business, including contract renewals and new contracts, could have lower future operating margins compared to our operating margins on existing contracts, and could reduce future operating margins.

Operating Cash Flow Trends. We generated $1,042 million of Operating Cash Flow during the year ended December 31, 2018, an increase of $57 million compared with $985 million generated during the year ended December 31, 2017. The increase in Operating Cash Flow was primarily due to higher operating income partially offset by higher working capital requirements, primarily contract assets and milestone payments for aircraft procurements related to U.S. and foreign government contracts.

Discontinued Operations

Vertex Aerospace. On June 29, 2018, we completed the sale of our Vertex Aerospace businesses for a sales price of $540 million subject to customary closing net working capital adjustments. In connection with the sale, we recognized: (1) a pre-tax gain from continuing operations of $42 million ($19 million after income taxes) related to the Crestview & TCS Businesses and (2) a pre-tax gain from discontinued operations of $234 million ($177 million after income taxes) related to the Vertex Aerospace business. The divestiture of the Vertex Aerospace business represents a strategic shift by us to exit the logistics solution and maintenance services business for military aircraft where we do not provide complex ISR systems integration and modification. The Vertex Aerospace business generated sales of $0.6 billion in 2018, $1.4 billion in 2017 and $1.3 billion in 2016. The assets and liabilities and results of operations of the Vertex Aerospace business are reported as discontinued operations for all periods presented.

National Security Solutions (NSS). On February 1, 2016, we completed the sale of our NSS segment to CACI International Inc. for a sales price of $547 million.

See Note 3 to our audited consolidated financial statements for additional information.

27
The table below presents the statements of operations data for Vertex Aerospace and NSS. The amounts presented in discontinued operations include allocated interest expenses for debt not directly attributable or related to L3’s other operations. Interest expense was allocated in accordance with the accounting standards for discontinued operations and were based on the ratio of their net assets to the sum of: (1) total L3 consolidated net assets and (2) L3 consolidated total debt.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

__________________

(1) Due to a decline in estimated fair value, we recorded a goodwill impairment charge of $187 million during 2017 related to Vertex Aerospace. 

Business Acquisitions and Divestitures

As discussed above, one aspect of our strategy is to selectively acquire businesses that add new products and technologies or provide access to select customers, programs and contracts. We intend to continue acquiring select businesses for reasonable valuations that will provide attractive returns to L3. Our business acquisitions, depending on their contract-type, sales mix or other factors, could reduce L3’s consolidated operating margin while still increasing L3’s operating income, earnings per share and net cash from operating activities. In addition, we may also dispose of certain businesses if we determine that they no longer fit into L3’s overall business strategy and we are able to receive an attractive price.

Acquisitions. We regularly evaluate potential business acquisitions. The table below summarizes the acquisitions that we completed during the years ended December 31, 2016, 2017 and 2018, referred to herein as business acquisitions. See Note 3 to our audited consolidated financial statements for further information regarding our business acquisitions. During the year ended December 31, 2018, we used net cash of $369 million for business acquisitions.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

28
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

__________________

(1) The purchase price represents the contractual consideration for the acquired business, excluding adjustments for net cash acquired and acquisition transaction costs.

(2) Excludes additional purchase price, not to exceed £30 million (approximately $38 million), which is contingent upon the post-acquisition financial performance of MacH for the three-year period ending December 31, 2019.

(3) Excludes additional purchase price, not to exceed $17 million, which is contingent upon Open Water Power achieving certain post-acquisition milestones for the four-year period ending December 31, 2021.

(4) Excludes additional purchase price, not to exceed $20 million, $15 million of which is based on Latitude Engineering’s post-acquisition financial performance for the four-year period ending December 31, 2021, and the remaining $5 million of which is based on Latitude Engineering achieving certain post-acquisition milestones through December 31, 2020. 

(5) The purchase price net of cash acquired of approximately $1 million was $52 million.

(6) The purchase price net of cash acquired of approximately $15 million was $185 million and excludes additional purchase price, not to exceed AUD $43 million (approximately $31 million), payable in L3 common stock, based on the combined company’s post-acquisition sales for each of the 12-month periods ending June 30, 2019, 2020 and 2021. 

(7) The purchase price net of cash acquired of £4 million (approximately $5 million) was £14 million (approximately $19 million).

(8) The purchase price net of cash acquired of approximately $1 million was $93 million.

All of our business acquisitions are included in our consolidated results of operations from their dates of acquisition.

Divestitures. We regularly evaluate potential business divestitures. Summarized below are the divestitures that we have completed during the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016. See Note 3 to our audited consolidated financial statements for further information regarding our business divestitures.

2018 Divestitures

As discussed in Note 1 to our audited consolidated financial statements, on June 29, 2018, we completed the sale of our Crestview & TCS Businesses. The assets and liabilities of the Crestview & TCS Businesses were classified as held for sale in our audited consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2017. The Crestview & TCS Businesses, which were within our ISRS segment, primarily provided aircraft fabrication and assembly of fixed and rotary wing aero structures as well as avionics hardware and software systems to address mission critical needs. The table below presents Crestview & TCS Businesses’ results of operations and is included in continuing operations. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

29
Crestview & TCS Businesses. The major classes of assets and liabilities included as held for sale related to the Crestview & TCS Businesses are presented in the table below. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Vertex Aerospace. On June 29, 2018, we completed the sale of our Vertex Aerospace business. See "Discontinued Operations" above for further discussion of the divestiture and impact on our audited consolidated statements of operations. 

2017 Divestitures

During the year ended December 31, 2017, we completed the sales of the CTC Aviation Jet Services Limited (Aviation Jet Services) business, the L3 Coleman Aerospace (Coleman) business and the Display Product Line. The table below presents pre-tax (loss) gain recognized, the proceeds received and net sales included in continuing operations from these divestitures.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Aviation Jet Services Divestiture. On March 1, 2017, we divested our Aviation Jet Services business for a sales price of £1 million (approximately $1 million). Aviation Jet Services provided non-core aircraft management and operational services as part of commercial training solutions based in the United Kingdom and was included in the Electronic Systems segment.

Coleman Divestiture. On February 24, 2017, we divested our Coleman business for a sales price of $15 million. Coleman provided air-launch ballistic missile targets and was included in the Electronic Systems segment.

Display Product Line Divestiture. On February 23, 2017, we divested our Display Product Line for a sales price of $7 million. The Display Product Line provided cockpits to various military aircraft and was included in the Electronic Systems segment.

30
2016 Divestitures

NSS. On February 1, 2016, we completed the sale of our NSS segment to CACI International Inc. for a sales price of $547 million.

Critical Accounting Policies

Our significant accounting policies are described in Note 2 to our audited consolidated financial statements. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (U.S. GAAP) requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of sales and cost of sales during the reporting period. The most significant of these estimates and assumptions relate to sales, profit and loss recognition for performance obligations satisfied over time, fair values of assets acquired and liabilities assumed in business combinations and investments, market values for inventories reported at lower of cost or market, pension and post-retirement benefit obligations, stock-based employee compensation expense, income taxes, including the valuations of deferred tax assets, litigation reserves, useful lives and valuation of recorded amounts of long-lived assets, identifiable intangible assets and goodwill. Changes in estimates are reflected in the periods during which they become known. Actual amounts may differ from these estimates and could differ materially. We believe that our critical accounting estimates have the following attributes: (1) we are required to make assumptions about matters that are uncertain and require judgment at the time of the estimate, (2) use of reasonably different assumptions could have changed our estimates, particularly with respect to estimates of contract transaction price and total costs at completion, and recoverability of assets, and (3) changes in the estimate could have a material effect on our financial condition or results of operations. We believe the following critical accounting policies contain the more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our financial statements.

Revenue Recognition. Effective January 1, 2018, we adopted ASU 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, as amended (commonly referred to as ASC 606), using the modified retrospective transition method. The cumulative effect of applying the standard was an increase of $13 million to shareholders' equity as of January 1, 2018. Our statement of operations for the year ended December 31, 2018 and our balance sheet as of December 31, 2018 are presented under ASC 606, while our statements of operations for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 and our balance sheet as of December 31, 2017 are presented under ASC 605, Revenue Recognition. See Note 2 to our audited consolidated financial statements for disclosure of the impact of the adoption of ASC 606 on our statement of operations for the year ended December 31, 2018 and balance sheet as of December 31, 2018 and the effect of changes made to our consolidated balance sheet as of January 1, 2018.

A substantial majority of our consolidated net sales are generated from long-term contracts with customers that require us to design, develop, manufacture, modify, upgrade, test and integrate complex aerospace and electronic equipment and to provide engineering and technical services according to the customers’ specifications. These contracts are primarily with agencies of, and prime system contractors to, the U.S. Government and foreign governments and are generally priced on a fixed-price, cost-plus or time-and-material type basis. Substantially all of our cost-plus and time-and-material type contracts are with the U.S. Government, primarily the DoD. Certain of our contracts with the U.S. Government are multi-year contracts incrementally funded by the customer. The transaction price for these incrementally funded contracts includes contract value amounts not yet funded by the U.S. Government when we have a firm order for the goods or services and it is probable that the customer will fund such amounts. In assessing probability, we consider, among other factors, the period of time before contract funding is expected, communication from the customer that indicates funding will be obtained and our history of receiving funding under the current contract or previous similar contracts. We also generate sales to a lesser extent from contracts with commercial and government customers for standard product and service offerings, which are priced on a firm fixed basis. See Note 22 to our audited consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding the composition of our net sales.

We record sales for a contract when we have the approval and commitment of all parties, the contract identifies the rights of the parties and payment terms, the contract has commercial substance and collectability of the consideration is probable.

To determine the proper revenue recognition method, we first evaluate each of our contractual arrangements to identify our performance obligations. A performance obligation is a promise in a contract to transfer a distinct good or service to the customer. The majority of our contracts have a single performance obligation because the promise to transfer the individual good or service is not separately identifiable from other promises within the contract and is, therefore, not distinct. These contractual arrangements either require the use of a highly specialized manufacturing process to provide goods according to customer specifications or represent a bundle of contracted goods and services that are integrated and together represent a combined output, which may include the delivery of multiple units. Some of our contracts have multiple performance obligations, primarily (i) related to the provision of multiple goods or services that have alternative use to us or that are not substantially the same or (ii) due to the contract covering multiple phases of the product lifecycle (development and engineering, production, maintenance and 

31
support). For contracts with more than one performance obligation, we allocate the total transaction price in an amount based on the estimated relative standalone selling prices underlying each performance obligation. In cases where a contract requires a customized good or service, the primary method used to estimate standalone selling price is the expected cost plus a margin approach. In cases where we sell a standard product or service offering, the standalone selling price is based on an observable standalone selling price.

The majority of our sales are from performance obligations satisfied over time and are primarily with agencies of, and prime system contractors to, the U.S. Government and foreign governments. Sales are recognized over time when control is continuously transferred to the customer during the contract. For U.S. Government contracts, the continuous transfer of control to the customer is supported by contract clauses that provide for: (i) progress or performance-based payments or (ii) the unilateral right of the customer to terminate the contract for its convenience, in which case we have the right to receive payment for costs incurred plus a reasonable profit for products and services that do not have alternative use to us. Foreign government and certain commercial contracts contain similar termination for convenience clauses, or we have a legally enforceable right to receive payment for costs incurred and a reasonable profit for products or services that do not have alternative use to us. Sales on fixed price and cost-plus type contracts that include performance obligations satisfied over time are generally recorded at amounts equal to the ratio of actual cumulative costs incurred divided by total estimated costs at completion, multiplied by (i) the transaction price, less (ii) the cumulative sales recognized in prior periods (cost-to-cost method).

Accounting for the sales and profits on performance obligations for which progress is measured using the cost-to-cost method involves the preparation of estimates of: (1) transaction price and (2) total costs at completion, which is equal to the sum of the actual incurred costs to date on the contract and the estimated costs to complete the contract's statement of work. Incurred costs include labor, material, overhead and, for our U.S. Government contractor businesses, general and administrative (G&A) expenses. Incurred costs represent work performed, which corresponds with and thereby represents the transfer of control to the customer. The estimated profit or loss at completion on a contract is equal to the difference between the transaction price and the total estimated cost at completion. In the case of a contract related to complex aerospace or electronic equipment for which the total estimated costs exceed the total transaction price, a loss arises, and a provision for the entire loss is recorded in the period that the loss becomes evident. The unrecoverable costs on a loss contract that are expected to be incurred in future periods are presented on the balance sheet as a component of other current liabilities entitled "Estimated cost in excess of estimated contract value to complete contracts in process in a loss position." See Note 8 to our audited consolidated financial statements for additional information.

Our contracts give rise to variable consideration, including award and incentive fees, as well as amounts incrementally funded by the U.S. Government, or other provisions that can either increase or decrease the transaction price. Award fees provide for a fee based on actual performance relative to contractually specified performance criteria. Incentive fees provide for a fee based on the relationship between total allowable costs and target costs. Variable consideration may require us to exercise significant judgment to determine the total transaction price of the contract. We include variable consideration in the transaction price when there is a basis to reasonably estimate the variable amount we will be entitled to receive and it is probable that a significant reversal in revenue recognized will not be required when the uncertainty is resolved. These estimates are based on historical experience, current and forecasted performance, and our judgment at the time of the evaluation.

Contract modifications routinely occur to account for changes in contract specifications or requirements. In most cases, contract modifications are for goods or services that are not distinct and, therefore, are accounted for as part of the existing contract. Transaction price estimates include additional consideration for submitted contract modifications or claims when we believe that we have an enforceable right to the modification or claim, the amount can be reliably estimated and its realization is reasonably assured. Amounts representing modifications accounted for as part of the existing contract are included in the transaction price and recognized as an adjustment to sales on a cumulative catch-up basis.

Our fixed-price type contracts with the U.S. Government typically allow for progress payments or performance-based payments. Progress payments are billed to the customer as contract costs are incurred at an amount generally equal to 80% of incurred costs. Performance based payments are billed to the customer upon the achievement of predetermined performance milestones at amounts not to exceed 90% of contract price. On contracts with progress or performance-based payments, the customer often retains a small portion of the contract price until satisfactory completion of the contractual statement of work. Since a small portion of the contract price is retained, we generally recognize sales in excess of billings, which are presented as contract assets on the balance sheet. The portion of the contract price retained by the customer is a normal business practice to ensure satisfactory contract completion and, therefore, is not considered a significant financing component. Contract assets also arise from cost-plus type contracts, time-and-material type contracts and fixed-price services type contracts for revenue amounts that have not been billed by the end of the accounting period due to the timing of preparation of invoices to customers. For certain fixed-price contracts with foreign governments and commercial customers, we receive advance payments. Advanced payments 

32
are not considered a significant financing component because they are a negotiated contract term to ensure the customer meets its financial obligation, particularly when there are significant upfront working capital requirements. We record a liability for advance payments received in excess of sales recognized, which is presented as a contract liability on the balance sheet. 

Revisions or adjustments to estimates of the transaction price, estimated costs at completion and estimated profit or loss of a performance obligation are often required as work progresses under a contract, as experience is gained, as facts and circumstances change and as new information is obtained, even though the scope of work required under the contract may not change. Revisions or adjustments may also be required if contract modifications occur. The impact of revisions in profit or loss estimates are recognized on a cumulative catch-up basis in the period in which the revisions are made. The revisions in contract estimates, if significant, can materially affect our results of operations and cash flows, as well as reduce the valuations of contract assets, and in some cases result in liabilities to complete contracts in a loss position. Net sales recognized from our performance obligations partially satisfied in prior periods were $264 million for the year ended December 31, 2018 and relate to revisions in contract estimates. The aggregate impact of net changes in contract estimates is presented in the table below.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Sales from performance obligations satisfied at a point in time are typically for standard goods and are recognized when the customer obtains control, which is generally upon delivery and acceptance. We also record sales for performance obligations relating to standard services (i.e., maintenance and extended warranties covering standard goods sold by L3) over time by using output measures of time elapsed to measure progress toward satisfying the performance obligation.

Sales on time-and-material type contracts are generally recognized each period based on the amount billable to the customer, which is based on direct labor hours expended multiplied by the contractual fixed rate per hour, plus the actual costs of materials and other direct non-labor costs.

The following table presents a summary of our net sales by revenue recognition method as a percentage of total net sales for the year ended December 31, 2018.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Goodwill and Identifiable Intangible Assets. In accordance with the accounting standards for business combinations, we record the assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their estimated fair values at the date of acquisition (commonly referred to as the purchase price allocation). Identifiable intangible assets are recognized as assets apart from goodwill if they arise from contractual or other legal rights, or if they are capable of being separated or divided from the acquired business and sold, transferred, licensed, rented or exchanged. However, we do not recognize separate intangible assets for the assembled workforces of our business acquisitions.

Generally, the largest separately identifiable intangible asset from the businesses that we acquire is the value of their assembled workforces, which includes the human capital of the management, administrative, marketing and business development, scientific, engineering and technical employees of the acquired businesses. The success of our businesses, including their ability to retain existing business (revenue arrangements) and to successfully compete for and win new business (revenue arrangements), is primarily dependent on the management, marketing and business development, contracting, engineering and technical skills and knowledge of our employees, rather than on productive capital (plant and equipment, and technology and intellectual property). Additionally, for a significant portion of our businesses, our ability to attract and retain employees who have U.S. Government security clearances, particularly those with top-secret and above clearances, is critical to our success and is often a prerequisite for retaining existing revenue arrangements and pursuing new ones. Generally, patents, trademarks and licenses are not material 

33
for our acquired businesses. Furthermore, our U.S. Government contracts (revenue arrangements) generally permit other companies to use our patents in most domestic work performed by such other companies for the U.S. Government. Therefore, because intangible assets for assembled workforces are part of goodwill, the substantial majority of the intangible assets for our acquired business acquisitions are recognized as goodwill. Additionally, the value assigned to goodwill for our business acquisitions also includes the value that we expect to realize from growth expectations and cost reduction measures that we implement for our acquired businesses. Goodwill equals the amount of the purchase price of the business acquired in excess of the sum of the fair value of identifiable acquired assets, both tangible and intangible, less the fair value of liabilities assumed. At December 31, 2018, we had goodwill of $6,808 million and identifiable intangible assets of $390 million.

The most significant identifiable intangible asset that is separately recognized in accordance with U.S. GAAP for our business acquisitions is customer contractual relationships. All of our customer relationships are established through written customer contracts (revenue arrangements). The fair value for customer contractual relationships is determined, as of the date of acquisition, based on estimates and judgments regarding expectations for the estimated future after-tax earnings and cash flows (including cash flows from working capital) arising from the follow-on sales on contract (revenue arrangement) renewals expected from customer contractual relationships over their estimated lives, including the probability of expected future contract renewals and sales, less a contributory asset charge, all of which is discounted to present value. All identifiable intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful lives as the economic benefits are consumed. We review customer contractual relationships for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable in accordance with the accounting standards for long-lived assets. If any such event or change in circumstances occurs, and, if our revised estimates of future after-tax cash flows are significantly lower than our estimates at the date we acquired the customer contractual relationships, we may be required to record an impairment charge to write-down these intangible assets to their realizable values. We also review and update our estimates of the duration of our customer contractual relationships, at least annually. If our current estimates indicate that the duration of our customer contractual relationships have decreased, then we adjust the remaining amortization period for our customer contractual relationships to their remaining useful economic life.

We review goodwill for impairment annually as of November 30 and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. The accounting standards for goodwill allow for the assessment of qualitative factors, such as macroeconomic conditions, industry and market conditions and entity relevant events or circumstances, to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. In our latest annual impairment evaluation that occurred as of November 30, 2018, we used the qualitative method of assessing goodwill for all of our identified reporting units. In prior periods, we did not elect to use the qualitative approach to assessing goodwill, and we chose instead to complete the quantitative testing process for each reporting unit.

A reporting unit is an operating segment, as defined by the segment reporting accounting standards, or a component of an operating segment. A component of an operating segment is a reporting unit if the component constitutes a business for which discrete financial information is available and is reviewed by operating segment management. Two or more components of an operating segment may be aggregated and deemed a single reporting unit for goodwill impairment testing purposes if the components have similar economic characteristics.

L3 had 13 reporting units at December 31, 2018 and at November 30, 2018 when our annual goodwill impairment assessment was completed. Our annual impairment tests at November 30, 2018 and 2017 did not result in impairments to goodwill. In addition, the fair value of all of our reporting units exceeded the carrying value of the net assets of those reporting units by more than 50% as of the date of our last quantitative test at November 30, 2017.

L3’s aggregate balance of goodwill from continuing operations increased by $193 million to $6,808 million at December 31, 2018 from $6,615 million at December 31, 2017 due to increases of $247 million for business acquisitions, net of divestitures, partially offset by $54 million for foreign currency translation adjustments. The table below presents the number of reporting units and the associated goodwill at December 31, 2018 for each of our reportable segments.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

34
2018 Impairment Test

As noted above, in our latest annual impairment evaluation that occurred as of November 30, 2018, we used the qualitative method of assessing goodwill for all of our identified reporting units. For each of the reporting units, we determined that it was not more likely than not that the fair values were less than their net book values. In making this determination, we considered several factors, including but not limited to the following:

•the amount by which the fair values of each reporting unit exceeded their carrying values as of the date of the most recent quantitative impairment analysis (November 30, 2017), which indicated there would need to be substantial negative developments in the markets in which these reporting units operate in order for there to be potential impairment;

•the carrying values of these reporting units as of November 30, 2018 compared to the previously calculated fair values as of the date of the most recent quantitative impairment analysis;

•the current forecasts as compared to the forecasts included in the most recent quantitative impairment analysis;

•public information from competitors and other industry information to determine if there were any significant adverse trends in our competitors' businesses, such as significant declines in market capitalization or significant goodwill impairment charges that could be an indication that the goodwill of our reporting units was potentially impaired;

•changes related to U.S. Tax Reform;

•changes in the value of major U.S. stock indices that could suggest declines in overall market stability that could impact the valuation of our reporting units;

•changes in our market capitalization and overall enterprise valuation to determine if there were any significant decreases that could be an indication that the valuation of our reporting units had significantly decreased; and

•whether there had been any significant increases to the weighted-average cost of capital (WACC) rates for each reporting unit, which could materially lower our prior valuation conclusions under a discounted cash flow approach.

As discussed previously, in addition to the annual goodwill impairment assessment, we review goodwill for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of a reporting unit’s goodwill may not be recoverable. Accordingly, depending on their outcomes, certain circumstances, such as the ability of the reporting units to: (1) achieve 2019 projected sales, operating income and cash flow and (2) win contract re-competitions and new business pursuits, may require us to review goodwill for impairment prior to the next annual assessment (November 30, 2019).

2017 Impairment Test

In the November 30, 2017 quantitative assessment, to test goodwill for potential impairment, we compared the carrying value of each reporting unit to its fair value. To the extent the carrying value of a reporting unit exceeded its fair value, a goodwill impairment charge would have been recognized. Our methodology for determining the fair value of a reporting unit utilized a discounted cash flow (DCF) valuation approach, and was dependent on estimates for future sales, operating income, depreciation and amortization, income tax payments, working capital changes and capital expenditures, as well as expected long-term growth rates for cash flows. All of these factors are affected by economic conditions related to the industries in which we operate (predominantly the U.S. defense industry), as well as conditions in the U.S. capital markets.

The more significant assumptions used in our DCF valuations to determine the fair values of our reporting units in connection with the goodwill valuation assessment at November 30, 2017 were: (1) detailed three-year cash flow projections for each of our reporting units, (2) the expected long-term cash flow growth rates for each of our reporting units (commonly known as Terminal Growth Rates), which approximate the expected long-term nominal growth rate for the U.S. DoD budget, the U.S. economy and the respective industries in which the reporting units operate, expected inflation rates, and specific circumstances for each reporting unit, including contracts or programs ending and expected new business and (3) risk adjusted discount rates, which represent the WACC for each reporting unit and include the estimated risk-free rate of return that is used to discount future cash flow projections to their present values. 

The WACC for each reporting unit was comprised of: (1) an estimated required rate of return on equity, based on publicly traded companies with business and economic risk characteristics comparable to each of L3’s reporting units (Market Participants), 

35
including a risk free rate of return of 2.65% on the 20-year U.S. Treasury Bond at November 30, 2017 and an equity risk premium of 6% at November 30, 2017, and (2) an after-tax rate of return on Market Participants’ debt, which was derived from a selected corporate bond index having a Baa debt rating, consistent with the credit rating of the Market Participants. Each of the estimated required rate of return on equity and the after-tax rate of return on Market Participants’ debt is weighted by the relative market value percentages of the Market Participants’ equity and debt. The WACC assumptions for each reporting unit are based on a number of market inputs that are outside of our control and are updated annually to reflect changes to such market inputs as of the date of our annual goodwill impairment assessments, including changes to: (1) the estimated required rate of return on equity based on historical returns on common stock of Market Participants and the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index over the prior five-year period, (2) the risk free rate of return based on the prevailing market yield on the 20 year U.S. Treasury Bond, (3) the rate of return on corporate bonds having a debt rating consistent with the credit rating of the Market Participants and (4) the relative market value percentages of Market Participants’ equity and debt.

The annual cash flows generated by each of our reporting units vary from year to year, and, therefore, the annual cash flow growth rates do not result in linear trends due to a number of factors, including, but not limited to: (1) variability of annual sales volume and sales growth rates, (2) increases and decreases in working capital, including customer advance payments and billings on multi-year contracts (revenue arrangements) with long-term performance periods (exceeding one year), (3) the timing of invoicing and cash collections between fiscal years from receivables due from customers on multi-year contracts (revenue arrangements), (4) the timing of increases and decreases of select inventories procured and produced in anticipation of future product sales, which frequently overlap the ending and beginning of fiscal years, (5) the timing of the receipt of award fee and incentive fee payments from customers on contracts (revenue arrangements), (6) variability in annual cash outlays for research and development costs, (7) changes in cash outlays for capital expenditures for property, plant and equipment and (8) increases in annual sales and costs and expense volumes of a reporting unit resulting from business acquisitions. As a result of the factors discussed above and the varying sizes of our reporting units, the annual cash flow levels and growth rates at the reporting unit level tend to fluctuate significantly from year to year. 

We consider several factors to determine expected future annual cash flows for our reporting units, including historical multi-year average cash flow trends by reporting unit and the expected future cash flow growth rates for each of our reporting units primarily based on our estimates of future sales, operating income and working capital changes. Furthermore, the substantial majority of our reporting units are primarily dependent upon the DoD budget and spending. Sales from DoD customers generate a significant portion of our annual sales and have historically represented approximately 66% or more of our total sales. Accordingly, to determine expected future annual cash flows for our reporting units we also consider: (1) the DoD budget and spending priorities, (2) expansion into new markets, (3) changing conditions in existing markets for our products, systems and services, (4) possible termination of certain government contracts, (5) expected success in new business competitions and re-competitions on existing business and (6) anticipated operating margins and working capital requirements, which vary significantly depending on the stage of completion (early, mature, ending) of contracts (revenue arrangements). We closely monitor changes in these factors and their impact on the expected cash flow of our reporting units. 

Additionally, our actual cash flows may be higher than our projections, and the DCF valuation does not reflect actions that we may take to increase the profitability and cash flows of our reporting units. Actions we may take include consolidating and streamlining select business operations, creating future synergies with other L3 businesses or pursuing incremental targeted growth opportunities. Additionally, the DCF valuations do not assume future business acquisitions or divestitures.

A decline in the estimated fair value of a reporting unit could result in a goodwill impairment and a related non-cash impairment charge against earnings if the estimated fair value for the reporting unit is less than the carrying value of the net assets of the reporting unit, including its goodwill. A large decline in the estimated fair value of a reporting unit could result in an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 

Pension Plan and Postretirement Benefit Plan Obligations. The obligations for our pension plans and postretirement benefit plans and the related annual costs of employee benefits are calculated based on several long-term assumptions, including discount rates and expected mortality for employee benefit liabilities, rates of return on plan assets, expected annual rates for salary increases for employee participants in the case of pension plans, and expected annual increases in the costs of medical and other health care benefits in the case of postretirement benefit obligations. These long-term assumptions are subject to revision based on changes in interest rates, financial market conditions, expected versus actual returns on plan assets, expected participant mortality and other actuarial assumptions, including future rates of salary increases, benefit formulas and levels, and rates of increase in the costs of benefits. Changes in the assumptions, if significant, could materially affect the amount of annual net periodic benefit costs recognized in our results of operations from one year to the next, the liabilities for the pension plans and postretirement benefit plans, and our annual cash requirements to fund these plans. 

36
Our pension expense for 2019 is expected to decrease by $67 million to $29 million from $96 million in 2018. The expected decrease in our 2019 pension expense is primarily due to the discontinuation or reduction of benefit accruals for future service covering all salaried participants in our domestic pension plans effective January 1, 2019. For pension plans with no benefit accruals for future service, we changed the amortization period for actuarial gains and losses effective January 1, 2019 from the remaining expected service period to the remaining expected lifetime of the plan participants. Other changes in pension expense include a decrease due to an increase in the weighted average discount rate, offset by increases in pension expense due to lower than expected asset returns in 2018 and a 25 basis point decrease in the long-term assumption for returns on U.S. pension plan assets from 8.0% to 7.75%. Our discount rate assumption increased from a weighted average rate of 3.78% at December 31, 2017 to 4.43% at December 31, 2018.

We use a spot rate approach in the measurement of the service and interest cost components of expense for all of our pension and postretirement benefit plans by applying specific spot rates along the yield curve to the relevant projected cash flows. The estimated weighted average discount rates used to measure pension service and interest costs were 3.84% and 3.45% in 2018, respectively, compared to 4.55% and 3.84% in 2017, respectively.

Discount rates are used to determine the present value of our pension obligations and also affect the amount of pension expense in any given period. The discount rate assumptions used to determine our pension and postretirement benefit obligations at December 31, 2018 and 2017 were based on a hypothetical AA yield curve represented by a series of annualized individual discount rates. Each bond issue underlying the yield curve is required to have a rating of AA or better by Moody’s Investors Service, Inc. and/or Standard & Poor’s. The resulting discount rate reflects the matching of plan liability cash flows to the yield curve. For a sensitivity analysis projecting the impact of a change in the discount rate on our projected benefit obligation and pension expense, see “— Liquidity and Capital Resources — Pension Plans.”

Valuation of Deferred Income Tax Assets and Liabilities. At December 31, 2018, we had deferred tax assets of $492 million, a valuation allowance of $14 million and deferred tax liabilities of $669 million. The deferred tax assets included $13 million for loss carryforwards and $4 million for tax credit carryforwards which are subject to various limitations and will expire if unused within their respective carryforward periods. Deferred income taxes are determined separately for each of our tax-paying entities in each tax jurisdiction. The future realization of our deferred income tax assets ultimately depends on our ability to generate sufficient taxable income of the appropriate character (for example, ordinary income or capital gains) within the carryback and carryforward periods available under the tax law and, to a lesser extent, our ability to execute successful tax planning strategies. Based on our estimates of the amounts and timing of future taxable income and tax planning strategies, we believe that we will be able to realize our deferred tax assets, except for certain U.S. Federal, foreign and state net operating losses. A change in the ability of our operations to continue to generate future taxable income, or our ability to implement desired tax planning strategies, could affect our ability to realize the future tax deductions underlying our deferred tax assets, and require us to provide a valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets. The recognition of a valuation allowance would result in a reduction to net income and, if significant, could have a material impact on our effective tax rate, results of operations and financial position in any given period.

Liabilities for Pending and Threatened Litigation. We are subject to litigation, government investigations, proceedings, claims or assessments and various contingent liabilities incidental to our business or assumed in connection with certain business acquisitions. In accordance with the accounting standards for contingencies, we accrue a charge for a loss contingency when we believe it is both probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. If the loss is within a range of specified amounts, the most likely amount is accrued, and we accrue the minimum amount in the range if no amount within the range represents a better estimate. Generally, we record the loss contingency at the amount we expect to pay to resolve the contingency and the amount is generally not discounted to the present value. Amounts recoverable under insurance contracts are recorded as assets when recovery is deemed probable. Contingencies that might result in a gain are not recognized until realizable. Changes to the amount of the estimated loss or resolution of one or more contingencies could have a material impact on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. See Note 19 to our audited consolidated financial statements for further discussion of our litigation matters.

Valuation of Long-Lived Assets. In addition to goodwill and identifiable intangible assets recognized in connection with our business acquisitions, our long-lived assets also include property, plant and equipment, capitalized software development costs for software to be sold, leased or otherwise marketed, and certain long-term investments. At December 31, 2018, the consolidated carrying values of our property, plant and equipment were $1,169 million, capitalized software development costs were $54 million and certain long-term investments were $48 million. At December 31, 2018, the carrying value of our property, plant and equipment represented 9% of total assets, and the carrying value of our capitalized software development costs and certain long-term investments each represented less than 1% of total assets. We review the valuation of our long-lived assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of these assets may not be recoverable. An impairment loss is recognized when the carrying amount of a long-lived asset exceeds its fair value or net realizable value expected to result from the asset’s use 

37
and eventual disposition. We use a variety of factors to assess valuation, depending upon the asset. Long-lived assets are evaluated based upon the expected period the asset will be utilized, and other factors depending on the asset, including estimated future sales, profits and related cash flows, estimated product acceptance and product life cycles, changes in technology and customer demand, and the performance of invested companies and joint ventures. Changes in estimates and judgments on any of these factors could have a material impact on our results of operations and financial position.

Results of Operations

The following information should be read in conjunction with our audited consolidated financial statements. Our results of operations for the periods presented are affected by our business acquisitions. See Note 3 to our audited consolidated financial statements for a discussion of our business acquisitions and dispositions.

Consolidated Results of Operations

The table below provides selected financial data, excluding discontinued operations, for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

2018 Compared with 2017

Net Sales: For the year ended December 31, 2018, consolidated net sales of $10,244 million increased $671 million, or 7%, compared to the year ended December 31, 2017. Organic sales increased by $635 million, or 7%, to $10,138 million for the 

38
year ended December 31, 2018. Organic sales exclude $106 million of sales increases related to business acquisitions and $70 million of sales declines related to business divestitures. For the year ended December 31, 2018, organic sales to the U.S. Government increased $428 million, or 6%, to $7,072 million, and organic sales to international and commercial customers increased $207 million, or 7%, to $3,066 million.

Sales from products increased by $432 million to $7,165 million for the year ended December 31, 2018, compared to $6,733 million for the year ended December 31, 2017. Product sales represented 70% of consolidated net sales for both of the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017. The increase in sales from products was due to: (1) $120 million due to increased deliveries of airborne turret systems, primarily to foreign militaries, (2) $118 million for ISR Systems primarily due to the procurement and ISR missionization of business jet aircraft systems for a foreign military customer, the U.S. Air Force (USAF) EC-37B aircraft and the U.S. Missile Defense Agency (MDA) High Altitude Observatory (HALO) aircraft, and higher volume related to special mission aircraft for the U.S. Government, (3) $111 million due to increased deliveries of night vision products, (4) $89 million at Precision Engagement Systems due to increased deliveries and volume on fuzing and ordnance and guidance systems products primarily to the U.S. Army, (5) $84 million increase at Maritime Sensor Systems due to increased volume for new commercial contracts, (6) $47 million for Space Sensor Systems primarily due to higher volume for optical systems, and space electronics and infrared detection products to the U.S. military, (7) $45 million due to increased deliveries for airport screening devices, (8) $23 million due to increased deliveries of electronic warfare countermeasures products, (9) $13 million for Commercial Aviation Solutions due to increased deliveries of air traffic collision avoidance systems and (10) $7 million for Advanced Programs due to increased task order volume on U.S. Government contracts. These increases were partially offset by $201 million of lower production volume for Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV) communication systems for the U.S. DoD and $24 million due to business acquisitions, net of divestitures.

Sales from services increased by $239 million to $3,079 million for the year ended December 31, 2018, compared to $2,840 million for the year ended December 31, 2017. Service sales represented 30% of consolidated net sales for both of the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017. The increase in sales for services was due to: (1) $69 million at Broadband Communication Systems primarily due to operational and sustainment services on U.S. Army satellite communication systems, (2) $60 million due to business acquisitions, net of divestitures, (3) $32 million due to higher volume for mission management systems, (4) $31 million for Advanced Programs due to increased task order volume on U.S. Government contracts, (5) $28 million for support services on airport screening devices and (6) $19 million due to higher volume related to commercial training and simulation. See reportable segment results below for additional detail.

Cost of Sales: Cost of sales from products increased by $378 million to $5,345 million for the year ended December 31, 2018, compared to $4,967 million for the year ended December 31, 2017. The increase was primarily due to higher products cost of sales of $113 million at Security & Detection Systems, $108 million at ISR Systems, $80 million at Maritime Sensor Systems, $80 million at Precision Engagement Systems, $60 million at Airborne Sensor Systems, $27 million at Space Sensor Systems $14 million at Intelligence & Mission Systems, $12 million at Naval Power Systems, $11 million at Link Training & Simulation, $10 million at Warrior Systems and $4 million at Advanced Programs. These increases were partially offset by $115 million at Broadband Communication Systems and $26 million due to business acquisitions, net of divestitures. These changes are consistent with the change in sales from products described above.

Cost of sales from services increased by $137 million to $2,192 million for the year ended December 31, 2018, compared to $2,055 million for the year ended December 31, 2017. The increase was primarily due to higher services cost of sales of $62 million due to business acquisitions, net of divestitures, $30 million at Commercial Aviation Solutions, $23 million at Advanced Programs, $19 million at Link Training & Simulation, $18 million at ISR Systems and $10 million at Security & Detection Systems. These increases were partially offset by lower cost of sales from services of $25 million at Broadband Communication Systems. These changes are consistent with the change in sales from services described above.

Operating income and operating margin: Consolidated operating income for the year ended December 31, 2018 increased by $89 million, or 9%, compared to the year ended December 31, 2017. Segment operating income for the year ended December 31, 2018 increased by $75 million, or 7%, compared to the year ended December 31, 2017. Segment operating margin was 10.8% for both of the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017. Favorable contract performance at Electronic Systems was offset by lower manufacturing yields, inventory provisions and unfavorable contract performance for the Traveling Wave Tube (TWT) business in C&NS and higher research and development costs, primarily at ISRS. See the reportable segment results below for additional discussion of sales and operating margin trends.

Interest expense, interest and other (income) expense, net: Interest expense and other for the year ended December 31, 2018 decreased by $33 million, primarily due to lower non-service cost on pension and postretirement benefits.

39
Effective income tax rate: The effective income tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2018 decreased to 11.1% compared to 11.7% for the same period last year due to a lower U.S. federal statutory tax rate, higher tax benefits related to stock-based compensation and the reversal of previously accrued amounts related to various U.S. Federal, foreign and state tax matters.

Net income from continuing operations attributable to L3 and diluted earnings per share (EPS) from continuing operations: Net income from continuing operations attributable to L3 increased 6% to $800 million for the year ended December 31, 2018, compared to $753 million for the year ended December 31, 2017. Diluted EPS from continuing operations increased 6% to $10.05 for the year ended December 31, 2018, compared to $9.46 for the year ended December 31, 2017. Diluted EPS for the year ended December 31, 2018 included: (1) debt retirement charges of $0.66 per diluted share, (2) merger and acquisition related expenses of $0.28 per diluted share and (3) a gain of $0.24 per diluted share related to divestitures.

Diluted weighted average common shares outstanding: Diluted weighted average common shares outstanding for the year ended December 31, 2018 were substantially unchanged compared to the year ended December 31, 2017.

2017 Compared with 2016 

Net Sales: For the year ended December 31, 2017, consolidated net sales of $9,573 million increased $363 million, or 4%, compared to the year ended December 31, 2016. Organic sales increased by $213 million, or 2%, to $9,369 million for the year ended December 31, 2017. Organic sales exclude $204 million of sales increases related to business acquisitions and $54 million of sales declines related to business divestitures. For the year ended December 31, 2017, organic sales to the U.S. Government increased $288 million, or 5%, to $6,642 million, and organic sales to international and commercial customers decreased $75 million, or 3%, to $2,727 million.

Sales from products increased by $280 million to $6,733 million for the year ended December 31, 2017, compared to $6,453 million for the year ended December 31, 2016. Product sales represented 70% of consolidated net sales for both of the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016. Sales from products increased by: (1) $147 million primarily driven by Broadband Communication Systems due to increased deliveries of secure networked communication systems primarily for the U.S. DoD, (2) $120 million due to business acquisitions, net of divestitures, (3) $98 million for Commercial Aviation Solutions primarily due to higher volume on commercial flight simulators and training systems for the USAF and (4) $73 million for Precision Engagement Systems primarily due to increased deliveries of fuzing and ordnance products and higher volume for guidance and control products to the U.S. Army and U.S. USAF. These increases were partially offset by decreases of (1) $90 million for Aircraft Systems due to lower volume for international aircraft modifications, primarily international head-of-state aircraft and the procurement and delivery of two aircraft for a foreign military customer in 2016 compared to one for the USAF Compass Call Recap in 2017, (2) $43 million due to reduced deliveries for UH-1Y aircraft cabin assemblies and (3) $25 million primarily due to fewer deliveries of enhanced night vision goggle products to the U.S. Army as contracts near completion.

Sales from services increased by $83 million to $2,840 million for the year ended December 31, 2017, compared to $2,757 million for the year ended December 31, 2016. Service sales represented 30% of consolidated net sales for both of the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016. Sales from services increased primarily by: (1) $37 million for Commercial Aviation Solutions due to increased support services primarily to the USAF, (2) $31 million due to business acquisitions, net of divestitures and (3) $12 million due to higher volume of mission management software upgrades for the USAF. See the reportable segment results below for additional discussion of our segment sales trends.

Cost of Sales: Cost of sales from products increased by $88 million to $4,967 million for the year ended December 31, 2017, compared to $4,879 million for the year ended December 31, 2016. The increase was primarily due to higher products cost of sales of $122 million at Broadband Communication Systems, $112 million due to business acquisitions, net of divestitures, $58 million at Precision Engagement Systems and $32 million at Space Sensor Systems. These increases were partially offset by $94 million at ISR Systems, $65 million at Security & Detection Systems, $38 million at Warrior Systems, $27 million at Aerostructures and $12 million at Airborne Systems. These changes are consistent with the change in sales from products described above.

Cost of sales from services decreased by $31 million to $2,055 million for the year ended December 31, 2017, compared to $2,086 million for the year ended December 31, 2016. The decrease was primarily due to lower services cost of sales of $46 million at ISR Systems, $13 million at Broadband Communication Systems and $8 million at Security & Detection Systems. These decreases were partially offset by higher cost of sales from services of $36 million due to business acquisitions, net of divestitures. These changes are consistent with the change in sales from services described above.

Operating income and operating margin: Operating income for the year ended December 31, 2017 increased by $73 million, or 8%, to $1,031 million, compared to the year ended December 31, 2016. Operating margin increased by 40 basis points 

40
to 10.8% for the year ended December 31, 2017, compared to 10.4% for the year ended December 31, 2016. The increase in operating margin was driven by: (1) 70 basis points primarily due to improved contract performance for C&NS and (2) 30 basis points at ISRS for a settlement of the class action litigation and product return allowances recorded in 2016 that did not recur. These increases were partially offset by 60 basis points due to severance and restructuring costs of $59 million, including a $12 million non-cash loss on the sale of a building in ISRS and a $4 million pension curtailment charge in connection with the decision to discontinue future service accruals for substantially all salaried employee defined benefit plans effective January 1, 2019 (Pension Curtailment). See the reportable segment results below for additional discussion of sales and operating margin trends.

Interest expense, interest and other (income) expense, net: Interest expense and other for the year ended December 31, 2017 increased by $13 million primarily due to higher non-service cost on pension and postretirement benefits and higher average interest rates on outstanding debt.

Effective income tax rate: The effective income tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2017 decreased to 11.7% compared to 21.3% for the year ended December 31, 2016. The decrease was driven by: (1) $79 million of estimated tax benefits related to U.S. Tax Reform and (2) $30 million of tax benefits from a realignment of foreign legal entities to conform with our segment reporting structure. These decreases were partially offset by $21 million for the reversal of previously accrued amounts related to various U.S. Federal, foreign and state tax matters in 2016 that did not recur.

Net income from continuing operations attributable to L3 and diluted EPS from continuing operations: Net income from continuing operations attributable to L3 increased 22% to $753 million for the year ended December 31, 2017, compared to $619 million for the year ended December 31, 2016. Diluted EPS from continuing operations increased 20% to $9.46 for the year ended December 31, 2017, compared to $7.86 for the year ended December 31, 2016. Diluted EPS for 2017 included $0.99 of estimated tax benefits related to U.S. Tax Reform.

Diluted weighted average common shares outstanding: Diluted weighted average common shares outstanding for the year ended December 31, 2017 increased by 1% compared to the year ended December 31, 2016, due to changes in the dilutive impact of common share equivalents, primarily caused by a higher L3 stock price.

41
Reportable Segment Results of Operations

The table below presents selected data by reportable segment reconciled to consolidated totals. The results of operations of the Vertex Aerospace business and the NSS segment sold to CACI International Inc. are classified as discontinued operations for all periods presented. See Note 22 to our audited consolidated financial statements for additional reportable segment data.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

__________________

(1) Net sales are after intercompany eliminations.

ISRS

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

2018 Compared with 2017

ISRS net sales for the year ended December 31, 2018 increased by $446 million, or 11%, compared to the year ended December 31, 2017. Organic sales increased by $469 million, or 12%, compared to the year ended December 31, 2017. Organic sales exclude $37 million of sales increases related to business acquisitions and $60 million of sales declines related to business divestitures. Organic sales increased by: (1) $222 million for ISR Systems primarily due to the procurement and ISR missionization of business jet aircraft systems for a foreign military customer, the USAF EC-37B aircraft and the MDA HALO aircraft, and higher volume related to special mission aircraft for the U.S. Government, (2) $111 million for Warrior Systems due to increased deliveries 

42
of night vision products, primarily to foreign military customers, (3) $104 million primarily due to increased deliveries of airborne turret systems, primarily to foreign militaries, (4) $38 million for Advanced Programs primarily due to increased task order volume on U.S. Government contracts, (5) $32 million for Space Sensor Systems primarily due to higher volume for optical systems, and space electronics and infrared detection products to the U.S. military and (6) $27 million for Intelligence & Mission Systems primarily due to increased deliveries of electronic warfare countermeasures products primarily to foreign militaries. These increases were partially offset by lower volume related to international aircraft modifications primarily the Australian Defence Force (ADF) C-27J aircraft.

ISRS operating income for the year ended December 31, 2018 increased by $100 million, or 29%, compared to the year ended December 31, 2017. Operating margin increased by 140 basis points to 10.1%. Operating margin increased by: (1) 120 basis points primarily due to higher volume at Airborne Sensor Systems and Warrior Systems, (2) 40 basis points due to lower pension costs, (3) 40 basis points due to lower severance and restructuring costs, (4) 30 basis points due to improved contract performance primarily at Space Sensor Systems and (5) 30 basis points due to a $12 million loss on the sale of a building during 2017 fourth quarter related to the consolidation of two focal plane array foundries. These increases were partially offset by 120 basis points primarily due to higher research and development costs related to imaging and space investments growth expenses.

2017 Compared with 2016

ISRS net sales for the year ended December 31, 2017 decreased by $106 million, or 3%, compared to the year ended December 31, 2016. Organic sales decreased by $119 million, or 3%, compared to the year ended December 31, 2016. Organic sales exclude $13 million of sales increases related to business acquisitions. Organic sales decreased by: (1) $71 million due to lower volume for large ISR aircraft systems for foreign military customers as contracts near completion, (2) $67 million due to lower volume for international aircraft modifications, primarily international head-of-state aircraft and ADF C-27J aircraft, (3) $58 million due to the procurement and delivery of two aircraft to a foreign military customer in the 2016 second quarter compared to one for the USAF Compass Call Recap in the 2017 fourth quarter and (4) $46 million due to reduced deliveries for UH-1Y aircraft cabin assemblies. These decreases were partially offset by: (1) $79 million primarily due to higher volume for ISR systems to the U.S. Government, (2) $38 million for increased task order volume on U.S. Government contracts and (3) $6 million due to increased deliveries of airborne turret systems to the USAF.

ISRS operating income for the year ended December 31, 2017 decreased by $14 million, or 4%, compared to the year ended December 31, 2016. Operating margin decreased by 10 basis points to 8.7%. Operating margin decreased by: (1) 60 basis points due to severance and restructuring costs of $24 million, (2) 30 basis points due to a $12 million loss on the sale of a building during the 2017 fourth quarter in anticipation of consolidating two focal plane array foundries during 2018 and 2019 and (3) 20 basis points primarily due to unfavorable contract performance adjustments on international aircraft modification contracts at Aircraft Systems. These decreases were partially offset by 70 basis points for a settlement of the class action litigation and product return allowances recorded in 2016 that did not recur at EoTech and 30 basis points due to reserves for excess and obsolete inventory recorded in 2016 that did not recur.

C&NS

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

2018 Compared with 2017

C&NS net sales for the year ended December 31, 2018 decreased by $54 million, or 2%, compared to the year ended December 31, 2017. Organic sales decreased by $81 million, or 3%, compared to the year ended December 31, 2017. Organic sales exclude $27 million of sales increases related to business acquisitions. Organic sales decreased by: (1) $132 million for Broadband Communication Systems primarily due to lower production volume for UAV communication systems for the U.S. DoD and (2) $26 million for Naval Power Systems primarily due to lower volume on the landing craft, air cushion service life extension program. These decreases were partially offset by increased volume for new commercial contracts at Maritime Sensor Systems and higher volume on TWTs for military satellites at Space & Power Systems.

43
C&NS operating income for the year ended December 31, 2018 decreased by $80 million, or 22%, compared to the year ended December 31, 2017. Operating margin decreased by 240 basis points to 9.2%. Operating margin decreased by 210 basis points primarily due to lower manufacturing yields and unfavorable contract performance primarily at the TWT business in Space & Power Systems, which reduced operating income by $64 million, and 30 basis points primarily due to a $10 million inventory charge in the 2018 fourth quarter for the TWT business.

2017 Compared with 2016

C&NS net sales for the year ended December 31, 2017 increased by $216 million, or 7%, compared to the year ended December 31, 2016. Organic sales increased by $202 million, or 7%, compared to the year ended December 31, 2016. Organic sales exclude $13 million of sales increases related to business acquisitions. Organic sales increased by: (1) $175 million for Broadband Communication Systems due to increased deliveries of secure networked communication systems primarily for the U.S. DoD and (2) $27 million primarily for Naval Power Systems due to higher volume for U.S. Navy power conversion and distribution systems.

C&NS operating income for the year ended December 31, 2017 increased by $64 million, or 21%, compared to the year ended December 31, 2016. Operating margin increased 130 basis points to 11.6%. Improved contract performance, primarily at Broadband Communication Systems and Maritime Sensor Systems, increased operating margin by 240 basis points. These increases were partially offset by 80 basis points due to sales mix changes primarily for Space & Power Systems. Consolidation activities primarily related to the TWT businesses further reduced operating margin by 30 basis points consisting of severance and restructuring costs of $48 million partially offset by a pre-tax gain of $42 million on the sale of the company’s property in San Carlos, California in the second quarter of 2017.

Electronic Systems

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

2018 Compared with 2017

Electronic Systems net sales for the year ended December 31, 2018 increased by $279 million, or 11%, compared to the year ended December 31, 2017. Organic sales increased by $247 million, or 10%, compared to the year ended December 31, 2017. Organic sales exclude $42 million of sales increases related to business acquisitions and $10 million of sales declines related to business divestitures. Organic sales increased by: (1) $114 million for Precision Engagement Systems due to increased deliveries and volume on fuzing and ordnance and guidance systems products primarily to the U.S. Army, (2) $68 million for Security & Detection Systems due to increased deliveries for airport screening devices primarily to the U.S. Transportation Security Administration (TSA) and higher volume on an industrial automation control contract for a commercial customer, (3) $35 million primarily for Link Training & Simulation due to higher volume for training systems to the USAF, and (4) $30 million for Commercial Aviation Solutions due to increased deliveries of air traffic collision avoidance systems and higher volume for pilot training services.

Electronic Systems operating income for the year ended December 31, 2018 increased by $55 million, or 17%, compared to the year ended December 31, 2017. Operating margin increased by 70 basis points to 13.7%. Operating margin increased by 180 basis points primarily due to favorable contract performance across all business areas. This increase was partially offset by 110 basis points primarily due to product sales mix changes at Security & Detection Systems. 

2017 Compared with 2016 

Electronic Systems net sales for the year ended December 31, 2017 increased by $253 million, or 11%, compared to the year ended December 31, 2016. Organic sales increased by $129 million, or 6%, compared to the year ended December 31, 2016. Organic sales exclude $178 million of sales increases related to business acquisitions and $54 million of sales declines related to business divestitures. Organic sales increased by: (1) $135 million for Commercial Aviation Solutions primarily due to higher volume on commercial flight simulators and (2) $80 million for Precision Engagement Systems primarily due to increased deliveries of fuzing and ordnance products and higher volume for guidance and control products to the U.S. Army and USAF. These increases 

44
were partially offset by $87 million for Security & Detection due to fewer deliveries for airport screening devices to the U.S. TSA and foreign customers and fewer deliveries of cargo screening devices to foreign customers.

Electronic Systems operating income for the year ended December 31, 2017 increased by $23 million, or 8%, compared to the year ended December 31, 2016. Operating margin decreased by 50 basis points to 13.0%. Operating margin decreased by: (1) 90 basis points primarily due to lower margins related to acquisitions and (2) 50 basis points due to higher severance costs of $13 million. These decreases were partially offset by an increase of 90 basis points due to higher sales volume and mix changes, primarily for Commercial Aviation Solutions and Precision Engagement Systems.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

Anticipated Sources and Uses of Cash Flow

At December 31, 2018, we had total cash and cash equivalents of $1,066 million. While no amounts of the cash and cash equivalents are considered restricted, $308 million of cash was held by our foreign subsidiaries at December 31, 2018. The repatriation of cash held in non-U.S. jurisdictions is subject to local capital requirements. Our primary sources of liquidity are cash flow generated from operations, cash on hand and our five-year unsecured $1 billion revolving credit facility (Credit Facility), which we entered into on October 31, 2016. At December 31, 2018, we had the full availability of our Credit Facility. We generated $1,042 million of net cash from operating activities from continuing operations during the year ended December 31, 2018.

We currently believe that our cash from operating activities generated during the year, together with our cash on hand and available borrowings under our Credit Facility, will be adequate for the foreseeable future to meet our anticipated uses of cash flow, including working capital, capital expenditures, defined benefit plan contributions, commitments, contingencies, research and development expenditures, select business acquisitions (depending on the size), program and other discretionary investments, interest payments, income tax payments and L3 dividends.

Balance Sheet

We made certain presentation changes to our consolidated balance sheet on January 1, 2018 to comply with ASC 606. The components of contracts in process as reported under ASC 605, which included unbilled contract receivables and inventoried contract costs, have been reclassified to contract assets and inventories, respectively, after certain adjustments to comply with ASC 606 presentation requirements. Specifically, the adoption of ASC 606 resulted in an increase in unbilled contract receivables (referred to as contract assets under ASC 606) primarily from converting contracts previously applying the units-of-delivery method to the cost-to-cost method with a corresponding reduction in inventoried contract costs. The remainder of inventoried contract costs, primarily related to work in process not controlled by our customers, were classified to inventories. Additionally, under ASC 606, we capitalize costs to fulfill a contract (i.e., non-recurring costs for contract-related activities that do not transfer a good or service to the customer) and costs to obtain a contract (i.e., commissions paid to third-party agents or representatives) to prepaid expense and other current assets or other assets (non-current). We previously accounted for costs to fulfill a contract either as inventoried contract costs or expensed them as incurred. Costs to obtain a contract were generally expensed as incurred. Advance payments and billings in excess of costs and deferred revenue, previously classified in other current liabilities, have been combined and are presented as contract liabilities.

Billed receivables increased by $196 million to $919 million at December 31, 2018, from $723 million at December 31, 2017, primarily due to the timing of billings and collections for Airborne Sensor Systems, Security & Detection Systems, Link Training & Simulation and ISR Systems, and $10 million from acquisitions, partially offset by $11 million for foreign currency translation adjustments.

Contract assets increased by $241 million to $1,590 million at December 31, 2018, from $1,349 million at January 1, 2018, primarily due to sales exceeding billings for Commercial Aviation Solutions, ISR Systems, Space & Power Systems, Warrior Sensor Systems and Space & Sensor Systems and $5 million from acquisitions, partially offset by $10 million for foreign currency translation adjustments.

Inventories increased by $490 million to $879 million at December 31, 2018 from $389 million at December 31, 2017, primarily due to $537 million from reclassifications related to the adoption of ASC 606, partially offset by a $47 million decrease in inventories primarily due to inventory provisions and completed contracts for the TWT business.

The increase in prepaid expenses and other current assets was primarily due to milestone payments (deposits) to OEM's for aircraft procurements related to U.S. and foreign government contracts at ISR Systems.

45
The increase in net property, plant and equipment (PP&E) was primarily due to capital expenditures and $14 million of acquired PP&E from completed business acquisitions, primarily ASV Global and fair value purchase price allocation adjustments for Doss Aviation, partially offset by depreciation expense.

Goodwill increased by $193 million to $6,808 million at December 31, 2018 from $6,615 million at December 31, 2017. The table below presents the changes in goodwill by segment.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

__________________

(1) Business acquisitions for the ISRS segment included the acquisitions of the Azimuth Security and Linchpin Labs and Applied Defense Solutions businesses and the purchase price allocation adjustments for the Kigre business acquisition. Business acquisitions for the C&NS segment included the acquisitions of the ASV Global business and purchase price allocation adjustments for the Adaptive Methods business acquisition. Business acquisitions for the Electronic Systems segment included the acquisitions of the Latitude Engineering and C.K. Industrial Engineers businesses and purchase price allocation adjustments for the G-Air and Doss Aviation business acquisitions.

The increase in identifiable intangible assets was primarily due to $151 million of intangible assets recognized for the Azimuth Security and Linchpin Labs, ASV Global, Applied Defense Solutions, C.K. Industrial Engineers and Latitude Engineering business acquisitions and purchase price allocation adjustments for Doss Aviation, partially offset by amortization expense and by $4 million for foreign currency translation adjustments.

The increase in other assets from January 1, 2018 was primarily due to investments in nonconsolidated affiliates made during the year ended December 31, 2018.

The increase in accounts payable and accrued expenses was primarily due to the timing of when invoices for purchases from third party vendors and subcontractors were received and payments were made.

Deferred income taxes increased primarily due to the amortization of certain goodwill and other identifiable assets for tax purposes.

Pension Plans

L3 maintains defined benefit pension plans covering approximately 22% of employees. At December 31, 2018, L3’s projected benefit obligation (PBO), which includes accumulated benefits plus the incremental benefits attributable to projected future salary increases for covered employees, was $3,937 million and exceeded the fair value of L3’s pension plan assets of $2,840 million by $1,097 million. At December 31, 2017, L3’s PBO was $4,228 million and exceeded the fair value of L3’s pension plan assets of $3,047 million by $1,181 million. The $84 million decrease in our unfunded status was primarily due to the increase in our weighted average discount rate from 3.78% at December 31, 2017 to 4.43% at December 31, 2018, partially offset by an increase in our unfunded status due to a decrease in plan asset balances caused by negative asset returns.

The expected long-term return on plan assets assumption represents the average rate that we expect to earn over the long-term on the assets of our benefit plans, including those from dividends, interest income and capital appreciation, net of investment management fees. We utilize a third party consultant to assist in the development of the expected long-term return on plan assets, which is based on expectations regarding future long-term rates of return for the plans’ investment portfolio, with consideration given to the allocation of investments by asset class and historical and forward looking rates of return for each individual asset class. With respect to the determination of our expected long-term return on plan assets assumption for the year ended December 31, 2018, we considered: (1) a 20-year forward looking return on plan assets as developed with the assistance of our third party consultant, which is currently 7.56% for our U.S. plans and 7.25% for our Canadian plans, and (2) our historical returns. While we review historical rates of return on our plan assets, the substantial volatility in any one year can result in historical data that is less indicative of future returns. Accordingly, we give greater consideration toward forward looking returns in developing our expected long-term return on plan assets assumption. In reviewing our historical returns, we noted that the average annual return on our U.S. pension plan assets over the period since L3’s formation in 1997 through 2017, net of investment management fees and determined on an arithmetic basis, was 7.42%. Arithmetic annual averages represent the simple average returns over independent 

46
annual periods. In addition, the actual annual returns have exceeded our long-term return on plan assets assumption in 13 of the past 21 years since L3’s formation. The long-term return on plan assets assumption of 8.00% for our U.S. plans and 7.25% for our Canadian plans did not change. Based on the forward looking and historical returns on our plan assets discussed above and an allotment for active management, we believe our weighted average long-term return on plan assets assumption in 2018 of 7.92% was within a reasonable range.

We recorded net actuarial gains of $3 million in the year ended December 31, 2018, which is included in the accumulated other comprehensive loss component of shareholders' equity. Actuarial gains and losses in a period represent the difference between actual and actuarially assumed experience, primarily due to discount rates and pension plan asset returns. Actuarial gains and losses that our pension plans experience are not recognized in pension expense in the year incurred, but rather are recorded as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). The accumulated gains and losses in excess of a corridor, defined as the greater of 10% of the fair value of a plan’s assets and 10% of its projected benefit obligation, are amortized to pension expense in future periods over the estimated average remaining service periods of the covered employees or the estimated remaining lifetime of the plan participants. See Note 20 to our audited consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding our pension plans.

Our pension expense for 2018 was $96 million. We currently expect pension expense for 2019 to decrease by $67 million to approximately $29 million primarily due to the discontinuation or reduction of benefit accruals for future service covering all salaried participants in our domestic pension plans effective January 1, 2019. Other changes in pension expense include a decrease due to an increase in the weighted average discount rate, offset by increases in pension expense due to lower than expected asset returns in 2018 and a 25 basis point decrease in the long-term assumption for returns on U.S. pension plan assets from 8.0% to 7.75%.

Our pension expense for 2019 may be different from our current expectations when finalized due to a number of factors, including the effect of any future business acquisitions and divestitures for which we assume liabilities for pension benefits, changes in headcount at our businesses that sponsor pension plans, actual pension plan contributions and changes (if any) to our pension assumptions for 2019, including the discount rate, mortality rates, expected long-term return on plan assets and salary increases.

Our cash pension contributions for 2018 were $96 million, and we currently expect to contribute approximately $80 million to our pension plans in 2019. Actual 2019 pension contributions could be affected by changes in the funded status of our pension plans during 2019. A substantial portion of our pension plan contributions for L3’s businesses that are U.S. Government contractors are recoverable as allowable indirect contract costs at amounts generally equal to the annual pension contributions.

Our projected benefit obligation and annual pension expense are significantly affected by, holding all other assumptions constant, certain actuarial assumptions. The following table illustrates the sensitivity of a change in certain assumptions for our pension plans and resulting increase (decrease) to the 2019 expected pension expense and PBO at December 31, 2018.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Statement of Cash Flows

The table below provides a summary of our cash flows from (used in) operating, investing and financing activities for the periods indicated.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

47
Operating Activities — Continuing Operations

2018 Compared with 2017. We generated $1,042 million of cash from operating activities during the year ended December 31, 2018, an increase of $57 million compared with $985 million generated during the year ended December 31, 2017. The increase was primarily due to higher operating income partially offset by higher working capital requirements, primarily contract assets and milestone payments for aircraft procurements related to U.S. and foreign government contracts. The net cash from changes in operating assets and liabilities is further discussed above under “Balance Sheet.”

2017 Compared with 2016. We generated $985 million of cash from operating activities during the year ended December 31, 2017, a decrease of $37 million compared with $1,022 million generated during the year ended December 31, 2016. The decrease was primarily driven by higher income tax payments.

Interest Payments. Our cash from operating activities included interest payments on debt of $183 million for the year ended December 31, 2018, $165 million for the year ended December 31, 2017 and $162 million for the year ended December 31, 2016. Our interest expense also included amortization of deferred debt issuance costs and bond discounts, which are non-cash items.

Investing Activities — Continuing Operations

During 2018, we used $91 million of cash in investing activities, which included $535 million of cash received from the sale of Vertex Aerospace and Crestview & TCS Businesses, partially offset by acquisitions of Azimuth Security and Linchpin Labs for $185 million (net of cash acquired), ASV Global for $93 million, Applied Defense Solutions for $52 million, C.K. Industrial Engineers for $24 million and Latitude Engineering for $15 million. Furthermore, we used cash of $232 million for capital expenditures and $30 million from investments in nonconsolidated affiliates, primarily Peak Nano. 

During 2017, we used $453 million of cash in investing activities, which included $316 million for business acquisitions discussed above under “Business Acquisitions and Divestitures” and $224 million for capital expenditures, partially offset by $74 million of cash generated primarily from the sale of the property in San Carlos, California and $18 million from business divestitures.

During 2016, we used $10 million of cash in investing activities, which included $388 million for business acquisitions discussed above under “Business Acquisitions and Divestitures” and $210 million for capital expenditures, partially offset by $561 million of cash received from business divestitures (primarily NSS).

Financing Activities — Continuing Operations

Debt

At December 31, 2018, total outstanding debt was $3,321 million, compared to $3,330 million at December 31, 2017, all of which was senior debt. The decrease was due to the completion of our tender offers for $1,215 million and our redemptions for $581 million in carrying value of the 2019 Senior Notes and 2020 Senior Notes, partially offset by the issuance of $1,782 million of the 2023 Senior Notes and 2028 Senior Notes. See tables below for additional details. At December 31, 2018, there were no borrowings or letters of credit outstanding under our Credit Facility. Accordingly, we had the full availability of our $1 billion facility for future borrowings. We also had $410 million of outstanding standby letters of credit with financial institutions covering performance and financial guarantees per contractual requirements with certain customers at December 31, 2018. These standby letters of credit may be drawn upon in the event that we do not perform on certain of our contractual requirements. At December 31, 2018, our outstanding debt matures between February 15, 2021 and June 15, 2028. See Note 10 to our audited consolidated financial statements for the components of our debt at December 31, 2018.

We consider our credit rating as an important element of our capital allocation strategy, and, while no assurances can be given, we intend to maintain our investment grade credit rating. Effective October 16, 2018, our senior unsecured credit rating from both Standard and Poor’s and Fitch Ratings of BBB- was placed on CreditWatch Positive. Our senior unsecured credit rating from Moody’s Investors Service remains at Baa3 with a stable outlook.

48
Issuance of Senior Notes 

In connection with debt refinancing, on June 6, 2018, L3 issued two series of senior notes, which are unsecured senior obligations of L3. The terms of each series of senior notes are presented in the table below. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

__________________

(1) Bond discounts are recorded as a reduction to the principal amount of the notes and are amortized as interest expense over the term of the notes.  

(2) The net cash proceeds of $1,782 million (after deduction of the discount, underwriting expenses and commissions and other related expenses) plus cash on hand were used to fund the concurrent cash tender offers (the Tender Offers) for any and all of $1 billion aggregate principal amount of the 2019 Notes and $800 million aggregate principal amount of the 2020 Notes and any related redemption of notes not tendered in the Tender Offers. 

(3) The 2023 Notes may be redeemed at any time prior to May 15, 2023 (one month prior to maturity), and the 2028 Notes may be redeemed at any time prior to March 15, 2028 (three months prior to maturity), at the option of L3, in whole or in part, at a redemption price equal to the greater of: (i) 100% of the principal amount, or (ii) the present value of the remaining principal and interest payments discounted to the date of redemption, on a semi-annual basis, at the Treasury Rate (as defined in the indentures governing the senior notes), plus the spread indicated in the table above. In addition, if the 2023 Notes and the 2028 Notes are redeemed at any time on or after May 15, 2023 and March 15, 2028, respectively, the redemption price would be equal to 100% of the principal amount. 

(4) Upon the occurrence of a change in control (as defined in the indentures governing the senior notes) along with a “change of control triggering event” (generally described as the applicable series of senior notes ceasing to be rated investment grade, as defined in the indentures governing the senior notes), each holder of the notes will have the right to require L3 to repurchase all or any part of such holder’s notes at an offer price in cash equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the date of purchase. 

Repurchases, Redemptions, and Maturities of Senior Notes

The repurchases, redemptions and maturities of senior notes are presented in the table below. See Note 10 to our audited consolidated financial statements for additional information on the redemption provisions of our outstanding senior notes.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

__________________

(1) The debt retirement charge includes $1 million which represents the non-cash retirement of associated unamortized debt issue costs and discounts.

(2) Cash payments exclude $1 million of tender offer fees. The debt retirement charge includes $1 million of tender offer fees and $3 million which represents the non-cash retirement of associated unamortized debt issue costs and discounts.

Debt Covenants and Other Provisions. The Credit Facility and senior notes contain financial and/or other restrictive covenants. See Note 10 to our audited consolidated financial statements for a description of our debt, related financial covenants and cross default provisions. We were in compliance with our financial and other restrictive covenants at December 31, 2018. 

Guarantees. The borrowings under the Credit Facility are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by L3 and by substantially all of the material 100% owned domestic subsidiaries of L3 on an unsecured senior basis. The payment of principal and premium, 

49
if any, and interest on the senior notes is fully and unconditionally guaranteed, jointly and severally, by L3’s material 100% owned domestic subsidiaries that guarantee any of its other indebtedness. The guarantees of the Credit Facility and the senior notes rank pari passu with each other. 

Equity

During 2018 and 2017, L3’s Board of Directors authorized the following quarterly cash dividends:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

__________________[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

L3 repurchased $322 million, or 1.6 million shares, of its common stock during the year ended December 31, 2018, $180 million, or 1.0 million shares, of its common stock during the year ended December 31, 2017 and $373 million, or 3.0 million shares, of its common stock during the year ended December 31, 2016. 

L3 did not repurchase any shares of common stock from September 29, 2018 through February 14, 2019. The last repurchase of shares was in July 2018. In connection with the planned merger with Harris Corporation, L3 suspended the share repurchase program.

On February 12, 2019, L3 announced that its Board of Directors increased L3’s regular quarterly cash dividend from $0.80 per share to $0.85 per share, or 6%, payable on March 15, 2019, to shareholders of record at the close of business on March 1, 2019.

On February 14, 2019, the number of holders of record of L3’s common stock was approximately 200,573 and the closing price of L3’s common stock as reported by the NYSE was $209.04 per share.

50
Contractual Obligations

The table below presents our estimated total contractual obligations from our continuing operations at December 31, 2018, including the amounts expected to be paid or settled for each of the periods indicated below.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

__________________

(1) Represents principal amount of debt and only includes scheduled principal payments.

(2) Represents expected interest payments on L3’s debt balance at December 31, 2018 using the stated interest rate on our fixed rate debt, assuming that current borrowings remain outstanding to the contractual maturity date.

(3) Non-cancelable operating leases are presented net of estimated sublease rental income.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(5) Represents open purchase orders at December 31, 2018 for amounts expected to be paid for goods or services that are legally binding.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

We also may enter into industrial cooperation agreements, sometimes referred to as offset agreements, as a condition to obtaining orders for our products and services from certain customers in foreign countries. These agreements are designed to enhance the social and economic environment of the foreign country by requiring the contractor to promote investment in the country. Offset agreements may be satisfied through activities that do not require us to use cash, including transferring technology, providing manufacturing and other consulting support to in-country projects and the purchase by third parties of supplies from in-country vendors. These agreements also may be satisfied through our use of cash for such activities as purchasing supplies from in-country vendors, providing financial support for in-country projects, establishment of ventures with local companies and building or leasing facilities for in-country operations. We typically do not commit to offset agreements until orders for our products or services are definitive. The amounts ultimately applied against our offset agreements are based on negotiations with the customer and typically require cash outlays that represent only a fraction of the original amount in the offset agreement. The costs to satisfy our offset obligations are included in the estimates of our total costs to complete the contract and may impact our profitability and cash flows. The ability to recover investments that we make are generally dependent upon the successful operation of ventures that we do not control and may involve products and services that are dissimilar to our business activities. At December 31, 2018, the remaining obligations under our outstanding offset agreements totaled $1.0 billion, which primarily relate to our ISRS segment, some of which extend through 2028. To the extent we have entered into purchase obligations at December 31, 2018 that also satisfy offset agreements, those amounts are included in the preceding table. Offset programs usually extend over several years and may provide for penalties, estimated at approximately $84 million at December 31, 2018, in the event we fail to perform in accordance with offset requirements. While historically we have not been required to pay material penalties, resolution of offset requirements are often the result of negotiations and subjective judgments.

51
Off Balance Sheet Arrangements

The table below presents our estimated total contingent commitments and other guarantees at December 31, 2018, including the amounts expected to be paid or settled for each of the periods indicated below.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

__________________

(1) Represents outstanding letters of credit with financial institutions covering performance and financial guarantees per contractual requirements with certain customers. These letters of credit may be drawn upon in the event of L3’s nonperformance.

(2) The total amount does not include residual value guarantees for three real estate lease agreements, expiring on August 31, 2020, that are accounted for as operating leases. We have the right to exercise options under the lease agreements to purchase both properties for $45 million on or before August 31, 2020. See Note 19 to our audited consolidated financial statements for a further description of these leases.

(3) The total amount does not include the fair value of the contingent consideration liability for the future potential earn-out payments related to the MacH, Open Water Power and Latitude Engineering acquisitions. See Note 13 to our audited consolidated financial statements for additional information on the fair value of the contingent consideration.

(4) The total does not include future minimum payments under non-cancelable operating leases. See Note 19 to our audited consolidated financial statements for a further description of these leases.

Legal Proceedings and Contingencies

We are engaged in providing products and services under contracts with the U.S. Government and, to a lesser degree, under foreign government contracts, some of which are funded by the U.S. Government. All such contracts are subject to extensive legal and regulatory requirements, and, periodically, agencies of the U.S. Government investigate whether such contracts were and are being conducted in accordance with these requirements. Under U.S. Government procurement regulations, an indictment by a federal grand jury, or an administrative finding against us as to our present responsibility to be a U.S. Government contractor or subcontractor, could result in suspension for a period of time from eligibility for awards of new government contracts or task orders or in a loss of export privileges, and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. A conviction, or an administrative finding that satisfies the requisite level of seriousness, could result in debarment from contracting with the federal government for a specified term and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. We are currently cooperating with the U.S. Government on several investigations, none of which we anticipate will have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or cash flows. Also, we have been periodically subject to litigation, government investigations, proceedings, claims or assessments and various contingent liabilities incidental to our business. We accrue for these contingencies when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. For a description of our legal proceedings and contingencies, see Note 19 to our audited consolidated financial statements.

We continually assess our obligations with respect to applicable environmental protection laws. While it is difficult to determine the timing and ultimate cost that we will incur to comply with these laws, based upon available internal and external assessments, with respect to those environmental loss contingencies of which we are aware, we believe that even without considering potential insurance recoveries, if any, there are no environmental loss contingencies that, in the aggregate, would be material to our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows.

Derivative Financial Instruments and Other Market Risk

Included in our derivative financial instruments are foreign currency forward contracts. All of our derivative financial instruments that are sensitive to market risk are entered into for purposes other than trading.

Interest Rate Risk. Our Credit Facility is subject to variable interest and is therefore sensitive to changes in interest rates. The interest rates on the senior notes are fixed-rate and are not affected by changes in interest rates. Additional data on our debt obligations and our applicable borrowing spreads included in the interest rates we would pay on borrowings under the Credit Facility, if any, are provided in Note 10 to our audited consolidated financial statements.

Foreign Currency Exchange Risk. Our U.S. and foreign businesses enter into contracts with customers, subcontractors or vendors that are denominated in currencies other than their functional currencies. To protect the functional currency equivalent cash flows associated with certain of these contracts, we enter into foreign currency forward contracts, which are generally 

52
designated and accounted for as cash flow hedges. At December 31, 2018, our foreign currency forward contracts had maturities ranging through 2023, a notional value of $415 million and a corresponding net fair value that was a liability of $16 million.

Accounting Standards Issued and Not Yet Implemented

For a discussion of accounting standards issued and not yet implemented, see Note 2 to our audited consolidated financial statements.

Inflation

The effect of inflation on our sales and earnings has not been significant. Although a majority of our sales are made under long-term contracts (revenue arrangements), the selling prices of such contracts, established for deliveries in the future, generally reflect estimated costs to be incurred in these future periods. In addition, some of our contracts provide for price adjustments through cost escalation clauses.

Forward-Looking Statements

Certain of the matters discussed concerning our operations, cash flows, financial position, economic performance and financial condition, including in particular, the likelihood of our success in developing and expanding our business and the realization of sales from backlog, include forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act and Section 21E of the Exchange Act.

All statements other than historical facts may be forward-looking statements, such as “may,” “will,” “should,” “likely,” “projects,” “expects,” “anticipates,” “intends,” “plans,” “believes,” “estimates,” and similar expressions are used to identify forward-looking statements. We caution investors that these statements are subject to risks and uncertainties many of which are difficult to predict and generally beyond our control that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in, or implied or projected by, the forward-looking information and statements. Some of the factors that could cause actual results to differ include, but are not limited to, the following: the occurrence of any event, change or other circumstances that could give us or Harris the right to terminate the definitive merger agreement between us and Harris; the outcome of any legal proceedings that have been or may be instituted against us, Harris or our respective directors with respect to the merger; the risk that we or Harris may not obtain the required stockholder approvals on the expected schedule or at all; the ability to obtain regulatory approvals and satisfy other closing conditions to the merger in a timely manner or at all, including the risk that regulatory approvals required for the merger are not obtained or are obtained subject to conditions that are not anticipated; delay in closing the merger; difficulties and delays in integrating our business with Harris business or fully realizing anticipated cost savings and other benefits; business disruptions from the proposed merger that may harm our business or Harris business, including current plans and operations; any announcement relating to the proposed transaction could have adverse effects on our ability or the ability of Harris to retain and hire key personnel or maintain relationships with suppliers and customers, including the U.S. government and other governments, or on our or Harris operating results and businesses generally; the risk that the announcement of the proposed transaction could have adverse effects on the market price of our common stock or Harris common stock and the uncertainty as to the long-term value of the common stock of the combined company following the merger; certain restrictions during the pendency of the merger that may impact our ability or the ability of Harris to pursue certain business opportunities or strategic transactions; the business, economic and political conditions in the markets in which we and Harris operate; our dependence on the defense industry; backlog processing and program slips resulting from delayed awards and/or funding from the DoD and other major customers; the U.S. Government fiscal situation; changes in DoD budget levels and spending priorities; our reliance on contracts with a limited number of customers and the possibility of termination of government contracts by unilateral government action or for failure to perform; the extensive legal and regulatory requirements surrounding many of our contracts; our ability to retain our existing business and related contracts; our ability to successfully compete for and win new business, or, identify, acquire and integrate additional businesses; our ability to maintain and improve our operating margin; the availability of government funding and changes in customer requirements for our products and services; the consequences of geo-political events, including Brexit; the outcome of litigation matters; results of audits by U.S. Government agencies and of ongoing governmental investigations; our significant amount of debt and the restrictions contained in our debt agreements and actions taken by rating agencies that could result in a downgrade of our debt; our ability to continue to recruit, retain and train our employees; actual future interest rates, volatility and other assumptions used in the determination of pension benefits and equity based compensation, as well as the market performance of benefit plan assets; our collective bargaining agreements; our ability to successfully negotiate contracts with labor unions and our ability to favorably resolve labor disputes should they arise; the business, economic and political conditions in the markets in which we operate; the risk that our commercial aviation products and services businesses are affected by a downturn in global demand for air travel or a reduction in commercial aircraft Original Equipment Manufacturer (OEM) production rates; the DoD’s Better Buying Power and other efficiency initiatives; events beyond our control such as acts of terrorism; our ability to perform contracts on schedule; our international operations including currency risks and compliance with foreign laws; our extensive use 

53
of fixed-price type revenue arrangements; the rapid change of technology and high level of competition in which our businesses participate; risks relating to technology and data security; our introduction of new products into commercial markets or our investments in civil and commercial products or companies; the impact on our business of improper conduct by our employees, agents or business partners; goodwill impairments and the fair values of our assets; and the ultimate resolution of contingent matters, claims and investigations relating to acquired businesses, and the impact on the final purchase price allocations.

In addition, for a discussion of other risks and uncertainties that could impair our results of operations or financial condition, see “Part I — Item 1A — Risk Factors” and Note 19 to our audited consolidated financial statements, in each case included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018 and any material updates to these factors contained in any of our future filings.

Readers of this document are cautioned that our forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and the actual results or developments may differ materially from the expectations expressed in the forward-looking statements.

As for the forward-looking statements that relate to future financial results and other projections, actual results will be different due to the inherent uncertainties of estimates, forecasts and projections and may be better or worse than projected and such differences could be material. Given these uncertainties, you should not place any reliance on these forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements also represent our estimates and assumptions only as of the date that they were made. We expressly disclaim a duty to provide updates to these forward-looking statements, and the estimates and assumptions associated with them, after the date of this filing, to reflect events or changes in circumstances or changes in expectations or the occurrence of anticipated events.

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk