Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

Market Risk and Credit Risk

Certain of the Company’s revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities are exposed to the impact of interest rate changes and fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and equity markets.

Interest Rate Risk and Credit Risk

Interest income generated from the Company’s cash investments as well as invested fiduciary funds will vary with the general level of interest rates.

The Company had the following investments subject to variable interest rates: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Based on the above balances, if short-term interest rates increased or decreased by 10%, or 15 basis points, over the full year, annual interest income, including interest earned on fiduciary funds, would increase or decrease by approximately $6 million.

In addition to interest rate risk, our cash investments and fiduciary fund investments are subject to potential loss of value due to counter-party credit risk. To minimize this risk, the Company and its subsidiaries invest pursuant to a Board approved investment policy. The policy mandates the preservation of principal and liquidity and requires broad diversification with counter-party limits assigned based primarily on credit rating and type of investment. The Company carefully monitors its cash and fiduciary fund investments and will further restrict the portfolio as appropriate to market conditions. The majority of cash and fiduciary fund investments are invested in short-term bank deposits and liquid money market funds.

Foreign Currency Risk

The translated values of revenue and expense from the Company’s international operations are subject to fluctuations due to changes in currency exchange rates. The non-U.S. based revenue that is exposed to foreign exchange fluctuations is approximately 52% of total revenue. We periodically use forward contracts and options to limit foreign currency exchange rate exposure on net income and cash flows for specific, clearly defined transactions arising in the ordinary course of business. Although the Company has significant revenue generated in foreign locations which is subject to foreign exchange rate fluctuations, in most cases both the foreign currency revenue and expenses are in the functional currency of the foreign location. As such, under normal circumstances, the U.S. dollar translation of both the revenues and expenses, as well as the potentially offsetting movements of various currencies against the U.S. dollar, generally tends to mitigate the impact on net operating income of foreign currency risk. However, there have been periods where the impact was not mitigated due to external market factors, and external macroeconomic events, such as uncertainty regarding the impact of "Brexit" in the United Kingdom, may result in greater foreign exchange rate fluctuations in the future. If foreign exchange rates of major currencies (Euro, Sterling, Australian dollar and Canadian dollar) moved 10% in the same direction against the U.S. dollar compared with the foreign exchange rates in 2018, the Company estimates net operating income would increase or decrease by approximately $56 million. The Company has exposure to approximately 80 foreign currencies overall. In Continental Europe, the largest amount of revenue from renewals for the Risk & Insurance Services segment occurs in the first quarter. 

JLT Transaction

The purchase price of the JLT Transaction is denominated in GBP. To hedge the risk of appreciation in GBP, the Company entered into an FX Contract in September 2018, which is discussed in Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements. For each 1% increase or decrease in the GBP/U.S. dollar exchange rate, the fair value of the FX Contract will increase (dollar weakens) or decrease (dollar strengthens) by approximately $70 million.

54

Equity Price Risk

As discussed in Note 18 to the consolidated financial statements, effective January 1, 2018, the Company adopted a new accounting standard that requires equity investments with readily determinable market values to be measured at fair value with changes in fair value recognized in net income.

The Company holds investments in both public and private companies as well as private equity funds, including investments of approximately $146 million that are valued using readily determinable fair values and approximately $75 million of investments without readily determinable fair values. The Company also has investments of approximately $287 million that are accounted for using the equity method, including the Company's investment in Alexander Forbes. The investments are subject to risk of decline in market value, which, if determined to be other than temporary for assets without readily determinable fair values, could result in realized impairment losses. The Company periodically reviews the carrying value of such investments to determine if any valuation adjustments are appropriate under the applicable accounting pronouncements.

The Company owns approximately 33% of the common stock of Alexander Forbes, a South African company listed on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange, which it purchased in 2014 for 7.50 South African Rand per share. The shares of AF have been trading below the Company’s carrying value since November of 2017, but had traded within 10% of the Company’s carrying value through much of the first quarter of 2018. In May 2018, the trading price declined to 30% to 35% below the Company’s cost and remained at the discounted level through the third quarter of 2018. The Company considered several factors in assessing the carrying value of its investment in AF, including its financial position, the near- and long-term prospects of AF and the broader South African economy and capital markets, the length of time and extent to which the market value was below cost and the Company’s intent and ability to retain the investment for a sufficient period of time to allow for anticipated recovery in market value. However, based on the duration of time and the extent to which the shares traded below their cost, the Company could not develop sufficient objective evidence to support a recovery of the price in the relatively near future. As such, the Company concluded the decline in value of the investment was other than temporary and recorded a charge of $83 million in 2018. As of December 31, 2018, the carrying value of the Company’s investment in Alexander Forbes was approximately $144 million. As of December 31, 2018, the market value of the approximately 443 million shares of Alexander Forbes owned by the Company, based on the December 31, 2018 closing share price of 5.14 South African Rand per share, was approximately $159 million.

Other

A number of lawsuits and regulatory proceedings are pending. See Note 16 ("Claims, Lawsuits and Other Contingencies") to the consolidated financial statements included in this report.

55

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA