PART I

Item 1.Business.

Overview

We are a global business that develops, manufactures, markets and distributes specialty pharmaceutical products and therapies. Our Specialty Brands segment's areas of focus include autoimmune and rare diseases in specialty areas like neurology, rheumatology, nephrology, pulmonology and ophthalmology; immunotherapy and neonatal respiratory critical care therapies; and analgesics. Our Specialty Generics and Amitiza segment includes specialty generic drugs, active pharmaceutical ingredients ("API(s)") and Amitiza® (lubiprostone) ("Amitiza"). 

We continue to execute on Mallinckrodt’s ongoing transformation to become an innovation-driven specialty pharmaceuticals growth company through a series of strategic acquisitions and divestitures, developing strong commercial platforms and an increasingly robust pipeline. In doing so, our emphasis has evolved to focus on a development portfolio of treatments focused on improving outcomes for underserved patients with severe and critical conditions.

On December 6, 2018, we announced our plans to spin off a new company consisting of the Specialty Generics/API business and the Amitiza product to our shareholders ("the Separation"). The Separation is expected to create two independent, appropriately capitalized, publicly traded companies – one focused on innovative specialty pharmaceutical brands, the other concentrated primarily in niche specialty generic products and API manufacturing – each positioned to optimize future success as they pursue independent growth strategies. We anticipate that the transaction will be in the form of a distribution of new publicly traded stock in the new company that is intended to be generally tax-free for United States ("U.S.") federal income tax purposes to our shareholders. Completion of the transaction is expected to be subject to certain conditions, including, among others, receipt of regulatory approvals, assurance as to the tax-free status of the spin-off of the business to our shareholders, the effectiveness of a Form 10 registration statement to be filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") and final approval by our Board of Directors. We currently expect completion of the transaction in the second half of 2019; however, there can be no assurance regarding the ultimate timing of the proposed transaction or that the transaction will be completed.

Beginning in the first quarter through the third quarter of fiscal 2018, the historical financial results attributable to "the Specialty Generics Disposal Group" were reflected in our interim condensed consolidated financial statements as discontinued operations. The Specialty Generics Disposal Group included (1) our Specialty Generics business comprised of what was our Specialty Generics segment in fiscal 2017, with the exception of BioVectra, Inc. - our wholly-owned subsidiary that operates a contract manufacturing business in Canada ("BioVectra"); (2) certain of our non-promoted brands business, which was previously reflected in our Specialty Brands segment; and (3) our ongoing, post-divestiture supply agreement with the acquirer of our contrast media and delivery systems ("CMDS") business, which was reflected in our Other non-operating segment. 

As a result of the Separation announcement, the Specialty Generics Disposal Group no longer met the requirements to be classified as held-for-sale, and the historical financial results attributable to the Specialty Generics Disposal Group are now reflected in our consolidated financial statements as continuing operations for fiscal 2018. 

During the three months ended December 28, 2018, the Specialty Generics Disposal Group was reclassified to held and used after being classified as held-for-sale since February 2018. In accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. ("GAAP"), depreciation and amortization are not recorded during the period in which a disposal group is classified as held-for-sale. When the disposal group was reclassified to held and used, it was measured at its carrying amount before it was classified as held-for-sale, adjusted for depreciation and amortization expense that would have been recognized had the disposal group been continuously classified as held and used. The effect of the required adjustment has been reflected in income from continuing operations during the fourth quarter of 2018, the period in which the held-for-sale criteria were no longer met. 

For further information on our products and segments, refer to "Our Businesses and Product Strategies" within this Item 1. Business.

Fiscal Year

We report our results based on a "52-53 week" year ending on the last Friday of December. Fiscal 2018 and 2017 each consisted of 52 weeks and 2016 consisted of 53 weeks. On May 17, 2016, our Board of Directors approved a change in our fiscal year end to the last Friday in December from the last Friday in September. The change in fiscal year became effective for our 2017 fiscal year, which began on December 31, 2016 and ended on December 29, 2017. As a result of the change in fiscal year end, we filed a Transition Report on Form 10-Q on February 7, 2017 covering the period from October 1, 2016 through December 30, 2016 ("the three months ended December 30, 2016") with the comparable period from September 26, 2015 through December 25, 2015 ("the three months ended December 25, 2015"). Fiscal 2016 covers the period from September 26, 2015 through September 30, 2016.

4

History and Development

Our development can be traced to the founding of G. Mallinckrodt & Co. in 1867 (predecessor of today's API business). Over the past 150+ years, Mallinckrodt has grown to become a global leader in specialty pharmaceuticals on a quest to improve the lives of patients around the world.

Mallinckrodt plc was incorporated in Ireland on January 9, 2013 for the purpose of holding the pharmaceuticals business of Covidien plc ("Covidien"). On June 28, 2013, Covidien shareholders of record received one ordinary share of Mallinckrodt for every eight ordinary shares of Covidien held as of the record date, June 19, 2013, and the pharmaceuticals business of Covidien was transferred to Mallinckrodt plc, thereby completing our legal separation from Covidien. 

Our principal executive offices are located at Three Lotus Park, The Causeway, Staines-Upon-Thames, Surrey, TW18 3AG, United Kingdom ("U.K."). In addition, we have other locations in the U.S., most notably our corporate shared services office in Hazelwood, Missouri, our Specialty Brands commercial headquarters in Bedminster, New Jersey and our Specialty Generics and Amitiza headquarters and technical development center in Webster Groves, Missouri.

Our Strategic Vision

Our Mission: Managing complexity. Improving lives. With this as our guide, our strategic vision is clear:

While we have set forth our strategic vision above, our business involves numerous risks and uncertainties which may prevent us from executing our strategies. For a more complete description of the risks associated with our business, see Item 1A. Risk Factors included within this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Our Businesses and Products

As a result of the planned Separation, we reassessed our segments based on the financial information viewed by the Chief Executive Officer ("CEO"), who is our chief operating decision maker ("CODM"), for the purposes of making resource allocation decisions and assessing the performance of the business. We have identified two reportable segments that align with the operations of the two independent, publicly traded companies anticipated post-separation: (1) Specialty Brands and (2) Specialty Generics and Amitiza, which are further described below:

•Specialty Brands includes innovative specialty pharmaceutical brands; and

•Specialty Generics and Amitiza includes niche specialty generic drug products, APIs and Amitiza.

We measure and evaluate our operating segments based on segment net sales and operating income. Information regarding the product portfolios and business strategies of these segments is included in the following discussion. 

5

Specialty Brands 

Our Specialty Brands segment markets branded pharmaceutical products for autoimmune and rare disease in the specialty areas of neurology, rheumatology, nephrology, pulmonology and ophthalmology; immunotherapy and neonatal respiratory critical care therapies; and analgesics. Our diversified, in-line portfolio of both marketed and development products is focused on patients with significant unmet medical needs. In the past few years, we have substantially expanded our Specialty Brands portfolio, inclusive of our pipeline, through our business development and licensing transactions.

Our long-term strategy is to increase patient access and appropriate utilization of our existing products; develop new therapies and next-generation devices for recently acquired products; advance pipeline products and bring them to market; and selectively acquire or license products that are strategically aligned with our product portfolio to expand the size and profitability of our Specialty Brands segment. 

We promote our branded products directly to physicians in their offices, hospitals and ambulatory surgical centers (including neurologists, rheumatologists, nephrologists, pulmonologists, ophthalmologists, neonatologists, surgeons and pharmacy directors) with our own direct sales force of approximately 300 sales representatives as of December 28, 2018. These products are purchased by independent wholesale drug distributors, specialty pharmaceutical distributors, retail pharmacy chains and hospital procurement departments, among others, and are eventually dispensed by prescription to patients. We also contract directly with payer organizations to ensure reimbursement for our products to patients that are prescribed our products by their physicians. 

The following is a description of select products in our Specialty Brands product portfolio:

•H.P. Acthar® Gel (repository corticotropin injection) ("H.P. Acthar Gel") is an injectable drug approved by the U.S. Federal Drug Administration ("FDA") for use in 19 indications. The product currently generates substantially all of its net sales from ten of the on-label indications, including adjunctive therapy for short-term administration for an acute episode or exacerbation in rheumatoid arthritis ("RA"), including juvenile RA; monotherapy for the treatment of infantile spasms in infants and children under 2 years of age; treatment during an exacerbation or as maintenance therapy in selected cases of systemic lupus erythematosus; treatment of acute exacerbations of multiple sclerosis ("MS") in adults; including a diuresis or a remission of proteinuria in nephrotic syndrome ("NS") without uremia of the idiopathic type or that due to lupus; treatment during an exacerbation or as maintenance therapy in selected cases of systemic dermatomyositis (polymyositis); treatment of symptomatic sarcoidosis; and treatment of severe acute and chronic allergic and inflammatory processes involving the eye and its adnexa including uveitis. We may initiate commercial efforts for other approved indications where there is high unmet medical need. The currently approved indications of H.P. Acthar Gel are not subject to patent or other exclusivity.

Since acquiring H.P. Acthar Gel, we have initiated critical placebo-controlled trials in an effort to expand the product's evidence base and strengthen its clinical profile. There are currently eight ongoing Company-sponsored studies for which the areas of focus include focal segmental glomerular sclerosis ("FSGS") (a nephrotic condition), MS, pulmonary sarcoidosis, RA, systemic lupus erythematosus, uveitis, and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis ("ALS"), which is not a currently approved indication. We continue our efforts to extend the value of the product through Phase 4 studies and product enhancements including the ongoing development of the Acthar self-injection device. For example, our Phase 4 RA trial reached 100% completion of the open-label portion of the study with 259 patients enrolled, and primary end point results observed were consistent with those observed at the 50% milestone assessment, which showed 61% of 100 patients achieved low disease activity at 12 weeks. Enrollment for the Phase 2 study to evaluate H.P. Acthar Gel for patients with ALS, a progressive and fatal neurodegenerative disorder, continues to progress and has surpassed the 25% enrollment target. 

•Inomax® (nitric oxide) gas, for inhalation ("Inomax") is a vasodilator that, in conjunction with ventilatory support and other appropriate agents, is indicated to improve oxygenation and reduce the need for extracorporeal membrane oxygenation in term and near-term (>34 weeks) neonates with hypoxic respiratory failure ("HRF") associated with clinical or echocardiographic evidence of pulmonary hypertension. Inomax is marketed as part of the Inomax Total Care Package, which includes the drug product, proprietary drug-delivery systems, technical and clinical assistance, 24/7/365 customer service, emergency supply and delivery and on-site training. The Inomax Total Care Package maintains a number of patents, the latest of which expire in 2034, that contain claims to nitric oxide delivery systems expressly required by the drug labeling for administration of Inomax, covering a number of important functions, including patient safety and product performance features. Development continues for the next-generation Inomax device which will offer a compact, portable design that we believe will further enhance the safety of the product, as well as the simplicity and flexibility of use in a number of settings. There has been recent patent litigation related to the Inomax product, as further described in Note 20 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included within Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

6

•Ofirmev® (acetaminophen) injection ("Ofirmev") is a proprietary intravenous formulation of acetaminophen indicated for the management of mild to moderate pain, the management of moderate to severe pain with adjunctive opioid analgesics and the reduction of fever. This product is marketed to hospitals and ambulatory surgical centers and provides us with an expanded presence in these channels. Ofirmev is protected by two patents listed in the Orange Book: Approved Drug Products with Therapeutic Equivalence ("the Orange Book"), one of which expired in August 2017 and the other will expire in June 2021. Settlement agreements have been reached in association with certain challenges to these patents, which allow for generic competition to Ofirmev in December 2020, or earlier under certain circumstances.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•Pipeline products - We have multiple products in various stages of development, which we believe will provide long-term organic growth and diversification. The status of each of these products is shown below. For a more detailed description of these pipeline products, refer to the Research and Development ("R&D") section in this Item 1. Business.

 Specialty Generics and Amitiza

Our Specialty Generics and Amitiza segment is focused on providing our customers high-quality specialty generic drugs, APIs and Amitiza, a leading product in the gastrointestinal market. Specialty Generics include a variety of product formulations containing hydrocodone-containing tablets, oxycodone-containing tablets and several other controlled substances, all of which are significant products for the treatment of pain. Our near-term pipeline in this segment includes the expected launch of up to five new products in fiscal 2019, with additional products in development long-term. Within this segment, we provide bulk API products, including opioids and acetaminophen, to a wide variety of pharmaceutical companies, many of which are direct competitors of our Specialty Generics finished dosage business. In addition, we use our API for internal manufacturing of our finished dosage products.

7

We are among the world's largest manufacturers of bulk acetaminophen and the only producer of acetaminophen in the North American and European regions. We manufacture controlled substances under the Drug Enforcement Administration ("DEA") quota restrictions and in calendar 2018 we estimated that we received approximately 38% of the total DEA quota provided to the U.S. market for the controlled substances we manufacture. We believe that our market position in the API business and allocation of opioid raw materials from the DEA is a competitive advantage for our API business and, in turn, for our Specialty Generics and Amitiza segment. The strategy for our API business is based on manufacturing large volumes of high-quality product and customized product offerings, responsive technical services and timely delivery to our customers.

We market these products principally through independent channels, including drug distributors, specialty pharmaceutical distributors, retail pharmacy chains, food store chains with pharmacies, pharmaceutical benefit managers that have mail order pharmacies and hospital buying groups.

We produce lubiprostone for use in Amitiza capsules, a branded gastrointestinal product approved in the U.S. and certain other geographies, for various forms of constipation. We own the registrations and manufacturing rights for Amitiza, and contract with third parties for commercialization of the product in Japan and the U.S. 

The following is a list of significant products and product families in our Specialty Generics and Amitiza segment:

•hydrocodone (API) and hydrocodone-containing tablets;

•oxycodone (API) and oxycodone-containing tablets;

•acetaminophen (API) products;

•other controlled substances; and

•Amitiza.

Research and Development

We devote significant resources to the R&D of products and proprietary drug technologies. We expect to continue to invest in R&D activities, both for existing products and the development of new portfolio assets. We intend to focus our R&D investments principally in the specialty pharmaceuticals areas, specifically investments to support our Specialty Brands portfolio, where we believe there is the greatest opportunity for growth and profitability. 

Specialty Brands. We devote significant R&D resources to our branded products, both inline and pipeline. Our R&D investments center on building a diverse, durable portfolio of innovative therapies that provide value to patients, physicians and payers. Our strategy focuses on growth, including pipeline opportunities related to early- and late-stage development products to meet the needs of underserved patient populations, where we execute on the development process and perform clinical trials to support regulatory approval of new products. 

Data generation is an important strategic driver for our key products, both inline and in development, as they extend evidence in approved uses, label enhancements and new indications. Our data strategy is realized through investments in both clinical and health economic activities. We are committed to supporting research that helps advance the understanding and treatment of a variety of different disease states that will further the understanding and development of our currently marketed products, including H.P. Acthar Gel, Inomax, Ofirmev and Therakos.

The most significant development products in our pipeline are these:

•Terlipressin is being investigated for the treatment of hepatorenal syndrome ("HRS") type 1, an acute, rare and life-threatening condition requiring hospitalization, with no currently approved therapy in the U.S. or Canada. During fiscal 2018 we achieved more than 75% of our total enrollment for the ongoing Phase 3 clinical study to evaluate the efficacy and safety of terlipressin (for injection) in subjects with HRS type 1. This Phase 3 clinical study is being conducted under an FDA Special Protocol Assessment. We continue to make progress on this clinical study as we proceed to full enrollment. Results of a pooled analysis of clinical trial data suggests that treatment with Terlipressin is particularly beneficial for patients with HRS type 1 and low Mean Arterial Pressure. We expect the Phase 3 study for HRS type 1 to be completed by the second half of 2019. We anticipate being able to submit the new drug application ("NDA") filing to the FDA in 2020. We also expect to complete a second Phase 3 study for this development product.

•StrataGraft regenerative skin tissue is an investigational product in Phase 3 development for treatment of severe, deep partial thickness burns and Phase 2 development for treatment of severe, full thickness burns. In 2012, the FDA granted StrataGraft orphan product status, conferring seven years exclusivity to be applied upon approval of the drug. The product is being developed as a biologic to be filed under a biologic license application that would confer regulatory protection until 2032. In June 2017, we announced the enrollment of the first patient in our Phase 3 clinical study to evaluate the efficacy and safety of StrataGraft regenerative skin tissue in the promotion of autologous skin regeneration of complex skin defects due to thermal 

8

burns that contain intact dermal elements. In July 2017, we announced that StrataGraft was among the first products to be designated as a Regenerative Medicine Advanced Therapy ("RMAT") by the FDA under the provisions of the 21st Century Cures Act. The RMAT designation allows for earlier and increased interactions with the FDA, including discussions of whether priority review and/or accelerated approval would be appropriate based on surrogate or intermediate endpoints that would be reasonably likely to predict long-term clinical benefit; or reliance upon data obtained from a meaningful number of sites. We are currently more than 75% enrolled for the Phase 3 study and given the RMAT designation, we will continue to engage with the FDA to evaluate an early submission if the data supports it. We expect to complete the Phase 3 trial for deep partial thickness in the second half of 2019 and target filing with the FDA by the end of 2019 or early 2020.

Building upon the science of StrataGraft, we also maintain ExpressGraft-C9T1 skin tissue, a biologically-active skin tissue with a fully stratified epithelial compartment comprised of human keratinocytes and a dermal compartment containing fibroblasts. This tissue has been genetically modified to up-regulate production of a naturally occurring antimicrobial. It is being evaluated in a first-in-human prospective, open-label trial focused on assessing the safety and tolerability in the treatment of patients with diabetic foot ulcers, a type of wound that is often difficult to heal. 

•Stannsoporfin, a heme oxygenase inhibitor, is under investigation for its potential to reduce the production of bilirubin. If approved, stannsoporfin is expected to be a highly effective therapy used for near- and full-term infants at risk of developing complications associated with severe jaundice. This new treatment option may reduce the number of newborns advancing to bilirubin levels requiring more intrusive, less specific therapies, most often blood exchange transfusion and less frequently intravenous immunoglobululin infusions, both of which have a more complex and lengthy administration than stannsoporfin's single injection. Stannsoporfin, if approved, may also decrease the risks associated with other treatments (i.e., bilirubin rebound) and the risk of prolonged and/or severe bilirubin elevation, which can impact central nervous system development. In December 2016, stannsoporfin was granted fast track designation by the FDA. 

On May 3, 2018, in a joint meeting, the FDA's Gastrointestinal Drugs Advisory Committee and Pediatric Advisory Committee (the "Advisory Committee") recommended that the risk benefit profile of our stannsoporfin in-process research and development ("IPR&D") product does not support approval for the treatment of newborns ≥35 weeks of gestational age with indicators of hemolysis who are at risk of developing hyperbilirubinemia (severe jaundice). On August 9, 2018, we received a complete response letter from the FDA related to our NDA for stannsoporfin. In the letter, the FDA provided guidance regarding areas of further evaluation for resubmitting the stannsoporfin NDA for the treatment of newborns ≥35 weeks of gestational age with indicators of hemolysis who are at risk of developing hyperbilirubinemia. 

In January 2019, we participated in a Type A meeting with the FDA, where we had meaningful discourse regarding the population, trial design and other issues outlined in the complete response letter related to stannsoporfin. We plan to refine the pivotal registration trial design and work with the FDA toward agreement on a Special Protocol Assessment. We are optimistic that we may advance a new therapy specifically targeting a higher risk population of infants suffering from severe hyperbilirubinemia and who are failing more intensive phototherapy intervention.

•Xenon gas for inhalation is a noble gas that has been used safely as an inhaled therapy in several studies to date. Following cardiac arrest, calcium channels in the brain can get over-activated, causing neuronal damage and cell death. When inhaled, xenon binds to N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors through a unique glycine-binding mechanism and can help regulate the flow of ions through the calcium channels. By mitigating neuronal damage and cell death following a cardiac arrest, inhaled xenon may be able to reduce time in coma, lower mortality rates and improve cognitive and motor functions. The Phase 3 trial was granted FDA fast track designation in August 2018. The trial is being conducted under an FDA Special Protocol Agreement and the first patient was enrolled in December 2018.

•MNK-6105 (IV) and MNK-6106 (oral), an ammonia scavenger, is being studied for treatment of hepatic encephalopathy ("HE"), a neuropsychiatric syndrome associated with hyperammonemia, a complication of acute or chronic liver disease. If approved, MNK-6105 and MNK-6106 are expected to be effective therapy formulations that rapidly eliminate ammonia in the bloodstream, excreting it through the kidneys, a more effective and less burdensome method of addressing HE than existing treatment options. The intravenous ("IV") formulation of MNK-6105, if approved, is expected to provide rapid reduction in symptoms of acute HE, and potentially reduce hospitalization stay. MNK-6106's oral formulation, if approved, is expected to provide post-discharge continuity of care for the HE patient, reducing the risk of recurrent HE episodes and rehospitalization. It is also anticipated that patients may transition from the IV to the oral formulation prior to discharge from the hospital setting. The FDA and European Medicines Agency ("EMA") have granted orphan drug designation to MNK-6105/6106. The FDA also granted fast track designation to MNK-6105/6106. We are currently working with the FDA to initiate the Phase 3 trial for this development product.

•VTS-270 is in Phase 3 development for Niemann-Pick Type C ("NPC"). NPC is a complicated, ultra-rare neurodegenerative disease that typically presents in childhood and is ultimately fatal. NPC is caused by mutations in either the NPC1 or NPC2 genes, resulting in the disruption of the trafficking of intracellular cholesterol, leading to intracellular lipid accumulation in various tissues, including the brain, liver, and spleen. NPC presents with neurologic and visceral features that overlap with other diseases often leading to a missed or delayed diagnosis. Manifestations of the genetic disorder typically occur in 

9

childhood with occasional late onset. The FDA granted VTS-270 its orphan drug designation, and the resulting seven years exclusivity would be applied upon approval of the drug. The EMA also granted VTS-270 orphan drug status. In addition, the FDA granted the compound its Breakthrough Designation, indicating the drug is (1) intended to treat a serious or life-threatening disease or condition alone or combined with one or more other drugs, and (2) preliminary clinical evidence indicates it may demonstrate substantial improvement over existing therapies on one or more clinically significant endpoints. The Breakthrough Designation status results in expedited review by the agency. 

In November 2018, we announced that the results of our recently completed registration trial for the product did not show a statistically significant separation from placebo. Neither the VTS-270 nor the placebo arm showed disease progression as would be expected for a neurodegenerative condition over 52 weeks of observation. We are in the process of evaluating this portion of the study in order to ensure the data was properly captured and of the highest quality. The FDA indicated at a Type A meeting in August 2018 that their view on the potential approvability will be based on the totality of data, not a single study or endpoint. Accordingly, our review of the data from the Phase 2b/3 trial, including the longer term open label portion, continues to proceed and is being assessed in combination with several other available data sources. We expect that a better understanding of the potential benefit of VTS-270 will emerge as we carefully consider the totality of data available and continue to work with the primary investigators and the FDA to determine the best path forward. 

•CPP-1X/sulindac is in Phase 3 development for Familial Adenomatous Polyposis ("FAP") under a collaborative agreement with Cancer Prevention Pharmaceuticals ("CPP"). FAP results from a genetic mutation leading to uncontrolled growth of hundreds to thousands of polyps in the lower digestive tract. Left untreated, there is a high likelihood of developing colorectal cancer. The disease typically progresses without clear warning signs until reaching advanced stages. It can also lead to abnormal manifestations in other organs including bone, skin, retina, teeth and other malignant lesions. The FDA granted CPP-1X/sulindac its orphan drug designation, as well as its Fast Track designation, a process designed to facilitate development and expedite the review of drugs to treat serious conditions and fill an unmet medical need. Orphan drug status was also granted to the therapy by the EMA. CPP-1X/sulindac, if approved, will target the underlying disease mechanism, preventing polyp growth and delaying disease progression. 

Specialty Generics and Amitiza. The R&D from this segment is focused on hard-to-manufacture pharmaceuticals with difficult-to-replicate pharmacokinetic profiles. Our Specialty Generics pipeline consists of a number of products in various stages of development. We currently perform most of our development work at our Specialty Generics and Amitiza headquarters and technical development center in Webster Groves, Missouri.

We are developing a number of complex generic pharmaceutical products that take advantage of our API and drug product manufacturing capabilities as well as our experience in working with API and contract manufacturing organizations. We currently have five Abbreviated New Drug Applications ("ANDAs") at various stages of review with the FDA and a diverse portfolio of oral solid and parenteral formulations under development. Our pipeline is focused on applying our capabilities to develop difficult formulations, utilizing our expertise in working with controlled substances to develop potent products, and expanding both our therapeutic and technology platforms into areas with less competitive pressure. We utilize our proven abilities to design around competitor patents to advantage both our API and drug product development opportunities and to create our own intellectual property.

Competition

Several of our Specialty Brands products do not face direct competition from similar products, but instead compete against alternative forms of treatment that a prescriber may utilize. For example, H.P. Acthar Gel has limited direct competition due to the unique nature of the product; however, it generally is only prescribed by physicians when numerous alternative treatments have failed to provide positive outcomes or are not well tolerated by the patient. Similarly, there is no direct competition on the U.S. market for Inomax, and we believe its highly differentiated service offering will help to substantially extend the product's durability longer term. To successfully compete for business with managed care and pharmacy benefits management organizations, we must often demonstrate that our branded products offer not only superior health outcomes but also cost and service advantages, as compared with other forms of care.

The highly competitive environment of our Specialty Brands segment requires us to continually seek out new products to treat diseases and conditions in areas of high unmet medical need, to create technological innovations and to market our products effectively. Most new products that we introduce must compete with other products already on the market, as well as other products that are subsequently developed by competitors. For our branded products, we may be granted market exclusivity either through the FDA, the U.S. Patent Office or similar agencies internationally. Regulatory exclusivity is granted by the FDA for new innovations, such as new clinical data, a new chemical entity or orphan drugs, and patents are issued for inventions, such as composition of matter or method of use. While patents offer a longer period of exclusivity, there are more bases to challenge patent-conferred exclusivity than with regulatory exclusivity. Generally, once market exclusivity expires on our branded products, competition will likely intensify as generic forms of the product are launched. Products that do not benefit from regulatory or patent exclusivity must rely on other competitive advantages, such as confidentiality agreements or product formulation trade secrets for difficult to replicate products. 

10

Several of the products in our Specialty Brands product portfolio benefit from these forms of regulatory and patent-conferred exclusivity.

Manufacturers of generic pharmaceuticals typically invest far less in R&D than research-based pharmaceutical companies, allowing generic versions to typically be significantly less expensive than the related branded products. The generic form of a drug may also enjoy a preferred position relative to the branded version under third-party reimbursement programs, or be routinely dispensed in substitution for the branded form by pharmacies. If competitors introduce new products, delivery systems or processes with therapeutic or cost advantages, our products can be subject to progressive price reductions, decreased sales volume or both. To successfully compete for business with managed care and pharmacy benefits management organizations, we must often demonstrate that our branded products offer not only superior health outcomes but also cost advantages, as compared with other forms of care. Certain of our Specialty Brands products are targeted for niche patient populations with unmet medical needs, for example H.P. Acthar Gel, that may not be prescribed unless a clear benefit in efficacy or safety is demonstrated or until alternatives have failed to provide positive patient outcomes or are not well tolerated by the patient. 

Our Specialty Generics products compete with products manufactured by many other companies in highly competitive markets, primarily throughout the U.S. Our competitors vary depending upon therapeutic and product categories. Major competitors of our Specialty Generics products include Endo International plc, Johnson Matthey plc, Mylan N.V., Pfizer Inc., Purdue Pharma L.P., Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. and Allergan plc, among others. We believe our secure sources of opioid raw materials, vertically integrated manufacturing capabilities, broad offerings of API controlled substances and acetaminophen, comprehensive generic controlled substances product line and established relationships with national and regional distributors of generic drugs in the U.S. enable us to compete with larger generic manufacturers. In addition, we believe that our experience with the FDA, DEA and Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategies ("REMS") provides us the knowledge to operate efficiently and effectively in this highly regulated, competitive environment.

The Specialty Generics and Amitiza segment faces intense competition from other generic drug manufacturers, brand-name pharmaceutical companies marketing authorized generics, existing branded equivalents and manufacturers of therapeutically similar drugs. The competition varies depending upon the specific product category and dosage strength. Among the large generic controlled substance providers, we are one of the only generic manufacturers that has its own controlled substance API manufacturing capability, and we believe that we offer more vertically integrated generic controlled substance products than any other U.S. manufacturer. New drugs and future developments in improved or advanced drug delivery technologies or other therapeutic techniques may provide therapeutic or cost advantages when compared to the products we sell. The maintenance of profitable operations in generic pharmaceuticals depends, in part, on our ability to select, develop and timely launch new generic products, as well as our ability to manufacture such new products in a cost efficient, high-quality manner and implement and drive market volume. 

As a result of consolidation among wholesale distributors and rapid growth of large retail drug store chains, a small number of large wholesale distributors and retail drug store chains control a significant share of the market, and the number of independent drug stores and small drug store chains has decreased. This has resulted in customers gaining more purchasing power. Consequently, there is heightened competition among generic drug producers for the business of this smaller and more selective customer base.

In our API business, we believe that our competitive advantages include our manufacturing capabilities in controlled substances that enable high-speed, high-volume tableting, packaging and distribution. Additionally, we believe we offer customers reliability of supply and broad-based technical customer service.

As it relates to our Amitiza product, in the U.S., there are an estimated 40-50 million patients who suffer from constipation that is idiopathic in nature or a consequence of other conditions such as irritable bowel syndrome or chronic opioid use. Many patients are currently treated for chronic idiopathic constipation ("CIC"), irritable bowel syndrome with constipation ("IBS-C") or opioid-induced constipation ("OIC") with a variety of medications. Over-the-counter medications are available and are generally intended to provide relief for occasional constipation. Prescription products are also available and are generally intended to provide relief for chronic constipation. As such, the U.S. constipation market is expansive and diverse with a multitude of products intended to treat a large heterogeneous patient population. The prescription chronic constipation market can generally be bifurcated into two categories: 1) generic laxatives and 2) branded products. Generic laxatives make up roughly 80%-90% of the total prescription volume while branded prescriptions have grown to represent 10%-20% of the prescription market. Linzess is the leading branded competitor in this market, marketed by Allergan plc and Ironwood Pharmaceuticals. At this time, Amitiza is the only branded product with chloride two channel activator mechanism of action. Amitiza is also the only branded product on the market today to be indicated in three separate indications for CIC, IBS-C and OIC.

The competitive landscape in the acquisition and in-licensing of pharmaceutical products has intensified in recent years, reflecting both a reduction in the number of compounds available and an increase in the number of companies and the collective resources bidding on available assets. The ability to effectively compete in product development, acquisitions and in-licensing is important to our long-term growth strategy. In addition to product development and acquisitions, other competitive factors in the pharmaceutical industry include product efficacy, safety, ease of use, price, demonstrated cost-effectiveness, third-party reimbursement, marketing effectiveness, customer service, reliability of supply, reputation and technical capabilities.

11

Our current or future products could be rendered obsolete or uneconomical as a result of the competition described above and the factors described in "Intellectual Property" included within this Item 1. Business, as well as any of the risk factors described in Item 1A. Risk Factors included within this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our failure to compete effectively could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

Intellectual Property

We own or license a number of patents in the U.S. and other countries covering certain products and have also developed brand names and trademarks for those and other products. Generally, our Specialty Brands business relies upon patent protection to ensure market exclusivity for the life of the patent. We consider the overall protection of our patents, trademarks and license rights to be of material value and act to protect these rights from infringement. However, our business is not materially dependent upon any single patent, trademark or license or any group of patents, trademarks or licenses. 

The majority of an innovative product's commercial value is usually realized during the period in which the product has market exclusivity. In the branded pharmaceutical industry, an innovator product's market exclusivity is generally determined by two forms of intellectual property: patent rights held by the innovator company and any regulatory forms of exclusivity to which the innovator is entitled. In the U.S. and some other countries, when market exclusivity expires and generic versions of a product are approved and marketed, there often are very substantial and rapid declines in the branded product's sales. The rate of this decline varies by country and by therapeutic category; however, following patent expiration, branded products often continue to have some market viability based upon the reputation of the product name, which typically benefits from trademark protection or is based on the difficulties associated with replicating the product formulation or bioavailability. H.P. Acthar Gel is not subject to patent or other exclusivity. H.P. Acthar Gel's commercial durability therefore relies partially upon product formulation trade secrets, confidentiality agreements and trademark and copyright laws. These items may not prevent competitors from independently developing similar technology or duplicating our product. Several of the other products in our Specialty Brands product portfolio, as well as Amitiza, currently benefit from these forms of regulatory and patent-conferred exclusivity.

Patents are a key determinant of market exclusivity for most branded pharmaceuticals. Patents provide the innovator with the right to exclude others from practicing an invention related to the product. Patents may cover, among other things, the active ingredient(s), various uses of a drug product, pharmaceutical formulations, drug delivery mechanisms, and processes for (or intermediates useful in) the manufacture of products. Protection for individual products extends for varying periods in accordance with the expiration dates of patents in the various countries. The protection afforded, which may also vary from country to country, depends upon the type of patent, its scope of coverage and the availability of meaningful legal remedies in the country.

Many developed countries provide certain non-patent incentives for the development of pharmaceuticals. For example, the U.S., European Union ("E.U.") and Japan each provide for a minimum period of time after the approval of certain new drugs during which the regulatory agency may not rely upon the innovator's data to approve a competitor's generic copy. Regulatory exclusivity is also available in certain markets as incentives for research on new indications, orphan drugs (drugs that demonstrate promise for the diagnosis or treatment of rare diseases or conditions) and medicines that may be useful in treating pediatric patients. Regulatory exclusivity is independent of any patent rights and can be particularly important when a drug lacks broad patent protection. However, most regulatory forms of exclusivity do not prevent a competitor from gaining regulatory approval prior to the expiration of regulatory exclusivity on the basis of the competitor's own safety and efficacy data on its drug, even when that drug is identical to that marketed by the innovator.

We estimate the likely market exclusivity period for each of our branded products on a case-by-case basis. It is not possible to predict with certainty the length of market exclusivity for any of our branded products because of the complex interaction between patent and regulatory forms of exclusivity, the relative success or lack thereof by potential competitors' experience in product development and inherent uncertainties concerning patent litigation. There can be no assurance that a particular product will enjoy market exclusivity for the full period of time that we currently estimate or that the exclusivity will be limited to the estimate.

In addition to patents and regulatory forms of exclusivity, we also market products with trademarks. Trademarks have no effect on market exclusivity for a product, but are considered to have marketing value. Trademark protection continues in some countries as long as used; in other countries, as long as registered. Registrations of such trademarks are for fixed terms and subject to renewal as provided by the laws of the particular country.

12

Regulatory Matters

Quality Assurance Requirements

The FDA enforces regulations to ensure that the methods used in, and the facilities and controls used for, the manufacture, processing, packaging and holding of drugs and medical devices conform to current good manufacturing practice ("cGMP"). The cGMP regulations that the FDA enforces are comprehensive and cover all aspects of manufacturing operations, from receipt of raw materials to finished product distribution, and are designed to ensure that the finished products meet all the required identity, strength, quality and purity characteristics. The cGMP regulations for devices, called the Quality System Regulations, are also comprehensive and cover all aspects of device manufacture, from pre-production design validation to installation and servicing, insofar as they bear upon the safe and effective use of the device and whether the device otherwise meets the requirements of the U.S. Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act ("the FFDCA"). Other regulatory authorities have their own cGMP rules. Ensuring compliance requires a continuous commitment of time, money and effort in all operational areas.

The FDA conducts pre-approval inspections of facilities engaged in the development, manufacture, processing, packaging, testing and holding of the drugs subject to NDAs and ANDAs. If the FDA concludes that the facilities to be used do not or did not meet cGMP, good laboratory practice ("GLP") or good clinical practice ("GCP") requirements, it will not approve the application. Corrective actions to remedy the deficiencies must be performed and are usually verified in a subsequent inspection. In addition, manufacturers of both pharmaceutical products and API used to formulate the drug also ordinarily undergo a pre-approval inspection, although the inspection can be waived when the manufacturer has had a passing cGMP inspection in the immediate past. Failure of any facility to pass a pre-approval inspection will result in delayed approval and could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

The FDA also conducts periodic inspections of drug and device facilities to assess their cGMP status. If the FDA were to find serious cGMP non-compliance during such an inspection, it could take regulatory actions that could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Additionally, imported API and other components needed to manufacture products could be rejected by U.S. Customs and Border Protection, usually after conferring with the FDA. In the case of domestic facilities, the FDA could initiate product seizures or, in some instances, require product recalls and seek to enjoin a product's manufacture and distribution. In certain circumstances, violations could support civil penalties and criminal prosecutions. In addition, if the FDA concludes that a company is not in compliance with cGMP requirements, sanctions may be imposed that include preventing that company from receiving the necessary licenses to export its products and classifying that company as an "unacceptable supplier," thereby disqualifying that company from selling products to federal agencies. 

United States

In general, drug manufacturers operate in a highly regulated environment. In the U.S., we must comply with laws, regulations, guidance documents and standards promulgated by the FDA, the Department of Health and Human Services ("DHHS"), the DEA, the Environmental Protection Agency ("EPA"), the Customs Service and state boards of pharmacy.

The FDA's authority to regulate the safety and efficacy of pharmaceuticals comes from the FFDCA. In addition to reviewing NDAs, for branded drugs, and ANDAs, for generic drugs, the FDA has the authority to ensure that pharmaceutical products introduced into interstate commerce are neither "adulterated" or "misbranded." Adulterated means that the product may cause or has caused injury to patients when used as intended because it fails to comply with cGMP. Misbranded means that the labels of, or promotional materials for, the product contain false or misleading information. Failure to comply with applicable FDA and other federal and state regulations could result in product recalls or seizures, partial or complete suspension of manufacturing or distribution, refusal to approve pending NDAs or ANDAs, and the imposition of monetary fines, civil penalties or criminal prosecution.

In order to market and sell a new prescription drug product in the U.S., a drug manufacturer must file with the FDA a NDA that shows the safety and effectiveness of (a) a new chemical entity that serves as the API, known as a 505(b)(1) NDA; or (b) a product that has significant differences from an already approved one, known as a 505(b)(2) NDA. Alternatively, in order to market and sell a generic version of an already approved drug product, a drug manufacturer must file an ANDA that shows that the generic version is "therapeutically equivalent," or expected to have the same clinical effect and safety profile as the branded drug product when administered to patients under the conditions specified in the labeling.

For all pharmaceuticals sold in the U.S., the FDA also regulates sales and marketing to ensure that drug product claims made by manufacturers are neither false or misleading. Manufacturers are required to file copies of all product-specific promotional materials to the FDA's Office of Prescription Drug Promotion prior to their first use. In general, such advertising does not require FDA prior approval. Failure to implement a robust internal company review process and comply with FDA regulations regarding advertising and promotion increases the risk of enforcement action by either the FDA or the U.S. Department of Justice ("DOJ").

For both NDAs and ANDAs, the manufacture, marketing and selling of certain drug products may be limited by quota grants for controlled substances by the DEA. Refer to "Drug Enforcement Administration" within this Item 1. Business for further information.

13

NDA Process. The path leading to FDA approval of a NDA for a new chemical entity begins when the drug product is merely a chemical formulation in the laboratory. In general, the process involves the following steps:

•Completion of formulation and laboratory testing in accordance with GLP that fully characterizes the drug product from a pre-clinical perspective and provides preliminary evidence that the drug product is safe to test in human beings;

•Filing an Investigational New Drug Application with the FDA will permit the conduct of clinical trials (testing in human beings under adequate and well-controlled conditions);

•Designing and conducting clinical trials to show the safety and efficacy of the drug product in accordance with GCP;

•Submitting the NDA for FDA review, which provides a complete characterization of the drug product;

•Satisfactory completion of FDA pre-approval inspections regarding the conduct of the clinical trials and the manufacturing processes at the designated facility in accordance with cGMP;

•If applicable, satisfactory completion of an FDA Advisory Committee meeting in which the FDA requests help from outside experts in evaluating the NDA;

•Final FDA approval of the full prescribing information, labeling and packaging of the drug product; and

•Ongoing monitoring and reporting of adverse events related to the drug product, implementation of a REMS program, if applicable, and conduct of any required Phase 4 studies.

Clinical trials are typically conducted in four sequential phases, although they may overlap. The four phases are as follows:

•Phase 1 trials are typically small (less than 100 healthy volunteers) and are designed to determine the toxicity and maximum safe dose of the drug product.

•Phase 2 trials usually involve 100 to 300 participants and are designed to determine whether the drug product produces any clinically significant effects in patients with the intended disease or condition. If the results of these trials show promise, then a larger Phase 3 trial may be conducted.

•Phase 3 trials are often multi-institution studies that involve a large number of participants and are designed to show efficacy. Phase 3 (and some Phase 2) trials are designed to be pivotal, or confirmatory trials. The goal of a pivotal trial is to establish the safety and efficacy of a drug product by eliminating biases and increasing statistical power.

•In some cases, the FDA requires Phase 4 trials, which are usually performed after the NDA has been approved. Such post-marketing surveillance is intended to obtain more information about the risks of harm, benefits and optimal use of the drug product by observing the results of the drug product in a large number of patients.

 A drug manufacturer may conduct clinical trials either in the U.S. or outside the U.S., but in all cases must comply with GCP, which includes (a) a legally effective informed consent process when enrolling participants; (b) an independent review by an Institutional Review Board to minimize and manage the risks of harm to participants; and (c) ongoing monitoring and reporting of adverse events related to the drug product.

In addition, a drug manufacturer may decide to conduct a clinical trial of a drug product on pediatric patients in order to obtain a form of marketing exclusivity as permitted under the Best Pharmaceuticals for Children Act ("BPCA"). Alternatively, the FDA may require a drug manufacturer, using its authority under the Pediatric Research Equity Act, to conduct a pediatric clinical trial. The goal of conducting pediatric clinical trials is to gather data on how drug products should best be administered to this patient population.

The path leading to FDA approval of a NDA for a drug product that has significant differences from an already approved one is somewhat shorter. The FDA requires a drug manufacturer to submit data from either already published reports or newly conducted studies that show the safety and efficacy of those differences. Significant differences include different dosage strengths or route of administration.

Under the U.S. Prescription Drug User Fee Act, the FDA has the authority to collect fees from drug manufacturers who submit NDAs for review and approval. These user fees help the FDA fund the drug approval process. For fiscal 2019, the user fee rate has been set at $2,588,480 for a 505(b)(1) NDA and $1,294,230 for a NDA not requiring a complete clinical data package, generally a 505(b)(2) NDA. We expense these fees as they are incurred. The average review time for a NDA is approximately six months for priority review and ten months for standard review.

ANDA Process. The path leading to FDA approval of an ANDA is much different from that of a NDA. By statute, the FDA waives the requirement for a drug manufacturer to complete certain pre-clinical studies and clinical safety and efficacy trials and instead focuses on data establishing bioequivalence between the branded or Referenced Listed Drug ("RLD") and the ANDA product. Bioequivalence studies generally involve comparing the absorption rate and concentration levels of the active ingredient in a generic drug in the human body to that of the branded drug or RLD. In the event that the active ingredient in the generic drug behaves in the same manner in the human body as the RLD, the two drug products are considered bioequivalent. The FDA considers a generic drug 

14

therapeutically equivalent, and therefore substitutable, if it is also the same dosage form, route of administration and strength as the RLD.

 In 2010, the U.S. Congress passed into law the Generic Drug User Fee Act to address the FDA's backlog, which at the time was over 2,000 ANDAs. This legislation granted the FDA authority to collect, for the first time, user fees from generic drug manufacturers who submit ANDAs for review and approval, and the fees collected will help the FDA fund the drug approval process. Under the Generic Drug User Fee Amendments of 2017, the fiscal 2019 user fee rate is set at $178,800 for an ANDA and the prior approval supplement to an ANDA fee was removed. These fees are expensed as incurred. The FDA has set goal dates by fiscal year for ANDA submissions to improve the average review time. The FDA has set a target of approving 90% of ANDA submissions within 10 months of submission for submissions made in 2019.

Aside from the backlog described above, the timing of FDA approval of ANDAs depends on other factors, including whether an ANDA holder has challenged any listed patents to the RLD and whether the RLD is entitled to one or more periods of marketing exclusivity under the FFDCA (such as pediatric exclusivity under the BPCA). In general, the FDA will not grant final approval of (but will continue to review) an ANDA in which the RLD holder has sued, within 45 days of receiving a Paragraph IV notice of the ANDA filing, the ANDA holder for patent infringement until either the litigation has been resolved or 30 months have elapsed, whichever is earlier.

Patent and Non-Patent Exclusivity Periods. A sponsor of a NDA is required to identify in its application any patent that claims the drug or a use of the drug subject to the application. Upon NDA approval, the FDA lists these patents in the Orange Book. Any person that files a Section 505(b)(2) NDA, the type of NDA that relies upon the data in the application for which the patents are listed, or an ANDA to secure approval of a generic version of a previous drug, must make a certification in respect to listed patents. The FDA may not approve such an application for the drug until expiration of the listed patents unless the generic applicant certifies that the listed patents are invalid, unenforceable or not infringed by the proposed generic drug and gives notice to the holder of the NDA for the RLD of the bases upon which the patents are challenged, and the holder of the RLD does not sue the later applicant for patent infringement within 45 days of receipt of notice. If an infringement suit is filed, the FDA may not approve the later application until the earliest of: (a) 30 months after receipt of the notice by the holder of the NDA for the RLD; (b) entry of an appellate court judgment holding the patent invalid, unenforceable or not infringed; (c) such time as the court may order; or (d) the expiration of the patent.

One of the key motivators for challenging patents is the 180-day market exclusivity period ("generic exclusivity") granted to the developer of a generic version of a product that is the first to file an ANDA containing a Paragraph IV certification and that prevails in litigation with the manufacturer of the branded product over the applicable patent(s) or is not sued or enters into a settlement agreement with the manufacturer of the branded product. For a variety of reasons, there are situations in which a company may not be able to take advantage of an award of generic exclusivity. The determination of when generic exclusivity begins and ends is very complicated as it depends on several different factors.

The holder of the NDA for the RLD may also be entitled to certain non-patent exclusivity during which the FDA cannot approve an application for a competing generic product or 505(b)(2) NDA product. Generally, if the RLD is a new chemical entity, the FDA may not accept for filing any application that references the innovator's NDA for five years from the approval of the innovator's NDA. However, this five-year period is shortened to four years where a filer's ANDA includes a Paragraph IV certification. In other cases, where the innovator has provided certain clinical study information, the FDA may accept for filing, but may not approve, an application that references the innovator's NDA for a period of three years from the approval of the innovator's NDA.

Certain additional periods of exclusivity may be available if the RLD is indicated for use in a rare disease or condition or is studied for pediatric indications.

Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategies. For certain drug products or classes, such as transmucosal immediate-release fentanyl ("TIRF") products and solid oral dosage form opioid products, the FDA has the authority to require the manufacturer to provide a REMS that is intended to ensure that the benefits of a drug product (or class of drug products) outweigh the risks of harm. The FDA may require that a REMS program include elements to ensure safe use to mitigate a specific serious risk of harm, such as providing prescriber education or restricting the dispensing of the drug product to certain healthcare settings. The FDA has the authority to impose civil penalties on or take other enforcement action against any drug manufacturer who fails to properly implement an approved REMS program. 

In December 2011, the FDA approved a single, class-wide REMS program for TIRF products (called "the TIRF REMS Access Program"). TIRF products are opioids used to manage pain in adults with cancer who routinely take other opioid pain medicines around-the-clock. We were part of the original industry working group that collaborated to develop and implement the TIRF REMS Access Program. The goals of this program are to ensure patient access to important medications and mitigate the risk of misuse, abuse, addiction, overdose and serious complications due to medication errors by: (a) prescribing and dispensing only to appropriate patients, including use only in opioid-tolerant patients; (b) preventing inappropriate conversion between fentanyl products; (c) preventing accidental exposure to children and others for whom such products were not prescribed; and (d) educating prescribers, pharmacists and patients on the potential for misuse, abuse, addiction and overdose. This program started in March 2012 and requires manufacturers, distributors, prescribers, dispensers and patients to enroll in a real-time database that maintains a closed-distribution 

15

system, where the products can only be prescribed, dispensed and utilized by registered prescribers, pharmacies and patients in the system.

In February 2009, the FDA requested that drug manufacturers help develop a single, shared REMS for extended-release and long-acting ("ERLA") opioid products that contain fentanyl, hydromorphone, methadone, morphine, oxycodone and oxymorphone. In April 2009, the FDA announced that the "REMS would be intended to ensure that the benefits of these drugs continue to outweigh the risks associated with: (1) use of high doses of long-acting opioids and extended-release opioid products in non-opioid-tolerant and inappropriately selected individuals; (2) abuse; (3) misuse; and (4) overdose, both accidental and intentional." We were part of the original industry working group that collaborated to develop and implement this REMS program. In July 2012, the FDA approved a class-wide REMS program, "the Extended-Release and Long-Acting Opioid Analgesics REMS," that affected more than 30 extended-release and long-acting opioid analgesics (both branded and generic products). This REMS program requires drug manufacturers to make training on appropriate prescribing practices available for healthcare providers ("HCPs") who prescribe these opioid analgesics and to distribute educational materials on their safe use to prescribers and patients. On September 18, 2018, the FDA approved the final "Opioid Analgesic REMS." This REMS now includes immediate release opioid products used in outpatient settings as well as the ERLA opioid products that have already been subject to a REMS since 2012.

The goal of the Opioid Analgesic REMS is to reduce unnecessary and/or inappropriate exposure to opioids by providing HCPs with information on appropriate prescribing recommendations and helping HCPs learn how to identify abuse by individual patients and know how to get patients with opioid use disorder into treatment. The Opioid Analgesic REMS program required HCP training be made available to all HCPs involved in the management of patients with pain, including nurses and pharmacists. We participate with other opioid product companies to provide unrestricted grants to accredited continuing education providers for the development of education courses for HCPs based on the FDA's Opioid Analgesic REMS Education Blueprint for Health Care Providers Involved in the Treatment and Monitoring of Patients with Pain.

Drug Enforcement Administration. The DEA is the U.S. federal agency responsible for domestic enforcement of the Controlled Substances Act of 1970 ("CSA"). The CSA classifies drugs and other substances based on identified potential for abuse. Schedule I controlled substances, such as heroin and LSD, have a high abuse potential and have no currently accepted medical use; thus, they cannot be lawfully marketed or sold. Opioids, such as oxycodone, oxymorphone, morphine, fentanyl and hydrocodone, are Schedule II controlled substances. Consequently, the manufacture, storage, distribution and sale of these substances are highly regulated.

The DEA regulates the availability of API, products under development and marketed drug products that are classified as Schedule II or III by setting annual quotas. Every year, we must apply to the DEA for manufacturing quota to manufacture API and procurement quota to manufacture finished dosage products. Given that the DEA has discretion to grant or deny our manufacturing and procurement quota requests, the quota the DEA grants may be insufficient to meet our commercial and R&D needs. In calendar 2018, manufacturing and procurement quotas granted by the DEA were sufficient to meet our sales and inventory requirements on most products. In December 2018, the DEA reduced the manufacturing quota for the top six misused opioids that may be manufactured in the U.S. in calendar year 2019 by 10%. This includes oxycodone, hydrocodone, oxymorphone, hydromorphone, morphine, and fentanyl. The DEA has complete discretion to adjust or leave unchanged these quotas from time to time during the calendar year and to allocate manufacturing and procurement quota to manufacturers. A delay or refusal by the DEA to grant, in whole or in part, our quota requests for controlled substances could delay or result in stoppage of the manufacture of our marketed drug products, new product launches or the conduct of bioequivalence studies and clinical trials and could require us to allocate product among our customers.

DEA regulations make it extremely difficult for a manufacturer in the U.S. to import finished dosage forms of controlled substances manufactured outside the U.S. These rules reflect a broader enforcement approach by the DEA to regulate the manufacture, distribution and dispensing of legally produced controlled substances. Accordingly, drug manufacturers who market and sell finished dosage forms of controlled substances in the U.S. typically manufacture or have them manufactured in the U.S.

The DEA also requires drug manufacturers to design and implement a system that identifies suspicious orders of controlled substances, such as those of unusual size, those that deviate substantially from a normal pattern and those of unusual frequency, prior to completion of the sale. A compliant suspicious order monitoring ("SOM") system includes well-defined due diligence, "know your customer" efforts and order monitoring. In addition, as more fully described within Note 20 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included within Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, as part of a 2017 resolution of a DEA investigation, one of our subsidiaries agreed, among other things, to utilize all available transaction information to identify suspicious orders of any Mallinckrodt product and to report to the DEA when it concludes that chargeback data or other information indicates that a downstream registrant poses a risk of diversion.

To meet its responsibilities, the DEA conducts periodic inspections of registered establishments that handle controlled substances. Annual registration is required for any facility that manufactures, tests, distributes, dispenses, imports or exports any controlled substance. The facilities must have the security, control and accounting mechanisms required by the DEA to prevent loss and diversion. Failure to maintain compliance, particularly as manifested in loss or diversion, can result in regulatory action that could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The 

16

DEA may seek civil penalties, refuse to renew necessary registrations or initiate proceedings to revoke those registrations. In certain circumstances, violations could lead to criminal proceedings.

Individual states also regulate controlled substances, and we, as well as our third-party API suppliers and manufacturers, are subject to such regulation by several states with respect to the manufacture and distribution of these products.

We and, to our knowledge, our third-party API suppliers, dosage form manufacturers, distributors and researchers have all necessary registrations, and we believe all registrants operate in conformity with applicable registration requirements, under controlled substance laws.

Government Benefit Programs. Statutory and regulatory requirements for Medicaid, Medicare, Tricare and other government healthcare programs govern provider reimbursement levels, including requiring that all pharmaceutical companies pay rebates to individual states based on a percentage of their net sales arising from Medicaid program-reimbursed products. The federal and state governments may continue to enact measures in the future aimed at containing or reducing payment levels for prescription pharmaceuticals paid for in whole or in part with government funds. We cannot predict the nature of such measures, which could have material adverse consequences for the pharmaceutical industry as a whole and, consequently, also for us. However, we believe we have provided for our best estimate of potential refunds based on current information available.

From time to time, legislative changes are made to government healthcare programs that impact our business. For example, the Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 created a new prescription drug coverage program for people with Medicare through a new system of private market drug benefit plans. This law provides a prescription drug benefit to seniors and individuals with disabilities in the Medicare program ("Medicare Part D"). Congress continues to examine various Medicare policy proposals that may result in pressure on the prices of prescription drugs in the Medicare program.

In addition, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010, as amended by the Health Care and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act of 2010 (collectively, "the Healthcare Reform Act") provided for major changes to the U.S. healthcare system, which impacted the delivery and payment for healthcare services in the U.S. Our business has been most notably impacted by rebates from the Medicaid Fee-For-Service Program and Medicaid Managed Care plans and the imposition of an annual fee on branded prescription pharmaceutical manufacturers. Medicaid provisions reduced net sales by $98.9 million, $91.6 million, $94.4 million and $18.0 million in fiscal 2018, 2017, 2016 and the three months ended December 30, 2016, respectively. The fiscal 2018 increase in provisions for Medicaid payments is primarily attributable to a $14.8 million increase associated with H.P. Acthar Gel offset by $7.0 million decrease in Specialty Generics products due to lower net sales in fiscal 2018 for generic and API products. The fiscal 2017 decrease in provisions for Medicaid payments is primarily attributable to an $8.5 million decrease associated with Specialty Generics products, due to lower net sales in fiscal 2017, which was partially offset by a $4.9 million increase associated with H.P. Acthar Gel because of increased net sales during fiscal 2017. Our business was also impacted by the annual fee on branded prescription pharmaceutical manufacturers and recorded expense of $18.4 million, $21.8 million, $23.3 million and $8.3 million in fiscal 2018, 2017, 2016 and the three months ended December 30, 2016, respectively, within selling, general and administrative expenses ("SG&A").

Healthcare Fraud and Abuse Laws

We are subject to various federal, state and local laws targeting fraud and abuse in the healthcare industry. For example, in the U.S., there are federal and state anti-kickback laws that prohibit the payment or receipt of kickbacks, bribes or other remuneration intended to induce the purchase or recommendation of healthcare products and services or reward past purchases or recommendations, including the U.S. Anti-Kickback Statute and similar state statutes, the False Claims Act and the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996. Violations of these laws can lead to civil and criminal penalties, including fines, imprisonment and exclusion from participation in federal healthcare programs. These laws apply to hospitals, physicians and other potential purchasers of our products and are potentially applicable to us as both a manufacturer and a supplier of products reimbursed by federal healthcare programs. In addition, some states in the U.S. have enacted compliance and reporting requirements aimed at drug manufacturers.

We are also subject to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977 ("FCPA") and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws in non-U.S. jurisdictions, such as the U.K. Bribery Act of 2010, which generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to non-U.S. officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Because of the predominance of government-sponsored healthcare systems around the world, most of our customer relationships outside of the U.S. are with governmental entities and are therefore subject to such anti-bribery laws. Our policies mandate compliance with these anti-bribery laws; however, we operate in many parts of the world that have experienced governmental corruption to some degree and, in certain circumstances, strict compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. Despite our training and compliance programs, our internal control policies and procedures may not protect us from reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees or agents.

17

Compliance Programs

In order to systematically and comprehensively mitigate the risks of non-compliance with regulatory requirements described within this Item 1. Business, we have developed what we believe to be robust compliance programs based on the April 2003 Office of the Inspector General ("OIG") Compliance Program Guidance for Pharmaceutical Manufacturers, the U.S. Federal Sentencing Guidelines, the Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America Code on Interactions with Healthcare Professionals, the Code of Ethics of the Advanced Medical Technology Association, the U.K. Anti-Bribery guidance, and other relevant guidance from government and national or regional industry codes of behavior. We conduct ongoing compliance training programs for all employees and maintain a 24-hour ethics and compliance reporting hotline with a strict policy of non-retaliation. Our compliance programs are facilitated by our Chief Compliance Officer, who reports directly to the Chief Executive Officer and the Compliance Committee of our Board of Directors. The Compliance function is independent of the manufacturing and commercial operations functions and is responsible for implementing our compliance programs.

As part of our compliance programs, we have implemented internal cross-functional processes to review and approve product-specific promotional materials, presentations and external communications to address the risk of misbranding or mislabeling our products through our promotional efforts. In addition, we have established programs to monitor promotional speaker activities and field sales representatives, which includes a "ride along" program for field sales representatives similar to those included in recent Corporate Integrity Agreements from the OIG in order to obtain first-hand observations of how approved promotional and other materials are used, as well as monitoring of sales representative expenses. We have also implemented a comprehensive controlled substances compliance program, including anti-diversion efforts and we regularly assist federal, state and local law enforcement and prosecutors in the U.S. by providing information and testimony on our products and placebos for use by the DEA and other law enforcement agencies in investigations and at trial. As part of this program, we also work with some of our customers to help develop and implement what we believe are best practices for SOM and other anti-diversion activities.

We believe our compliance programs design also addresses our FDA, healthcare anti-kickback, anti-fraud, and anti-bribery-related risks. We believe we have complied with reporting obligations of the U.S. Federal Physician Payment Sunshine Act and relevant state disclosure laws and have implemented a program across the Company to track and report data per Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services ("CMS") guidance and state disclosure requirements.

Outside the United States

Outside the U.S., we must comply with laws, guidelines and standards promulgated by other regulatory authorities that regulate the development, testing, manufacturing, distribution, marketing and selling of pharmaceuticals, including, but not limited to, Health Canada, the Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency in the U.K., the Irish Medicines Board, the European Medicines Agency and member states of the E.U., the Therapeutic Goods Administration in Australia, the New Zealand Medicines and Medical Devices Safety Authority, the Ministry of Health and Welfare in Japan, the European Pharmacopoeia of the Council of Europe and the International Conference on Harmonization. Although international harmonization efforts continue, many laws, guidelines and standards differ by region or country.

We currently market our products in Canada, in various countries in the E.U., and in the Latin American, Middle Eastern, African and Asia-Pacific regions. The approval requirements and process vary by country, and the time required to obtain a marketing authorization may vary from that required for FDA approval. Certain drug products and variations in drug product lines also must meet country-specific and other local regulatory requirements. The following discussion highlights some of the differences in the approval process in other regions or countries outside the U.S.

European Union. Marketing authorizations are obtained pursuant to either a centralized or decentralized procedure. The centralized procedure, which provides for a single marketing authorization valid for all E.U. member states, is mandatory for the approval of certain drug products and is optional for novel drug products that are in the interest of patient health. Under the centralized procedure, a single marketing authorization application is submitted for review to the EMA, which makes a recommendation on the application to the European Commission, who determines whether or not to approve the application. The decentralized procedure provides for concurrent mutual recognition of national approval decisions, and is available for products that are not subject to the centralized procedure.

The E.U. has also adopted directives and other laws that govern the labeling, marketing, advertising, supply, distribution and drug safety monitoring and reporting of drug products. Such directives set regulatory standards throughout the E.U. and permit member states to supplement such standards with additional requirements.

European governments also regulate drug prices through the control of national healthcare systems that fund a large part of such costs to patients. Many regulate the pricing of a new drug product at launch through direct price controls or reference pricing and, recently, some have also imposed additional cost-containment measures on drug products. Such differences in national pricing regimes may create price differentials between E.U. member states. Many European governments also advocate generic substitution by requiring or permitting prescribers or pharmacists to substitute a different company's generic version of a branded drug product that was prescribed, and patients are unlikely to take a drug product that is not reimbursed by their government.

18

Emerging Markets. Many emerging markets continue to evolve their regulatory review and oversight processes. At present, such countries typically require prior regulatory approval or marketing authorization from large, developed markets (such as the U.S.) before they will initiate or complete their review. Some countries also require the applicant to conduct local clinical trials as a condition of marketing authorization. Many emerging markets continue to implement measures to control drug product prices, such as implementing direct price controls or advocating the prescribing and use of generic drugs.

Environmental

Our operations, like those of other pharmaceutical companies, involve the use of substances regulated under environmental laws, primarily in manufacturing processes and, as such, we are subject to numerous federal, state, local and non-U.S. environmental protection and health and safety laws and regulations. We cannot provide assurance that we have been or will be in full compliance with environmental, health and safety laws and regulations at all times. Certain environmental laws assess strict, (i.e., can be imposed regardless of fault) joint and several liability on current or previous owners of real property and current or previous owners or operators of facilities for the costs of investigation, removal or remediation of hazardous substances or materials at such properties or at properties at which parties have disposed of hazardous substances. We have, from time to time, received notification from the EPA and from state environmental agencies in the U.S. that conditions at a number of sites where the disposal of hazardous substances has taken place requires investigation, cleanup and other possible remedial actions. These agencies may require that we reimburse the government for costs incurred at these sites or otherwise pay for the cost of investigation and cleanup of these sites including compensation for damage to natural resources. Primarily due to past operations, operations of predecessor companies or past disposal practices, we have projects underway at a number of current and former manufacturing facilities as well as former disposal sites to investigate and remediate environmental contamination resulting from past operations, as further described in Item 3. Legal Proceedings and Note 20 to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included within Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

We continue to be dedicated to environmental sustainability programs to minimize the use of natural resources and reduce the utilization and generation of hazardous materials from our manufacturing process and to remediate identified environmental concerns. Environmental laws are complex and generally have become more stringent over time. We believe that our operations currently comply in all material respects with applicable environmental laws and regulations, and have planned for future capital and operating expenditures to comply with these laws and to address liabilities arising from past or future releases of, or exposures to, hazardous substances. However, we cannot provide assurance that our costs of complying with current or future environmental protection, health and safety laws and regulations will not exceed our estimates or have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 

Further, we cannot provide assurance that we will not be subject to additional environmental claims for personal injury or cleanup in the future based on our past, present or future business activities. While it is not feasible to predict the outcome of all pending environmental matters, it is reasonably possible that there will be a need for future provisions for environmental costs that, in our opinion, are not likely to have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, but could be material to the results of operations in any one accounting period.

Raw Materials

We contract with various third-party manufacturers and suppliers, most notably related to our Specialty Brands products, to provide us with raw materials used in our products, finished goods and certain services. If, for any reason, we are unable to obtain sufficient quantities of any of the raw materials, finished goods, services or components required for our products, it could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

The active ingredients in the majority of our current Specialty Generics products and certain products in development, including oxycodone, oxymorphone, morphine, fentanyl and hydrocodone, are listed by the DEA as Schedule II substances under the CSA. Consequently, their manufacture, shipment, storage, sale and use are subject to a high degree of regulation and the DEA limits the availability of narcotic raw materials and the production of APIs and generic Schedule II substances. As discussed in "Regulatory Matters" within this Item 1. Business, we must annually apply to the DEA for manufacturing and procurement quotas in order to obtain and produce these substances. The DEA has complete discretion to adjust these quotas from time to time during the calendar year and, as a result, our procurement and production quotas may not be sufficient to meet commercial demand or to conduct bioequivalence studies and clinical trials. Any delay or refusal by the DEA in granting, in whole or in part, our quota requests for controlled substances could delay or result in the stoppage of the manufacture of our pharmaceutical products, our clinical trials or product launches and could require us to allocate product among our customers.

19

Sales, Marketing and Customers

Sales and Marketing

We market our branded products to physicians (including neurologists, rheumatologists, nephrologists, pulmonologists, ophthalmologists, neonatologists and surgeons), pharmacists, pharmacy buyers, hospital procurement departments, ambulatory surgical centers, and specialty pharmacies. We distribute our branded and generic products through independent channels, including wholesale drug distributors, specialty pharmaceutical distributors, retail pharmacy chains, hospital networks, ambulatory surgical centers and governmental agencies. In addition, we contract with group purchasing organizations ("GPOs") and managed care organizations to improve access to our products. We sell and distribute API directly or through distributors to other pharmaceutical companies.

For further information on our sales and marketing strategies, refer to "Our Businesses and Product Strategies" included within this Item 1. Business.

Customers

Net sales to distributors that accounted for more than 10% of our total net sales in fiscal 2018, 2017, 2016 and the three months ended December 30, 2016 were as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

* Net sales to these distributors were less than 10% of our total net sales during the respective periods presented above.

No other customer accounted for 10% or more of our net sales in the above periods presented. 

Manufacturing and Distribution

As of December 28, 2018, we had 12 manufacturing sites, including eight located in the U.S., as well as sites in Canada, Ireland and Japan, which handle production, assembly, quality assurance testing, packaging and sterilization of products for our Specialty Brands and Specialty Generics and Amitiza segments. Approximately 90%, 7% and 3% of our manufacturing production (as measured by cost of production) was performed within the U.S., Canada and Japan, respectively, in fiscal 2018.

As of December 28, 2018, we maintained distribution centers in nine countries. In addition, in certain countries outside the U.S. we utilize third-party distribution centers. Products generally are delivered to these distribution centers from our manufacturing facilities and then subsequently delivered to the customer. In some instances, product is delivered directly from our manufacturing facility to the customer. We contract with a wide range of transport providers to deliver our products by road, rail, sea and air.

We utilize contract manufacturing organizations ("CMOs") to manufacture certain of our finished goods that are available for resale. We most frequently utilize CMOs in the manufacture of our Specialty Brands products, including H.P. Acthar Gel (for finish and filling of the product), Ofirmev and Therakos products. 

Backlog

Our backlog represents firm orders as well as estimated revenue from contracts that are expected to be recognized in the future related to performance obligations that are unsatisfied or partially unsatisfied as of December 28, 2018. As of December 28, 2018, our backlog was 13.0% of net sales, more than half of which is expected to be recognized as revenue in fiscal 2019.

Seasonality

We have historically experienced fluctuations in our business resulting from seasonality. For example, H.P. Acthar Gel has typically experienced lower net sales during the first calendar quarter compared to other calendar quarters, which we believe is partially attributable to effects of annual insurance deductibles and the lack of warm temperatures that may exacerbate certain medical conditions. In addition, we have historically experienced lower operating cash flows during the first calendar quarter in which we pay annual employee compensation. DEA quotas for raw materials and final dosage products are allocated in each calendar year to companies and may impact our sales until the DEA grants additional quotas, if any. Impacts from quota limitations are most 

20

commonly experienced during the third and fourth calendar quarters, and we have typically experienced lower net sales in DEA controlled products during the fourth calendar quarter. While we have experienced these fluctuations in the past, they may not be indicative of what we will experience in the future.

Employees

At December 28, 2018, we had approximately 3,700 employees, approximately 1,600 of which support the Specialty Generics and Amitiza segment. Of our total employees, approximately 3,100 are based in the U.S. Certain of these employees are represented by unions or work councils. We believe that we generally have a good relationship with our employees, and with the unions and work councils that represent certain employees. 

Executive Officers

Set forth below are the names, ages as of February 1, 2019, and current positions of our executive officers.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Set forth below is a brief description of the position and business experience of each of our executive officers.

Mark Trudeau has been President, Chief Executive Officer and a director since June 2013. In anticipation of our spin transaction with Covidien plc, Mr. Trudeau joined Covidien in February 2012 as a Senior Vice President and President of its Pharmaceuticals business. He joined Covidien from Bayer HealthCare Pharmaceuticals LLC USA, the U.S. healthcare business of Bayer AG, where he served as Chief Executive Officer. He simultaneously served as President of Bayer HealthCare Pharmaceuticals, the U.S. organization of Bayer’s global pharmaceuticals business. In addition, he served as Interim President of the global specialty medicine business unit from January to August 2010. Prior to joining Bayer in 2009, Mr. Trudeau headed the Immunoscience Division at Bristol-Myers Squibb ("BMS"). During his 10-plus years at BMS, he served in multiple senior roles, including President of the Asia/Pacific region, President and General Manager of Canada and General Manager/Managing Director in the United Kingdom. Mr. Trudeau was also with Abbott Laboratories, serving in a variety of executive positions, from 1988 to 1998. Mr. Trudeau has served as a director of TE Connectivity Ltd. since March 2016.

Mark Casey is our General Counsel, a role he assumed in February 2018. He has executive responsibility for all legal functions, including those related to litigation, intellectual property, environmental and regulatory matters, and mergers and acquisitions. Mr. Casey is also responsible for the Company’s government affairs, policy and patient advocacy functions. Prior to joining Mallinckrodt, he served as Senior Vice President, General Counsel & Secretary of Idera Pharmaceuticals from June 2015 to January 2018. Mr. Casey also served as Senior Vice President, Chief Administrative Officer, General Counsel & Secretary of Hologic, Inc. ("Hologic") from March 2012 to December 2014, and as Senior Vice President, General Counsel & Secretary at Hologic from October 2007 to February 2012. Mr. Casey began his career as a patent attorney for the Digital Equipment Corporation and for EMC Corporation, and served as Senior Patent Counsel for two years at Boston Scientific, after which he progressed to Chief Patent Counsel and Deputy General Counsel for Cytyc Corporation.

Matthew Harbaugh has been our President, Specialty Generics since May 2018, with executive responsibility for the Company's specialty generics and API products. Until December 2018, he also served as our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, a position to which he was named in 2013. Mr. Harbaugh previously served as Vice President, Finance of Covidien’s Pharmaceuticals business, a position he held from July 2008 until June 2013, when Mallinckrodt became an independent public company. He also served as Interim President of Covidien’s Pharmaceuticals business from November 2010 to January 2012. Mr. Harbaugh joined Covidien’s Pharmaceuticals business in August 2007 as its Vice President and Controller, Global Finance for the Global Medical Imaging business. Mr. Harbaugh was a Lead Finance Executive with Cerberus Capital Management, L.P., a New York-based private equity firm, from April 2007 until August 2007. Prior to that Mr. Harbaugh worked nearly ten years for Monsanto Company ("Monsanto"), where he held several positions, including Corporate Finance Director, investor relations, and Finance Director/Chief Financial Officer for Monsanto's Argentine/Chilean and Canadian operations via two expatriate assignments. 

21

George Kegler is our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Interim, a role he assumed in December 2018. He has executive responsibility for the global finance function. Since 2013, Mr. Kegler has served as a Vice President of Finance for various businesses within Mallinckrodt, and served as interim President of the Company's Specialty Generics business in 2016. Prior to joining Mallinckrodt, from 2008 to 2012 he served as the Chief Financial Officer for Convatec, a private equity-owned company that was originally part of Bristol-Myers Squibb. Prior to that, he worked in various finance roles within Bristol-Myers Squibb including commercial, international, technical operations, and R&D, as well as the Assistant Controller of Internal Controls.

Hugh O'Neill is our Executive Vice President and Chief Commercial Officer. He has executive responsibility for the Company’s Specialty Brands products, directly managing all commercialization efforts and broad market access activities, as well as new product launch execution for assets in Mallinckrodt’s near-term development portfolio. From April 2015 to May 2018, Mr. O’Neill served as our Executive Vice President and President, Autoimmune and Rare Diseases, and from September 2013 to April 2015, he served as Senior Vice President and President, U.S. Specialty Pharmaceuticals. Prior to joining Mallinckrodt in September 2013, Mr. O’Neill worked at Sanofi-Aventis for ten years where he held various commercial leadership positions including Vice President of Commercial Excellence from June 2012 to July 2013; General Manager, President of Sanofi-Aventis Canada from June 2009 to May 2012; and Vice President Market Access and Business Development from 2006 to 2009. Mr. O’Neill joined Sanofi in 2003 as its Vice President, United States Managed Markets. Mr. O’Neill previously served in a variety of positions of increasing responsibility for Sandoz Pharmaceuticals, Forest Laboratories, Novartis Pharmaceuticals and Pfizer Inc.

Steven Romano, M.D. is our Executive Vice President and Chief Scientific Officer. Dr. Romano joined Mallinckrodt in May 2015 and has executive responsibility for R&D, medical affairs and regulatory affairs functions. Dr. Romano is a board-certified psychiatrist with more than 20 years of experience in the pharmaceutical industry. Previously, Dr. Romano spent 16 years at Pfizer, Inc. where he held a series of senior medical and R&D roles of increasing responsibility, culminating with his role as Senior Vice President, Head of Global Medicines Development, Global Innovative Pharmaceuticals Business. Prior to joining Pfizer, he spent four years at Eli Lilly & Co. After receiving his A.B. in Biology from Washington University in St. Louis and his medical degree from the University of Missouri-Columbia, Dr. Romano completed his residency and fellowship at New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center, continuing on the faculty of the medical school for an additional six years.

Dagmar Rosa-Björkeson is our Chief Strategy and Corporate Development Officer, a position she assumed in April 2018. She has responsibility for corporate and therapeutic area strategy, business development, and the new product commercialization function. From May 2017 to September 2017, she served as our Senior Vice President, Autoimmune and Rare Diseases, and from September 2017 to April 2018, she served as our Senior Vice President, New Product Commercialization. Before joining Mallinckrodt, Ms. Rosa-Björkeson served as Executive Vice President and President, Biosimilars at Baxalta from 2014 to 2016. Prior to that she held roles of increasing responsibility at Novartis over the course of 17 years, most recently Vice President, Head of Multiple Sclerosis, U.S.; Vice President, Business Development and Licensing, U.S.; and Vice President, Respiratory, U.S.

Dr. Frank Scholz is our Executive Vice President and Chief Operations and Digital Innovation Officer. His responsibilities include global branded manufacturing operations, quality and supply chain functions; the Company’s contract manufacturing subsidiary; information technology and digital innovation; procurement; commercial alliance management; enterprise analytics; and strategic program management for the Company. He joined Mallinckrodt in March 2014 as Senior Vice President of Global Operations, was named Executive Vice President of Global Operations and President, Specialty Generics in September 2016, and assumed his current role in May 2018. Prior to joining Mallinckrodt, Dr. Scholz was a partner with McKinsey & Co ("McKinsey"), a global management consulting firm first in its Hamburg, Germany office and then in its Chicago, Illinois office. Dr. Scholz was a leader in McKinsey’s global pharmaceutical and operations practices. He joined McKinsey in 1997. Prior to joining McKinsey, Dr. Scholz was a research assistant at the Institute for Management and Accounting at the University of Hanover, Germany.

Karen Sheehy is our Chief Compliance Officer, a role she assumed in January 2017. She has executive responsibility for global corporate compliance and is the head of Mallinckrodt's compliance leadership team. Ms. Sheehy joined Mallinckrodt from Sanofi S.A. where she worked for more than 16 years, serving most recently as Head of Compliance for North America. Prior to joining Sanofi, Ms. Sheehy worked at Daiichi Pharmaceuticals and was an attorney in private practice at Riker, Danzig, Scherer, Hyland & Perretti LLP where she focused on complex commercial litigation. 

Ian Watkins is our Chief Human Resources Officer. He has executive responsibility for organizational development, effectiveness and sustainability, talent acquisition, total rewards, and human resources systems and service delivery. He is also responsible for supporting the Board of Directors in their governance activities related to executive compensation, talent and succession management. Mr. Watkins has also recently assumed responsibility for the Company's communications. Mr. Watkins joined Covidien’s Pharmaceuticals business in September 2012 as the Chief Human Resources Officer. Mr. Watkins served as Vice President, Global Human Resources at Synthes, Inc. from June 2007 to September 2012, which was acquired by Johnson & Johnson. Mr. Watkins served as Senior Vice President, Human Resources from 2003 to 2006 for Andrx Corporation, which is now part of Allergan plc (formerly Actavis, Inc. and Watson Pharmaceuticals, Inc.).

22

Available Information

Our website address is mallinckrodt.com. We are not including the information contained on our website as part of, or incorporating it by reference into, this filing. We make available to the public on our website, free of charge, our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the U.S. SEC. Our reports filed with, or furnished to, the SEC are available on the SEC's website at sec.gov.

We use our website at mallinckrodt.com as a channel of distribution of important company information, such as press releases, investor presentations and other financial information. We also use our website to expedite public access to time-critical information regarding our company in advance of or in lieu of distributing a press release or a filing with the SEC disclosing the same information. Therefore, investors should look to the Investor Relations page of our website for important and time-critical information. Visitors to our website can also register to receive automatic e-mail and other notifications alerting them when new information is made available on the Investor Relations page of our website.

Item 1A.Risk Factors.