Item 7A.Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.

Our operations include activities in the U.S. and countries outside of the U.S. These operations expose us to a variety of market risks, including the effects of changes in interest rates and currency exchange rates. We monitor and manage these financial exposures as an integral part of our overall risk management program and have entered into derivative instruments to mitigate the exposure of movement in certain of these foreign currency transactions. 

Interest Rate Risk 

Our exposure to interest rate risk relates primarily to our variable-rate debt instruments, which bear interest based on LIBOR plus margin. As of December 28, 2018, our outstanding debt included $2,210.8 million variable-rate debt on our senior secured term loans, $250.0 million variable-rate debt on our receivables securitization program and $220.0 million variable-rate debt on our revolving credit facility. Assuming a one percent increase in the applicable interest rates, in excess of applicable minimum floors, annual interest expense for fiscal 2019 would increase by approximately $26.8 million. 

The remaining outstanding debt as of December 28, 2018 is fixed-rate debt. Changes in market interest rates generally affect the fair value of fixed-rate debt, but do not impact earnings or cash flows.

Currency Risk 

Certain net sales and costs of our international operations are denominated in the local currency of the respective countries. As such, profits from these subsidiaries may be impacted by fluctuations in the value of these local currencies relative to the U.S. dollar. We also have significant intercompany financing arrangements that may result in gains and losses in our results of operations. In an effort to mitigate the impact of currency exchange rate effects we may hedge certain operational and intercompany transactions; however, our hedging strategies may not fully offset gains and losses recognized in our results of operations. 

75

The consolidated statements of income is exposed to currency risk from intercompany financing arrangements, which primarily consist of intercompany debt and intercompany cash pooling, where the denominated currency of the transaction differs from the functional currency of one or more of our subsidiaries. We performed a sensitivity analysis for these arrangements as of December 28, 2018 that measured the potential unfavorable impact to income from continuing operations before income taxes from a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in foreign exchange rates relative to the U.S. dollar, with all other variables held constant. The aggregate potential unfavorable impact from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign exchange rates was $0.2 million as of December 28, 2018. This hypothetical loss does not reflect any hypothetical benefits that would be derived from hedging activities, including cash holdings in similar foreign currencies, that we have historically utilized to mitigate our exposure to movements in foreign exchange rates. 

The financial results of our non-U.S. operations are translated into U.S. dollars, further exposing us to currency exchange rate fluctuations. We performed a sensitivity analysis as of December 28, 2018 that measured the change in the net financial position arising from a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in the exchange rates of all foreign currencies used, including the Euro and the Canadian Dollar, our most widely used foreign currencies, relative to the U.S. dollar, with all other variables held constant. The aggregate potential change in net financial position from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in the above currencies was $14.6 million as of December 28, 2018. The change in the net financial position associated with the translation of these currencies is generally recorded as an unrealized gain or loss on foreign currency translation within accumulated other comprehensive income in shareholders' equity of our consolidated balance sheets.

76

Item 8.Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.