ITEM 7.Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition And Results of Operations 

The following discussion and analysis addresses material changes in the financial condition and results of operations of Mylan N.V. and subsidiaries for the periods presented. Unless context requires otherwise, the “Company,” “Mylan,” “our” or “we” refer to Mylan N.V. and its subsidiaries. 

This discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and the related Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and our other SEC filings and public disclosures. 

This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains “forward-looking statements.” These statements are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such forward-looking statements may include, without limitation, statements about Mylan’s future operations, anticipated business levels, future earnings, planned activities, anticipated growth, market opportunities, strategies, competition, and other expectations and targets for future periods. These may often be identified by the use of words such as “will,” “may,” “could,” “should,” “would,” “project,” “believe,” “anticipate,” “expect,” “plan,” “estimate,” “forecast,” “potential,” “pipeline,” “intend,” “continue,” “target,” “seek” and variations of these words or comparable words. 

Because forward-looking statements inherently involve risks and uncertainties, actual future results may differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to: 

•actions and decisions of healthcare and pharmaceutical regulators; 

•failure to achieve expected or targeted future financial and operating performance and results;

•uncertainties regarding future demand, pricing and reimbursement for our products; 

•any regulatory, legal or other impediments to Mylan’s ability to bring new products to market, including, but not limited to, where Mylan uses its business judgment and decides to manufacture, market and/or sell products, directly or through third parties, notwithstanding the fact that allegations of patent infringement(s) have not been finally resolved by the courts (i.e., an “at-risk launch”); 

•success of clinical trials and Mylan’s ability to execute on new product opportunities; 

•any changes in or difficulties with our manufacturing facilities, including with respect to our remediation and restructuring activities, supply chain or inventory or our ability to meet anticipated demand; 

•the scope, timing and outcome of any ongoing legal proceedings, including government investigations, and the impact of any such proceedings on our financial condition, results of operations and/or cash flows; 

•the ability to meet expectations regarding the accounting and tax treatments of acquisitions, including Mylan’s acquisition of Mylan Inc. and EPD Business; 

•changes in relevant tax and other laws, including but not limited to changes in the U.S. tax code and healthcare and pharmaceutical laws and regulations in the U.S. and abroad; 

•any significant breach of data security or data privacy or disruptions to our IT systems; 

•the ability to protect intellectual property and preserve intellectual property rights; 

•the effect of any changes in customer and supplier relationships and customer purchasing patterns; 

•the ability to attract and retain key personnel; 

•the impact of competition; 

•identifying, acquiring and integrating complementary or strategic acquisitions of other companies, products or assets being more difficult, time-consuming or costly than anticipated; 

•the possibility that Mylan may be unable to achieve expected synergies and operating efficiencies in connection with strategic acquisitions, strategic initiatives or restructuring programs within the expected time-frames or at all; 

•uncertainties and matters beyond the control of management, including but not limited to general political and economic conditions and global exchange rates; and 

•inherent uncertainties involved in the estimates and judgments used in the preparation of financial statements, and the providing of estimates of financial measures, in accordance with U.S. GAAP and related standards or on an adjusted basis. 

42
For more detailed information on the risks and uncertainties associated with Mylan’s business activities, see the risks described in Item 1A in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018, and our other filings with the SEC. 

You can access Mylan’s filings with the SEC through the SEC website at www.sec.gov or through our website, and Mylan strongly encourages you to do so. Mylan routinely posts information that may be important to investors on our website at investor.mylan.com, and we use this website address as a means of disclosing material information to the public in a broad, non-exclusionary manner for purposes of the SEC’s Regulation Fair Disclosure (Reg FD). 

The contents of our website are not incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and shall not be deemed “filed” under the Exchange Act, as amended. 

Mylan undertakes no obligation to update any statements herein for revisions or changes after the filing date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Company Overview

Mylan is a global pharmaceutical company committed to setting new standards in healthcare and providing 7 billion people access to high quality medicine. We offer a growing portfolio of more than 7,500 products, including prescription generic, branded generic, brand-name drugs and OTC remedies. We market our products in more than 165 countries and territories. Every member of our approximately 35,000-strong global workforce is dedicated to delivering better health for a better world.

Over the last several years, Mylan has transformed itself through a clear, consistent and differentiated strategy into a company that is built to last. Fueling that durability is a business model anchored in providing access, Mylan’s core purpose.

Providing access requires that we satisfy the needs of an incredibly diverse global marketplace whose economic and political systems, approaches to delivering and paying for healthcare, languages and traditions, and customer and patient requirements vary by location and over time.

With these considerations in mind, we built and scaled our commercial, operational and scientific platforms to meet customers’ evolving needs in ways that are globally consistent and locally sensitive. As a result, not only are we succeeding in expanding people’s access to medicine, we are continually diversifying our business.

That diversification is what drives our durability. Durability allows us to withstand and overcome competitive pressures while continuing to innovate. It also allows us to generate consistent financial results, including reliable cash flows capable of supporting ongoing investments in long-term growth.

Certain Market and Industry Factors

The global pharmaceutical industry is a highly competitive and highly regulated industry. As a result, we face a number of industry-specific factors and challenges, which can significantly impact our results. The following discussion highlights some of these key factors and market conditions.

Generic products, particularly in the U.S., generally contribute most significantly to revenues and gross margins at the time of their launch, and even more so in periods of market exclusivity, or in periods of limited generic competition. As such, the timing of new product introductions can have a significant impact on the Company’s financial results. The entrance into the market of additional competition generally has a negative impact on the volume and pricing of the affected products. Additionally, pricing is often affected by factors outside of the Company’s control.

For branded products, the majority of the product’s commercial value is usually realized during the period in which the product has market exclusivity. In the U.S. and some other countries, when market exclusivity expires and generic versions of a product are approved and marketed, there can often be very substantial and rapid declines in the branded product’s sales. OTC products also participate in a competitive environment that includes both branded and private label products. In the OTC space, value is realized through innovation, access and consumer activation. 

Certain markets in which we do business outside of the U.S. have undergone government-imposed price reductions, and further government-imposed price reductions are expected in the future. Such measures, along with the tender systems discussed below, are likely to have a negative impact on sales and gross profit in these markets. However, government 

43
initiatives in certain markets that appear to favor generic products could help to mitigate this unfavorable effect by increasing rates of generic substitution and penetration. 

Additionally, a number of markets in which we operate outside of the U.S. have implemented, or may implement, tender systems for generic pharmaceuticals in an effort to lower prices. Generally speaking, tender systems can have an unfavorable impact on sales and profitability. Under such tender systems, manufacturers submit bids that establish prices for generic pharmaceutical products. Upon winning the tender, the winning company will receive priority placement for a period of time. The tender system often results in companies underbidding one another by proposing low pricing in order to win the tender. The loss of a tender by a third party to whom we supply API can also have a negative impact on our sales and profitability. Sales continue to be negatively affected by the impact of tender systems in certain countries.

Recent Developments

In the fourth quarter of 2016, the Company announced a restructuring program representing initial steps of a series of actions in certain locations that are anticipated to further streamline our operations globally. During the year ended December 31, 2018, the Company recorded pre-tax restructuring charges of $240.2 million. Included within the restructuring charges during the year ended December 31, 2018 were $144.5 million for non-cash asset impairment charges. The remaining restructuring charges during the year ended December 31, 2018 primarily related to severance and employee benefits. The restructuring program, other than the additional restructuring and remediation activities at the Morgantown, West Virginia plant described below, was substantially complete as of December 31, 2018. As a result of the overall actions taken under the restructuring program through December 31, 2018, management believes the potential annual savings will be between approximately $400.0 million and $475.0 million once fully realized, with the majority of these savings improving operating cash flow. 

In April 2018, the FDA completed an inspection at Mylan’s plant in Morgantown, West Virginia and made observations through a Form 483. The Company submitted a comprehensive response to the FDA and committed to a robust improvement plan. In addition, based upon the Company’s recognition of the continued evolution of industry dynamics and regulatory expectations, during the second quarter of 2018, the Company commenced comprehensive restructuring and remediation activities, which are aimed at reducing complexity at the Morgantown plant and include the discontinuation and transfer to other manufacturing sites of a number of products, a reduction of the workforce and extensive process and plant remediation. In the fourth quarter of 2018, the Company received a warning letter related to the previously disclosed observations at the plant. The issues raised in the warning letter are being addressed within the context of the Company’s comprehensive restructuring and remediation activities. 

The Morgantown plant continues to supply products for the U.S. market while we execute on and assess the restructuring and remediation activities. However, these activities have led to a temporary disruption in supply of certain products. Importantly, the profitability of the transferred and discontinued products is not proportionate to the reduced volumes of those products as the Company expects that manufacturing costs related to transferred products will be reduced and many of the discontinued products have lower than average gross margins. In addition, as it relates to North America, no significant new product revenue is forecasted from the Morgantown plant in 2019, and we are forecasting that only five of our top 50 and only one out of the top 10 gross margin generating products will be manufactured in Morgantown in 2019. 

For the year ended December 31, 2018, the Company has incurred expenses amounting to approximately $258.3 million for incremental manufacturing variances, site remediation and restructuring charges related to the Morgantown plant. At this time, the total expenses related to the additional restructuring and remediation activities at the Morgantown plant cannot be reasonably estimated.

Mylan remains committed to maintaining the highest quality manufacturing standards at its facilities around the world and to continuous assessment and improvement in a time of evolving industry dynamics and regulatory expectations.

In April 2018, the State of New York passed a budget which included the Opioid Stewardship Fund (the “Fund”). The Fund created an aggregate $100 million annual assessment on all manufacturers and distributors licensed to sell or distribute opioids in New York. In December 2018 a federal judge struck down the law ruling that the law was an unconstitutional regulatory penalty. New York has appealed the ruling. 

On January 30, 2019, the Company received FDA approval of WixelaTM InhubTM (fluticasone propionate and salmeterol inhalation powder, USP), the first generic of GlaxoSmithKline’s Advair Diskus®. The commercial launch of the Wixela Inhub occurred in February 2019. 

44
Financial Summary

The table below is a summary of the Company’s financial results for the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to the prior year period:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

A detailed discussion of the Company’s financial results can be found below in the section titled “Results of Operations.” As part of this discussion, we also report sales performance using the non-GAAP financial measures of “constant currency” net sales and total revenues. These measures provides information on the change in net sales and total revenues assuming that foreign currency exchange rates had not changed between the prior and current period. The comparisons presented at constant currency rates reflect comparative local currency sales at the prior year’s foreign exchange rates. We routinely evaluate our net sales and total revenues performance at constant currency so that sales results can be viewed without the impact of foreign currency exchange rates, thereby facilitating a period-to-period comparison of our operational activities, and believe that this presentation also provides useful information to investors for the same reason.

More information about non-GAAP measures used by the Company as part of this discussion, including adjusted cost of sales, adjusted gross margins, adjusted net earnings, and adjusted EPS (all of which are defined below), are discussed further in this Item 7 under Results of Operations and Results of Operations — Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures.

Results of Operations

2018 Compared to 2017

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]____________

(1) Currency impact is shown as unfavorable (favorable).

(2) The constant currency percentage change is derived by translating net sales or revenues for the current period at prior year comparative period exchange rates, and in doing so shows the percentage change from 2018 constant currency net sales or revenues to the corresponding amount in the prior year.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(4) Amounts exclude intersegment revenue that eliminates on a consolidated basis.

45
Total Revenues

For the year ended December 31, 2018, Mylan reported total revenues of $11.43 billion, compared to $11.91 billion for the comparable prior year period, representing a decrease of $473.8 million, or 4%. Total revenues include both net sales and other revenues from third parties. Net sales for the year ended December 31, 2018 were $11.27 billion, compared to $11.76 billion for the comparable prior year period, representing a decrease of $491.3 million, or 4%. Other revenues for the year ended December 31, 2018 were $165.2 million, compared to $147.7 million for the comparable prior year period, an increase of $17.5 million. The increase in other revenues was primarily the result of consideration received from the licensing of intellectual property during the current year.

The decrease in net sales included a decrease in the North America segment of 18%. This decrease was partially offset by increases in the Europe segment of 5% and in the Rest of World segment of 7%. The overall decrease in net sales was primarily driven by a decrease in net sales from existing products. Net sales from existing products, partially offset by new product sales, decreased on a constant currency basis by approximately $443.6 million primarily as a result of lower volumes, and to a lesser extent, pricing. Net sales were also negatively impacted by approximately $104.5 million due to the adoption of new accounting standards. Mylan’s net sales were favorably impacted by the effect of foreign currency translation, primarily reflecting changes in the U.S. Dollar as compared to the currencies of Mylan’s subsidiaries in the EU, which was partially offset by the unfavorable impact from changes in the Indian Rupee and the Australian Dollar. The favorable impact of foreign currency translation on current year net sales was approximately $56.7 million resulting in a decrease in constant currency net sales of approximately $548.0 million, or 5%.

From time to time, a limited number of our products may represent a significant portion of our net sales, gross profit and net earnings. Generally, this is due to the timing of new product introductions and the amount, if any, of additional competition in the market. Our top ten products in terms of net sales, in the aggregate, represented approximately 20% and 21% for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.

Net sales are derived from our three geographic reporting segments: North America, Europe and Rest of World. The graph below shows net sales by segment for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 and the net change period over period.

North America Segment

Net sales from North America decreased by $874.0 million or 18% during the year ended December 31, 2018 when compared to the prior year. This decrease was due primarily to lower volumes on existing products, including the EpiPen® Auto-Injector, partially offset by new product sales. The decline in volumes was primarily driven by the divestiture of certain contract manufacturing assets, the loss of exclusivity of certain products, actions associated with the restructuring and remediation activities at the Morgantown manufacturing plant and the timing of purchases of our products by customers. In addition, net sales were negatively impacted by $149.7 million related to the implementation of new accounting standards. Pricing also declined when compared to the prior year. The impact of foreign currency translation on current period net sales was insignificant within North America.

46
Europe Segment

Net sales from Europe increased by $199.0 million or 5% for the year ended December 31, 2018 when compared to the prior year. This increase was primarily the result of the favorable impact of foreign currency translation, new product sales, and to a lesser extent, higher volumes of existing products. The favorable impact of foreign currency translation was approximately $144.5 million, or 4%. Partially offsetting these items was lower pricing on existing products. Constant currency net sales increased by approximately $54.5 million, or 1% when compared to the prior year. 

Rest of World Segment

Net sales from Rest of World increased by $183.7 million or 7% for the year ended December 31, 2018 when compared to the prior year. This increase was primarily the result of new product sales, and to a lesser extent, higher volumes of existing products including higher sales of key brands in China. The increase in net sales as a result of new products was primarily due to new product sales from the Company’s ARV franchise combined with new product sales in Australia, Japan and China. The increase in net sales was partially offset by lower pricing on existing products and the unfavorable impact of foreign currency translation. Overall, net sales from Rest of World were unfavorably impacted by the effect of foreign currency translation of approximately $88.6 million, or 3%. Constant currency net sales increased by approximately $272.3 million, or 10%. 

Cost of Sales and Gross Profit

Cost of sales increased from $7.12 billion for the year ended December 31, 2017 to $7.43 billion for the year ended December 31, 2018. Cost of sales was primarily impacted by purchase accounting related amortization of acquired intangible assets and other special items, which are described further in the section titled Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures. Gross profit for the year ended December 31, 2018 was $4.00 billion and gross margins were 35%. For the year ended December 31, 2017, gross profit was $4.78 billion and gross margins were 40%. Gross margins were negatively impacted by approximately 270 basis points related to the incremental amortization from product acquisitions and intangible asset impairment charges. Gross margins were also negatively affected by approximately 220 basis points as a result of incremental manufacturing expenses, site remediation expenses and incremental restructuring charges incurred during the year principally as a result of the activities at the Company’s Morgantown plant. In addition, gross margins were negatively impacted as a result of lower gross profit from the sales of existing products partially offset by gross margins on new product introductions primarily in North America. Adjusted gross margins were approximately 54% for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017. Adjusted gross margins were negatively impacted by lower gross profit from sales of existing products partially offset by gross margins on new product introductions primarily in North America.

A reconciliation between cost of sales, as reported under U.S. GAAP, and adjusted cost of sales and adjusted gross margin for the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to the year ended December 31, 2017 is as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]____________

(a) Adjusted gross profit is calculated as total revenues less adjusted cost of sales. Adjusted gross margin is calculated as adjusted gross profit divided by total revenues.

47
Operating Expenses

Research & Development Expense

R&D expense for the year ended December 31, 2018 was $704.5 million, compared to $783.3 million for the prior year, a decrease of $78.8 million. This decrease was primarily due to lower expenditures related to the Company’s respiratory programs and lower expenses due to the reprioritization of global programs.

Selling, General & Administrative Expense

Selling, general and administrative (“SG&A”) expense for the year ended December 31, 2018 was $2.44 billion, compared to $2.58 billion for the prior year, a decrease of $134.7 million. The decrease is primarily due to the benefits of integration activities, lower restructuring charges, lower acquisition-related costs of approximately $48.0 million, and reduced share-based compensation expense primarily due to the reversal of all of the cumulative expense totaling $70.6 million related to the Company’s One-Time Special Performance-Based Five-Year Realizable Value Incentive Program during the year ended December 31, 2018. These decreases were partially offset by an increase in bad debt expense of approximately $26.5 million related to a special business interruption event for one customer, and $20.0 million of compensation expense as an additional discretionary bonus for a certain group of employees. None of the employees eligible for this bonus are named executive officers.

Litigation Settlements and Other Contingencies, Net

During the year ended December 31, 2018, the Company recorded a net gain of $49.5 million for litigation settlements and other contingencies, net, compared to $13.1 million in the prior year.

 The following table includes the losses/(gains) recognized in litigation settlements and other contingencies, net during the year ended December 31, 2018:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The following table includes the losses/(gains) recognized in litigation settlements and other contingencies, net during the year ended December 31, 2017:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Interest Expense

Interest expense for the year ended December 31, 2018 totaled $542.3 million, compared to $534.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2017, an increase of $7.7 million. The increase is due to slightly higher average interest rates on debt issued in 2018 when compared to the debt instruments redeemed during 2018, which was partially offset by the impact of lower average long-term balances during the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to the prior year.

48
Other Expense, Net 

Other expense, net, was $64.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2018, compared to net other income of $0.4 million for the prior year. Other expense (income), net includes losses from equity affiliates, foreign exchange gains and losses, and interest and dividend income. Other expense (income), net was comprised of the following for the year ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Income Tax (Benefit) Provision

For the year ended December 31, 2018, the Company recognized an income tax benefit of $54.1 million, compared to an income tax provision of $207.0 million for the comparable prior year. During the year ended December 31, 2018, a tax benefit of $65.7 million was recorded as a result of the Company’s settlement of certain federal and state audits. The tax provision for the year ended December 31, 2017 included a provisional net tax charge of $128.6 million related to the December 2017 U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the “Tax Act”). Also impacting the income tax benefit for the year ended December 31, 2018 versus the prior year was the changing mix of income earned in jurisdictions with differing tax rates, increases in valuation allowances on certain carryforward tax attributes, and the revaluation of deferred tax assets and liabilities in countries that changed their statutory corporate tax rate.

2017 Compared to 2016 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]____________

(1) Currency impact is shown as unfavorable (favorable).

(2) The constant currency percentage change is derived by translating net sales or revenues for the current period at prior year comparative period exchange rates, and in doing so shows the percentage change from 2017 constant currency net sales or revenues to the corresponding amount in the prior year.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(4) Amounts exclude intersegment revenue that eliminates on a consolidated basis.

Total Revenues 

For the year ended December 31, 2017, Mylan reported total revenues of $11.91 billion compared to $11.08 billion for the comparable prior year period, representing an increase of $830.8 million, or 8%. Total revenues include both net sales and other revenues from third parties. Net sales for the year ended December 31, 2017 were $11.76 billion, compared to $10.97 

49
billion for the comparable prior year period, representing an increase of $792.9 million, or 7%. Other revenues for the year ended December 31, 2017 were $147.7 million, compared to $109.8 million for the comparable prior year period, an increase of $37.9 million. The increase in other revenues was principally the result of an incremental increase in royalty income from arrangements acquired in the acquisition of Meda.

The increase in total revenues included net sales growth in the Europe segment of 34% and in the Rest of World segment of 19%. Net sales declined in the North America segment by 12%. Contributing to the overall increase in total revenues were the incremental net sales from the acquisitions of Meda and the non-sterile, topicals-focused business (the “Topicals Business”) of Renaissance Acquisition Holdings, LLC of approximately $1.41 billion. This increase was partially offset by a net decrease in net sales from existing products and lower new product introductions of approximately $764.1 million. The decrease from existing products was due primarily to lower pricing and, to a lesser extent, lower volumes in 2017. Mylan’s total revenues were favorably impacted by the effect of foreign currency translation, primarily reflecting changes in the U.S. Dollar as compared to the currencies of Mylan’s subsidiaries in the European Union, India, and Australia, which was partially offset by the unfavorable impact from changes in the Japanese Yen and the Pound Sterling. The favorable impact of foreign currency translation on total revenues was approximately $149.5 million resulting in an increase in constant currency total revenues of approximately $681.3 million, or 6%.

From time to time, a limited number of our products may represent a significant portion of our net sales, gross profit and net earnings. Generally, this is due to the timing of new product introductions and the amount, if any, of additional competition in the market. Our top ten products in terms of net sales, in the aggregate, represented approximately 21% and 27% for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively.

Net sales are derived from our three geographic reporting segments: North America, Europe and Rest of World. The graph below shows net sales by segment for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 and the net change period over period.

North America Segment 

Net sales from North America decreased $659.9 million, or 12% during the year ended December 31, 2017 when compared to 2016. Net sales of existing products decreased principally due to lower pricing and, to a lesser extent, lower volume. This was partially offset by the incremental net sales from the acquisitions of Meda and the Topicals Business, totaling approximately $340.0 million. For the year ended December 31, 2017, as anticipated, the U.S. generics products experienced price erosion in the high-single-digits, which includes the impact of the loss of exclusivity of armodafinil, olmesartan and olmesartan HCTZ during 2017. Sales of the EpiPen® Auto-Injector declined approximately $655.4 million from 2016 as a result of the impact of the launch of the authorized generic, higher governmental rebates as a result of the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program Settlement, and increased competition. Excluding the negative impact of the lower sales of the EpiPen® Auto-Injector, overall third-party sales in North America were unchanged in 2017 compared with 2016. The impact of foreign currency translation on net sales was insignificant within North America.

Europe Segment

Net sales from Europe increased $1.00 billion, or 34% during the year ended December 31, 2017 when compared to the prior year. This increase was primarily the result of net sales from the acquisition of Meda of approximately $833.2 million during the year ended December 31, 2017. Net sales of existing products increased primarily as a result of sales of new products and favorable pricing and volume. The favorable impact of foreign currency translation on 2017 net sales was $89.7 million, or 3% within Europe. Constant currency net sales increased by approximately $914.8 million, or 31% when compared to the prior year.

50
Rest of World Segment

Net sales from Rest of World increased by $448.3 million or 19% during the year ended December 31, 2017 when compared to the prior year. This increase was primarily the result of incremental net sales from the acquisition of Meda totaling approximately $229.2 million. In addition, net sales from existing products increased principally as a result of higher volume, particularly from our ARV franchise, and to a lesser extent Australia and the emerging markets. Throughout the segment, higher volumes and sales of new products more than offset lower pricing. The favorable impact of foreign currency translation was $52.2 million, or 2%. Constant currency net sales increased by approximately $396.1 million, or 17%.

Cost of Sales and Gross Profit

Cost of sales increased from $6.38 billion for the year ended December 31, 2016 to $7.12 billion for the year ended December 31, 2017. Cost of sales was primarily impacted by purchase accounting related amortization of acquired intangible assets, acquisition related costs, restructuring, and other special items, which are described further in the section titled Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures. Gross profit for the year ended December 31, 2017 was $4.78 billion and gross margins were 40%. For the year ended December 31, 2016, gross profit was $4.70 billion and gross margins were 42%. Gross margins were negatively impacted in 2017 by incremental amortization expense as a result of the acquisitions of Meda and the Topicals Business by approximately 110 basis points, lower gross profit from the sales of existing products in North America, including the EpiPen® Auto-Injector, by approximately 275 basis points, partially offset by the contributions from the acquired businesses. Adjusted gross margins were approximately 54% for the year ended December 31, 2017, compared to approximately 56% for the year ended December 31, 2016. Adjusted gross margins were negatively impacted in the current period as a result of lower gross profit from the sales of existing products in North America, including the EpiPen® Auto-Injector, by approximately 200 basis points, partially offset by the contributions from the acquired businesses.

A reconciliation between cost of sales, as reported under U.S. GAAP, and adjusted cost of sales and adjusted gross margin for the year ended December 31, 2017 compared to the year ended December 31, 2016 is as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]____________

(a) Adjusted gross profit is calculated as total revenues less adjusted cost of sales. Adjusted gross margin is calculated as adjusted gross profit divided by total revenues.

Operating Expenses

Research & Development Expense

R&D expense for the year ended December 31, 2017 was $783.3 million, compared to $826.8 million for the prior year, a decrease of $43.5 million. The decrease was due to lower spending when compared to the prior year as a result of the Company’s reprioritization of global programs. Partially offsetting this decrease was the impact from incremental R&D expense related to the acquisitions of Meda and the Topicals Business of approximately $45.4 million in the current year as well as an increase in restructuring costs included in R&D from $7.7 million in 2016 to $8.4 million in 2017. 

51
Additionally, during the year ended December 31, 2017, the Company entered into a joint development and marketing agreement for a respiratory product resulting in approximately $50.0 million in R&D expense. The Company also incurred R&D expense in 2017 of $31.9 million related to the collaboration agreement with Momenta. In the prior year period, the Company made an upfront payment of $45.0 million and incurred additional R&D expense of $29.2 million, both related to the Company’s collaboration agreement with Momenta which was entered into on January 8, 2016. 

Selling, General & Administrative Expense

SG&A for the year ended December 31, 2017 was $2.58 billion, compared to $2.50 billion for the prior year, an increase of $77.2 million. The increase is due primarily to additional incremental expense related to the acquisitions of Meda and the Topicals Business which increased SG&A by approximately $213.1 million. Restructuring charges recorded in SG&A were $133.6 million and $113.1 million, respectively, for the years ended December 31, 2017 and December 31, 2016. Partially offsetting these increases were acquisition related costs which were $110.8 million lower than the prior year as well as the year over year benefit of integration activities.

Litigation Settlements and Other Contingencies, Net

During the year ended December 31, 2017, the Company recorded net gains of $13.1 million for litigation settlements and other contingencies, net, compared to a net charge of $672.5 million in the prior year. 

The following table includes the losses/(gains) recognized in litigation settlements and other contingencies, net during the year ended December 31, 2017:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

 The following table includes the losses/(gains) recognized in litigation settlements and other contingencies, net during the year ended December 31, 2016:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Interest Expense

Interest expense for the year ended December 31, 2017 totaled $534.6 million, compared to $454.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2016, an increase of $79.8 million. The increase in 2017 is primarily due to the incremental impact of the issuance of the senior notes in June 2016 and, the Euro senior notes issued in November 2016 and May 2017. This increase was partially offset by the impact of the repayment of the 1.800% Senior Notes due 2016 and the 1.350% Senior Notes due 2016 in June and November of 2016, respectively, as well as the repayment of the Meda Term Loan and the partial repayment of the Mylan N.V. Term Loan.

52
Other (Income) Expense, Net 

Other (income) expense, net was $0.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2017, compared to net expense of $122.7 million for the prior year. Other (income) expense, net was comprised of the following for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

During 2017, as a result of a decline in current and expected future production levels at certain of the clean energy facilities the Company impaired its investment balance and other assets by approximately $47.0 million and reduced the related long-term obligations for these investments by approximately $89.0 million resulting in a net gain of $42.0 million which was recognized as a component of the net loss of the equity method investments. In the prior year, other (income) expense, net included a foreign exchange net gain of $0.5 million, which included $128.6 million of losses related to the Company’s SEK non-designated foreign currency contracts that were entered into to economically hedge the foreign currency exposure associated with the expected payment of the Swedish krona-denominated cash portion of the purchase price of the offer to the shareholders of Meda to acquire all of the outstanding shares of Meda. This loss was offset by foreign exchange gains of approximately $30.5 million related to the mark-to-market impact for the November 2016 settlement of a portion of outstanding Meda shares and the remaining obligation on non-tendered Meda shares. In addition, the loss was offset by foreign exchange gains related to the mark-to-market on Euro denominated notes of approximately $32.0 million and additional net gains as a result of the Company’s foreign currency exchange risk management program.

Income Tax Provision (Benefit)

For the year ended December 31, 2017, the Company recognized an income tax provision of $207.0 million, compared to an income tax benefit of $358.3 million for the comparable prior year. On December 22, 2017, the Tax Act was signed into law making significant changes to the Code. Changes include, but are not limited to, a U.S. federal corporate income tax rate decrease from 35% to 21% effective for tax years beginning after December 31, 2017, and a one-time transition tax on the mandatory deemed repatriation of cumulative foreign earnings of non-U.S. corporate subsidiaries of large U.S. shareholders as of December 31, 2017. The Company calculated its best estimate of the impact of the Tax Act in the 2017 income tax provision in accordance with our understanding of the Tax Act and available guidance and recorded a provisional net tax charge of $128.6 million related to the Tax Act in the year ended December 31, 2017. In addition, the income tax provision for the year ended December 31, 2017 versus the prior year was impacted by the changing mix of income earned in jurisdictions with differing tax rates, statutory releases of certain tax uncertainties, increases in valuation allowances on certain carryforward tax attributes, the non-recurring nature of tax benefits obtained by the 2016 mergers of certain foreign subsidiaries, and the revaluation of deferred tax assets and liabilities in countries that changed their statutory corporate tax rate.

Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures

Whenever the Company uses non-GAAP financial measures, we provide a reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial measures to their most directly comparable U.S. GAAP financial measure. Investors and other readers are encouraged to review the related U.S. GAAP financial measures and the reconciliation of non-GAAP measures to their most directly comparable U.S. GAAP measure and should consider non-GAAP measures only as a supplement to, not as a substitute for or as a superior measure to, measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Additionally, since these are not measures determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP, non-GAAP financial measures have no standardized meaning across companies, or as prescribed by U.S. GAAP and, therefore, may not be comparable to the calculation of similar measures or measures with the same title used by other companies.

53
Management uses these measures internally for forecasting, budgeting, measuring its operating performance, and incentive-based awards. Primarily due to acquisitions and other significant events which may impact comparability of our periodic operating results, we believe that an evaluation of our ongoing operations (and comparisons of our current operations with historical and future operations) would be difficult if the disclosure of our financial results was limited to financial measures prepared only in accordance with U.S. GAAP. We believe that non-GAAP financial measures are useful supplemental information for our investors and when considered together with our U.S. GAAP financial measures and the reconciliation to the most directly comparable U.S. GAAP financial measure, provide a more complete understanding of the factors and trends affecting our operations. The financial performance of the Company is measured by senior management, in part, using adjusted metrics as described below, along with other performance metrics. Management’s annual incentive compensation is derived, in part, based on the adjusted EPS (as defined below) metric.

Adjusted Cost of Sales and Adjusted Gross Margin

We use the non-GAAP financial measure “adjusted cost of sales” and the corresponding non-GAAP financial measure “adjusted gross margin.” The principal items excluded from adjusted cost of sales include restructuring, acquisition related and other special items and purchase accounting amortization and other related items, which are described in greater detail below.

Adjusted Net Earnings and Adjusted EPS

Adjusted net earnings is a non-GAAP financial measure and provides an alternative view of performance used by management. Management believes that, primarily due to acquisition activity and other significant events, an evaluation of the Company’s ongoing operations (and comparisons of its current operations with historical and future operations) would be difficult if the disclosure of its financial results were limited to financial measures prepared only in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Management believes that adjusted net earnings and adjusted net earnings per diluted share (“adjusted EPS”) are two of the most important internal financial metrics related to the ongoing operating performance of the Company, and are therefore useful to investors and that their understanding of our performance is enhanced by these adjusted measures. Actual internal and forecasted operating results and annual budgets used by management include adjusted net earnings and adjusted EPS.

The significant items excluded from adjusted cost of sales, adjusted net earnings and adjusted EPS include:

Purchase Accounting Amortization and Other Related Items

The ongoing impact of certain amounts recorded in connection with acquisitions of both businesses and assets is excluded from adjusted cost of sales, adjusted net earnings and adjusted EPS. These amounts include the amortization of intangible assets, inventory step-up and intangible asset impairment charges, including IPR&D. For the acquisition of businesses accounted for under the provisions of the Financial Accounting Standards Board Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) 805, these purchase accounting impacts are excluded regardless of the financing method used for the acquisitions, including the use of cash, long-term debt, the issuance of ordinary shares, contingent consideration or any combination thereof.

Upfront and Milestone-Related R&D Expenses

These expenses and payments are excluded from adjusted net earnings and adjusted EPS because they generally occur at irregular intervals and are not indicative of the Company’s ongoing operations. Also included in this adjustment are certain expenses related to the Company’s collaboration agreement with Momenta including certain milestone related costs. Such costs include payments related to Mylan’s future decisions, on a product by product basis, to continue with the development of such product in the collaboration after certain R&D work is performed. Related amounts are excluded from adjusted net earnings and adjusted EPS as Mylan considers such payments as additional upfront buy-in payments for the products.

Accretion of Contingent Consideration Liability and Other Fair Value Adjustments

The impact of changes to the fair value of contingent consideration and accretion expense are excluded from adjusted net earnings and adjusted EPS because they are not indicative of the Company’s ongoing operations due to the variability of the amounts and the lack of predictability as to the occurrence and/or timing and management believes their exclusion is helpful to understanding the underlying, ongoing operational performance of the business.

54
Restructuring, Acquisition Related and Other Special Items

Costs related to restructuring, acquisition and integration activities and other actions are excluded from adjusted cost of sales, adjusted net earnings and adjusted EPS, as applicable. These amounts include items such as: 

•Costs related to formal restructuring programs and actions, including costs associated with facilities to be closed or divested, employee separation costs, impairment charges, accelerated depreciation, incremental manufacturing variances, equipment relocation costs and other restructuring related costs; 

•Certain acquisition related remediation and integration and planning costs, as well as other costs associated with acquisitions such as advisory and legal fees and certain financing related costs, and other business transformation and/or optimization initiatives, which are not part of a formal restructuring program, including employee separation and post-employment costs; 

•The pre-tax loss of the Company’s clean energy investments, whose activities qualify for income tax credits under the Code; only included in adjusted net earnings and adjusted EPS is the net tax effect of the entity’s activities;

•The pre-tax mark-to-market gains and losses of the Company’s investments in marketable equity securities historically accounted for as available for sale securities; only included in adjusted net earnings and adjusted EPS are cumulative realized gains and losses;

•Certain costs to further develop and optimize our global ERP systems, operations and supply chain; and

•Other costs, incurred from time to time, related to certain special events or activities that lead to gains or losses, including, but not limited to, incremental manufacturing variances, asset write-downs, or liability adjustments.

The Company has undertaken restructurings and other optimization initiatives of differing types, scope and amount during the covered periods and, therefore, these charges should not be considered non-recurring; however, management excludes these amounts from adjusted net earnings and adjusted EPS because it believes it is helpful to understanding the underlying, ongoing operational performance of the business.

Litigation Settlements, Net

Charges and gains related to legal matters, such as those discussed in the Note 19 Litigation included in Item 8 in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are generally excluded from adjusted net earnings and adjusted EPS. Normal, ongoing defense costs of the Company made in the normal course of our business are not excluded.

55
Reconciliation of Adjusted Net Earnings and Adjusted EPS

A reconciliation between net earnings and diluted earnings per share, as reported under U.S. GAAP, and adjusted net earnings and adjusted EPS for the periods shown follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]____________

Significant items for the year ended December 31, 2018 include the following:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(b) Acquisition related costs incurred in 2017 and 2018 consist primarily of integration activities.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(e) Adjustment primarily relates to non-refundable payments related to development collaboration agreements.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(g) The increase for the year ended December 31, 2018 is primarily related to mark-to-market losses of investments in equity securities historically accounted for as available-for-sale securities and the cumulative realized gains on such investments.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

Our primary source of liquidity is net cash provided by operating activities, which was $2.34 billion for the year ended December 31, 2018. We believe that net cash provided by operating activities and available liquidity will continue to allow us to meet our needs for working capital, capital expenditures and interest and principal payments on debt obligations. Nevertheless, our ability to satisfy our working capital requirements and debt service obligations, or fund planned capital expenditures, will substantially depend upon our future operating performance (which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions), and financial, business and other factors, some of which are beyond our control.

56
Operating Activities

Net cash provided by operating activities increased by $276.9 million to $2.34 billion for the year ended December 31, 2018, as compared to net cash provided by operating activities of $2.06 billion for the year ended December 31, 2017. Net cash provided by operating activities is derived from net earnings adjusted for non-cash operating items, gains and losses attributed to investing and financing activities and changes in operating assets and liabilities resulting from timing differences between the receipts and payments of cash, including changes in cash primarily reflecting the timing of cash collections from customers, payments to vendors and employees and tax payments in the ordinary course of business.

The net increase in net cash provided by operating activities was principally due to the following:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

These items were partially offset by the following:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

57
Investing Activities

Net cash used in investing activities was $1.21 billion for the year ended December 31, 2018, as compared to net cash used in investing activities of $976.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2017, an increase of $234.0 million.

In 2018, significant items in investing activities included the following:

•cash paid for acquisitions, net totaling approximately $65.9 million related to the deferred non-contingent purchase price for the acquisition of Apicore;[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•proceeds from the sale of certain assets during the year totaling approximately $29.3 million; and [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

In 2017, significant items in investing activities included the following:

•cash paid for acquisitions, net totaling approximately $167.0 million related to the acquisition of Apicore and the acquisition of the remaining non-tendered shares of Meda in the compulsory acquisition proceeding;[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•proceeds from the sale of certain assets and subsidiaries and assets during the year totaling approximately $86.7 million; and 

•capital expenditures, primarily for equipment and facilities, totaling approximately $275.9 million.

Financing Activities

Net cash used in financing activities was $1.09 billion for the year ended December 31, 2018, as compared to net cash used in financing activities of $1.89 billion for the year ended December 31, 2017, a decrease of $802.2 million. 

58
In 2018, significant items in financing activities included the following:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•net repayments of short-term borrowings of approximately $44.4 million; and[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

In 2017, significant items in financing activities included the following:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Capital Resources

Our cash and cash equivalents totaled $388.1 million at December 31, 2018, and the majority of these funds are held by our non-U.S. subsidiaries. The Company anticipates having sufficient liquidity, including existing borrowing capacity under the 2018 Revolving Facility (as defined below), including the commercial paper program combined with cash to be generated from operations to fund foreseeable cash needs. 

On December 22, 2017, the U.S. government enacted the Tax Act which makes broad and complex changes to the Code including, but not limited to, reducing the U.S. federal corporate income tax rate and requiring a one-time transition tax on certain unrepatriated earnings of non-U.S. corporate subsidiaries of large U.S. shareholders that may electively be paid over eight years. Our estimate of the transition tax obligation is $99.1 million, which the Company has begun to pay, net of certain tax attributes and credit carryforwards, over eight years beginning in 2018. 

As of December 31, 2018, our practice and intention was to reinvest the earnings in our non-U.S. subsidiaries outside of the U.S., and no U.S. deferred income taxes or foreign withholding taxes were recorded. The transition tax noted above resulted in the previously untaxed foreign earnings of U.S. subsidiaries being included in the federal and state taxable income. 

59
We analyze on an ongoing basis our global working capital requirements and the potential tax liabilities that would be incurred if the non-U.S. subsidiaries repatriate cash, which include potential local country withholding taxes and U.S. state taxation. 

The Company has access to $2.00 billion under the 2018 Revolving Facility. As of December 31, 2018, the Company had no amounts outstanding under the 2018 Revolving Facility (as defined below). Up to $1.65 billion of the 2018 Revolving Facility may be used to support future borrowings under our commercial paper program.

In addition to the 2018 Revolving Facility, Mylan Pharmaceuticals Inc. (“MPI”), a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, has a $400 million receivables facility (the “Receivables Facility”), which expires on March 25, 2019. From time-to-time, the available amount of the Receivables Facility may be less than $400 million based on accounts receivable concentration limits and other eligibility requirements. Under the terms of the Receivables Facility, MPI sells certain accounts receivable to Mylan Securitization LLC, a wholly owned special purpose entity which in turn sells a percentage of ownership interest in the receivables to financial institutions and commercial paper conduits sponsored by financial institutions. As of December 31, 2018, the Company had no short-term borrowings under the Receivables Facility.

At December 31, 2018, our long-term debt, including the current portion, totaled $13.82 billion, as compared to $14.61 billion at December 31, 2017. The decrease in long-term debt was due to redemptions of senior notes partially offset by issuances of senior notes in connection with the April 2018 Senior Notes offering and the May 2018 Euro Senior Notes offering and repayment at maturity of the Floating Rate Euro Notes due 2018 during the year ended December 31, 2018. The total long-term debt balance at December 31, 2018 was comprised primarily of $12.66 billion of fixed rate senior notes and $573.3 million of floating rate senior notes. In addition, at December 31, 2018, we had $655.2 million of long-term debt classified as current and payable within the next twelve months, as compared to $1.75 billion at December 31, 2017. The decrease to the current portion of long-term debt is due to the redemptions of the 2.600% Senior Notes due 2018, the 3.000% Senior Notes due 2018 and the repayment of the Floating Rate Euro Notes due 2018 partially offset by reclassification of the 2016 Term Facility which matures in November 2019 and the 2.500% Senior Notes due 2019 which mature in June 2019. The Company intends to utilize available liquidity to fund these repayments.

For additional information regarding our debt agreements, refer to Note 9 Debt included in Item 8 in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Long-term Debt Maturity

Mandatory minimum repayments remaining on the outstanding long-term debt at December 31, 2018, excluding the discounts and premiums, are as follows for each of the periods ending December 31:

The Company’s term credit facility dated as of November 22, 2016 (as amended, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time, the “2016 Term Facility”), among the Company, certain affiliates and subsidiaries of the Company from time to time party thereto as guarantors, each lender from time to time party thereto and Goldman Sachs Bank USA, as administrative agent and the Company’s revolving credit facility dated as of July 27, 2018 (as amended, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time, the “2018 Revolving Facility”), among Mylan Inc., as borrower, the Company, as a guarantor, certain lenders and issuing banks and Bank of America, N.A., as the administrative agent, contain customary affirmative covenants for facilities of this type, including among others, covenants pertaining to the delivery of financial statements, notices of default and certain material events, maintenance of corporate existence and rights, property, and insurance and compliance with laws, as well as customary negative covenants for facilities of this type, including limitations on the incurrence of subsidiary indebtedness, liens, mergers and certain other fundamental changes, investments and loans, acquisitions, transactions with affiliates, payments of dividends and other restricted payments and changes in our lines of business.

60
The 2016 Term Facility and 2018 Revolving Facility contain a maximum consolidated leverage ratio financial covenant requiring maintenance of a maximum ratio of 3.75 to 1.00 for consolidated total indebtedness as of the end of any quarter to consolidated EBITDA for the trailing four quarters as defined in the related credit agreements (“leverage ratio”).

The 2016 Term Facility was amended in November 2017 to allow a leverage ratio of 4.25 to 1.00 through the December 31, 2018 reporting period and a leverage ratio of 3.75 to 1.00 thereafter. The 2018 Revolving Facility similarly provides for a leverage ratio of 4.25 to 1.00 through the December 31, 2018 reporting period and a leverage ratio of 3.75 to 1.00 thereafter. On February 22, 2019, the Company, as a guarantor, and Mylan Inc., as borrower, entered into an amendment (the "Revolving Loan Amendment") to the 2018 Revolving Facility. In addition, on February 22, 2019, the Company entered into an amendment (the "Term Loan Amendment") to the 2016 Term Facility. The Revolving Loan Amendment and the Term Loan Amendment extended the leverage ratio covenant of 4.25 to 1.00 through the December 31, 2019 reporting period, with a leverage ratio of 3.75 to 1.00 thereafter. The Company is in compliance at December 31, 2018 and expects to remain in compliance for the next twelve months.

Other Commitments 

The Company is involved in various disputes, governmental and/or regulatory inquiries, investigations and proceedings, tax proceedings and litigation matters, both in the U.S. and abroad, that arise from time to time, some of which could result in losses, including damages, fines and/or civil penalties, and/or criminal charges against the Company. These matters are often complex and have outcomes that are difficult to predict. The Company is also party to certain proceedings and litigation matters for which it may be entitled to indemnification under the respective sale and purchase agreements relating to the acquisitions of the former Merck Generics business, Agila Specialties Private Limited, the EPD Business, and certain other acquisitions. We have approximately $54 million accrued for legal contingencies at December 31, 2018.

While the Company believes that it has meritorious defenses with respect to the claims asserted against it and intends to vigorously defend its position, the process of resolving these matters is inherently uncertain and may develop over a long period of time, and so it is not possible to predict the ultimate resolution of any such matter. It is possible that an unfavorable resolution of any of the ongoing matters or the inability or denial of Merck KGaA, Strides, Abbott Laboratories, or another indemnitor or insurer to pay an indemnified claim, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and/or ordinary share price.

We are continuously evaluating the potential acquisition of products, as well as companies, as a strategic part of our future growth. Consequently, we may utilize current cash reserves or incur additional indebtedness to finance any such acquisitions, which could impact future liquidity. In addition, on an ongoing basis, we review our operations including the evaluation of potential divestitures of products and businesses as part of our future strategy. Any divestitures could impact future liquidity.

Contractual Obligations

The following table summarizes our contractual obligations at December 31, 2018 and the effect that such obligations are expected to have on our liquidity and cash flows in future periods:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

____________

(1) Scheduled interest payments represent the estimated interest payments related to our outstanding borrowings under term loans, senior notes and other long-term debt. Variable debt interest payments are estimated using current interest rates.

(2) We lease certain properties under various operating lease arrangements that generally expire over the next five to seven years. These leases generally provide us with the option to renew the lease at the end of the lease term.

61
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Due to the uncertainty with respect to the timing of future payments, if any, the following contingent payments have not been included in the table above.

We are contractually obligated to make potential future development, regulatory and commercial milestone, royalty and/or profit sharing payments in conjunction with acquisitions we have entered into with third parties. The most significant of these relates to the potential future consideration related to the acquisition of the exclusive worldwide rights to develop, manufacture and commercialize a generic equivalent to GlaxoSmithKline’s Advair® Diskus and Seretide® incorporating Pfizer’s proprietary dry powder inhaler delivery platform (the “respiratory delivery platform”). These payments are contingent upon the occurrence of certain future events and, given the nature of these events, it is unclear when we may be required to pay such amounts. The amount of the contingent consideration liabilities was $355.3 million at December 31, 2018. In addition, the Company expects to incur approximately $15 million to $20 million of non-cash accretion expense related to the increase in the net present value of the contingent consideration liabilities in 2019.

With respect to the timing of future cash flows associated with our unrecognized tax benefits at December 31, 2018, we are unable to make reasonably reliable estimates of the period of cash settlement with the respective taxing authority. As such, $96.3 million of unrecognized tax benefits have been excluded from the contractual obligations table above.

We have entered into employment and other agreements with certain executives and other employees that provide for compensation and certain other benefits. These agreements provide for severance payments under certain circumstances. Certain commercial agreements require us to provide performance bonds and/or indemnification; while it is difficult to forecast the amount of payments, if any, to be made over the next few years, we do not believe the amount would be material to our results of operations, cash flows or financial condition.

Collaboration and Licensing Agreements

We periodically enter into collaboration and licensing agreements with other pharmaceutical companies for the development, manufacture, marketing and/or sale of pharmaceutical products. Our significant collaboration agreements are primarily focused on the development, manufacturing, supply and commercialization of multiple, high-value generic biologic compounds, insulin analog products and respiratory products, among other complex products. Under these agreements, we have future potential milestone payments and co-development expenses payable to third parties as part of our licensing, development and co-development programs. Payments under these agreements generally become due and are payable upon the satisfaction or achievement of certain developmental, regulatory or commercial milestones or as development expenses are incurred on defined projects. Milestone payment obligations are uncertain, including the prediction of timing and the occurrence of events triggering a future obligation and are not reflected as liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheets, except for milestone and royalty obligations reflected as acquisition related contingent consideration. Refer to Note 8 Financial Instruments and Risk Management included in Item 8 in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further discussion of contingent consideration. Our potential maximum development milestones not accrued for at December 31, 2018 totaled approximately $425 million. We estimate that the amounts that may be paid in the next twelve months to be approximately $35 million. These agreements may also include potential sales-based milestones and call for us to pay a percentage of amounts earned from the sale of the product as a royalty or a profit share. The amounts disclosed do not include sales-based milestones or royalty obligations on future sales of product as the timing and amount of future sales levels and costs to produce products subject to these obligations is not reasonably estimable. These sales-based milestones or royalty obligations may be significant depending upon the level of commercial sales for each product.

The Company’s significant collaboration and licensing agreements include agreements with Pfizer, Momenta, Theravance Biopharma, and Biocon. Refer to Note 18 Collaboration and Licensing Agreements included in Item 8 in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information related to our collaborations.

Impact of Currency Fluctuations and Inflation

Because our results are reported in U.S. Dollars, changes in the rate of exchange between the U.S. Dollar and the local currencies in the markets in which we operate, mainly the Euro, Swedish Krona, Indian Rupee, Japanese Yen, Australian Dollar, Canadian Dollar, Pound Sterling and Brazilian Real affect our results as previously noted. We do not believe that inflation has had a material impact on our revenues or operations in any of the past three years. 

62
Application of Critical Accounting Policies

Our significant accounting policies are described in Note 2 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies included in Item 8 in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and are in accordance with U.S. GAAP.

Included within these policies are certain policies which contain critical accounting estimates and, therefore, have been deemed to be “critical accounting policies.” Critical accounting estimates are those which require management to make assumptions about matters that were uncertain at the time the estimate was made and for which the use of different estimates, which reasonably could have been used, or changes in the accounting estimates that are reasonably likely to occur from period to period could have a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations. We have identified the following to be our critical accounting policies: the determination of net revenue provisions, acquisitions, intangible assets, goodwill and contingent consideration, income taxes and the impact of existing legal matters.

Revenue Recognition

On January 1, 2018, the Company adopted ASC Topic 606 Revenue from Contracts with Customers (“ASC 606”) using the modified retrospective method applied to those contracts which were not completed as of the date of adoption. Results for reporting periods beginning on January 1, 2018 are presented under ASC 606, while prior period amounts are not adjusted and continue to be reported in accordance with ASC Topic 605 Revenue Recognition (“ASC 605”). Under ASC 605, the Company recognized net sales when title and risk of loss passed to its customers and when provisions for estimates, as described below, were reasonably determinable.

Under ASC 606, the Company recognizes net revenue for product sales when control of the promised goods or services is transferred to our customers in an amount that reflects the consideration we expect to be entitled to in exchange for those goods or services. Revenues are recorded net of provisions for variable consideration, including discounts, rebates, governmental rebate programs, price adjustments, returns, chargebacks, promotional programs and other sales allowances. Accruals for these provisions are presented in the consolidated financial statements as reductions in determining net sales and as a contra asset in accounts receivable, net (if settled via credit) and other current liabilities (if paid in cash). The following briefly describes the nature of our provisions for variable consideration and how such provisions are estimated:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•Governmental rebate programs: government reimbursement programs include Medicare, Medicaid, and State Pharmacy Assistance Programs established according to statute, regulations and policy. Manufacturers of pharmaceutical products that are covered by the Medicaid program are required to pay rebates to each state based on a statutory formula set forth in the Social Security Act. Medicare beneficiaries are eligible to obtain discounted prescription drug coverage from private sector providers. In addition, certain states have also implemented supplemental rebate programs that obligate manufacturers to pay rebates in excess of those required under federal law. Our estimate of these rebates is based on the historical trends of rebates paid as well as on changes in wholesaler 

63
inventory levels and increases or decreases in the level of sales. Also, this provision includes price reductions that are mandated by law outside of the U.S. A change of 5% would have an effect on our reserve balance of approximately $11.1 million.

The following is a rollforward of the categories of variable consideration during 2018:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Accruals for these provisions are presented in the Consolidated Financial Statements as reductions in determining net revenues and in accounts receivable and other current liabilities. Accounts receivable are presented net of allowances relating to these provisions, which were comprised of the following at December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

We have not made and do not anticipate making any significant changes to the methodologies that we use to measure provisions for variable consideration; however, the balances within these reserves can fluctuate significantly through the consistent application of our methodologies. Historically, we have not recorded in any current period any material amounts related to adjustments made to prior period reserves. 

Acquisitions, Intangible Assets, Goodwill and Contingent Consideration

We account for acquired businesses using the acquisition method of accounting in accordance with the provisions of ASC 805, which requires that the assets acquired and liabilities assumed be recorded at the date of acquisition at their respective estimated fair values. The cost to acquire businesses has been allocated to the underlying net assets of the acquired businesses based on estimates of their respective fair values. Amounts allocated to acquired IPR&D are capitalized at the date of an acquisition and, at that time, such IPR&D assets have indefinite lives. As products in development are approved for sale, amounts will generally be allocated to product rights and licenses and will be amortized over their estimated useful lives. Finite-lived intangible assets are amortized over the expected life of the asset. Any excess of the purchase price over the estimated fair values of the net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.

Purchases of developed products and licenses that are accounted for as an asset acquisition are capitalized as intangible assets and amortized over an estimated useful life. IPR&D assets acquired as part of an asset acquisition are expensed immediately if they have no alternative future uses.

The judgments made in determining the estimated fair value assigned to each class of assets acquired and liabilities assumed, as well as asset lives, can materially impact our results of operations. Fair values and useful lives are determined based on, among other factors, the expected future period of benefit of the asset, the various characteristics of the asset and projected cash flows. Because this process involves management making estimates with respect to future sales volumes, pricing, new product launches, government reform actions, anticipated cost environment and overall market conditions, and because these estimates form the basis for the determination of whether or not an impairment charge should be recorded, these estimates are considered to be critical accounting estimates.

64
We record contingent consideration resulting from a business acquisition at its estimated fair value on the acquisition date. Each reporting period thereafter, we revalue these obligations and record increases or decreases in their fair value as an adjustment to litigation settlements and other contingencies, net within the Consolidated Statements of Operations. Changes in the fair value of the contingent consideration obligations can result from adjustments to the discount rates, payment periods and adjustments in the probability of achieving future development steps, regulatory approvals, market launches, sales targets and profitability. These fair value measurements represent Level 3 measurements as they are based on significant inputs not observable in the market.

Significant judgment is employed in determining the assumptions utilized as of the acquisition date and for each subsequent measurement period. Accordingly, changes in assumptions described above, could have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations.

Goodwill and intangible assets, including IPR&D, are reviewed for impairment annually and/or when events or other changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the assets may not be recoverable. Impairment of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangibles, including IPR&D, is determined to exist when the fair value is less than the carrying value of the net assets being tested, with any impairment charge being equal to the difference. Impairment of finite-lived intangibles is determined to exist when undiscounted cash flows related to the assets are less than the carrying value of the assets being tested. Future events and decisions may lead to asset impairment and/or related costs.

Goodwill is allocated and evaluated for impairment at the reporting unit level, which is defined as an operating segment or one level below an operating segment. The Company has four reporting units, North America Generics, North America Brands, Europe and Rest of World and completes its annual goodwill impairment test as of April 1st. As of April 1, 2018, the date of our most recent annual impairment test, the allocation of the Company’s total goodwill was as follows: North America Generics $2.89 billion, North America Brands $660.0 million, Europe $4.97 billion and Rest of World $1.80 billion. 

The Company performed a quantitative impairment analysis for all of its reporting units as of April 1, 2018. The impairment analysis consists of a comparison of the estimated fair value of the individual reporting units with their carrying amount, including goodwill. In estimating each reporting unit’s fair value, we performed extensive valuation analysis utilizing both income and market-based approaches, in our goodwill assessment process. We utilized an average of the two methods in estimating the fair value of the individual reporting units, except for the North America Brands reporting unit where the fair value was estimated utilizing the income approach. The following describes the valuation methodologies used to derive the estimated fair value of the reporting units.

Income Approach: Under this approach, to determine fair value, we discounted the expected future cash flows of each reporting unit. We used a discount rate, which reflected the overall level of inherent risk and the rate of return an outside investor would have expected to earn. To estimate cash flows beyond the final year of our model, we used a terminal value approach. Under this approach, we used EBITDA in the final year of our model, adjusted to estimate a normalized cash flow, applied a perpetuity growth assumption, and discounted by a perpetuity discount factor to determine the terminal value. We incorporated the present value of the resulting terminal value into our estimate of fair value.

Market-Based Approach: The Company also utilizes a market-based approach to estimate fair value, principally utilizing the guideline company method which focuses on comparing our risk profile and growth prospects to a select group of publicly traded companies with reasonably similar guidelines.

As of April 1, 2018, the Company determined that the fair value of the North America Generics, North America Brands and Rest of World reporting units was substantially in excess of the respective unit’s carrying value. For the Europe reporting unit, the estimated fair value exceeded its carrying value by approximately $800.0 million or 6%. The excess fair value for the Europe reporting unit is consistent with the result of the Company’s 2017 annual impairment test. As it relates to the income approach for the Europe reporting unit at April 1, 2018, the Company forecasted cash flows for the next 5 years. During the forecast period, the revenue compound annual growth rate was approximately 3.5%. A terminal value year was calculated with a 2.0% revenue growth rate applied. The discount rate utilized was 9.0% and the estimated tax rate was 24.0%. Under the market-based approach, we utilized an estimated range of market multiples of 9.0 to 10.5 times EBITDA plus a control premium of 15.0%. If all other assumptions are held constant, a reduction in the terminal value growth rate by 2.0% or an increase in discount rate by 1.5% would result in an impairment charge for the Europe reporting unit.

The determination of the fair value of the reporting units requires us to make significant estimates and assumptions that affect the reporting unit’s expected future cash flows. These estimates and assumptions primarily include, but are not limited to, market multiples, control premiums, the discount rate, terminal growth rates, operating income before depreciation and amortization, and capital expenditures forecasts. Due to the inherent uncertainty involved in making these estimates, actual 

65
results could differ from those estimates. In addition, changes in underlying assumptions, especially as it relates to the key assumptions detailed, could have a significant impact on the fair value of the reporting units. 

We have also assessed the recoverability of certain long-lived assets, principally finite-lived intangible assets, contained within the reporting units whenever certain impairment indicators are present. Any impairment of these assets must be considered prior to our impairment review of goodwill. The assessment for impairment is based on our ability to recover the carrying value of the long-lived assets or asset grouping by analyzing the expected future undiscounted pre-tax cash flows specific to the asset or asset grouping. If the carrying amount is greater than the undiscounted cash flows, the Company recognizes an impairment loss for the carrying amount over the estimated fair value based on the discounted cash flows.

Significant management judgment is involved in estimating the recoverability of these assets and is dependent upon the accuracy of the assumptions used in making these estimates, as well as how the estimates compare to the eventual future operating performance of the specific asset or asset grouping. For the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, the Company recorded $106.3 million, $6.2 million, and $18.4 million, respectively, of impairment charges for finite-lived intangible assets, which were recorded as a component of amortization expense. At December 31, 2018 and 2017, the Company’s finite-lived intangible assets totaled $13.04 billion and $14.43 billion, respectively. Changes to any of the Company’s assumptions related to the estimated fair value based on the discounted cash flows, including discount rates or the competitive environment related to the assets, could lead to future material impairment charges. Any future long-lived assets impairment charges could have a material impact the on Company’s consolidated financial condition and results of operations.

The Company’s IPR&D assets are tested at least annually for impairment, but they may be tested whenever certain impairment indicators are present. Impairment is determined to exist when the fair value of IPR&D assets, which was based upon updated forecasts and commercial development plans, is less than the carrying value of the assets being tested. For the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, the Company recorded $117.7 million, $74.6 million, and $49.9 million, respectively, of impairment charges, which were recorded as a component of amortization expense. At December 31, 2018 and 2017, the Company’s IPR&D assets totaled $625.6 million and $813.2 million, respectively. 

The fair value of both IPR&D and finite-lived intangible assets was determined based upon detailed valuations employing the income approach which utilized Level 3 inputs, as defined in Note 8 Financial Instruments and Risk Management included in Item 8 in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Changes to any of the Company’s assumptions including changes to or abandonment of development programs, regulatory timelines, discount rates or the competitive environment related to the assets could lead to future material impairment charges. 

Income Taxes

We compute our income taxes based on the statutory tax rates and tax reliefs available to Mylan in the various jurisdictions in which we generate income. Significant judgment is required in determining our income taxes and in evaluating our tax positions. We establish reserves in accordance with Mylan’s policy regarding accounting for uncertainty in income taxes. Our policy provides that the tax effects from an uncertain tax position be recognized in Mylan’s financial statements, only if the position is more likely than not of being sustained upon audit, based on the technical merits of the position. We adjust these reserves in light of changing facts and circumstances, such as the settlement of a tax audit. Our provision for income taxes includes the impact of reserve provisions and changes to reserves. Favorable resolution would be recognized as a reduction to our provision for income taxes in the period of resolution or expiration of the underlying statutes of limitation. Based on this evaluation, as of December 31, 2018, our reserve for unrecognized tax benefits totaled $96.3 million. 

Management assesses the available positive and negative evidence to estimate if sufficient future taxable income will be generated to utilize the existing deferred tax assets. A significant piece of objective negative evidence evaluated was the cumulative loss incurred in certain taxing jurisdictions over the three-year period ended December 31, 2018. Such objective evidence limits the ability to consider other subjective evidence such as our projections for future growth.

Based on this evaluation and other factors, as of December 31, 2018, a valuation allowance of $806.0 million has been recorded in order to measure only the portion of the deferred tax asset that more likely than not will be realized. The amount of the deferred tax asset considered realizable, however, could be adjusted if estimates of future taxable income during the carryforward period are reduced or if objective negative evidence in the form of cumulative losses is no longer present and additional weight may be given to subjective evidence such as projections for growth. When assessing the realizability of deferred tax assets, management considers all available evidence, including historical information, long-term forecasts of future taxable income and possible tax planning strategies. Amounts recorded for valuation allowances can result from a complex series of estimates, assumptions and judgments about future events. Due to the inherent uncertainty involved in making these estimates, assumptions and judgments, actual results could differ materially. Any future increases to the Company’s valuation 

66
allowances could materially impact the Company’s consolidated financial condition and results of operations. At December 31, 2018 and 2017, the Company’s net deferred tax assets totaled $572.2 million and $496.8 million, respectively. 

On December 22, 2017, the Tax Act was signed into law making significant changes to the Code. Changes include, but are not limited to, a U.S. federal corporate income tax rate decrease from 35% to 21% effective for tax years beginning after December 31, 2017, the partial transition of U.S. international taxation from a worldwide tax system to a territorial system, and a one-time transition tax on the mandatory deemed repatriation of cumulative foreign earnings of non-U.S. corporate subsidiaries of large U.S. shareholders as of December 31, 2017. A variance of 5% between estimated reserves and valuation allowances and actual resolution and realization of these tax items would have an effect on our reserve balance and valuation allowance of approximately $45.3 million.

Legal Matters

Mylan is involved in various legal proceedings, some of which involve claims for substantial amounts. An estimate is made to accrue for a loss contingency relating to any of these legal proceedings if it is probable that a liability was incurred as of the date of the financial statements and the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated. Because of the subjective nature inherent in assessing the outcome of litigation and because of the potential that an adverse outcome in a legal proceeding could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price, such estimates are considered to be critical accounting estimates.

A variance of 5% between estimated and recorded litigation reserves and actual resolution of certain legal matters would have an effect on our litigation reserve balance of approximately $2.7 million. Refer to Note 19 Litigation included in Item 8 in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further discussion of litigation matters.

Recent Accounting Pronouncements

Refer to Note 2 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in Item 8 in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for recently adopted accounting pronouncements and recently issued accounting pronouncements not yet adopted.

ITEM 7A.Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk