Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

Market Risk

We are exposed to market risk consisting of foreign currency rate fluctuations and changes in interest rates.

We are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations in our operating statement due to transactions denominated primarily in Canadian Dollars and British Pounds. Although we are not currently involved with foreign currency hedge contracts, we continually evaluate our foreign currency exchange rate risk and the different mechanisms for use in managing such risk. A hypothetical 10% change in the value of the U.S. dollar in relation to our most significant foreign currency exposures would have changed net sales by approximately $85.1 million for the fiscal year ended April 27, 2019. This amount is not indicative of the hypothetical net earnings impact due to the partially offsetting impact of the currency exchange movements on cost of sales and operating expenses. We estimate that if foreign currency exchange rates changed by 10%, the impact would have been approximately $2.7 million to income from continuing operations before taxes for the fiscal year ended April 27, 2019.

In fiscal 2017, we entered into an amended credit agreement (“Amended Credit Agreement”), consisting of a $295.1 million term loan and a $750 million revolving line of credit. In March 2019, we permanently reduced the capacity under the revolving line of credit to $500 million. Interest on borrowings is variable and is determined as a base rate plus a spread. This spread, as well as a commitment fee on the unused portion of the facility, is based on our leverage ratio, as defined in the Amended Credit Agreement. The term loan and revolving credit facilities will mature no later than January 2022. Interest on borrowings under the Amended Credit Agreement is variable. Due to the interest rate being variable, fluctuations in interest rates may impact our earnings. Based on our current level of debt, we estimate that a 100 basis point change in interest rates would have a $0.9 million annual impact on our income from continuing operations before taxes.

Our earnings are also affected by fluctuations in short-term interest rates through the investment of cash balances and the practice of selling fixed rate equipment finance contracts under agreements with both a commercial paper conduit and a bank that provide for pricing based on variable interest rates.

When considering the exposure under the agreements whereby we sell equipment finance contracts to both a commercial paper conduit and bank, we have the ability to select pricing based on interest rates ranging from 30 day LIBOR up to twelve month LIBOR. In addition, the majority of the portfolio of installment contracts generally turns over in less than 48 months, and we can adjust the rate we charge on new customer contracts at any time. Therefore, in times where the interest rate markets are not rapidly increasing or decreasing, the average interest rate in the portfolio generally moves with the interest rate markets and thus would parallel the underlying interest rate movement of the pricing built into the sale agreements. In calculating the gain on the contract sales, we use an interest rate curve that approximates the maturity period of the then-outstanding contracts. If increases in the interest rate markets occur, the average interest rate in our contract portfolio may not increase at the same rate, resulting in a reduction of gain on the contract sales as compared to the gain that would be realized if the average interest rate in our portfolio were to increase at a more similar rate to the interest rate markets. In fiscal 2019, we entered into forward interest rate swap agreements in order to hedge against interest rate fluctuations that impact the amount of net sales we record related to these contracts. These interest rate swap agreements do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment and, accordingly, 

45
we record the fair value of the agreements as an asset or liability and the change as income or expense during the period in which the change occurs. As a result of entering into these interest rate swap agreements, we estimate that a 10% change in interest rates would have less than a $1.0 million annual impact on our income from continuing operations before taxes.

46
Item 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA