Item 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Overview

Our financial information for fiscal 2019 is summarized in this Management’s Discussion and Analysis and the Consolidated Financial Statements and related Notes. The following background is provided to readers to assist in the review of our financial information.

We present three reportable segments: Dental, Animal Health and Corporate. Dental and Animal Health are strategic business units that offer similar products and services to different customer bases. Dental provides a virtually complete range of consumable dental products, equipment and software, turnkey digital solutions and value-added services to dentists and dental laboratories throughout North America. Animal Health is a leading, full-line distributor in North America and the U.K. of animal health products, services and technologies to both the production-animal and companion-pet markets. Our Corporate segment is comprised of general and administrative expenses, including home office support costs in areas such as information technology, finance, legal, human resources and facilities. In addition, customer financing and other miscellaneous sales are reported within Corporate results.

Operating margins of the animal health business are considerably lower than the dental business. While operating expenses run at a lower rate in the animal health business when compared to the dental business, gross margins in the animal health business are substantially lower due generally to the low margins experienced on the sale of pharmaceutical products.

We operate with a 52-53 week accounting convention with our fiscal year ending on the last Saturday in April. Fiscal 2019, 2018 and 2017 ended on April 27, 2019, April 28, 2018 and April 29, 2017, respectively, and all years consisted of 52 weeks. Fiscal 2020 will end on April 25, 2019 and will consist of 52 weeks.

We believe there are several important aspects of our business that are useful in analyzing it, including: (1) growth in the various markets in which we operate; (2) internal growth; (3) growth through acquisition; and (4) continued focus on controlling costs and enhancing efficiency. Management defines internal growth as the increase in net sales from period to period, adjusting for differences in the number of weeks in fiscal years, excluding the impact of changes in currency exchange rates, and excluding the net sales, for a period of twelve months following the transaction date, of businesses we have acquired.

FACTORS AFFECTING OUR RESULTS

Intangible Asset Impairment. In fiscal 2006, we extended our exclusive North American distribution relationship with Sirona for its CEREC 3D dental restorative system. At that time, we paid a $100.0 million distribution fee to extend the existing exclusive relationship for at least a 10-year period beginning in 2007. This distribution fee was accounted for as an intangible asset and began amortizing in 2007. Based on our November 2016 decision not to extend sales exclusivity for the full Sirona portfolio of products, we recorded a pre-tax non-cash impairment charge of $36.3 million, or $23.0 million after taxes or $0.24 per diluted share in our Dental segment in fiscal 2017, related to the distribution fee associated with the CEREC product component of this arrangement. 

U.S. Tax Reform. On December 22, 2017, the U.S. government enacted comprehensive tax legislation commonly referred to as the Tax Act. The Tax Act significantly revised the future ongoing U.S. federal corporate income tax by, among other things, lowering U.S. federal corporate tax rates and implementing a territorial tax system. Effective January 1, 2018, the Tax Act reduced the U.S. federal corporate tax rate from 35.0% to 21.0%. For our fiscal year ending April 28, 2018, we utilized a blended rate of approximately 30.5%. For fiscal 2018, these impacts resulted in a provisional discrete net tax benefit of $76.6 million, which included provisional amounts of $81.9 million of tax benefit on U.S. deferred tax assets and liabilities, $4.0 million of tax expense for a one-time transition tax on unremitted foreign earnings and $1.2 million in withholding taxes paid on current year distributions.

Receivables Securitization Program. On July 24, 2018, we entered into a receivables purchase agreement with MUFG Bank, Ltd. ("MUFG"). Under this agreement, MUFG acts as an agent to facilitate the sale of certain Patterson receivables (the “Receivables”) to certain unaffiliated financial institutions (the “Purchasers”).

The proceeds from the sale of these Receivables comprise a combination of cash and a deferred purchase price (“DPP”) receivable. The initial transaction was a sale of $237.6 million of net receivables. From this sale, we received $171.0 million of cash and a DPP receivable with a fair value of $65.9 million. In addition, we recorded a loss of $0.7 million as a result of this transaction. The proceeds from the initial sale were primarily used to reduce debt. 

38
The DPP receivable is ultimately realized by Patterson following the collection of the underlying Receivables sold to the Purchasers. The collection of the DPP receivable is recognized as an increase to net cash provided by investing activities within the consolidated statements of cash flows, with a corresponding reduction to net cash provided by operating activities within the consolidated statements of cash flows.

Legal Reserve. In September 2018, we signed an agreement to settle the litigation entitled In re Dental Supplies Antitrust Litigation. Under the terms of the settlement, we paid $28.3 million into escrow upon preliminary court approval. Such funds are to be released to the settlement fund administrator upon final court approval of the settlement, which was granted at the fairness hearing held on June 24, 2019. We established a pre-tax reserve of $28.3 million ("Legal Reserve") during the first quarter of fiscal 2019 to account for the settlement of this matter.

Results of Operations

The following table summarizes our results as a percent of net sales:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Fiscal 2019 Compared to Fiscal 2018 

Net sales. Consolidated net sales in fiscal 2019 were $5,574.5 million, an increase of 2.0% from $5,465.7 million in fiscal 2018. Foreign exchange rate changes had an unfavorable impact of 0.4% on fiscal 2019 sales.

Dental segment sales decreased 0.2% to $2,191.8 million in fiscal 2019 from $2,196.1 million in fiscal 2018. Foreign exchange rate changes had an unfavorable impact of 0.2% on fiscal 2019 sales. Sales of consumables decreased 2.9%, sales of equipment and software increased 5.2%, and sales of other services and products decreased 0.7% in fiscal 2019. The decrease in sales of consumables was mainly due to changes in our sales force and disruptions resulting from our ERP system initiatives.

Animal Health segment sales grew 3.5% to $3,354.5 million in fiscal 2019 from $3,242.6 million in fiscal 2018. Foreign exchange rate changes had an unfavorable impact of 0.6% on fiscal 2019 sales. Sales of certain products previously recognized on a gross basis were recognized on a net basis during fiscal 2019, resulting in an estimated 0.3% unfavorable impact to sales.

Gross profit. Consolidated gross profit margin decreased 50 basis points from the prior year to 21.4%. Gross profit margin rates decreased in both the Dental and Animal Health segment. A greater percentage of sales came from our lower margin Animal Health segment during fiscal 2019, resulting in a lower consolidated gross profit margin rate. Unfavorable sales mix, pricing pressure at the point of sale and inventory adjustments in both our Dental and Animal Health segment also contributed to the decline in the consolidated gross profit margin rate.

Operating expenses. Consolidated operating expenses for fiscal 2019 were $1,053.1 million, a 7.5% increase from the prior year of $979.5 million. We incurred higher operating expenses during fiscal 2019 primarily as a result of the $28.3 million Legal Reserve, higher personnel costs and higher professional services expenses. The consolidated operating expense ratio of 18.9% increased 100 basis points from the prior year due to these same factors. 

39
Operating income from continuing operations. Operating income from continuing operations was $137.7 million, or 2.5% of net sales, in fiscal 2019, compared to $219.9 million, or 4.0% of sales, in fiscal 2018. The decrease in operating income from continuing operations was primarily driven by higher operating expenses. The decrease in operating income from continuing operations as a percent of net sales was also driven by higher operating expenses. In addition, a greater percentage of sales came from our lower margin Animal Health segment during fiscal 2019, which reduced operating income from continuing operations as a percent of net sales.

Dental segment operating income was $179.2 million for fiscal 2019, a decrease of $50.0 million from fiscal 2018. The decrease was driven primarily by lower gross profit and higher personnel costs.

Animal Health segment operating income was $81.5 million for fiscal 2019, an increase of $3.4 million from fiscal 2018. The increase was primarily due to higher sales, partially offset by a lower gross profit margin rate and higher personnel costs.

Corporate segment operating loss was $123.0 million for fiscal 2019, as compared to a loss of $87.4 million for fiscal 2018. The change was driven primarily by the $28.3 million Legal Reserve, as well as higher professional services expenses.

Other income (expense), net. Net other expense was $31.5 million in fiscal 2019, compared to $40.6 million in fiscal 2018. Net other expense was lower during fiscal 2019 due to lower interest expense, which was primarily driven by the retirement of $249.5 million of long-term debt during fiscal 2019.

Income tax expense (benefit). The effective income tax rate was 22.0% in fiscal 2019 and (12.1)% in fiscal 2018. The tax benefit in fiscal 2018 was primarily due to the impact of the Tax Act. 

Net income attributable to Patterson Companies, Inc. and earnings per share. Net income attributable to Patterson Companies Inc. was $83.6 million in fiscal 2019, compared to $201.0 million in fiscal 2018. Earnings per diluted share were $0.89 in fiscal 2019, compared to $2.16 in fiscal 2018. Weighted average diluted shares in fiscal 2019 were 93,484,000, compared to 93,094,000 in fiscal 2018. The fiscal 2019 and fiscal 2018 cash dividend was $1.04 per common share.

Fiscal 2018 Compared to Fiscal 2017

See Item 7 in our 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed June 27, 2018.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

Patterson’s operating cash flow has been a source of liquidity in the last three fiscal years. During each of these fiscal years, we used our revolving credit facility as a source of liquidity in addition to operating cash flow. Net cash provided by operating activities was $48.2 million in fiscal 2019, compared to $178.9 million in fiscal 2018 and $162.7 million in fiscal 2017. The net cash provided by operating activities in fiscal 2019 was primarily driven by a reduction in working capital, partially offset by the impact of our Receivables Securitization Program. In fiscal 2018 and 2017, our cash flows from operating activities were primarily driven by net income from continuing operations.

Net cash flows provided by investing activities were $340.7 million in fiscal 2019, compared to net cash flows provided by investing activities of $17.0 million in fiscal 2018 and net cash flows used in investing activities of $1.2 million in fiscal 2017. Collections of deferred purchase price receivables were $402.4 million, $49.7 million and $51.4 million in fiscal 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively. Capital expenditures were $60.7 million, $43.3 million and $47.0 million in fiscal 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively. Capital expenditures in fiscal 2019 included a $14.9 million investment to convert leased property into owned property. We expect to use a total of approximately $60 million for capital expenditures in fiscal 2020. 

Net cash used in financing activities in fiscal 2019 was $355.2 million. Uses of cash consisted primarily of $249.5 million for the retirement of long-term debt and $99.5 million for dividend payments. Net cash used in financing activities in fiscal 2018 was $230.2 million. Uses of cash consisted primarily of $164.8 million for the retirement of long-term debt, $99.2 million for dividend payments and $87.5 million for share repurchases. In March 2018, we issued fixed-rate senior notes with an aggregate principal amount of $150.0 million, due fiscal 2028. The proceeds were used to repay $150.0 million of senior notes that came due in March 2018, which is included in the $164.8 million of debt retirement noted above. 

40
Net cash used in financing activities in fiscal 2017 was $202.2 million. Uses of cash consisted primarily of $125.4 million for share repurchases and $95.9 million for dividend payments. 

We expect to continue to pay a quarterly cash dividend for the foreseeable future. We also have $24.0 million of current maturities of long-term debt.

In fiscal 2017, we entered into an amended credit agreement (“Amended Credit Agreement”), consisting of a $295.1 million term loan and a $750 million revolving line of credit. In March 2019, we permanently reduced the capacity under the revolving line of credit to $500 million. Interest on borrowings is variable and is determined as a base rate plus a spread. This spread, as well as a commitment fee on the unused portion of the facility, is based on our leverage ratio, as defined in the Amended Credit Agreement. The term loan and revolving credit facilities will mature no later than January 2022.

As of April 27, 2019, $87.1 million of the Amended Credit Agreement unsecured term loan was outstanding at an interest rate of 3.73%, and no amount was outstanding under the Amended Credit Agreement revolving line of credit. At April 28, 2018, $276.6 million of the Amended Credit Agreement unsecured term loan was outstanding at an interest rate of 3.40%, and $16.0 million was outstanding under the Amended Credit Agreement revolving line of credit at an interest rate of 2.95%. 

On March 13, 2018, the Board of Directors authorized a $500 million share repurchase program through March 13, 2021. As of April 27, 2019, $500 million remains available under the current repurchase authorization.

We have $95.6 million in cash and cash equivalents as of April 27, 2019, of which $44.9 million is in foreign bank accounts. See Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding our intention to permanently reinvest these funds. Included in cash and cash equivalents as of April 27, 2019 is $34.0 million of cash collected from previously sold customer financing arrangements that have not yet been settled with the third party. See Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. We expect funds generated from operations, existing cash balances and credit availability under existing debt facilities will be sufficient to meet our working capital needs and to finance anticipated expansion plans and strategic initiatives over the next fiscal year. 

We expect to continue to obtain liquidity from the sale of equipment finance contracts. Patterson sells a significant portion of our finance contracts (see below) to a commercial paper funded conduit managed by a third party bank, and as a result, commercial paper is indirectly an important source of liquidity for Patterson. Patterson is allowed to participate in the conduit due to the quality of our finance contracts and our financial strength. Cash flows could be impaired if our financial strength diminishes to a level that precluded us from taking part in this facility or other similar facilities. Also, market conditions outside of our control could adversely affect the ability for us to sell the contracts. 

Customer Financing Arrangements

As a convenience to our customers, we offer several different financing alternatives, including a third party program and a Patterson-sponsored program. For the third party program, we act as a facilitator between the customer and the third party financing entity with no on-going involvement in the financing transaction. Under the Patterson-sponsored program, equipment purchased by creditworthy customers may be financed up to a maximum of $1 million. We generally sell our customers’ financing contracts to outside financial institutions in the normal course of our business. We currently have two arrangements under which we sell these contracts.

First, we operate under an agreement to sell a portion of our equipment finance contracts to commercial paper conduits with MUFG Bank, Ltd. ("MUFG") serving as the agent. We utilize PDC Funding, a consolidated, wholly owned subsidiary, to fulfill a requirement of participating in the commercial paper conduit. We receive the proceeds of the contracts upon sale to MUFG. The capacity under the agreement with MUFG at April 27, 2019 was $525 million.

Second, we maintain an agreement with Fifth Third Bank ("Fifth Third") whereby Fifth Third purchases customers’ financing contracts. PDC Funding II, a consolidated, wholly owned subsidiary, sells financing contracts to Fifth Third. We receive the proceeds of the contracts upon sale to Fifth Third. The capacity under the agreement with Fifth Third at April 27, 2019 was $100 million.

Our financing business is described in further detail in Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

41
Contractual Obligations

A summary of our contractual obligations as of April 27, 2019 follows (in thousands):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

As of April 27, 2019 our gross liability for uncertain tax positions, including interest and penalties, was $15.0 million. We are not able to reasonably estimate the amount by which the liability will increase or decrease over an extended period of time or whether a cash settlement of the liability will be required. Therefore, these amounts have been excluded from the schedule of contractual obligations. 

For a more complete description of our contractual obligations, see Notes 7 and 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Outlook

Our fiscal 2019 performance demonstrates that the execution against our strategic priorities has enabled us to achieve our objective of stabilizing our core business. Following a successful first year of our multi-year plan, we are well positioned to build upon our performance going forward.

We believe we can deliver continued sales and margin improvement in both our Dental and Animal Health segments. We also plan continued additional strategic investments in our people, technology and systems that will contribute to our long-term success. Our outlook reflects our strong conviction in the fundamentals of our business, our compelling value proposition to customers, and continued execution to further improve performance and drive growth.

Working Capital Management

The following table summarizes our average accounts receivable days sales outstanding and average annual inventory turnover for the past three fiscal years:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Foreign Operations

We derive foreign sales from Dental operations in Canada, and Animal Health operations in Canada and the U.K. Fluctuations in currency exchange rates have not significantly impacted earnings, as these fluctuations impact sales, cost of sales and operating expenses. However, changes in exchange rates adversely affected net sales by $24.3 million and $89.9 million in fiscal 2019 and 2017, respectively, while they positively impacted net sales by $29.5 million in fiscal 2018. Changes in currency exchange rates are a risk accompanying foreign operations, but this risk is not considered material with respect to our consolidated operations.

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates

Patterson has adopted various accounting policies to prepare our consolidated financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. Management believes that our policies are conservative and our philosophy is to adopt accounting policies that minimize the risk of adverse events having a material impact on recorded assets and liabilities. However, the preparation of financial statements requires the use of estimates and judgments regarding the realization of assets and the settlement of liabilities based on the information available to management at the time. Changes subsequent to the preparation of the financial statements in economic, technological and competitive conditions may materially impact the recorded values of Patterson’s assets and liabilities. Therefore, 

42
the users of the financial statements should read all the notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements and be aware that conditions currently unknown to management may develop in the future. This may require a material adjustment to a recorded asset or liability to consistently apply to our significant accounting principles and policies that are discussed in Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The financial performance and condition of Patterson may also be materially impacted by transactions and events that we have not previously experienced and for which we have not been required to establish an accounting policy or adopt a generally accepted accounting principle.

Revenue Recognition – Revenues are generated from the sale of consumable products, equipment and support, software and support, technical service parts and labor, and other sources. Revenues are recognized when or as performance obligations are satisfied. Performance obligations are satisfied when the customer obtains control of the goods or services.

Consumable, equipment, software and parts sales are recorded upon delivery, except in those circumstances where terms of the sale are FOB shipping point, in which case sales are recorded upon shipment. Technical service labor is recognized as it is provided. Revenue derived from equipment and software support is recognized ratably over the period in which the support is provided. 

In addition to revenues generated from the distribution of consumable products under arrangements (buy/sell agreements) where the full market value of the product is recorded as revenue, we earn commissions for services provided under agency agreements. The agency agreement contrasts to a buy/sell agreement in that we do not have control over the transaction, as we do not have the primary responsibility of fulfilling the promise of the good or service and we do not bill or collect from the customer in an agency relationship. Commissions under agency agreements are recorded when the services are provided.

Estimates for returns, damaged goods, rebates, loyalty programs and other revenue allowances are made at the time the revenue is recognized based on the historical experience for such items. The receivables that result from the recognition of revenue are reported net of related allowances. We maintain a valuation allowance based upon the expected collectability of receivables held. Estimates are used to determine the valuation allowance and are based on several factors, including historical collection data, economic trends and credit worthiness of customers. Receivables are written off when we determine the amounts to be uncollectible, typically upon customer bankruptcy or non-response to continuous collection efforts. The portions of receivable amounts that are not expected to be collected during the next twelve months are classified as long-term.

Patterson has a relatively large, dispersed customer base and no single customer accounts for more than 10% of consolidated net sales. In addition, the equipment sold to customers under finance contracts generally serves as collateral for the contract and the customer provides a personal guarantee as well.

Net sales do not include sales tax as we are considered a pass-through conduit for collecting and remitting sales tax.

Patterson Advantage Loyalty Program – Patterson Dental provides a point-based awards program to qualifying customers involving the issuance of “Patterson Advantage dollars” which can be used toward equipment and technology purchases. Patterson Advantage dollars earned during a program year expire one year after the end of the program year. The cost and corresponding liability associated with the program is recognized as contra-revenue. As of April 27, 2019, we believe we have sufficient experience with the program to reasonably estimate the amount of Patterson Advantage dollars that will not be redeemed and thus have recorded a liability for 98.5% of the maximum potential amount that could be redeemed. We recognize the expected breakage amount as revenue in proportion to the pattern of rights exercised by the customer, and we recognize the estimated value of unused Patterson Advantage dollars as redemptions occur. Breakage recognized was immaterial to all periods presented.

Inventory and Reserves – Inventory consists primarily of merchandise held for sale and is stated at the lower of cost or market. Cost is determined using the last-in, first-out ("LIFO") method for all inventories, except for foreign inventories and manufactured inventories, which are valued using the first-in, first-out ("FIFO") method. We continually assess the valuation of inventories and reduce the carrying value of those inventories that are obsolete or in excess of forecasted usage to estimated realizable value. Estimates are made of the net realizable value of such inventories based on analyses and assumptions including, but not limited to, historical usage, future demand and market requirements.

Goodwill and Other Indefinite-Lived Intangible Assets – Goodwill represents the excess of cost over the fair value of identifiable net assets of businesses acquired. We have two reporting units as of April 27, 2019; Dental and Animal Health. Our Corporate reportable segment's assets and liabilities, and net sales and expenses, are allocated to the two reporting units. Our indefinite-lived intangible asset is a trade name.

43
We assess goodwill for impairment annually and whenever an event occurs or circumstances change that would indicate that the carrying amount may be impaired. If we determine that the fair value of the reporting unit may be less than its carrying amount, we evaluate goodwill using a two-step impairment test. Otherwise, we conclude that no impairment is indicated and we do not perform the two-step impairment test. In fiscal 2019, we determined it was appropriate to perform a two-step impairment test.

The first step of the goodwill impairment test compares the book value of a reporting unit, including goodwill, to its fair value. If the book value of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, the second step of the impairment test is performed to determine the amount of goodwill impairment loss to be recorded. The determination of fair value involves uncertainties because it requires management to make assumptions and to apply judgment to estimate industry and economic factors and the profitability of future business strategies. Patterson conducts impairment testing based on current business strategy in light of present industry and economic conditions, as well as future expectations. Additionally, in assessing goodwill for impairment, the reasonableness of the implied control premium is considered based on market capitalizations and recent market transactions.

Other indefinite-lived intangible assets are assessed for impairment by comparing the carrying value of an asset with its fair value. If the carrying value exceeds fair value, an impairment loss is recognized in an amount equal to the excess. The determination of fair value involves assumptions, including projected revenues and gross profit levels, as well as consideration of any factors that may indicate potential impairment.

In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2019, management completed its annual goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible asset impairment tests using the beginning of our fiscal 2019 fourth quarter as the valuation date, and determined there was no impairment, and that our Dental reporting unit was not at risk of failing step 1. The Animal Health reporting unit has a higher level of sensitivity to impairment as management currently assesses the various estimates and assumptions used to conduct these tests. Adverse changes to one or more of these estimates or assumptions could cause us to recognize a material impairment charge on this reporting unit. At the beginning of the fourth quarter of fiscal 2019, the estimated fair value of the Animal Health reporting unit exceeded its book value by approximately 10%.

Long-Lived Assets – Long-lived assets, including definite-lived intangible assets, are evaluated for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the assets may not be recoverable through the estimated undiscounted future cash flows derived from such assets. Our definite-lived intangible assets primarily consist of customer relationships, trade names and trademarks. When impairment exists, the related assets are written down to fair value using level 3 inputs, as discussed further in Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. In fiscal 2017, we recorded a non-cash impairment charge of $36.3 million related to a distribution agreement intangible asset. Refer to Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information.

Related Party Transactions – We have interests in a number of entities that are accounted for using the equity method. During fiscal 2019, 2018 and 2017 we made purchases of $87.9 million, $84.2 million and $55.2 million from these entities, respectively. During fiscal 2019 and 2018, we recorded net sales of $74.5 million and $19.7 million to these entities, respectively. No sales to these entities were recorded in fiscal 2017.

Income Taxes – We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgments are required in determining the consolidated provision for income taxes. Changes in interpretation of the Tax Act could create potential added uncertainties.

During the ordinary course of business, there are many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. As a result, we recognize tax liabilities based on estimates of whether additional taxes and interest will be due. These tax liabilities are recognized when, despite our belief that our tax return position is supportable, we believe that certain positions may not be fully sustained upon review by tax authorities. We believe that our accruals for tax liabilities are adequate for all open audit years based on our assessment of many factors including past experience and interpretations of tax law. This assessment relies on estimates and assumptions and may involve a series of complex judgments about future events. To the extent that the final tax outcome of these matters is different than the amounts recorded, such differences will impact income tax expense in the period in which such determination is made and could materially affect our financial results.

Valuation allowances are established for deferred tax assets if, after assessment of available positive and negative evidence, it is more likely than not that the deferred tax asset will not be fully realized. 

Self-insurance – Patterson is self-insured for certain losses related to general liability, product liability, automobile, workers’ compensation and medical claims. We estimate our liabilities based upon an analysis of historical data and 

44
actuarial estimates. While current estimates are believed reasonable based on information currently available, actual results could differ and affect financial results due to changes in the amount or frequency of claims, medical cost inflation or other factors. Historically, actual results related to these types of claims have not varied significantly from estimated amounts.

Stock-based Compensation – We recognize stock-based compensation based on certain assumptions including inputs within valuation models, estimated forfeitures and estimated performance outcomes. These assumptions require subjective judgment and changes in the assumptions can materially affect fair value estimates. Management assesses the assumptions and methodologies used to estimate forfeitures and to calculate estimated fair value of stock-based compensation on a regular basis. Circumstances may change, and additional data may become available over time, which could result in changes to these assumptions and methodologies and thereby materially impact the fair value determination or estimates of forfeitures. If factors change and we employ different assumptions, the amount of compensation expense associated with stock-based compensation may differ significantly from what was recorded in the current period.

Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK