Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.

Management's Discussion and Analysis

Forward-Looking Statements

Certain statements in this report, other than purely historical information, including estimates, projections, statements relating to our business plans, objectives, and expected operating results, and the assumptions upon which those statements are based, are “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Forward-looking statements may appear throughout this report, including without limitation, the following sections: “Management's Discussion and Analysis” and “Risk Factors.” These forward-looking statements generally are identified by the words “believe,” “project,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “estimate,” “intend,” “strategy,” “future,” “opportunity,” “plan,” “may,” “should,” “will,” “would,” “will be,” “will continue,” “will likely result,” and similar expressions. Forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and assumptions, which are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements. A detailed discussion of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results and events to differ materially from those projected herein is included, without limitation, in the section titled "Economic Conditions and Uncertainties" and the section titled “Risk Factors” (Part I, Item 1A of this Form 10-K). We undertake no obligation to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statements, whether because of new information, future events or otherwise.

The purpose of Management's Discussion and Analysis (MD&A) is to provide an understanding of Procter & Gamble's financial condition, results of operations and cash flows by focusing on changes in certain key measures from year to year. The MD&A is provided as a supplement to, and should be read in conjunction with, our Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying notes. The MD&A is organized in the following sections:

•Overview

•Summary of 2019 Results 

•Economic Conditions and Uncertainties

•Results of Operations

•Segment Results

•Cash Flow, Financial Condition and Liquidity

•Significant Accounting Policies and Estimates

•Other Information

Throughout the MD&A we refer to measures used by management to evaluate performance, including unit volume growth, net sales and net earnings. We also refer to a number of financial measures that are not defined under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (U.S. GAAP), including organic sales growth, core earnings per share (Core EPS), adjusted free cash flow and adjusted free cash flow productivity. Organic sales growth is net sales 

growth excluding the impacts of acquisitions, divestitures, foreign exchange and the fiscal 2019 adoption of new accounting standards for "Revenue from Contracts with Customers" (see Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements) from year-over-year comparisons. Core EPS is diluted net earnings per share from continuing operations excluding certain items that are not judged to be part of the Company's sustainable results or trends. Adjusted free cash flow is operating cash flow less capital spending and transitional tax payments related to the U.S. Tax Act. Adjusted free cash flow productivity is the ratio of adjusted free cash flow to net earnings excluding certain one-time items. We believe these measures provide our investors with additional information about our underlying results and trends, as well as insight to some of the metrics used to evaluate management. The explanation at the end of the MD&A provides more details on the use and the derivation of these measures.

Management also uses certain market share and market consumption estimates to evaluate performance relative to competition despite some limitations on the availability and comparability of share and consumption information. References to market share and consumption in the MD&A are based on a combination of vendor purchased traditional brick-and-mortar and online data in key markets as well as internal estimates. All market share references represent the percentage of sales in dollar terms on a constant currency basis of our products, relative to all product sales in the category. The Company measures fiscal-year-to-date market shares through the most recent period for which market share data is available, which typically reflects a lag time of one or two months.

OVERVIEW

Procter & Gamble is a global leader in the fast-moving consumer goods industry, focused on providing branded consumer packaged goods of superior quality and value to our consumers around the world. Our products are sold in more than 180 countries and territories primarily through mass merchandisers, e-commerce, grocery stores, membership club stores, drug stores, department stores, distributors, wholesalers, baby stores, specialty beauty stores, high-frequency stores and pharmacies. We also sell direct to consumers. We have on-the-ground operations in approximately 70 countries.

Our market environment is highly competitive with global, regional and local competitors. In many of the markets and industry segments in which we sell our products, we compete against other branded products, as well as retailers' private-label brands. Additionally, many of the product segments in which we compete are differentiated by price tiers (referred to as super-premium, premium, mid-tier and value-tier products). We are well positioned in the industry segments and markets in which we operate, often holding a leadership or significant market share position.

12 The Procter & Gamble Company

ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE

In fiscal 2019, our organizational structure was comprised of Global Business Units (GBUs), Selling and Market Operations (SMOs), Global Business Services (GBS) and Corporate Functions (CF).

Global Business Units

Our GBUs are organized into ten product categories. Under U.S. GAAP, the GBUs underlying the ten product categories are aggregated into five reportable segments: Beauty; Grooming; Health Care; Fabric & Home Care; and Baby, Feminine & Family Care. The GBUs are responsible for developing overall brand strategy, new product upgrades and innovations and marketing plans. The following provides additional detail on our reportable segments and the ten product categories and brand composition within each segment.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Percent of Net sales and Net earnings from continuing operations for the year ended June 30, 2019 (excluding results held in Corporate).

(2) The Grooming product category is comprised of the Shave Care and Appliances GBUs.   

Recent Developments: 

During fiscal 2019, the Company completed the acquisition of the over the counter (OTC) healthcare business of Merck KGaA (Merck OTC) for $3.7 billion (based on exchange rates at the time of closing). This business primarily sells OTC consumer healthcare products, mainly in Europe, Latin America and Asia markets. Total sales for the business during Merck OTC's most recent fiscal year ended December 31, 2017 were approximately $1 billion. 

During fiscal 2019, the Company also dissolved our PGT Healthcare partnership, a venture between the Company and Teva Pharmaceutical Industries, Ltd (Teva) in the OTC consumer healthcare business. Pursuant to the agreement, PGT product assets were returned to the original respective parent companies to reestablish independent OTC businesses. This transaction was accounted for as a sale of the Teva portion of the PGT business. The Company recorded an after-tax gain on the sale of $353 million.

During fiscal 2017, the Company completed the divestiture of four product categories, which included 43 of the Company's beauty brands ("Beauty Brands"), including the global salon professional hair care and color, retail hair color, cosmetics and the fine fragrance businesses, along with select hair styling brands. The Beauty Brands had historically been part of the Company’s Beauty reportable segment. The results of the Beauty Brands are presented as discontinued operations and, as such, are excluded from both continuing operations and segment results for all periods presented. 

Refer to Notes 13 and 14 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for more details on each of these transactions.

Organization Design Changes:

The Company recently announced changes to our organization design effective July 1, 2019. In the new design, the ten product categories are being organized into six Sector Business Units (SBUs). The SBUs will be responsible for global brand strategy, innovation and supply chain. They will have direct profit responsibility for markets representing the large majority 

The Procter & Gamble Company 13

of the Company's sales and earnings (referred to as Focus Markets) and will be responsible for innovation plans, supply plans and operating frameworks to drive growth and value creation in the remaining markets (referred to as Enterprise Markets). For segment reporting purposes, the categories will continue to be aggregated into the same five external reporting segments.

Beauty: We are a global market leader in the beauty category. Most of the beauty markets in which we compete are highly fragmented with a large number of global and local competitors. We compete in skin and personal care and in hair care. In skin and personal care, we offer a wide variety of products, ranging from deodorants to personal cleansing to skin care, such as our Olay brand, which is one of the top facial skin care brands in the world with nearly 6% global market share. We are the global market leader in the retail hair care market with over 20% global market share primarily behind our Pantene and Head & Shoulders brands. 

Grooming: We compete in shave care and appliances. In shave care, we are the global market leader in the blades and razors market. Our global blades and razors market share is over 60%, primarily behind the Gillette franchise, including our Fusion, Mach3, Prestobarba and Venus brands. Our appliances, such as electric shavers and epilators, are sold under the Braun brand in a number of markets around the world where we compete against both global and regional competitors. We hold nearly 25% of the male electric shavers market and over 50% of the female epilators market.

Health Care: We compete in oral care and personal health care. In oral care, there are several global competitors in the market and we have the number two market share position with nearly 20% global market share behind our Oral-B and Crest brands. In personal health care, we are a top ten competitor in a large, highly fragmented industry, primarily behind respiratory treatments (Vicks brand) and digestive wellness products (Metamucil, Pepto Bismol and Align brands). As discussed above, in fiscal 2019, we dissolved the PGT Healthcare partnership with Teva, which previously managed nearly all of our personal health care sales outside the U.S., and reestablished independent OTC businesses. We also acquired Merck OTC as discussed above. 

Fabric & Home Care: This segment is comprised of a variety of fabric care products, including laundry detergents, additives and fabric enhancers; and home care products, including dishwashing liquids and detergents, surface cleaners and air fresheners. In fabric care, we generally have the number one or number two market share position in the markets in which we compete and are the global market leader with over 25% global market share, primarily behind our Tide, Ariel and Downy brands. Our global home care market share is over 20% across the categories in which we compete.

Baby, Feminine & Family Care:  In baby care, we are the global market leader and compete mainly in taped diapers, pants and baby wipes with over 25% global market share. We have the number one or number two market share position in most of the key markets in which we compete, primarily behind Pampers, the Company's largest brand, with annual net sales 

of nearly $8 billion. We are the global market leader in the feminine care category with 25% global market share, primarily behind Always. We also compete in the adult incontinence category in certain markets behind Always Discreet, achieving nearly 10% market share in most of the markets where we compete. Our family care business is predominantly a North American business comprised largely of the Bounty paper towel and Charmin toilet paper brands. U.S. market shares are over 40% for Bounty and over 25% for Charmin.

Selling and Market Operations

Our SMOs are responsible for developing and executing go-to-market plans at the local level. The SMOs include dedicated retail customer, trade channel and country-specific teams. Our SMOs are organized under six regions, comprised of North America, Europe, Latin America, Asia Pacific, Greater China and India, Middle East and Africa (IMEA). Throughout the MD&A, we reference business results in developed markets, which are comprised of North America, Western Europe and Japan, and developing markets, which are all other markets not included in developed. As a result of the above-mentioned changes in our organization design effective July 1, 2019, we will be organized under five regions, with Asia Pacific and IMEA being combined into a single region. 

Corporate Functions

Corporate Functions provides company-level strategy and portfolio analysis, corporate accounting, treasury, tax, external relations, governance, human resources and legal, as well as other centralized functional support.

Global Business Services

GBS provides technology, processes and standard data tools to enable the GBUs, the SMOs and Corporate Functions to better understand the business and better serve consumers and customers. The GBS organization is responsible for providing world-class solutions at a low cost and with minimal capital investment.

STRATEGIC FOCUS

Procter & Gamble aspires to serve the world’s consumers better than our best competitors in every category and in every country in which we compete, and, as a result, deliver total shareholder return in the top one-third of our peer group. Delivering and sustaining leadership levels of shareholder value creation requires balanced top-line growth, bottom-line growth and strong cash generation.

Our strategic choices are focused on winning with consumers. The consumers who purchase and use our products are at the center of everything we do. We win with consumers by delivering superiority across the five key elements of product, packaging, brand communication, retail execution and value equation.

Winning with consumers around the world and against our best competitors requires innovation. Innovation has always been, and continues to be, P&G’s lifeblood. Innovation requires consumer insights and technology advancements that lead to product improvements, improved marketing and 

14 The Procter & Gamble Company

merchandising programs and game-changing inventions that create new brands and categories. 

Productivity improvement is critical to delivering our balanced top-line growth, bottom-line growth and value creation objectives. Productivity improvement and sales growth reinforce and fuel each other. We are driving productivity improvement across all elements of cost, including cost of goods sold, marketing and promotional expenses and non-manufacturing overhead. Productivity improvements and cost savings are being reinvested in product and packaging improvements, brand awareness-building advertising and trial-building sampling programs, increased sales coverage and R&D programs.

We are improving operational effectiveness and organizational culture through enhanced clarity of roles and responsibilities, accountability and incentive compensation programs.

The Company has undertaken an effort to focus and strengthen its business portfolio to compete in categories and with brands that are structurally attractive and that play to P&G's strengths. The ongoing portfolio of businesses consists of 10 product 

categories. These are categories where P&G has leading market positions, strong brands and consumer-meaningful product technologies.

We believe these strategies are right for the long-term health of the Company and our objective of delivering total shareholder return in the top one-third of our peer group.

The Company expects the delivery of the following long-term annual financial targets will result in total shareholder returns in the top third of the competitive peer group:

•Organic sales growth above market growth rates in the categories and geographies in which we compete;

•Core EPS growth of mid-to-high single digits; and

•Adjusted free cash flow productivity of 90% or greater.

In periods with significant macroeconomic pressures, we intend to maintain a disciplined approach to investing so as not to sacrifice the long-term health of our businesses to meet short-term objectives in any given year.

SUMMARY OF 2019 RESULTS

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•Net sales increased 1% to $67.7 billion on a 3% increase in unit volume. Foreign exchange had a negative 4% impact on net sales. Net sales growth was driven by mid-single digit increases in Beauty and Health Care and a low single digit increase in Fabric & Home Care, partially offset by a low single digit decline in Baby, Feminine & Family Care and a mid-single digit decline in Grooming.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

◦Unit volumes increased 3%. Volume increased mid-single digits in Health Care and Fabric & Home Care and increased low single digits in Beauty and Baby, Feminine & Family Care. Volume decreased low single digits in Grooming. 

•Operating income decreased $7.9 billion, or 59%, due primarily to non-cash impairment charges of $8.3 billion related to Shave Care goodwill and Gillette indefinite-lived intangible assets (Shave Care impairment), partially offset by the benefit from the net sales increase. For a more detailed discussion on the Shave Care impairment refer to 

the Significant Accounting Policies and Estimates section in the MD&A and Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

•Net earnings decreased $5.9 billion or 60% due to the after-tax impact of the Shave Care impairment, partially offset by a reduction in current year income tax expense, a current year gain on the dissolution of the PGT Healthcare partnership and the base period charges for the early extinguishment of debt. The reduction in current year income tax expense was driven by the impacts of the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act enacted in December 2017 (U.S. Tax Act), comprised of the reduction in tax rate on the current year earnings and the base period charges related to the transitional impacts of the U.S. Tax Act. Foreign exchange impacts negatively affected net earnings by approximately $900 million. [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•Cash flow from operating activities was $15.2 billion.

◦Adjusted free cash flow was $12.1 billion.

◦Adjusted free cash flow productivity was 105%.

The Procter & Gamble Company 15

ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND UNCERTAINTIES

We discuss expectations regarding future performance, events and outcomes, such as our business outlook and objectives, in annual and quarterly reports, press releases and other written and oral communications. All such statements, except for historical and present factual information, are "forward-looking statements" and are based on financial data and our business plans available only as of the time the statements are made, which may become out-of-date or incomplete. We assume no obligation to update any forward-looking statements as a result of new information, future events or other factors. Forward-looking statements are inherently uncertain and investors must recognize that events could be significantly different from our expectations. For more information on risk factors that could impact our results, please refer to “Risk Factors” in Part I, Item 1A of this Form 10-K.

Global Economic Conditions. Our products are sold in numerous countries across North America, Europe, Latin America, Asia and Africa, with more than half our sales generated outside the United States. As such, we are exposed to and impacted by global macro-economic factors, U.S. and foreign government policies and foreign exchange fluctuations. Current macroeconomic factors remain dynamic, and any causes of market size contraction, such as reduced GDP in commodity-dependent economies, greater political unrest in the Middle East, Central & Eastern Europe and the Korean peninsula, economic uncertainty related to the execution of the United Kingdom's exit from the European Union, political instability in certain Latin American and Asian markets and overall economic slowdowns, could reduce our sales or erode our operating margin, in either case reducing our earnings.

Changes in Costs. Our costs are subject to fluctuations, particularly due to changes in commodity prices, transportation costs and our own productivity efforts. We have significant exposures to certain commodities, in particular certain oil-derived materials like resins and paper-based materials like pulp, and volatility in the market price of these commodity input materials has a direct impact on our costs. If we are unable to manage commodity and other cost fluctuations through pricing actions, cost savings projects and sourcing decisions, as well as through consistent productivity improvements, it may adversely impact our gross margin, operating margin and net earnings. Sales could also be adversely impacted following pricing actions if there is a negative impact on consumption of our products. We strive to implement, achieve and sustain cost improvement plans, including outsourcing projects, supply chain optimization and general overhead and workforce optimization. As discussed later in this MD&A, in 2012 we initiated overhead and supply chain cost improvement projects. In fiscal 2017, we communicated specific elements of an additional multi-year cost reduction program which is resulting in enrollment reductions and other savings. If we are not successful in executing and sustaining these changes, there could be a negative impact on our operating margin and net earnings.

Foreign Exchange. We have both translation and transaction exposure to the fluctuation of exchange rates. Translation 

exposures relate to exchange rate impacts of measuring income statements of foreign subsidiaries that do not use the U.S. dollar as their functional currency. Transaction exposures relate to 1) the impact from input costs that are denominated in a currency other than the local reporting currency and 2) the revaluation of transaction-related working capital balances denominated in currencies other than the functional currency. In four of the past five years, including fiscal 2019, the U.S. dollar has strengthened versus a number of foreign currencies, leading to lower sales and earnings from these foreign exchange impacts. Certain countries experiencing significant exchange rate fluctuations, like Argentina, Russia, Turkey, Brazil, China and the United Kingdom have had, and could continue to have, a significant impact on our sales, costs and earnings. Increased pricing in response to certain fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates may offset portions of the currency impacts but could also have a negative impact on consumption of our products, which would affect our sales and profits.

 Government Policies. Our net earnings could be affected by changes in U.S. or foreign government tax policies, for example, the U.S. Tax Act, the implications and uncertainties of which are disclosed elsewhere in this report. Additionally, we attempt to carefully manage our debt, currency and other exposures in certain countries with currency exchange, import authorization and pricing controls, such as Nigeria, Algeria, Egypt and Turkey. Further, our earnings and sales could be affected by changes to international trade agreements in North America and elsewhere, including increases of import tariffs, both currently effective and future potential changes. Changes in government policies in these areas might cause an increase or decrease in our sales, operating margin and net earnings.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

The key metrics included in the discussion of our consolidated results of operations include net sales, gross margin, selling, general and administrative costs (SG&A), other non-operating items and income taxes. The primary factors driving year-over-year changes in net sales include overall market growth in the categories in which we compete, product initiatives, competitive activities (the level of initiatives, pricing and other activities by competitors), marketing spending, retail executions, both in-store and online and acquisition and divestiture activity, all of which drive changes in our underlying unit volume, as well as our pricing actions (which can also indirectly impact volume), changes in product and geographic mix and foreign currency impacts on sales outside the U.S.

Most of our cost of products sold and SG&A are to some extent variable in nature. Accordingly, our discussion of these operating costs focuses primarily on relative margins rather than the absolute year-over-year changes in total costs. The primary drivers of changes in gross margin are input costs (energy and other commodities), pricing impacts, geographic mix (for example, gross margins in developed markets are generally higher than in developing markets for similar products), product mix (for example, the Beauty segment has higher gross margins than the Company average), foreign exchange rate fluctuations (in situations where certain input 

16 The Procter & Gamble Company

costs may be tied to a different functional currency than the underlying sales), the impacts of manufacturing savings projects and reinvestments (for example, product or package improvements) and to a lesser extent scale impacts (for costs that are fixed or less variable in nature). The primary components of SG&A are marketing-related costs and non-manufacturing overhead costs. Marketing-related costs are primarily variable in nature, although we may achieve some level of scale benefit over time due to overall growth and other marketing efficiencies. While overhead costs are variable to some extent, we generally experience more scale-related impacts for these costs due to our ability to leverage our organization and systems infrastructures to support business growth.

A detailed discussion of the fiscal 2018 year-over-year changes can be found in the MD&A section in the Form 8-K filed October 22, 2018, which updated our Form 10-K for the year ended June 30, 2018, to revise disclosures to reflect the adoption of the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) ASU 2017-07 and 2016-18. For more information on the adoption of this standard, refer to Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Net Sales

Net sales increased 1% to $67.7 billion in 2019 on a 3% increase in unit volume versus the prior year. Volume increased mid-single digits in Health Care and Fabric & Home Care and increased low single digits in Beauty and Baby, Feminine & Family Care. Volume decreased low single digits in Grooming. 

Volume increased mid-single digits in developed regions and low single digits in developing regions. Excluding the impact of acquisitions and divestitures, organic volume increased low single digits in developed regions. Unfavorable foreign exchange reduced net sales by 4%. Pricing had a positive 2% impact on net sales. Product mix had a positive 1% impact on net sales driven by the slightly higher organic growth of the Skin and Personal Care and Personal Health Care categories and developed regions, all of which have higher than company average selling prices. Organic sales grew 5% driven by a 2% increase in organic volume.

Operating Costs

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Gross margin increased 10 basis points to 48.6% of net sales in 2019. Gross margin benefited 160 basis points from total manufacturing cost savings (130 basis points net of product and packaging reinvestments), 60 basis points of positive pricing impacts and 50 basis points from lower restructuring costs. These were offset by:

•a 100 basis-point decline from unfavorable product mix and other impacts (primarily mix within segments due to the growth of lower margin product forms and the club channel in certain categories and due to the disproportionate growth of the Fabric Care category, which is one of our largest categories and has lower than company-average gross margins),

•an 80 basis-point negative impact due to higher commodity costs and

•a 50 basis-point negative impact from unfavorable foreign exchange.

Total SG&A was relatively unchanged at $19.1 billion, as a decrease in marketing spending was offset by an increase in overhead costs and in other net operating expenses. SG&A as a percentage of net sales decreased 30 basis points to 28.2%. Reductions in marketing spending as a percentage of net sales 

were partially offset by an increase in overhead costs and other net operating expenses as a percentage of sales.

•Marketing spending as a percentage of net sales decreased 80 basis points due to the positive scale impacts of the organic net sales increase, reductions in agency compensation and the impact of adopting the new standard on "Revenue from Contracts with Customers" which prospectively reclassified certain customer spending from marketing (SG&A) expense to a reduction of net sales.

•Overhead costs as a percentage of net sales increased 30 basis points, as productivity savings and fixed cost leverage from the increased organic net sales, were more than offset by the impact of inflation, higher incentive compensation costs and other cost increases, including the ongoing and integration-related overhead costs of the Merck OTC acquisition.

•Other net operating expenses as a percentage of net sales increased 20 basis points primarily due to an increase in foreign exchange transactional charges and the net impact of changes in indirect tax reserves, partially offset by the gain on sale of real estate in the current year.

The Procter & Gamble Company 17

Operating margin decreased 1,190 basis points to 8.1% for fiscal 2019 primarily due to the one-time, non-cash before-tax impairment charge of $8.3 billion for Shave Care.

Non-Operating Items[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•Other non-operating income, which consists primarily of divestiture gains, investment income and other non-operating items increased $649 million to $871 million, primarily due to a $355 million before-tax gain from the dissolution of the PGT Healthcare partnership in the current year (discussed earlier in the Recent Developments section) and $346 million of base year charges for the early extinguishment of debt, partially offset by higher minor brand divestiture gains in the base year. 

Income Taxes

Income taxes decreased $1.4 billion to $2.1 billion. The effective tax rate increased 870 basis points to 34.7% in 2019. The current year Shave Care impairment charges caused a 1,750 basis-point increase in the effective tax rate, as there is no tax benefit related to the goodwill portion of the impairment. Excluding this impact, the effective tax rate declined 880 basis points, primarily due to the impacts of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the "U.S. Tax Act") in December 2017. The U.S. Tax Act, among other things, lowered the U.S. corporate income tax rates, but also imposed a one-time repatriation tax on deemed repatriation of historical earnings of foreign subsidiaries and caused us to adjust our U.S. deferred tax assets and liabilities to the lower federal base rate of 21%. These transitional impacts resulted in a provisional net charge of $602 million for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2018, comprised of an estimated repatriation tax charge of $3.8 billion (comprised of U.S. repatriation taxes and foreign withholding taxes) and an estimated net deferred tax benefit of $3.2 billion. In addition, because the Company has a June 30 fiscal year-end, the lower corporate income tax rate was phased in, resulting in a U.S. statutory federal rate of approximately 28% for our fiscal year ended June 30, 2018, and 21% for our fiscal year ended June 30, 2019 and subsequent fiscal years. Combined, these impacts reduced the current year effective tax rate by 950 basis points, consisting of:

•a 500 basis-point reduction from the impact of the lower blended U.S. federal tax rate on current year earnings versus the prior year rate, and

•a 450 basis-point reduction due to prior year transitional impacts from the U.S. Tax Act. 

The remaining 70 basis point net increase in the current year income tax rate was driven by:

•a 160 basis-point increase from unfavorable impacts of geographic mix of earnings, 

•a 10 basis-point increase from reduced favorable discrete impacts related to uncertain tax positions (which netted to approximately 15 basis points in the current year versus 25 basis points in the prior year), and 

•a 100 basis-point reduction from increased excess tax benefits of share-based compensation (160 basis points in the current year versus 60 basis points in the prior year).

Net Earnings

Operating income decreased $7.9 billion, or 59%, primarily due to the $8.3 billion before tax impairment charge for Shave Care. This was partially offset by the net sales increase, along with the marginal increase in gross margin and decrease in SG&A spending as a percentage of sales, all of which are discussed above. 

Earnings before income taxes decreased $7.3 billion or 54% to $6.1 billion, as the reduction in operating income discussed in the preceding paragraph was partially offset by the current year gain from the dissolution of the PGT Healthcare partnership and the base year charges for the early extinguishment of debt, each of which was discussed earlier. Net earnings decreased $5.9 billion, or 60% to $4.0 billion. Net earnings declined less than earnings before income taxes due to the above discussed reduction in income taxes. Foreign exchange impacts reduced net earnings by approximately $900 million in 2019 due to weakening of certain currencies against the U.S. dollar, including those in Argentina, Russia, Turkey, Brazil, China and the United Kingdom. This impact includes both transactional charges and translational impacts from converting earnings from foreign subsidiaries to U.S. dollars.

Net earnings attributable to Procter & Gamble decreased $5.9 billion, or 60%, to $3.9 billion. 

Diluted net earnings per share decreased $2.24, or 61%, to $1.43 due primarily to the reduction in net earnings.

Core EPS increased 7% to $4.52. Core EPS represents diluted net earnings per share from continuing operations, excluding the current year charge for the Shave Care impairment, the current year gain on the dissolution of the PGT Healthcare partnership, the base year charges for both the net transitional impact of the U.S. Tax Act and for early extinguishment of debt and incremental restructuring charges in both years related to our productivity and cost savings plans. The increase was primarily driven by the lower effective tax rate on core earnings, resulting from the U.S. Tax Act and the net sales increase.

18 The Procter & Gamble Company

SEGMENT RESULTS

Segment results reflect information on the same basis we use for internal management reporting and performance evaluation. The results of these reportable segments do not include certain non-business unit specific costs. These costs, including the Shave Care impairment in fiscal 2019, are reported in our Corporate segment and are included as part of our Corporate segment discussion. Additionally, we apply blended statutory tax rates in the segments. See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on items included in the Corporate segment. Eliminations to adjust segment results to arrive at our consolidated effective tax rate, including the impacts of the U.S. Tax Act in fiscal 2018, are included in Corporate.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Net sales percentage changes are approximations based on quantitative formulas that are consistently applied.

(2) Other includes the sales mix impact from acquisitions and divestitures, the impact from the adoption of the new accounting standard for "Revenue from Contracts with Customers" in fiscal 2019 and rounding impacts necessary to reconcile volume to net sales.

BEAUTY

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Beauty net sales increased 4% to $12.9 billion in 2019 on a 3% increase in unit volume. Unfavorable foreign exchange impacts reduced net sales by 4%. Higher pricing increased net sales by 2%. Favorable product mix added 4% to net sales, primarily due to the disproportionate growth of the Skin and Personal Care category, including the super-premium SK-II and premium Olay Skin brands which have higher than segment average selling prices. Organic sales increased 8%. Global market share of the Beauty segment decreased 0.1 points. Volume increased low single digits in both developed and developing regions.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•Volume in Skin and Personal Care increased high single digits. Excluding the impact of minor brand acquisitions, organic volume increased mid-single digits. Developed regions volume increased mid-single digits. Excluding the impact of minor brand acquisitions, developed regions 

volume was unchanged. Volume increased double digits in developing regions due to premium innovation, continued growth of SK-II, increased marketing spending and market growth. Global market share of the skin and personal care category was unchanged.

Net earnings increased 14% to $2.6 billion in 2019 due to the increase in net sales and a 170 basis-point increase in net earnings margin. Net earnings margin increased due to a reduction in U.S. income tax rates and a decrease in SG&A as a percentage of net sales, partially offset by a decrease in gross margin. Gross margin decreased slightly mainly due to unfavorable foreign exchange impacts. SG&A as a percentage of sales decreased primarily due to a reduction in marketing spending driven by the positive scale impacts of the net sales increase and the impacts of adopting the new accounting standard on "Revenue from Contracts with Customers". The reduction in the tax rate was due to the impacts of the U.S. Tax Act, both from overall rate reduction and the manner in which the impacts were allocated between the business and corporate segments in the prior year, as discussed in the Corporate segment below.

GROOMING

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The Procter & Gamble Company 19

Grooming net sales decreased 5% to $6.2 billion in 2019 on a 1% decrease in unit volume. Unfavorable foreign exchange impacts reduced net sales by 5%. Increased pricing had a 2% positive impact to net sales. Organic sales increased 1%. Global market share of the Grooming segment decreased 0.9 points. Volume increased low single digits in developed regions and decreased low single digits in developing regions.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Net earnings increased 7% to $1.5 billion in 2019 due to a 280 basis-point increase in net earnings margin, which more than offset the net sales decrease. The net earnings margin increased primarily due to a reduction in U.S. income tax rates and a reduction in SG&A as a percentage of net sales, partially offset by a decrease in gross margin. Gross margin declined due to the negative impact of unfavorable mix (due to the disproportionate growth of disposable razors, lower tier products in the Appliances category and large count packs all of which have lower than segment average margins), unfavorable foreign exchange impacts and increased commodity costs, partially offset by the positive impacts of manufacturing cost savings and increased pricing. SG&A as a percentage of net sales decreased due to a current year gain on the sale of operating real estate, reductions in overhead costs and marketing spending and the impacts from adoption of the new accounting standard on "Revenue from Contracts with Customers". The reduction in the tax rate was primarily due to the impacts of the U.S. Tax Act, both from the overall rate reduction and the manner in which the impacts were allocated between the business and corporate segments in the prior year, as discussed in the Corporate segment below.

HEALTH CARE

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Health Care net sales increased 5% to $8.2 billion in 2019 on a 5% increase in unit volume. Unfavorable foreign exchange impacts reduced net sales by 3%. Higher pricing increased net sales by 1%. Favorable mix increased net sales by 2% due to the disproportionate growth of the Personal Health Care category and developed regions, both of which have higher 

than segment average selling prices. Organic sales increased 6% on a 4% increase in organic volume, which excludes the impact of the PGT Healthcare partnership dissolution and the Merck OTC consumer healthcare acquisition. Global market share of the Health Care segment increased 0.5 points. Volume increased mid-single digits in developed and developing regions. Excluding the impact of the PGT Healthcare partnership dissolution and the Merck OTC consumer healthcare acquisition, organic volume increased low single digits in developing regions.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Net earnings increased 18% to $1.5 billion in 2019 due to the increase in net sales and a 220 basis-point increase in net earnings margin. Net earnings margin increased due to a decrease in U.S. income tax rates, partially offset by a reduction in gross margin. Gross margin decreased due to unfavorable mix impact (from the disproportionate growth of club channel and products with lower than segment-average margins, partially offset by the net impacts of the acquisition and dissolution in personal health care) and increases in commodity costs, partially offset by manufacturing cost savings and positive pricing impacts. SG&A as a percentage of net sales was unchanged as an increase in overhead costs was offset by a reduction in marketing spending. Overhead costs as a percentage of net sales increased due to the net impacts of the personal health care acquisition and dissolution, including both integration-related spending and higher relative levels of selling costs in the acquired business, partially offset by the positive scale impacts of the net sales increase. Marketing spending as a percentage of net sales declined primarily due to the positive scale impacts of the net sales increase and the impacts from adoption of the new accounting standard on "Revenue from Contracts with Customers". The reduction in the tax rate was due to the impacts of the U.S. Tax Act, both from the overall rate reduction and the manner in which the impacts were allocated between the business and corporate segments in the prior year, as discussed in the Corporate segment below.

20 The Procter & Gamble Company

FABRIC & HOME CARE

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Fabric & Home Care net sales increased 3% to $22.1 billion in 2019 on a 4% increase in unit volume. Unfavorable foreign exchange impacts reduced net sales by 3%. Higher pricing increased net sales by 1%. Positive mix impacts increased net sales by 1% due to the disproportionate growth of premium products. Organic sales increased 7% on a 5% increase in organic volume. Global market share of the Fabric & Home Care segment increased 0.5 points. Volume increased mid-single digits in developed regions and low single digits in developing regions. Excluding the impact of minor brand divestitures, organic volume increased mid-single digits in developing regions. [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Net earnings increased 30% to $3.5 billion in 2019 due to the increase in net sales and a 330 basis-point increase in net earnings margin. Net earnings margin increased due to a decrease in U.S. income tax rates and a reduction in SG&A as a percentage of sales partially offset by a marginal reduction in gross margin. Gross margin decreased due to unfavorable product mix (driven by the disproportionate growth of large sizes and club channel, both of which have lower than average margins, and new innovation with higher than segment-average product costs), unfavorable foreign exchange impacts and increased commodity costs, partially offset by manufacturing cost savings and increased pricing. SG&A as a percentage of net sales decreased due to reductions in both overhead costs and marketing spending, driven by productivity savings, fixed cost leverage from increased net sales and the impacts from adoption of the new accounting standard on "Revenue from Contracts with Customers". The reduction in the tax rate was due to the impacts of the U.S. Tax Act, both from the overall rate reduction and the manner in which the impacts were allocated between the business and corporate segments in the prior year, as discussed in the Corporate segment below.

BABY, FEMININE & FAMILY CARE

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Baby, Feminine & Family Care net sales decreased 2% to $17.8 billion in 2019 on a 1% increase in unit volume. Unfavorable foreign exchange impacts reduced net sales by 4%. Increased pricing had a positive 1% impact on net sales. Organic sales increased 2%. Global market share of the Baby, Feminine & Family Care segment increased 0.1 points. Volume increased low single digits in developed regions. Volume in developing regions decreased low single digits [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Net earnings in 2019 increased 21% to $2.7 billion due to a 290 basis-point increase in net earnings margin, partially offset by the reduction in net sales. Net earnings margin increased primarily due to a reduction in U.S. income tax rates and a decrease in SG&A as a percentage of net sales, partially offset by a marginal decrease in gross margin. The gross margin decrease was driven by an increase in commodity costs and unfavorable foreign exchange impacts partially offset by manufacturing cost savings and increased pricing. SG&A as a percentage of net sales decreased due to reduced marketing spending and overhead costs, driven by productivity savings and the impacts from adoption of the new accounting standard on "Revenue from Contracts with Customers". The reduction in the tax rate was due to the impacts of the U.S. Tax Act, both from the overall rate reduction and the manner in which the impacts were allocated between business and corporate segments in the prior year, as discussed in the Corporate segment below.

The Procter & Gamble Company 21

CORPORATE

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Corporate includes certain operating and non-operating activities not allocated to specific business segments. These include: the incidental businesses managed at the corporate level; financing and investing activities; certain employee benefit costs; other general corporate items; gains and losses related to certain divested brands and categories; certain asset impairment charges; and certain restructuring-type activities to maintain a competitive cost structure, including manufacturing and workforce optimization. Corporate also includes reconciling items to adjust the accounting policies used in the segments to U.S. GAAP. The most significant ongoing reconciling item is income taxes, to adjust from blended statutory rates that are reflected in the segments to the overall Company effective tax rate. For 2018, the tax impact also includes the impacts of the U.S. Tax Act, which were included in the corporate segment.

Corporate net sales decreased 3% to $484 million in 2019 due to a decrease in the incidental businesses managed at the corporate level. Corporate net loss increased by $7.8 billion in 2019 primarily due to the $8.0 billion after tax ($8.3 billion before tax) charge for the Shave Care impairment as well as the impact of the allocation methodology of the lower U.S. Tax rates. The U.S. Tax Act was enacted in the middle of fiscal 2018; therefore, the net benefit was held in Corporate. Beginning in fiscal 2019, the lower rates are included in the reporting segments. These impacts were partially offset by the following benefits, each of which was discussed earlier:

•the base period net charge for the transitional impacts of the U.S. Tax Act,

•the base period loss on early debt extinguishment,

•lower restructuring charges in fiscal 2019 compared to the prior year and

•higher current year divestiture gains (primarily driven by gain on the dissolution of the PGT healthcare partnership) 

Restructuring Program to deliver Productivity and Cost Savings

In 2012, the Company initiated a productivity and cost savings plan to reduce costs and better leverage scale in the areas of supply chain, research and development, marketing and overheads. The plan was designed to accelerate cost reductions by streamlining management decision making, manufacturing and other work processes to fund the Company's growth strategy. In 2017, the Company communicated specific elements of an additional multi-year productivity and cost savings program.

The current productivity and cost savings plan will further reduce costs in the areas of supply chain, certain marketing activities and overhead expenses. As part of this plan, the Company incurred approximately $1.8 billion in total before- tax restructuring costs across 2018 and 2019, with an additional 

amount of approximately $0.6 billion expected in 2020. This program is expected to result in additional enrollment reductions, along with further optimization of the supply chain and other manufacturing processes. Savings generated from restructuring costs are difficult to estimate, given the nature of the activities, the timing of the execution and the degree of reinvestment. However, we estimate that through 2019, the underlying restructuring costs incurred since 2012 (approximately $7.4 billion), along with other non-manufacturing enrollment reductions since 2012 have delivered approximately $3.6 billion in annual before-tax gross savings. 

Restructuring accruals of $468 million as of June 30, 2019 are classified as current liabilities. Approximately 67% of the restructuring charges incurred in fiscal 2019 either have been or will be settled with cash. Consistent with our historical policies for ongoing restructuring-type activities, the resulting charges are funded by and included within Corporate for segment reporting.

In addition to our restructuring programs, we have additional ongoing savings efforts in our supply chain, marketing and overhead areas that yield additional benefits to our operating margins.

Refer to Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more details on the restructuring program and to the Operating Costs section of the MD&A for more information about the total benefit to operating margins from our total savings efforts.

CASH FLOW, FINANCIAL CONDITION AND LIQUIDITY

We believe our financial condition continues to be of high quality, as evidenced by our ability to generate substantial cash from operations and to readily access capital markets at competitive rates.

Operating cash flow provides the primary source of cash to fund operating needs and capital expenditures. Excess operating cash is used first to fund shareholder dividends. Other discretionary uses include share repurchases and acquisitions to complement our portfolio of businesses, brands and geographies. As necessary, we may supplement operating cash flow with debt to fund these activities. The overall cash position of the Company reflects our strong business results and a global cash management strategy that takes into account liquidity management, economic factors and tax considerations.

Operating Cash Flow

Operating cash flow was $15.2 billion in 2019, a 3% increase from the prior year. Net earnings, adjusted for non-cash items (depreciation and amortization, share-based compensation, deferred income taxes, gain on sale of assets and goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible impairment charges) generated approximately $14.6 billion of operating cash flow. Working capital and other impacts generated $0.7 billion of operating cash flow as summarized below.

•An increase in accounts receivable used $276 million of cash due to increased sales and the timing of the end of the fiscal year (which fell on a weekend, resulting in fewer 

22 The Procter & Gamble Company

days collection). The number of days sales outstanding increased approximately one day versus prior year.

•Higher inventory used $239 million of cash mainly due to inventory increases to support initiatives and business growth across all segments. Inventory days on hand increased approximately 2 days primarily due to initiative support and foreign exchange impacts. 

•Accounts payable, accrued and other liabilities increased, generating $1.9 billion of cash. This was primarily driven by extended payment terms with our suppliers and an increase in fourth quarter marketing activity versus the prior year. These factors, along with foreign exchange, drove an approximate 8 day increase in days payable outstanding. Although difficult to project due to market and other dynamics, we anticipate incremental cash flow benefits from the extended payment terms with suppliers could decline in fiscal 2020.

•Other operating assets and liabilities used $1.0 billion of cash, primarily driven by the payment of the current year portion of taxes due related to the U.S. Tax Act repatriation charge and statutory pension contributions.

Adjusted Free Cash Flow. We view adjusted free cash flow as an important measure because it is a factor impacting the amount of cash available for dividends, share repurchases, acquisitions and other discretionary investment. It is defined as operating cash flow less capital expenditures and excluding payments for the transitional tax resulting from the U.S. Tax Act, and it is one of the measures used to evaluate senior management and determine their at-risk compensation. 

Adjusted free cash flow was $12.1 billion in 2019, an increase of 9% versus the prior year. The increase was primarily driven by the increase in operating cash flows as discussed above. Adjusted free cash flow productivity, defined as the ratio of adjusted free cash flow to net earnings, excluding the Shave Care impairment charges and the gain on dissolution of the PGT Healthcare partnership, was 105% in 2019. 

Investing Cash Flow

Net investing activities consumed $3.5 billion in cash in 2019, mainly due to capital spending and business acquisitions, partially offset by proceeds from sales and maturities of short-term investments. 

Capital Spending. Capital expenditures, primarily to support capacity expansion, innovation and cost efficiencies, were $3.3 billion in 2019, a decrease of 10% versus prior year. Capital spending as a percentage of net sales decreased 70 basis points to 4.9% in 2019. 

Acquisitions.  Acquisition activity used cash of $3.9 billion in 2019, primarily related to the Merck OTC acquisition. Acquisition activity used $109 million in 2018, primarily related to acquisitions in the Beauty segment. 

Proceeds from Divestitures and Other Asset Sales. Proceeds from asset sales were $394 million in 2019 primarily from minor brand divestitures and the sale of real estate. Proceeds from asset sales contributed $269 million in cash in 2018 primarily from minor brand divestitures. 

Short-term investments. Short-term investments generated net cash of $3.5 billion in 2019, primarily from sales and 

maturities of available-for-sale investments. Net cash flow from short-term investments was not material in 2018.

Financing Cash Flow

Net financing activities consumed $10.0 billion in cash in 2019, mainly due to dividends to shareholders and treasury stock purchases, partially offset by the impact of stock options. 

Dividend Payments. Our first discretionary use of cash is dividend payments. Dividends per common share increased 4% to $2.90 per share in 2019. Total dividend payments to common and preferred shareholders were $7.5 billion in 2019 and $7.3 billion in 2018. In April 2019, the Board of Directors declared an increase in our quarterly dividend from $0.7172 to $0.7459 per share on Common Stock and Series A and B ESOP Convertible Class A Preferred Stock. This represents a 4% increase compared to the prior quarterly dividend and is the 63rd consecutive year that our dividend has increased. We have paid a dividend for 129 consecutive years, every year since our incorporation in 1890.

Long-Term and Short-Term Debt. We maintain debt levels we consider appropriate after evaluating a number of factors, including cash flow expectations, cash requirements for ongoing operations, investment and financing plans (including acquisitions and share repurchase activities) and the overall cost of capital. Total debt was $30.1 billion as of June 30, 2019 and $31.3 billion as of June 30, 2018.

Treasury Purchases. Total share repurchases were $5.0 billion in 2019 and $7.0 billion in 2018. 

Liquidity

At June 30, 2019, our current liabilities exceeded current assets by $7.5 billion, largely due to short-term borrowings under our commercial paper program. We anticipate being able to support our short-term liquidity and operating needs largely through cash generated from operations. The Company regularly assesses its cash needs and the available sources to fund these needs. As of June 30, 2019, $5.7 billion of the Company’s cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities was related to foreign subsidiaries, primarily various Western European and Asian countries. Under current law, we do not expect restrictions or taxes on repatriation of cash held outside of the U.S. to have a material effect on our overall liquidity, financial condition or the results of operations for the foreseeable future. As of June 30, 2019, we did not have material cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities balances in any country subject to exchange controls that significantly restrict our ability to access or repatriate the funds.

We utilize short- and long-term debt to fund discretionary items, such as acquisitions and share repurchases. We have strong short- and long-term debt ratings, which have enabled, and should continue to enable, us to refinance our debt as it becomes due at favorable rates in commercial paper and bond markets. In addition, we have agreements with a diverse group of financial institutions that, if needed, should provide sufficient credit funding to meet short-term financing requirements.

On June 30, 2019, our short-term credit ratings were P-1 (Moody's) and A-1+ (Standard & Poor's), while our long-term 

The Procter & Gamble Company 23

credit ratings were Aa3 (Moody's) and AA- (Standard & Poor's), all with a stable outlook.

We maintain bank credit facilities to support our ongoing commercial paper program. The current facility is an $8.0 billion facility split between a $3.2 billion four-year facility and a $4.8 billion 364-day facility, which expire in November 2022 and November 2019, respectively. Both facilities can be extended for certain periods of time as specified in the terms of the credit agreement. These facilities are currently undrawn and we anticipate that they will remain undrawn. These credit facilities do not have cross-default or ratings triggers, nor do they have material adverse events clauses, except at the time 

of signing. In addition to these credit facilities, we have an automatically effective registration statement on Form S-3 filed with the SEC that is available for registered offerings of short- or long-term debt securities. For additional details on debt see Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Guarantees and Other Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

We do not have guarantees or other off-balance sheet financing arrangements, including variable interest entities, which we believe could have a material impact on our financial condition or liquidity.

Contractual Commitments

The following table provides information on the amount and payable date of our contractual commitments as of June 30, 2019.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Represents the U.S. federal tax liability associated with the repatriation provisions of the U.S. Tax Act. Does not include any provisions made for foreign withholding taxes on expected repatriations as the timing of those payments is uncertain.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(3) Represents future pension payments to comply with local funding requirements. These future pension payments assume the Company continues to meet its future statutory funding requirements. Considering the current economic environment in which the Company operates, the Company believes its cash flows are adequate to meet the future statutory funding requirements. The projected payments beyond fiscal year 2022 are not currently determinable.

(4) Primarily reflects future contractual payments under various take-or-pay arrangements entered into as part of the normal course of business. Commitments made under take-or-pay obligations represent minimum commitments under take-or-pay agreements with suppliers and are in line with expected usage. This includes service contracts for information technology, human resources management and facilities management activities that have been outsourced. While the amounts listed represent contractual obligations, we do not believe it is likely that the full contractual amount would be paid if the underlying contracts were canceled prior to maturity. In such cases, we generally are able to negotiate new contracts or cancellation penalties, resulting in a reduced payment. The amounts do not include other contractual purchase obligations that are not take-or-pay arrangements. Such contractual purchase obligations are primarily purchase orders at fair value that are part of normal operations and are reflected in historical operating cash flow trends. We do not believe such purchase obligations will adversely affect our liquidity position.

SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES

In preparing our financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP, there are certain accounting policies that may require a choice between acceptable accounting methods or may require substantial judgment or estimation in their application. These include revenue recognition, income taxes, certain employee benefits and goodwill and intangible assets. We believe these accounting policies, and others set forth in Note 

1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, should be reviewed as they are integral to understanding the results of operations and financial condition of the Company.

The Company has discussed the selection of significant accounting policies and the effect of estimates with the Audit Committee of the Company's Board of Directors.

Revenue Recognition

24 The Procter & Gamble Company

Our revenue is primarily generated from the sale of finished product to customers. Those sales predominantly contain a single performance obligation and revenue is recognized at a single point in time when ownership, risks and rewards transfer, which can be on the date of shipment or the date of receipt by the customer. Trade promotions, consisting primarily of customer pricing allowances, in-store merchandising funds, advertising and other promotional activities, and consumer coupons, are offered through various programs to customers and consumers. Sales are recorded net of trade promotion spending, which is recognized as incurred at the time of the sale. Amounts accrued for trade promotions at the end of a period require estimation, based on contractual terms, sales volumes and historical utilization and redemption rates. The actual amounts paid may be different from such estimates. These differences, which have historically not been significant, are recognized as a change in management estimate in a subsequent period. The Company adopted ASU 2014-09, “Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606)” on July 1, 2018. Adoption of this standard resulted in a change in the timing of recognition of certain trade promotional spending. See Note 1 to our Consolidated Financial Statements.

Income Taxes

Our annual tax rate is determined based on our income, statutory tax rates and the tax impacts of items treated differently for tax purposes than for financial reporting purposes. Also inherent in determining our annual tax rate are judgments and assumptions regarding the recoverability of certain deferred tax balances, primarily net operating loss and other carryforwards, and our ability to uphold certain tax positions.

Realization of net operating losses and other carryforwards is dependent upon generating sufficient taxable income in the appropriate jurisdiction prior to the expiration of the carryforward periods, which involves business plans, planning opportunities and expectations about future outcomes. Although realization is not assured, management believes it is more likely than not that our deferred tax assets, net of valuation allowances, will be realized.

We operate in multiple jurisdictions with complex tax policy and regulatory environments. In certain of these jurisdictions, we may take tax positions that management believes are supportable, but are potentially subject to successful challenge by the applicable taxing authority. These interpretational differences with the respective governmental taxing authorities can be impacted by the local economic and fiscal environment.

A core operating principle is that our tax structure is based on our business operating model, such that profits are earned in line with the business substance and functions of the various legal entities. However, because of the complexity of transfer pricing concepts, we may have income tax uncertainty related to the determination of intercompany transfer prices for our various cross-border transactions. We have obtained and continue to prioritize the strategy of seeking advance rulings with tax authorities to reduce this uncertainty. We estimate that our current portfolio of advance rulings reduces this uncertainty with respect to over 70% of our global earnings. We evaluate our tax positions and establish liabilities in 

accordance with the applicable accounting guidance on uncertainty in income taxes. We review these tax uncertainties in light of changing facts and circumstances, such as the progress of tax audits, and adjust them accordingly. We have a number of audits in process in various jurisdictions. Although the resolution of these tax positions is uncertain, based on currently available information, we believe that the ultimate outcomes will not have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows.

Because there are a number of estimates and assumptions inherent in calculating the various components of our tax provision, certain changes or future events such as changes in tax legislation, geographic mix of earnings, completion of tax audits or earnings repatriation plans could have an impact on those estimates and our effective tax rate. See Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional details on the Company's income taxes.

Employee Benefits

We sponsor various post-employment benefits throughout the world. These include pension plans, both defined contribution plans and defined benefit plans, and other post-employment benefit (OPEB) plans, consisting primarily of health care and life insurance for retirees. For accounting purposes, the defined benefit pension and OPEB plans require assumptions to estimate the projected and accumulated benefit obligations, including the following variables: discount rate; expected salary increases; certain employee-related factors, such as turnover, retirement age and mortality; expected return on assets; and health care cost trend rates. These and other assumptions affect the annual expense and obligations recognized for the underlying plans. Our assumptions reflect our historical experiences and management's best judgment regarding future expectations. As permitted by U.S. GAAP, the net amount by which actual results differ from our assumptions is deferred. If this net deferred amount exceeds 10% of the greater of plan assets or liabilities, a portion of the deferred amount is included in expense for the following year. The cost or benefit of plan changes, such as increasing or decreasing benefits for prior employee service (prior service cost), is deferred and included in expense on a straight-line basis over the average remaining service period of the employees expected to receive benefits.

The expected return on plan assets assumption impacts our defined benefit expense since many of our defined benefit pension plans and our primary OPEB plan are partially funded. The process for setting the expected rates of return is described in Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. For 2019, the average return on assets assumptions for pension plan assets and OPEB assets was 6.6% and 8.3%, respectively. A change in the rate of return of 100 basis points for both pension and OPEB assets would impact annual after-tax benefit expense by approximately $115 million.

Since pension and OPEB liabilities are measured on a discounted basis, the discount rate impacts our plan obligations and expenses. Discount rates used for our U.S. defined benefit pension and OPEB plans are based on a yield curve constructed from a portfolio of high quality bonds for which the timing and amount of cash outflows approximate the estimated payouts 

The Procter & Gamble Company 25

of the plan. For our international plans, the discount rates are set by benchmarking against investment grade corporate bonds rated AA or better. The average discount rate on the defined benefit pension plans of 1.9% represents a weighted average of local rates in countries where such plans exist. A 100 basis point change in the discount rate would impact annual after-tax benefit expense by approximately $200 million. The average discount rate on the OPEB plan of 3.7% reflects the higher interest rates generally applicable in the U.S., which is where a majority of the plan participants receive benefits. A 100 basis point change in the discount rate would impact annual after-tax OPEB expense by approximately $60 million. See Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statement for additional details on our defined benefit pension and OPEB plans.

Goodwill and Intangible Assets

Significant judgment is required to estimate the fair value of our goodwill reporting units and intangible assets. Accordingly, we typically obtain the assistance of third-party valuation specialists for significant goodwill reporting units and intangible assets. The fair value estimates are based on available historical information and on future expectations. We typically estimate the fair value of these assets using the income method, which is based on the present value of estimated future cash flows attributable to the respective assets. The valuations used to establish and to test goodwill and intangible assets for impairment are dependent on a number of significant estimates and assumptions, including macroeconomic conditions, overall category growth rates, competitive activities, cost containment and margin progression, Company business plans and the discount rate applied to cash flows.

Indefinite-lived intangible assets and goodwill are not amortized, but are tested at least annually for impairment. Our ongoing annual impairment testing for goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets occurs during the 3 months ended December 31. Assumptions used in our impairment evaluations, such as forecasted growth rates and cost of capital, are consistent with internal projections and operating plans. We believe these estimates and assumptions are reasonable and comparable to those that would be used by other marketplace participants. Unanticipated market or macroeconomic events and circumstances may occur, which could affect the accuracy or validity of the estimates and assumptions. For example, future changes in the judgments, assumptions and estimates that are used in our impairment testing for goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets, including discount and tax rates or future cash flow projections, could result in significantly different estimates of the fair values. In addition, changes to, or a failure to achieve business plans or deterioration of macroeconomic conditions could result in reduced cash flows or higher discount rates, leading to a lower valuation that would trigger an impairment of the goodwill and intangible assets of these businesses.

We test individual indefinite-lived intangible assets by comparing the book value of each asset to the estimated fair value. Our impairment testing for goodwill is performed separately from our impairment testing of indefinite-lived intangible assets. The test to evaluate goodwill for impairment is a two step process. In the first step (step one), we compare 

the fair value of the reporting unit to its carrying value. If the fair value of the reporting unit is less than its carrying value, we perform a second step (step two) to determine the implied fair value of the reporting unit's goodwill. The second step of the impairment analysis requires a valuation of a reporting unit's tangible and intangible assets and liabilities in a manner similar to the allocation of purchase price in a business combination. The difference between the step one fair value and the amounts allocated to the assets and liabilities in step two is the implied fair value of the reporting unit’s goodwill. 

If this implied fair value of the reporting unit's goodwill is less than its carrying value, that difference represents an impairment.

Determining the useful life of an intangible asset also requires judgment. Certain brand intangible assets are expected to have indefinite lives based on their history and our plans to continue to support and build the acquired brands. Other acquired intangible assets (e.g., certain brands, all customer relationships, patents and technologies) are expected to have determinable useful lives. Our assessment as to brands that have an indefinite life and those that have a determinable life is based on a number of factors including competitive environment, market share, brand history, underlying product life cycles, operating plans and the macroeconomic environment of the countries in which the brands are sold. Determinable-lived intangible assets are amortized to expense over their estimated lives. An impairment assessment for determinable-lived intangibles is only required when an event or change in circumstances indicates that the carrying amount of the asset may not be recoverable. 

Most of our goodwill reporting units are comprised of a combination of legacy and acquired businesses and as a result have fair value cushions that, at a minimum, exceed two times their underlying carrying values. Certain of our goodwill reporting units, in particular Shave Care and Appliances, are comprised entirely of acquired businesses and as a result have fair value cushions that are not as high. The Appliances wholly-acquired reporting unit has a fair value that significantly exceeds the underlying carrying value. As previously disclosed, the fair value of the Shave Care reporting unit and the related Gillette indefinite-lived intangible asset have been reduced during the recent year to amounts that approximated carrying value. The fair value reductions were due in large part to significant currency devaluations in a number of countries relative to the U.S. dollar, a deceleration of category growth caused by changing grooming habits, primarily in the developed markets, and an increased competitive market environment in the U.S. and certain other markets, which collectively have resulted in reduced cash flow projections. The business continued to be impacted by these factors during the quarter ended June 30, 2019, which reduced previous estimates of earnings for both fiscal 2019 and fiscal 2020. Because of this, we re-performed our step one impairment tests for these assets as of June 30, 2019 and determined that the fair values have been reduced below their respective carrying values. 

Therefore, we conducted a step two test of goodwill for the Shave Care reporting unit. Step two requires that we allocate the fair value of the reporting unit to identifiable assets and 

26 The Procter & Gamble Company

liabilities of the reporting unit, including previously amortized or unrecognized intangible assets. Any residual fair value after this allocation is compared to the goodwill balance and any excess goodwill is charged to expense. The step two test resulted in an implied fair value of the Shave Care goodwill that was below the carrying value. Therefore, we recognized a non-cash before and after-tax impairment charge of $6.8 billion. The resulting carrying value of the Shave Care goodwill is $12.6 billion as of June 30, 2019. As a result of the methodology used in the step two testing, the Shave Care fair value now exceeds the carrying value by approximately 20%. This is primarily due to higher estimated fair values for certain fixed assets and defined lived intangibles assets, both of which have been partially amortized subsequent to their initial acquisition, along with fair values assigned to intangible assets not eligible for recognition in the financial statements. 

The Gillette indefinite-lived intangible asset impairment charge was $1.6 billion ($1.2 billion after tax). This charge was equal to the difference between its estimated fair value (as calculated in step one) and its carrying value. The resulting carrying value of the Gillette indefinite-lived intangible asset is $14.1 billion as of June 30, 2019, which is equal to its estimated fair value. As a result, the Gillette indefinite-lived intangible asset is more susceptible to future impairment risk.

The Shave Care goodwill and Gillette indefinite-lived asset impairment charges are presented as a separate line item in the Consolidated Statements of Earnings. Irrespective of these impairment charges, the Shave Care business has consistently generated significant earnings and cash flow and will continue to be a strategic business for the Company, with attractive earnings, cash flow and growth opportunities. 

The most significant assumptions utilized in the determination of the estimated fair values of the Shave Care reporting unit and the Gillette indefinite-lived intangible asset are the net sales and earnings growth rates (including residual growth rates) and discount rate. The residual growth rate represents the expected rate at which the reporting unit and Gillette brand are expected to grow beyond the shorter-term business planning period and approximates expected long term category market growth rates. The net sales and earnings growth rates are dependent on overall market growth rates, the competitive environment, inflation, relative currency exchange rates, business activities that impact market share and input cost fluctuations. As a result, these growth rates could be adversely impacted by a sustained deceleration in category growth, grooming habit changes, an increased competitive environment, increases in input costs or devaluation of currencies against the U.S. dollar. Spot rates as of the fair value measurement date are utilized in our fair value estimates for cash flows outside the U.S. The discount rate, which is consistent with a weighted average cost of capital that is likely to be expected by a market participant, is based upon industry required rates of return, including consideration of both debt and equity components of the capital structure. Our discount rate may be impacted by adverse changes in the macroeconomic environment, volatility in the equity and debt markets or other country specific factors, such as further devaluation of currencies against the U.S. dollar. While management can and has implemented strategies to address 

these events, changes in operating plans or adverse changes in the future could reduce the underlying cash flows used to estimate fair values and could result in a decline in fair value that would trigger future impairment charges of the reporting unit's goodwill and indefinite-lived intangibles. 

The table below provides a sensitivity analysis for the Shave Care reporting unit and the Gillette indefinite-lived intangible asset, utilizing reasonably possible changes in the assumptions for the shorter term and residual growth rates and the discount rate, to demonstrate the potential impacts to the estimated fair values. The table below provides, in isolation, the estimated fair value impacts related to a 25 basis point increase to discount rate or a 25 basis point decrease to our shorter-term and residual growth rates, both of which would result in incremental impairment charges to the Gillette indefinite-lived intangible asset.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion on goodwill and intangible asset impairment testing results.

New Accounting Pronouncements

Refer to Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for recently adopted accounting pronouncements and recently issued accounting pronouncements not yet adopted as of June 30, 2019.

OTHER INFORMATION

Hedging and Derivative Financial Instruments

As a multinational company with diverse product offerings, we are exposed to market risks, such as changes in interest rates, currency exchange rates and commodity prices. We evaluate exposures on a centralized basis to take advantage of natural exposure correlation and netting. We leverage the Company's diversified portfolio of exposures as a natural hedge and prioritize operational hedging activities over financial market instruments. To the extent we choose to further manage volatility within our financing operations, as discussed below, we enter into various financial transactions which we account for using the applicable accounting guidance for derivative instruments and hedging activities. These financial transactions are governed by our policies covering acceptable counterparty exposure, instrument types and other hedging practices. See Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of our accounting policies for derivative instruments.

Derivative positions are monitored using techniques including market valuation, sensitivity analysis and value-at-risk modeling. The tests for interest rate, currency rate and commodity derivative positions discussed below are based on the RiskManager™ value-at-risk model using a one-year horizon and a 95% confidence level. The model incorporates 

The Procter & Gamble Company 27

the impact of correlation (the degree to which exposures move together over time) and diversification (from holding multiple currency, commodity and interest rate instruments) and assumes that financial returns are normally distributed. Estimates of volatility and correlations of market factors are drawn from the RiskMetrics™ dataset as of June 30, 2019. In cases where data is unavailable in RiskMetrics™, a reasonable proxy is included.

Our market risk exposures relative to interest rates, currency rates and commodity prices, as discussed below, have not changed materially versus the previous reporting period. In addition, we are not aware of any facts or circumstances that would significantly impact such exposures in the near term.

Interest Rate Exposure on Financial Instruments. Interest rate swaps are used to hedge exposures to interest rate movement on underlying debt obligations. Certain interest rate swaps denominated in foreign currencies are designated to hedge exposures to currency exchange rate movements on our investments in foreign operations. These currency interest rate swaps are designated as hedges of the Company's foreign net investments.

Based on our interest rate exposure as of and during the year ended June 30, 2019, including derivative and other instruments sensitive to interest rates, we believe a near-term change in interest rates, at a 95% confidence level based on historical interest rate movements, would not materially affect our financial statements.

Currency Rate Exposure on Financial Instruments. Because we manufacture and sell products and finance operations in a number of countries throughout the world, we are exposed to the impact on revenue and expenses of movements in currency exchange rates. Corporate policy prescribes the range of allowable hedging activity. To manage the exchange rate risk associated with the financing of our operations, we primarily use forward contracts and currency swaps with maturities of less than 18 months. 

Based on our currency rate exposure on derivative and other instruments as of and during the year ended June 30, 2019, we believe, at a 95% confidence level based on historical currency rate movements, the impact on such instruments of a near-term change in currency rates would not materially affect our financial statements.

Commodity Price Exposure on Financial Instruments. We use raw materials that are subject to price volatility caused by weather, supply conditions, political and economic variables and other unpredictable factors. We may use futures, options and swap contracts to manage the volatility related to the above exposures.

As of and during the years ended June 30, 2019 and June 30, 2018, we did not have any commodity hedging activity. 

Measures Not Defined By U.S. GAAP

In accordance with the SEC's Regulation S-K Item 10(e), the following provides definitions of the non-GAAP measures and the reconciliation to the most closely related GAAP measures. We believe that these measures provide useful perspective of underlying business trends (i.e. trends excluding non-recurring 

or unusual items) and results and provide a supplemental measure of year-on-year results. The non-GAAP measures described below are used by management in making operating decisions, allocating financial resources and for business strategy purposes. These measures may be useful to investors as they provide supplemental information about business performance and provide investors a view of our business results through the eyes of management. These measures are also used to evaluate senior management and are a factor in determining their at-risk compensation. These non-GAAP measures are not intended to be considered by the user in place of the related GAAP measure, but rather as supplemental information to our business results. These non-GAAP measures may not be the same as similar measures used by other companies due to possible differences in method and in the items or events being adjusted. These measures include:

Organic Sales Growth. Organic sales growth is a non-GAAP measure of sales growth excluding the impacts of the July 1, 2018 adoption of new accounting standards for "Revenue from Contracts with Customers", acquisitions, divestitures and foreign exchange from year-over-year comparisons. The impact of the adoption of the new accounting standard for Revenue from Contracts with Customers is driven by the prospective reclassification of certain customer spending from marketing (SG&A) expense to a reduction of net sales. We believe this measure provides investors with a supplemental understanding of underlying sales trends by providing sales growth on a consistent basis, and this measure is used in assessing achievement of management goals for at-risk compensation.

The following tables provide a numerical reconciliation of organic sales growth to reported net sales growth:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Acquisition & Divestiture Impact/Other includes the volume and mix impact of acquisitions and divestitures, the impact from the July 1, 2018 adoption of a new accounting standard for "Revenue from Contracts with Customers" and rounding impacts necessary to reconcile net sales to organic sales.

Adjusted Free Cash Flow. Adjusted free cash flow is defined as operating cash flow less capital spending and excluding certain tax payments related to the transitional tax resulting from the U.S. Tax Act (the Company incurred a transitional tax liability of approximately $3.8 billion from the U.S. Tax Act, which is payable over a period of 8 years). Adjusted free cash flow represents the cash that the Company is able to generate 

28 The Procter & Gamble Company

after taking into account planned maintenance and asset expansion. We view adjusted free cash flow as an important measure because it is one factor used in determining the amount of cash available for dividends, share repurchases, acquisitions and other discretionary investments.

The following table provides a numerical reconciliation of adjusted free cash flow ($ millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Adjustments to Operating Cash Flow relate to tax payments for the transitional tax resulting from the U.S. Tax Act.

Adjusted Free Cash Flow Productivity. Adjusted free cash flow productivity is defined as the ratio of adjusted free cash flow to net earnings excluding 1) the fiscal 2019 Shave Care impairment and 2) the fiscal 2019 gain on dissolution of the 

PGT Healthcare partnership. We view adjusted free cash flow productivity as a useful measure to help investors understand P&G’s ability to generate cash. Adjusted free cash flow productivity is used by management in making operating decisions, in allocating financial resources and for budget planning purposes. This measure is used in assessing the achievement of management goals for at-risk compensation. The Company's long-term target is to generate annual adjusted free cash flow productivity at or above 90 percent.

The following table provides a numerical reconciliation of adjusted free cash flow productivity ($ millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Adjustments to Net Earnings relate to the Shave Care impairment charges and the gain on the dissolution of the PGT Healthcare partnership in fiscal 2019.

Core EPS. Core EPS is a measure of the Company's diluted net earnings per share from continuing operations adjusted as indicated. Management views this non-GAAP measure as a useful supplemental measure of Company performance over time. Core EPS is also used in assessing the achievement of management goals for at-risk compensation. The table below provides a reconciliation of diluted net earnings per share to Core EPS, including the following reconciling items:

•Incremental Restructuring: The Company has had and continues to have an ongoing level of restructuring activities. Such activities have resulted in ongoing annual restructuring related charges of approximately $250 - $500 million before tax. In 2012, the Company began a $10 billion strategic productivity and cost savings initiative that includes incremental restructuring activities. In 2017, we communicated details of an additional multi-year productivity and cost savings plan. This results in incremental restructuring charges to accelerate productivity efforts and cost savings. The adjustment to Core earnings includes only the restructuring costs above what we believe are the normal recurring level of restructuring costs.  

•Gain on Dissolution of the PGT Healthcare Partnership: The Company dissolved our PGT Healthcare partnership, a venture between the Company and Teva Pharmaceuticals Industries, Ltd (Teva) in the OTC consumer healthcare business, during the year ended June 30, 2019. The transaction was accounted for as a sale of the Teva portion of the PGT business; the Company recognized an after-tax gain on the dissolution of $353 million. 

•Transitional Impacts of the U.S. Tax Act: As discussed in Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, the U.S. government enacted comprehensive tax legislation commonly referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the “U.S. Tax Act”) in December 2017. This resulted in a net charge of $602 million for the fiscal year 2018. The adjustment to core earnings only includes this transitional impact. It does not include the ongoing impacts of the lower U.S. statutory rate on pre-tax earnings. 

•Early debt extinguishment charges: In fiscal 2018, the Company recorded after-tax charges of $243 million, due to the early extinguishment of certain long-term debt. These charges represent the difference between the reacquisition price and the par value of the debt extinguished. 

•Shave Care Impairment: As discussed in Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements and in the Significant Accounting Policies and Estimates section of the MD&A, in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2019, the Company recognized a one-time, non-cash after-tax charge of $8.0 billion ($8.3 billion before tax) to adjust the carrying values of the Shave Care reporting unit. This was comprised of a before and after-tax impairment charge of $6.8 billion related to goodwill and an after-tax impairment charge of $1.2 billion ($1.6 billion before tax) to reduce the carrying value of the Gillette indefinite-lived intangible assets.  

•Anti-Dilutive Impacts: As discussed in Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, the Shave Care impairment charges caused preferred shares that are normally dilutive (and hence, normally assumed converted for purposes of determining diluted earnings per share) to be anti-dilutive. Accordingly for U.S. GAAP, the preferred shares were not assumed to be converted into common shares for diluted earnings per share and the related dividends paid to the preferred shareholders were deducted from net income to calculate earnings available to common shareholders. As a result of the non-GAAP Shave Care impairment adjustment, these instruments are dilutive for non-GAAP core earnings per share. 

We do not view the above items to be indicative of underlying business results and their exclusion from Core earnings measures provides a more comparable measure of year-on-year results. These items are also excluded when evaluating senior management in determining their at-risk compensation.

The Procter & Gamble Company 29

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) The reduction in net earnings from current period charge for the Shave Care impairment caused the preferred shares outstanding to be anti-dilutive. Accordingly, for U.S. GAAP, the preferred shares were not assumed to be converted into common shares for diluted earnings per share and the related dividends paid to the preferred shareholders were deducted from net income to calculate earnings available to common shareholders. Excluding the impairment charge results in higher non-GAAP earnings which causes the preferred shares to be dilutive. The adjustments in this row are made to reflect the dilutive preferred share impact resulting from the Shave Care impairment adjustment.

 CHANGE VERSUS YEAR AGO  

 CORE EPS7% 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

* Diluted net earnings per share are calculated on Net earnings attributable to Procter & Gamble.

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.