Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Results of Operations

Non-GAAP Measures

The following discussion includes organic sales, total segment operating earnings and margin, Adjusted Income, Adjusted EPS, Adjusted Effective Tax Rate and free cash flow, which are non-GAAP measures. See Supplemental Sales Information for a reconciliation of reported sales to organic sales and a discussion of why we believe this non-GAAP measure is useful to investors. See Results of Operations for a reconciliation of income before income taxes to total segment operating earnings and margin and a discussion of why we believe these non-GAAP measures are useful to investors. See Results of Operations for a reconciliation of income from continuing operations, diluted EPS from continuing operations and effective tax rate to Adjusted Income, Adjusted EPS and Adjusted Effective Tax Rate, respectively, and a discussion of why we believe these non-GAAP measures are useful to investors. See Financial Condition for a reconciliation of cash flows from operating activities to free cash flow and a discussion of why we believe this non-GAAP measure is useful to investors.

Overview

Rockwell Automation, Inc. is a global leader in industrial automation and digital transformation. We connect the imaginations of people with the potential of technology to expand what is humanly possible, making the world more productive and more sustainable. Overall demand for our hardware and software products, solutions and services is driven by: 

•investments in manufacturing, including upgrades, modifications and expansions of existing facilities or production lines and new facilities or production lines;

•investments in basic materials production capacity, which may be related to commodity pricing levels;

•our customers’ needs for faster time to market, operational productivity, asset management and reliability, and enterprise risk management;

•our customers’ needs to continuously improve quality, safety and sustainability;

•industry factors that include our customers’ new product introductions, demand for our customers’ products or services and the regulatory and competitive environments in which our customers operate;

•levels of global industrial production and capacity utilization;

•regional factors that include local political, social, regulatory and economic circumstances; and

•the spending patterns of our customers due to their annual budgeting processes and their working schedules.

Long-term Strategy

Our strategy is to bring The Connected Enterprise to life by integrating control and information across the enterprise. We deliver customer outcomes by combining advanced industrial automation with the latest information technology. Our growth and performance strategy seeks to:

•achieve organic sales growth in excess of the automation market by expanding our served market and strengthening our competitive differentiation;

•grow market share of our core platforms;

•drive double digit growth in information solutions and connected services; 

•acquire companies that serve as catalysts to organic growth by increasing our information solutions and high-value services offerings and capabilities, expanding our global presence, or enhancing our process expertise;

•enhance our market access by building our channel capability and partner network;

•deploy human and financial resources to strengthen our technology leadership and our intellectual capital business model;

•continuously improve quality and customer experience; and

•drive annual cost productivity.

By implementing the above strategy, we seek to achieve our long-term financial goals, including above-market organic sales growth, EPS growth above sales growth, return on invested capital in excess of 20 percent and free cash flow equal to about 100 percent of Adjusted Income. We expect acquisitions to add a percentage point or more per year to long-term sales growth.

17
Our customers face the challenge of remaining globally cost competitive and automation can help them achieve their productivity and sustainability objectives. Our value proposition is to help our customers reduce time to market, lower total cost of ownership, improve asset utilization and manage enterprise risks.

Differentiation through Technology Innovation and Domain Expertise

Our integrated control and information architecture, with Logix at its core, is an important differentiator. We are the only automation provider that can support discrete, process, batch, safety, motion and power control on the same hardware platform with the same software programming environment. Our integrated architecture is scalable with standard open communications protocols making it easier for customers to implement it more cost effectively. Our information software portfolio, combined with the software made available as a result of our strategic alliance with PTC, is the most comprehensive and flexible information platform in the industry. Through the combination of this technology and our domain expertise we help customers to achieve additional productivity benefits, such as reduced unplanned downtime, improved energy efficiency, higher quality and increased throughput yield.

Intelligent motor control is one of our core competencies and an important aspect of an automation system. These hardware and software products and solutions enhance the availability, efficiency and safe operation of our customers’ critical and most energy-intensive plant assets. Our intelligent motor control offering can be integrated seamlessly with the Logix architecture. 

Domain expertise refers to the industry and application knowledge required to deliver solutions and services that support customers through the entire life cycle of their automation investment. The combination of industry-specific domain expertise of our people with our innovative technologies enables us to help our customers solve their manufacturing and business challenges. 

Global Expansion

As the manufacturing world continues to expand, we must be able to meet our customers’ needs around the world. Approximately 60 percent of our employees and 46 percent of our sales are outside the U.S. We continue to expand our footprint in emerging markets.

As we expand in markets with considerable growth potential and shift our global footprint, we expect to continue to broaden the portfolio of hardware and software products, solutions and services that we provide to our customers in these regions. We have made significant investments to globalize our manufacturing, product development and customer-facing resources in order to be closer to our customers throughout the world. The emerging markets of Asia Pacific, including China and India, Latin America, Central and Eastern Europe and Africa are projected to be the fastest growing over the long term, due to higher levels of infrastructure investment and the growing middle-class population. We believe that increased demand for consumer products in these markets will lead to manufacturing investment and provide us with additional growth opportunities in the future.

Enhanced Market Access

Over the past decade, our investments in technology and globalization have enabled us to expand our addressed market to over $90 billion. Our process initiative has been the most important contributor to this expansion and remains our largest growth opportunity. i

Original Equipment Manufacturers (OEMs) represent another area of addressed market expansion and an important growth opportunity. To remain competitive, OEMs need to find the optimal balance of machine cost and performance while reducing their time to market. Our scalable integrated architecture and intelligent motor control offerings, along with design productivity tools and our motion and safety products, can assist OEMs in addressing these business needs.

We have developed a powerful network of channel partners, technology partners and commercial partners that act as amplifiers to our internal capabilities and enable us to serve our customers’ needs around the world.

Broad Range of Industries Served

We apply our knowledge of manufacturing applications to help customers solve their business challenges. We serve customers in a wide range of industries, which we group into three broad categories: discrete, hybrid, and process.

18
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Outsourcing and Sustainability Trends

Demand for our hardware and software products, solutions and services across all industries benefits from the outsourcing and sustainability needs of our customers. Customers increasingly desire to outsource engineering services to achieve a more flexible cost base. Our manufacturing application knowledge enables us to serve these customers globally.

We help our customers meet their sustainability needs pertaining to energy efficiency, environmental and safety goals. Customers across all industries are investing in more energy-efficient manufacturing processes and technologies, such as intelligent motor control, and energy-efficient solutions and services. In addition, environmental and safety objectives often spur customers to invest to ensure compliance and implement sustainable business practices.

Acquisitions and Investments

Our acquisition and investment strategy focuses on hardware and software products, solutions and services that will be catalytic to the organic growth of our core offerings.

In January 2019, we acquired Emulate3D, an innovative engineering software developer whose products digitally simulate and emulate industrial automation systems. This acquisition enables our customers to virtually test machine and system designs before incurring manufacturing and automation costs and committing to a final design. 

In 2018, we made several investments, including in shares of PTC common stock (the “PTC Shares”). PTC is the leader in the Industrial Internet of Things and augmented reality. Our investment in and alliance with PTC is accelerating growth for both companies and enabling us to be the partner of choice for customers around the world who want to transform their physical operations with digital technology. The result will be an unmatched integrated information solution that will enable customers to achieve increased productivity, heightened plant efficiency, reduced operational risk and better system interoperability.

In November 2017, we acquired Odos Imaging Limited, a Scottish technology company that provides three-dimensional, time-of-flight sensing systems for industrial imaging applications. This acquisition enables us to expand our existing capabilities by bringing 3-D time-of-flight sensor technology to industrial applications. 

We believe these acquisitions and investments will help us expand our served market and deliver value to our customers.

Continuous Improvement

Productivity and continuous improvement are important components of our culture. We have programs in place that drive ongoing process improvement, functional streamlining, material cost savings and manufacturing productivity. These are intended to improve profitability that can be used to fund investments in growth and to offset inflation. Our ongoing productivity initiatives target both cost reduction and improved asset utilization. Charges for workforce reductions and facility rationalization may be required in order to effectively execute our productivity programs.

19
U. S. Industrial Economic Trends

In 2019, sales in the U.S. accounted for approximately 54 percent of our total sales. The various indicators we use to gauge the direction and momentum of our served U.S. markets include:

•The Industrial Production (IP) Index, published by the Federal Reserve, which measures the real output of manufacturing, mining, and electric and gas utilities. The IP Index is expressed as a percentage of real output in a base year, currently 2012. Historically there has been a meaningful correlation between the changes in the IP Index and the level of automation investment made by our U.S. customers in their manufacturing base.

•The Manufacturing Purchasing Managers’ Index (PMI), published by the Institute for Supply Management (ISM), which indicates the current and near-term state of manufacturing activity in the U.S. According to the ISM, a PMI measure above 50 indicates that the U.S. manufacturing economy is generally expanding while a measure below 50 indicates that it is generally contracting.

The table below depicts the trends in these indicators from fiscal 2017 to 2019. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2019, the IP Index improved slightly compared to the prior quarter and the same quarter in the prior year. PMI is now below 50 and decreased compared to the prior quarter and the same quarter in the prior year.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Note: Economic indicators are subject to revisions by the issuing organizations.

20
Non-U.S. Economic Trends

In 2019, sales outside the U.S. accounted for approximately 46 percent of our total sales. These customers include both indigenous companies and multinational companies with expanding global presence. In addition to the global factors previously mentioned in the “Overview” section, international demand, particularly in emerging markets, has historically been driven by the strength of the industrial economy in each region, investments in infrastructure and expanding consumer markets. We use changes in the respective countries’ gross domestic product and IP as indicators of the growth opportunities in each region where we do business. 

Macroeconomic indicators have slowed during 2019 and are projected to slow further in 2020, particularly in IP and gross domestic product growth rates. The economic outlook for Europe and China has softened further amid slowing global growth, trade tension with the U.S., and continued Brexit uncertainty. Overall Latin America IP is expected to increase.

21
Summary of Results of Operations

In 2019, sales were $6,694.8 million, an increase of 0.4 percent year over year. Organic sales increased 2.8 percent. Currency translation decreased sales by 2.4 percentage points. Organic sales growth was broad-based across regions and was led by strength in process end markets. 

The following is a summary of our results related to key growth initiatives:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

22
The following table reflects our sales and operating results (in millions, except per share amounts):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) See Note 17 in the Consolidated Financial Statements for the definition of segment operating earnings. Effective October 1, 2018, we realigned our reportable segments for a transfer of business activities between our segments. We also reclassified interest income from General corporate - net to Interest (expense) income - net. As a result, the prior period presentation of reportable segments has been restated to conform to the current segment reporting structure.

(2) Total segment operating earnings and total segment operating margin are non-GAAP financial measures. We exclude purchase accounting depreciation and amortization, general corporate – net, non-operating pension and postretirement benefit credit (cost), costs related to the unsolicited Emerson proposals in the first quarter of fiscal 2018, gains and losses on investments, valuation adjustments related to the registration of PTC Shares, gains and losses from the disposition of businesses, interest (expense) income - net and income tax provision because we do not consider these costs to be directly related to the operating performance of our segments. We believe that these measures are useful to investors as measures of operating performance. We use these measures to monitor and evaluate the profitability of our operating segments. Our measures of total segment operating earnings and total segment operating margin may be different from measures used by other companies. 

(3) During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2017, we sold a product distribution business within our Control Products & Solutions segment. This business held no intellectual property and included products sold outside of our core channel and under different brands. We sold this business for approximately $94 million and recorded a pre-tax gain of $60.8 million, which is included within Other income (expense) in the Consolidated Statement of Operations. 

(4) During fiscal 2018, we recorded charges of $538.3 million associated with the enactment of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (the “Tax Act”). Refer to Note 15 in the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information.

23
(5) Adjusted EPS is a non-GAAP earnings measure that excludes non-operating pension and postretirement benefit cost (credit), costs related to the unsolicited Emerson proposals in the first quarter of fiscal 2018, gains and losses on investments, and valuation adjustments related to the registration of PTC Shares, including their respective tax effects and the charges associated with the enactment of the Tax Act in fiscal 2018. See Adjusted Income, Adjusted EPS and Adjusted Effective Tax Rate Reconciliation for more information on this non-GAAP measure.

Purchase accounting depreciation and amortization and non-operating pension and postretirement benefit (credit) cost are not allocated to our operating segments because these costs are excluded from our measurement of each segment’s operating performance for internal purposes. If we were to allocate these costs, we would attribute them to each of our segments as follows (in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Adjusted Income, Adjusted EPS and Adjusted Effective Tax Rate Reconciliation

Adjusted Income, Adjusted EPS and Adjusted Effective Tax Rate are non-GAAP earnings measures that exclude non-operating pension and postretirement benefit (credit) cost, costs related to the unsolicited Emerson proposals in the first quarter of fiscal 2018, gains and losses on investments, and valuation adjustments related to the registration of PTC Shares, including their respective tax effects, and the adjustments related to the Tax Act in fiscal 2018.

We believe that Adjusted Income, Adjusted EPS and Adjusted Effective Tax Rate provide useful information to our investors about our operating performance and allow management and investors to compare our operating performance period over period. Adjusted EPS is also used as a financial measure of performance for our annual incentive compensation. Our measures of Adjusted Income, Adjusted EPS and Adjusted Effective Tax Rate may be different from measures used by other companies. These non-GAAP measures should not be considered a substitute for income from continuing operations, diluted EPS and effective tax rate.

We have adopted ASU 2017-07, which defines operating and non-operating pension and postretirement benefit cost. Under this new standard, only the service cost component of pension and postretirement benefit cost is an operating cost. All other components of pension and postretirement benefit cost are considered to be non-operating costs. These components of net periodic pension and postretirement benefit cost primarily relate to changes in pension assets and liabilities that are the result of market performance; we consider these and other excluded costs to be unrelated to the operating performance of our business. 

The following are the components of operating and non-operating pension and postretirement benefit cost (in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

24
The following are reconciliations of net income, diluted EPS from net income and effective tax rate to Adjusted Income, Adjusted EPS and Adjusted Effective Tax Rate, respectively (in millions, except per share amounts and percentages):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

1Includes loss (gain) on investments and valuation adjustments related to the registration of PTC Shares.

2During fiscal year 2019, the Company completed its analysis of the impact of the Tax Act with no change to the provisional amounts recorded in fiscal year 2018. See Note 15 in the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information.  

25
2019 Compared to 2018 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Sales

Sales in fiscal 2019 increased 0.4 percent compared to 2018. Organic sales increased 2.8 percent. Currency translation decreased sales by 2.4 percentage points. Including price increases relating to tariffs, pricing contributed less than two percentage points to growth.

The table below presents our sales, attributed to the geographic regions based upon country of destination, for the year ended September 30, 2019 and the percentage change from the same period a year ago:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Organic sales are sales excluding the effect of changes in currency exchange rates, acquisitions and divestitures. See Supplemental Sales Information for information on this non-GAAP measure.

•Sales in North America increased year over year, led by strength in process end markets, specifically Oil & Gas, and Pulp & Paper.

•EMEA sales decreased year over year, primarily as a result of currency translation. Organic sales increased, led by strength in hybrid and process end markets, specifically Life Sciences and Tire. 

•Asia Pacific sales decreased year over year, primarily as a result of currency translation. Organic sales increased, led by strength in process end markets, specifically in Oil & Gas, Mass Transit, and Water / Wastewater, partially offset by weakness in Semiconductor. 

•Sales in Latin America increased year over year, led by process end markets, including Mining and Oil & Gas.

General Corporate - Net 

General corporate - net expenses were $108.8 million in fiscal 2019 compared to $100.0 million in fiscal 2018.

Income before Income Taxes

Income before income taxes decreased 32 percent from $1,330.8 million in 2018 to $901.0 million in 2019, primarily due to gains and losses on investments and valuation adjustments related to the registration of PTC Shares (“PTC adjustments”). Total segment operating earnings increased 2 percent year over year from $1,441.8 million in 2018 to $1,473.6 million in 2019.

26
Income Taxes

The effective tax rate in 2019 was 22.8 percent compared to 59.8 percent in 2018. The decrease in the effective tax rate was primarily due to the prior year impact of tax expense related to the transition tax on the deemed repatriation of foreign earnings ($395.8 million or 29.8 percent), withholding taxes on previously taxed foreign earnings ($38.1 million or 2.8 percent), the revaluation of net deferred tax assets resulting from the Tax Act ($104.4 million or 7.9 percent), and the impact of the lower U.S. statutory tax rate under the Tax Act.

The Adjusted Effective Tax Rate in 2019 was 17.9 percent compared to 19.3 percent in 2018. The decrease in the Adjusted Effective Tax Rate was primarily due to the lower U.S. statutory tax rate under the Tax Act.

See Note 15 in the Consolidated Financial Statements for a complete reconciliation of the United States statutory tax rate to the effective tax rate and more information on tax events in 2019 and 2018 affecting each year’s respective tax rates.

Architecture & Software

The Architecture & Software operating segment contains a comprehensive portfolio of automation and information platforms, including hardware and software. This integrated portfolio is capable of controlling our customers’ industrial processes and manufacturing, as well as providing connections to enterprise business systems. 

Our automation platform is multi-discipline and scalable with the ability to handle applications in discrete, batch/hybrid and continuous process, drives control, motion control, machine safety and process safety. Our products include programmable automation controllers, design, visualization and simulation software, human machine interface products, networking products, industrial computers, sensing devices, machine safety devices, motion control products, and independent cart technology products. 

Our information platform includes manufacturing execution system software and analytics software that enables customers to improve operational productivity and meet regulatory requirements. This platform enables enterprise visibility, reduction of unplanned downtime, and optimization of processes.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Sales

Architecture & Software sales decreased 0.9 percent in 2019 compared to 2018. Organic sales increased 1.5 percent, the effects of currency translation decreased sales by 2.5 percentage points, and the current year acquisition increased sales by 0.1 percentage points. All regions experienced reported sales declines, except for Asia Pacific. Organic sales growth was led by Asia Pacific and EMEA. Logix reported sales decreased 2 percent in 2019 compared to 2018. Logix organic sales increased 1 percent, and the effects of currency translation decreased sales by 3 percentage points.

Operating Margin

Architecture & Software segment operating earnings decreased 3 percent. Operating margin was 28.9 percent in 2019 compared to 29.4 percent in 2018. 

27
Control Products & Solutions

The Control Products & Solutions operating segment combines a comprehensive portfolio of intelligent motor control and industrial control products, value-added solutions and a complete portfolio of professionally delivered lifecycle services. This comprehensive portfolio includes:

•Low and medium voltage electro-mechanical and electronic motor starters and AC/DC variable frequency drives, motor control and circuit protection devices, operator devices, signaling devices, termination and protection devices, relays and timers and electrical control accessories.

•Value-added solutions ranging from pre-configured line to load power solutions, packaged drives, motor control centers, intelligent packaged power and engineered to order automation equipment solutions. 

•Professional lifecycle services combine technology and domain expertise to help maximize customers’ automation investment and provide total lifecycle support as they design, build, sustain and optimize their automation investments. This broad portfolio includes safety, security and digital transformation consulting, global automation and information project delivery capabilities, plant network, cloud, and cybersecurity services, asset management and predictive analytics, and remote, on-site and managed support services. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Sales

Control Products & Solutions sales increased 1.6 percent in 2019 compared to 2018. Organic sales increased 3.8 percent, and the effects of currency translation decreased sales by 2.2 percentage points. Control Products & Solutions experienced reported and organic sales growth, led by North America and Latin America.

Product sales decreased 1 percent year over year. Product organic sales increased 1 percent, and currency translation decreased sales by approximately 2 percentage points. 

Sales in our solutions and services businesses increased approximately 3 percent year over year. Organic sales in our solutions and services businesses increased 6 percent during 2019, and currency translation decreased sales by approximately 3 percentage points.

Operating Margin

Control Products & Solutions segment operating earnings increased 10 percent year over year. Segment operating margin was 16.3 percent in 2019 compared to 15.0 percent a year ago, primarily due to higher sales.

2018 Compared to 2017 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Sales

Sales in fiscal 2018 increased 5.6 percent compared to 2017. Organic sales increased 5.5 percent. Currency translation increased sales by 1.4 percentage points, and the 2017 divestiture reduced sales by 1.3 percentage points. Pricing contributed about half of one percentage point to growth.

28
The table below presents our sales, attributed to the geographic regions based upon country of destination, for the year ended September 30, 2018 and the percentage change from the same period a year ago:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Organic sales are sales excluding the effect of changes in currency exchange rates, acquisitions and divestitures. See Supplemental Sales Information for information on this non-GAAP measure.

•Sales in North America increased year over year, led by strength in heavy industries.

•EMEA sales increased year over year, led by consumer industries.

•Asia Pacific sales increased year over year, led by heavy industries. 

•Sales in Latin America increased year over year, led by the food and beverage and mining industries. 

General Corporate - Net 

General corporate - net expenses were $100.0 million in fiscal 2018 compared to $95.9 million in fiscal 2017.

Income before Income Taxes

Income before income taxes increased 28 percent from $1,037.4 million in 2017 to $1,330.8 million in 2018, primarily due to PTC adjustments, higher sales, and lower restructuring charges, partially offset by the absence of the gain on the 2017 divestiture. Total segment operating earnings increased 17 percent year over year from $1,228.1 million in 2017 to $1,441.8 million in 2018, primarily due to higher sales.

Income Taxes

On December 22, 2017, the Tax Act was enacted. The Tax Act significantly changed U.S. tax law by, among other things, lowering the statutory corporate income tax rate, implementing a modified territorial tax system, and imposing a one-time transition tax on accumulated earnings of foreign subsidiaries that were previously deferred from U.S. tax (“transition tax”). As a fiscal year taxpayer, certain provisions of the Tax Act impacted us in fiscal year 2018, including the change in the federal statutory rate and the transition tax, while other provisions were effective in fiscal year 2019, including the tax on global intangible low-tax income (“GILTI”) of foreign subsidiaries, the deduction of foreign derived intangible income (“FDII”), and the elimination of the domestic manufacturing deduction. 

The effective tax rate in 2018 was 59.8 percent compared to 20.4 percent in 2017. The increase in the effective tax rate was due to provisional expense related to the transition tax on deemed repatriation of foreign earnings ($395.8 million or 29.8 percent), withholding taxes on previously taxed foreign earnings ($38.1 million or 2.8 percent), and the revaluation of net deferred tax assets ($104.4 million or 7.9 percent). 

The Adjusted Effective Tax Rate in 2018 was 19.3 percent compared to 21.5 percent in 2017. The decrease in the Adjusted Effective Tax Rate was primarily due to the lower U.S. statutory tax rate under the Tax Act partially offset by lower discrete tax items in 2018. 

See Note 15 in the Consolidated Financial Statements for a complete reconciliation of the United States statutory tax rate to the effective tax rate and more information on tax events in 2018 and 2017 affecting each year’s respective tax rates.

29
Architecture & Software

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Sales

Architecture & Software sales increased 6.7 percent in 2018 compared to 2017. Organic sales increased 5.1 percent, the effects of currency translation increased sales by 1.6 percentage points. All regions experienced reported and organic sales growth. The United States was the strongest performing region. Logix reported sales increased 8 percent in 2018 compared to 2017. Logix organic sales increased 7 percent, and the effects of currency translation increased sales by 1 percentage point. 

Operating Margin

Architecture & Software segment operating earnings increased 15 percent. Operating margin was 29.4 percent in 2018 compared to 27.3 percent in 2017, primarily due to higher sales. 

Control Products & Solutions

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Sales

Control Products & Solutions sales increased 4.7 percent in 2018 compared to 2017. Organic sales increased 5.8 percent, the effect of currency translation increased sales by 1.3 percentage points, and the 2017 divestiture reduced sales by 2.4 percentage points. All regions experienced reported and organic sales growth, except for EMEA. The United States was the strongest performing region.

Product sales decreased 2 percent year over year. Product organic sales increased 2 percent, currency translation increased sales by approximately 1 percentage point, and the 2017 divestiture reduced sales by approximately 5 percentage points.

Sales in our solutions and services businesses increased approximately 10 percent year over year. Organic sales in our solutions and services businesses increased 9 percent during 2018, and currency translation contributed 1 percentage point to sales growth. 

Operating Margin

Control Products & Solutions segment operating earnings increased 21 percent year over year. Segment operating margin was 15.0 percent in 2018 compared to 13.0 percent in 2017, primarily due to higher sales. 

30
Financial Condition

The following is a summary of our cash flows from operating, investing and financing activities, as reflected in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows (in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The following table summarizes free cash flow, which is a non-GAAP financial measure (in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Our definition of free cash flow takes into consideration capital investments required to maintain our businesses’ operations and execute our strategy. Cash provided by continuing operating activities adds back non-cash depreciation expense to earnings but does not reflect a charge for necessary capital expenditures. Our definition of free cash flow excludes the operating cash flows and capital expenditures related to our discontinued operations, if any. Operating, investing and financing cash flows of our discontinued operations, if any, are presented separately in our statement of cash flows. In our opinion, free cash flow provides useful information to investors regarding our ability to generate cash from business operations that is available for acquisitions and other investments, service of debt principal, dividends and share repurchases. We use free cash flow, as defined, as one measure to monitor and evaluate our performance, including as a financial measure for our annual incentive compensation. Our definition of free cash flow may differ from definitions used by other companies.

Cash provided by operating activities was $1,182.0 million for the year ended September 30, 2019, compared to $1,300.0 million for the year ended September 30, 2018. Free cash flow was $1,049.2 million for the year ended September 30, 2019, compared to $1,174.5 million for the year ended September 30, 2018. The year-over-year decreases in cash provided by operating activities and free cash flow were primarily due to an increase in working capital, a payment due to settlement of treasury locks, and higher tax payments, including a payment for taxes under the Tax Act related to deemed repatriation of foreign earnings.

We repurchased approximately 6.1 million shares of our common stock under our share repurchase program in 2019 at a total cost of $1.0 billion. In 2018, we repurchased approximately 8.3 million shares of our common stock under our share repurchase program at a total cost of $1.5 billion. At September 30, 2019, there were $9.3 million of outstanding common stock share repurchases recorded in accounts payable that did not settle until 2020. At September 30, 2018, there were $18.3 million of outstanding common stock share repurchases recorded in accounts payable that did not settle until 2019. Our decision to repurchase shares in 2020 will depend on business conditions, free cash flow generation, other cash requirements and stock price. On both September 6, 2018 and July 24, 2019, the Board of Directors authorized us to expend an additional $1.0 billion to repurchase shares of our common stock. At September 30, 2019, we had approximately $1,108.4 million remaining for share repurchases under our existing board authorizations. See Part II, Item 5. Market for the Company’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities, for additional information regarding share repurchases.

We expect future uses of cash to include working capital requirements, capital expenditures, additional contributions to our retirement plans, acquisitions of businesses and other inorganic investments, dividends to shareowners, repurchases of common stock and repayments of debt. We expect capital expenditures in 2020 to be about $160 million. We expect to fund future uses of cash with a combination of existing cash balances and short-term investments, cash generated by operating activities, commercial paper borrowings or a new issuance of debt or other securities.

31
At September 30, 2019, approximately half of our cash and cash equivalents were held by non-U.S. subsidiaries. As a result of the broad changes to the U.S. international tax system under the Tax Act, in fiscal year 2018 the Company began to account for substantially all of its non-U.S. subsidiaries as being immediately subject to tax, while still concluding that earnings are indefinitely reinvested for a limited number of subsidiaries. 

During fiscal 2019, we repatriated approximately $767.3 million to the U.S. from our foreign subsidiaries. The source of these funds was cash and cash equivalents and from the liquidation of short and long-term investments.

In addition to cash generated by operating activities, we have access to existing financing sources, including the public debt markets and unsecured credit facilities with various banks. 

In March 2019, we issued $1 billion aggregate principal amount of long-term notes in a registered public offering. The offering consisted of $425.0 million of 3.500% notes due in March 2029 (“2029 Notes”) and $575.0 million of 4.200% notes due in March 2049 (“2049 Notes”), both issued at a discount. Net proceeds to the Company from the debt offering were $987.6 million. We used these net proceeds primarily to repay our outstanding commercial paper, with the remaining proceeds used for general corporate purposes. 

Our short-term debt obligations are primarily comprised of commercial paper borrowings. There were no commercial paper borrowings outstanding as of September 30, 2019. Commercial paper borrowings were $550.0 million at September 30, 2018. The weighted average interest rate of the commercial paper outstanding was 2.27 percent at September 30, 2018.

On November 13, 2018, we replaced our former five-year $1.0 billion unsecured revolving credit facility with a new five-year $1.25 billion unsecured revolving credit facility expiring in November 2023. We can increase the aggregate amount of this credit facility by up to $750.0 million, subject to the consent of the banks in the credit facility. We did not incur early termination penalties in connection with the termination of the former credit facility. We did not borrow against either facility during the periods ended September 30, 2019 or 2018. Borrowings under the new credit facility bear interest based on short-term money market rates in effect during the period the borrowings are outstanding. This credit facility contains covenants under which we agree to maintain an EBITDA-to-interest ratio of at least 3.0 to 1.0. The EBITDA-to-interest ratio is defined in the credit facility as the ratio of consolidated EBITDA (as defined in the facility) for the preceding four quarters to consolidated interest expense for the same period. 

LIBOR is the basis for determining interest payments on borrowings under our $1.25 billion credit facility. In addition, we have outstanding interest rate swaps that contain a variable element based on LIBOR. Banks currently reporting information used to set LIBOR will stop doing so after 2021. Various parties, including government agencies, are seeking to identify an alternative rate to replace LIBOR. We are monitoring their efforts, and we will likely amend contracts to accommodate any replacement rate where it is not already provided. 

Separate short-term unsecured credit facilities of approximately $217.1 million at September 30, 2019 were available to non-U.S. subsidiaries. Borrowings under our non-U.S. credit facilities at September 30, 2019 and 2018 were not significant. We were in compliance with all covenants under our credit facilities at September 30, 2019 and 2018. There are no significant commitment fees or compensating balance requirements under our credit facilities. 

Among other uses, we can draw on our credit facility as a standby liquidity facility to repay our outstanding commercial paper as it matures. This access to funds to repay maturing commercial paper is an important factor in maintaining the short-term credit ratings set forth in the table below. Under our current policy with respect to these ratings, we expect to limit our other borrowings under our credit facility, if any, to amounts that would leave enough credit available under the facility so that we could borrow, if needed, to repay all of our then outstanding commercial paper as it matures.

The following is a summary of our credit ratings as of September 30, 2019:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

32
Our ability to access the commercial paper market, and the related costs of these borrowings, is affected by the strength of our credit ratings and market conditions. We have not experienced any difficulty in accessing the commercial paper market to date. If our access to the commercial paper market is adversely affected due to a change in market conditions or otherwise, we would expect to rely on a combination of available cash and our unsecured committed credit facility to provide short-term funding. In such event, the cost of borrowings under our unsecured committed credit facility could be higher than the cost of commercial paper borrowings.

We regularly monitor the third-party depository institutions that hold our cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments. We diversify our cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments among counterparties to minimize exposure to any one of these entities. In February 2017, we began investing in investment-grade fixed income securities, including corporate debt and government obligations, to provide further diversification. Refer to Note 9 in the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of these investments. Our emphasis is primarily on safety and liquidity of principal and secondarily on maximizing yield on those funds.

We use foreign currency forward exchange contracts to manage certain foreign currency risks. We enter into these contracts to hedge our exposure to foreign currency exchange rate variability in the expected future cash flows associated with certain third-party and intercompany transactions denominated in foreign currencies forecasted to occur within the next two years. We also use these contracts to hedge portions of our net investments in certain non-U.S. subsidiaries against the effect of exchange rate fluctuations on the translation of foreign currency balances to the U.S. dollar. In addition, we use foreign currency forward exchange contracts that are not designated as hedges to offset transaction gains or losses associated with some of our assets and liabilities resulting from intercompany loans or other transactions with third parties that are denominated in currencies other than our entities’ functional currencies. Our foreign currency forward exchange contracts are usually denominated in currencies of major industrial countries. We diversify our foreign currency forward exchange contracts among counterparties to minimize exposure to any one of these entities.

Cash dividends to shareowners were $459.8 million in 2019 ($3.88 per common share), $440.8 million in 2018 ($3.51 per common share) and $390.7 million in 2017 ($3.04 per common share). Our quarterly dividend rate as of September 30, 2019 is $0.97 per common share ($3.88 per common share annually), which is determined at the sole discretion of our Board of Directors.

A summary of our projected contractual cash obligations at September 30, 2019 is as follows (in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(b)Our postretirement benefit plans are unfunded and are subject to change. Amounts reported are estimates of future benefit payments, to the extent estimable.

33
(c)Amounts reported for pension funding contributions reflect current estimates of known commitments. Contributions to our pension plans beyond 2020 will depend on future investment performance of our pension plan assets, changes in discount rate assumptions and governmental regulations in effect at the time. Amounts subsequent to 2020 are excluded from the summary above, as we are unable to make a reasonably reliable estimate of these amounts. The minimum contribution for our U.S. pension plan as required by the Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA) is currently zero. We may make additional contributions to this plan at the discretion of management.

(d)This item includes contractual commitments for capital expenditures, certain materials purchases and long-term obligations under agreements with various service providers. Included in this amount is $250 million paid to Schlumberger in connection with the formation of Sensia on October 1, 2019. 

(e)Other long-term liabilities include environmental remediation costs, conditional asset retirement obligations and indemnification liabilities. Amounts subsequent to 2020 are excluded from the summary above, as we are unable to make a reasonably reliable estimate of when the liabilities will be paid.

(f)Under the Tax Act, the Company may elect to pay the transition tax interest-free over eight years, with 8% due in each of the first five years, 15% in year six, 20% in year seven, and 25% in year eight. 

(g)Amount for unrecognized tax benefits includes accrued interest and penalties. We are unable to make a reasonably reliable estimate of when the liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits will be settled or paid.

 Supplemental Sales Information

We translate sales of subsidiaries operating outside of the United States using exchange rates effective during the respective period. Therefore, changes in currency exchange rates affect our reported sales. Sales by acquired businesses also affect our reported sales. We believe that organic sales, defined as sales excluding the effects of changes in currency exchange rates and acquisitions, which is a non-GAAP financial measure, provides useful information to investors because it reflects regional and operating segment performance from the activities of our businesses without the effect of changes in currency exchange rates and acquisitions. We use organic sales as one measure to monitor and evaluate our regional and operating segment performance. We determine the effect of changes in currency exchange rates by translating the respective period’s sales using the same currency exchange rates that were in effect during the prior year. When we acquire businesses, we exclude sales in the current period for which there are no comparable sales in the prior period. When we divest a business, we exclude sales in the prior period for which there are no comparable sales in the current period. Organic sales growth is calculated by comparing organic sales to reported sales in the prior year, excluding divestitures. We attribute sales to the geographic regions based on the country of destination.

The following is a reconciliation of our reported sales by geographic region to organic sales (in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

34
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The following is a reconciliation of our reported sales by operating segment to organic sales (in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

35
Critical Accounting Estimates

We believe the following accounting estimates are the most critical to the understanding of our financial statements as they could have the most significant effect on our reported results and require subjective or complex judgments by management. Accounting principles generally accepted in the United States require us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements and revenues and expenses during the periods reported. These estimates are based on our best judgment about current and future conditions, but actual results could differ from those estimates. Refer to Note 1 in the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding our significant accounting policies.

Retirement Benefits — Pension

Pension costs and obligations are actuarially determined and are influenced by assumptions used to estimate these amounts, including the discount rate and the expected rate of return on plan assets. Changes in any of the assumptions and the amortization of differences between the assumptions and actual experience will affect the amount of pension expense in future periods.

Our global pension expense in 2019 was $72.0 million compared to $114.1 million in 2018. Approximately 76 percent of our 2019 global pension expense and global projected benefit obligation relates to our U.S. pension plan. The discount rate used to determine our 2019 U.S. pension expense was 4.35 percent, compared to 3.90 percent for 2018.

For 2020, our U.S. discount rate will decrease to 3.30 percent from 4.35 percent in 2019. The discount rate was set as of our September 30 measurement date and was determined by modeling a portfolio of bonds that match the expected cash flow of our benefit plans.

The changes in our discount rate has an inverse relationship with our net periodic benefit cost and projected benefit obligation. The following chart illustrates the estimated change in projected benefit obligation and annual net periodic benefit cost assuming a change of 25 basis points in the discount rate for our U.S. pension plans (in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Change includes both operating and non-operating pension costs.

More information regarding pension benefits is contained in Note 13 in the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Revenue Recognition — Customer Incentives

We offer various incentive programs that provide distributors and direct sale customers with cash rebates, account credits or additional hardware and software products, solutions and services based on meeting specified program criteria. Customer incentives are recognized as a reduction of sales if distributed in cash or customer account credits. Customer incentives are recognized in cost of sales for additional hardware and software products, solutions and services to be provided. We record accruals at the time of revenue recognition as a current liability within Customer returns, rebates and incentives in our Consolidated Balance Sheet or, where a right of setoff exists, as a reduction of Receivables.

Our primary incentive program provides distributors with cash rebates or account credits based on agreed amounts that vary depending on the customer to whom our distributor ultimately sells the product. A critical assumption used in estimating the accrual for this program is the time period from when revenue is recognized to when the rebate is processed. Our estimate is based primarily on historical experience. If the time period were to change by 10 percent, the effect would be an adjustment to the accrual of approximately $12.0 million.

More information regarding our revenue recognition and returns, rebates and incentives policies are contained in Note 1 in the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Recent Accounting Pronouncements

See Note 1 in the Consolidated Financial Statements regarding recent accounting pronouncements.

36
Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk