ITEM 7A.QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

Interest Rate Risk

Our major market risk exposure of our financial instruments is changing interest rates in the United States and fluctuations in LIBOR. We intend to manage interest rate risk through the use of a combination of fixed and floating rate debt. The carrying value of our variable rate debt approximates fair value because interest rates are variable and, accordingly, approximates current market rates for instruments with similar risk and maturities. The fair value of our debt is determined as of the balance sheet date and is subject to change. 

60
The table below provides information about certain of our market-sensitive financial instruments and constitutes a “forward-looking statement.” 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The fixed and variable rate debt amounts above exclude the remaining non-cash discounts, premiums and adjustments to fair value totaling $107.7 million. 

During the second half of 2013, we entered into various interest rate swap agreements relative to our 4.750% fixed rate senior notes due in May 2023. The goal was to reduce overall borrowing costs and rebalance our debt portfolio's ratio of fixed to floating interest rates. These swap agreements, which were designated as fair value hedges, have a total notional value of $300.0 million as of December 31, 2018. Our interest rate swap contracts have been authorized pursuant to our policies and procedures. We do not use financial instruments for trading purposes and are not a party to any leveraged derivatives.

As of December 31, 2018, our interest rate lock agreements had an aggregate notional value of $725.0 million with fixed interest rates ranging from 1.900% to 3.250%. As of December 31, 2017, our interest rate lock agreements had an aggregate notional value of $825.0 million with fixed interest rates ranging from 1.900% to 2.418%. We entered into these transactions to manage exposure to fluctuations in interest rates in anticipation of planned future issuances of senior notes in 2019 and 2020. Upon the expected issuance of senior notes, we will terminate the interest rate locks and settle with our counterparties. 

As of December 31, 2018, we had $1,234.7 million of floating rate debt and $300.0 million of floating interest rate swap contracts. If interest rates increased or decreased by 100 basis points on our variable rate debt, annualized interest expense and net cash payments for interest would increase or decrease by approximately $15 million. This analysis does not reflect the effect that interest rates would have on other items, such as new borrowings and the impact on the economy. See Note 9, Debt, of the notes to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this Form 10-K for further information regarding how we manage interest rate risk.

Fuel Price Risk

Fuel costs represent a significant operating expense. When economically practical, we may enter into new fuel hedges, renew contracts, or engage in other strategies to mitigate market risk. While we charge fuel recovery fees to a majority of our customers, we are unable to charge such fees to all customers. 

At current consumption levels, we believe a twenty-cent per gallon change in the price of diesel fuel changes our fuel costs by approximately $26 million per year. Offsetting these changes in fuel expense would be changes in our fuel recovery fee charged to our customers. At current participation rates, we believe a twenty-cent per gallon change in the price of diesel fuel changes our fuel recovery fee by approximately $25 million per year.

Our operations also require the use of certain petrochemical-based products (such as liners at our landfills) whose costs may vary with the price of petrochemicals. An increase in the price of petrochemicals could increase the cost of those products, which would increase our operating and capital costs. We also are susceptible to increases in indirect fuel recovery fees from our vendors.

Our fuel costs were $391.4 million in 2018, or 3.9% of revenue, compared to $349.8 million in 2017, or 3.5% of revenue, and $317.0 million in 2016, or 3.4% of revenue.

Previously, we have entered into fuel hedge swap agreements designated as cash flow hedges to manage our exposure to changes in diesel fuel prices. As of December 31, 2018, all of our fuel hedges have settled, and we have not entered into any additional hedges. See Note 17, Financial Instruments, to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this Form 10-K for additional discussion.

61
Commodities Price Risk

We market recovered materials such as old corrugated containers and old newsprint from our recycling processing centers. Changes in market supply and demand for recycled commodities causes volatility in commodity prices. We have previously entered into derivative instruments such as swaps and costless collars designated as cash flow hedges to manage our exposure to changes in prices of these commodities. At current volumes and mix of materials, we believe a $10 per ton change in the price of recycled commodities will change annual revenue and operating income by approximately $18 million and $18 million, respectively. As of December 31, 2018, all of our recycling commodity hedges settled, and we have not entered into any additional derivative instruments.

62
ITEM 8.FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA