ITEM 7.MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

You should read the following discussion in conjunction with our audited consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto included in Item 8 of this Form 10-K. This discussion may contain forward-looking statements that anticipate results that are subject to uncertainty. We discuss in more detail various factors that could cause actual results to differ from expectations in Item 1A, Risk Factors in this Form 10-K.

Overview

Republic is the second largest provider of non-hazardous solid waste collection, transfer, disposal, recycling, and energy services in the United States, as measured by revenue. As of December 31, 2018, we operated facilities in 41 states and Puerto Rico through 349 collection operations, 207 transfer stations, 190 active landfills, 91 recycling processing centers, 7 treatment, recovery and disposal facilities, and 11 salt water disposal wells. We are engaged in 75 landfill gas-to-energy and renewable energy projects and had post-closure responsibility for 129 closed landfills.

On January 1, 2018, we adopted Financial Accounting Standards Board's (FASB) ASU 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customer (Topic 606) and Other Assets and Deferred Costs-Contracts with Customer (Subtopic 340-40) (ASU 2014-09 or the new revenue recognition standard) using the modified retrospective approach. The results presented below for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 reflect our historical presentation prior to the adoption of the new revenue recognition standard. 

Revenue for the year ended December 31, 2018 remained consistent at $10,040.9 million compared to $10,041.5 million for the same period in 2017. Excluding the impact from the new revenue recognition standard, revenue for the year ended December 31, 2018 increased in the aggregate by 4.0%. This change in revenue is due to increases in total price, including fuel recovery fees, of 3.0%, acquisitions, net of divestitures of 1.5%, volume of 0.4%, and energy services of 0.2%, partially offset by the impact of recycling processing and commodity sales of (1.1)%. The impact from the adoption of the new revenue recognition standard entirely offset these increases in revenue. 

The following table summarizes our revenue, costs and expenses for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 (in millions of dollars and as a percentage of revenue): 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Our pre-tax income was $1,320.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to $1,282.1 million and $965.9 million in 2017 and 2016, respectively. Our net income attributable to Republic Services, Inc. was $1,036.9 million, or $3.16 per diluted share for 2018, compared to $1,278.4 million, or $3.77 per diluted share, for 2017, and $612.6 million, or $1.78 per diluted share, for 2016.

28
During each of 2018, 2017 and 2016, we recorded a number of charges, other expenses and benefits that impacted our pre-tax income, net income attributable to Republic Services, Inc. (net income – Republic) and diluted earnings per share as noted in the following table (in millions, except per share data). Additionally, see our Cost of Operations, Selling, General and Administrative Expenses and Income Taxes discussions contained in the Results of Operations section of this Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for a discussion of other items that impacted our earnings during the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017, and 2016.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) The aggregate impact to adjusted diluted earnings per share totals to less than $0.01 for the year ended December 31, 2018.

(2) The aggregate impact to adjusted diluted earnings per share totals to less than $0.01 for the year ended December 31, 2017.

(3) The aggregate impact to adjusted diluted earnings per share totals to less than $0.01 for the year ended December 31, 2016.

We believe that presenting adjusted pre-tax income, adjusted net income – Republic, and adjusted diluted earnings per share, which are not measures determined in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (U.S. GAAP), provides an understanding of operational activities before the financial effect of certain items. We use these measures, and believe investors will find them helpful, in understanding the ongoing performance of our operations separate from items that have a disproportionate impact on our results for a particular period. We have incurred comparable charges and costs and have recorded similar recoveries in prior periods, and similar types of adjustments can reasonably be expected to be recorded in future periods. Although our business regularly incurs startup costs under municipal contracts, we specifically identify in the table above the startup costs with respect to an individual municipal contract (and do not adjust for other startup costs under other contracts in 2018 or 2017). We do this because of the magnitude of the costs involved with this particular municipal contract and the unusual nature for the time period in which they are incurred. We adjusted for the impact associated with our adoption of The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the Tax Act) due to the significant decrease in the federal corporate tax rate and the magnitude of the effect on our operating results. In the case of the Bridgeton insurance recovery, we adjusted for the impact due to the significant effect on our operating results; however, in the ordinary course of our business, we often realize recoveries that we do not adjust from our operating results. Our definitions of adjusted pre-tax income, adjusted net income – Republic, and adjusted diluted earnings per share may not be comparable to similarly titled measures presented by other companies. 

Withdrawal costs - Multiemployer Pension Funds.  During 2017 and 2016, we recorded charges to earnings of $1.2 million and $5.6 million, respectively, for withdrawal events at multiemployer pension funds to which we contribute. As we obtain updated information regarding multiemployer pension funds, the factors used in deriving our estimated withdrawal liabilities will be subject to change, which may adversely impact our reserves for withdrawal costs. 

Restructuring charges. In January 2018, we eliminated certain positions following the consolidation of select back-office functions, including but not limited to the integration of our National Accounts support functions into our existing corporate support functions. These changes include a reduction in administrative staffing and the closure of certain office locations. During 2018, we incurred restructuring charges of $26.4 million that primarily consisted of severance and other employee termination benefits, the closure of offices with non-cancelable lease agreements, and the redesign of our back-office functions 

29
and software systems. We expect annual savings of approximately $25 million to $30 million as a result of these restructuring efforts. We paid $24.7 million during 2018 related to these restructuring efforts. 

In January 2016, we realigned our field support functions by combining our three regions into two field groups, consolidating our areas and streamlining select operational support roles at our Phoenix headquarters. Additionally, in the second quarter of 2016, we began the redesign of our back-office functions as well as the consolidation of over 100 customer service locations into three Customer Resource Centers. The redesign of our back-office functions and software systems continued into 2018. During the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, we incurred $17.6 million and $40.7 million of restructuring charges, respectively, that primarily consisted of severance and other employee termination benefits, transition costs, relocation benefits, and the closure of offices with lease agreements with non-cancelable terms. These savings have been reinvested in our customer-focused programs and initiatives.

In 2019, we expect to incur additional restructuring charges of approximately $5 million primarily related to the consolidation of back-office functions, upgrades to back-office software systems, lease exit and contract termination costs and the relocation of certain employees. Substantially all of these restructuring charges will be recorded in our corporate segment.

Loss on extinguishment of debt.  During 2018, we incurred a $0.3 million loss on the extinguishment of certain financing arrangements. In the fourth quarter of 2017, we retired $86.7 million of 5.25% tax-exempt bonds due June 2023, resulting in a non-cash charge for deferred issuance costs of $0.8 million. During 2016, we completed cash tender offers to purchase $575.4 million of outstanding notes and debentures with coupons ranging from 5.7% to 7.4% (the Existing Notes). Additionally, we issued $500.0 million of 2.90% senior notes due 2026 (the 2.90% Notes) and used the net proceeds of the offering, together with borrowing under our credit facilities, to purchase the $575.4 million of the combined aggregate principal amount of the Existing Notes. We also used the net proceeds to pay a premium due of $148.1 million and early tender consideration of $28.7 million.

Gain on disposition of assets and asset impairments, net.  During 2018, we recorded a net gain on disposition of assets and asset impairments related to business divestitures of $44.9 million. During 2017, we recorded a net gain on disposition of assets and asset impairments related to business divestitures of $27.1 million. We also recorded a net gain on disposition of assets and asset impairments of $6.8 million due to the transfer of ownership of the landfill gas collection and control system and the remaining post-closure and environmental liabilities associated with one of our divested landfills. During 2016, we recorded a charge to earnings of $4.6 million primarily related to environmental costs associated with one of our divested landfills. During 2016, we also recorded a net gain related to a business divestiture of $4.7 million. 

Incremental contract start-up costs - large municipal contract. During 2018 and 2017, we incurred costs of $5.7 million and $8.2 million, respectively, related to the implementation of a large municipal contract. These costs did not meet the capitalization criteria prescribed by the new revenue recognition standard.

Adoption of the Tax Act. The Tax Act was enacted on December 22, 2017. Among other things, the Tax Act reduced the U.S. federal corporate tax rate from 35% to 21%. For the year ended December 31, 2017, we recorded provisional amounts based on our estimates of the Tax Act's effect to our deferred taxes, uncertain tax positions, and one-time transition tax. These adjustments reduced our tax provision by $463.9 million. During 2018, we adjusted the provisional amounts recorded as of December 31, 2017 for the one-time transition tax, deferred taxes and uncertain tax positions. These adjustments increased our tax provision by $0.3 million.

Bridgeton insurance recovery, net.  During 2018, we collected an insurance recovery of $40.0 million related to our closed Bridgeton Landfill in Missouri, which we recognized as a reduction of remediation expenses in our cost of operations. In addition, we incurred $12.0 million of incremental costs attributable to the Bridgeton insurance recovery. 

Recent Developments

2019 Financial Guidance

In 2019, we will continue to focus on managing the controllable aspects of our business by enhancing the quality of our revenue, investing in profitable growth opportunities and reducing costs. Our team remains focused on executing our strategy to deliver consistent earnings and free cash flow growth, and improve return on invested capital. We are committed to an efficient capital structure, maintaining our investment grade credit ratings and increasing cash returned to our shareholders.

30
Our guidance is based on current economic conditions and does not assume any significant changes in the overall economy in 2019. Specific guidance follows:

Revenue

We expect 2019 revenue to increase by approximately 4.25 to 4.75% comprised of the following: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Changes in price are restricted on approximately 50% of our annual service revenue. The majority of these restricted pricing arrangements are tied to fluctuations in a specific index (primarily a consumer price index) as defined in the contract. The consumer price index varies from a single historical stated period of time or an average of trailing historical rates over a stated period of time. In addition, the initial effect of pricing resets typically lags 6 to 12 months from the end of the index measurement period to the date the revised pricing goes into effect. As a result, current changes in a specific index may not manifest themselves in our reported pricing for several quarters into the future.

Adjusted Diluted Earnings per Share

The following is a summary of anticipated adjusted diluted earnings per share for the year ending December 31, 2019 compared to the actual adjusted diluted earnings per share for the year ended December 31, 2018. Adjusted diluted earnings per share is not a measure determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The 2019 anticipated adjusted diluted earnings per share assumes an effective tax rate of approximately 24% and an approximately $60 million charge related to solar energy investments that qualify for tax credits. The charge will be recorded as a loss from unconsolidated equity method investments. 

We believe that the presentation of adjusted diluted earnings per share, which excludes restructuring charges, (gain) loss on business divestitures and impairments, net, incremental contract startup costs, and certain insurance recoveries provides an understanding of operational activities before the financial effect of certain items. We use this measure, and believe investors will find it helpful, in understanding the ongoing performance of our operations separate from items that have a disproportionate effect on our results for a particular period. We have incurred comparable charges and costs in prior periods, and similar types of adjustments can reasonably be expected to be recorded in future periods. Our definition of adjusted diluted earnings per share may not be comparable to similarly titled measures presented by other companies.

31
Results of Operations

Revenue

We generate revenue primarily from our solid waste collection operations. Our remaining revenue is from other services, including transfer station, landfill disposal, recycling, and energy services. Our residential, small-container and large-container collection operations in some markets are based on long-term contracts with municipalities. Certain of our municipal contracts have annual price escalation clauses that are tied to changes in an underlying base index such as a consumer price index. We generally provide small-container and large-container collection services to customers under contracts with terms up to three years. Our transfer stations, landfills and, to a lesser extent, our recycling facilities generate revenue from disposal or tipping fees charged to third parties. In general, we integrate our recycling operations with our collection operations and obtain revenue from the sale of recycled commodities. Our revenue from energy services consists mainly of fees we charge for the treatment and disposal of liquid and solid waste derived from the production of oil and natural gas. Other revenue consists primarily of revenue from National Accounts, which represents the portion of revenue generated from nationwide or regional contracts in markets outside our operating areas where the associated waste handling services are subcontracted to local operators. Consequently, substantially all of this revenue is offset with related subcontract costs, which are recorded in cost of operations.

The following table reflects our revenue by service line for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 (in millions of dollars and as a percentage of revenue):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) In accordance with our adoption of the new revenue recognition standard, municipal franchise fees are presented as a reduction to revenue for the year ended December 31, 2018. Similar fees are presented as a cost of operations for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016.

(2) In accordance with our adoption of the new revenue recognition standard, rebates paid to customers associated with recycled commodities are presented as a reduction to revenue for the year ended December 31, 2018. Similar costs are presented as a cost of operations for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016.

32
The following table reflects changes in components of our revenue, as a percentage of total revenue, for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Average yield is defined as revenue growth from the change in average price per unit of service, expressed as a percentage. Core price is defined as price increases to our customers and fees, excluding fuel recovery, net of price decreases to retain customers. We also measure changes in average yield and core price as a percentage of related-business revenue, defined as total revenue excluding recycled commodities and fuel recovery fees, to determine the effectiveness of our pricing strategies. Average yield as a percentage of related-business revenue was 2.5%, 2.6%, and 2.3% for 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively. Core price as a percentage of related-business revenue was 4.2%, 4.3%, and 3.7% for 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively.

Revenue – 2018 compared to 2017

During 2018, we experienced the following changes in our revenue as compared to 2017:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Changing market demand for recycled commodities causes volatility in commodity prices. At current volumes and mix of materials, we believe a $10 per ton change in the price of recycled commodities will change annual revenue and operating income by approximately $18 million and $18 million, respectively.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•Energy services increased revenue by 0.2% due primarily to increased drilling activity compared to the same period in 2017. 

33
Revenue – 2017 compared to 2016

During 2017, we experienced the following changes in our revenue as compared to 2016:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Cost of Operations

Cost of operations includes labor and related benefits, which consists of salaries and wages, health and welfare benefits, incentive compensation and payroll taxes. It also includes transfer and disposal costs representing tipping fees paid to third party disposal facilities and transfer stations; maintenance and repairs relating to our vehicles, equipment and containers, including related labor and benefit costs; transportation and subcontractor costs, which include costs for independent haulers that transport our waste to disposal facilities and costs for local operators who provide waste handling services associated with our National Accounts in markets outside our standard operating areas; fuel, which includes the direct cost of fuel used by our vehicles, net of fuel tax credits; disposal fees and taxes, consisting of landfill taxes, host community fees and royalties; landfill operating costs, which includes financial assurance, leachate disposal, remediation charges and other landfill maintenance costs; risk management costs, which include casualty insurance premiums and claims; cost of goods sold, which includes material costs paid to suppliers; and other, which includes expenses such as facility operating costs, equipment rent and gains or losses on sale of assets used in our operations.

The following table summarizes the major components of our cost of operations for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 (in millions of dollars and as a percentage of revenue):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Disposal fees and taxes included municipal franchise fees of $156.8 million and $153.2 million for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. In accordance with our adoption of the new revenue recognition standard, these fees were presented as a reduction to revenue for the same respective period in 2018.

(2) Cost of goods sold included rebates paid to customers associated with recycled commodities for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016. In accordance with our adoption of the new revenue recognition standard, these rebates were presented as a reduction to revenue for the same respective period in 2018.

34
These cost categories may change from time to time and may not be comparable to similarly titled categories used by other companies. As such, you should take care when comparing our cost of operations by cost component to that of other companies.

Cost of Operations - 2018 compared to 2017

Our cost of operations decreased for the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to 2017, primarily due to our adoption of the new revenue recognition standard. For the year ended December 31, 2018, we recognized $337.0 million of municipal franchise fees and rebates paid to customers associated with recycled commodities as a reduction to revenue. Historically, these costs were presented as a cost of operations.

Excluding the impact of the new revenue recognition standard, our cost of operations increased for the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to 2017. The following items impacted the major components of our cost of operations for the year ended December 31, 2018:

•Labor and related benefits increased due to higher hourly and salaried wages as a result of annual merit increases along with additional headcount attributable to acquisition-related growth. 

•Transfer and disposal costs increased primarily due to an increase in third party disposal rates and volumes disposed at third party facilities. 

•Maintenance and repairs expense increased due to the complexity of trucks, including the cost of parts and internal labor. 

•Disposal fees and taxes decreased due to our adoption of the new revenue recognition standard. Excluding this impact, disposal fees and taxes increased due to higher host community fees attributable to increased landfill volumes. 

•Transportation and subcontract costs increased primarily due to an increase in transportation costs as a result of redirecting shipments of processed recovered materials, as well as an increase in subcontracted work attributable to an increase in non-core revenues.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

At current consumption levels, we believe a twenty-cent per gallon change in the price of diesel fuel would change our fuel costs by approximately $26 million per year. Offsetting these changes in fuel expense would be changes in our fuel recovery fee charged to our customers. At current participation rates, we believe a twenty-cent per gallon change in the price of diesel fuel changes our fuel recovery fee by approximately $25 million per year.

•Landfill operating expenses increased due to increased leachate treatment, transportation and disposal costs due in part to increased rainfall in select geographic regions.

During 2018, we collected a favorable insurance recovery of $40.0 million related to our closed Bridgeton Landfill. As such, we recorded a reduction of remediation expenses. 

•Risk management expenses increased primarily due to an increase in premiums for our current year programs, which was partially offset by favorable actuarial development in our historical workers' compensation and auto liability insurance programs.

•During 2018, other costs of operations increased primarily due to an increase in occupancy and facility costs. 

Cost of Operations – 2017 compared to 2016

Our cost of operations increased for 2017 compared to 2016, primarily as a result of the following:

•Labor and related benefits increased in aggregate dollars due to increased hourly and salaried wages as a result of merit increases, increased headcount, higher collection volumes and higher health care and benefits costs. However, as a percentage of revenue, labor and related benefits costs decreased due to higher larger-container collection and post-collection revenue primarily driven by our transfer and landfill lines of business. 

•Transfer and disposal costs increased in aggregate dollars primarily due to higher collection volumes. 

•Maintenance and repairs expense increased in aggregate dollars due to higher collection volumes, cost of parts, vehicle complexity and internal labor. However, as a percentage of revenue, maintenance and repair costs decreased due to an increase in large-container collection and post-collection revenue primarily driven by our transfer and landfill lines of business.

35
•Transportation and subcontract costs increased primarily due to higher collection and transfer station volumes. [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•Disposal fees and taxes increased in aggregate dollars primarily due to volume increases in our landfill line of business.

•Landfill operating expenses increased due to volume increases in our landfill line of business and increased leachate transportation and disposal costs. 

•Risk management expenses increased primarily due to favorable actuarial developments in our workers' compensation program recorded during 2016 that did not recur in 2017. Additionally, we had unfavorable actuarial development in our vehicle liability insurance program in 2017.

•During 2017, cost of goods sold increased primarily due to higher rebates paid for volumes delivered to our recycling facilities as a result of the increase in commodity prices.

•During 2017, other costs of operations increased primarily due to higher occupancy and facility costs due to a 2016 favorable property tax settlement, facility repairs and third-party equipment rental.

Depreciation, Amortization and Depletion of Property and Equipment

The following table summarizes depreciation, amortization and depletion of property and equipment for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 (in millions of dollars and as a percentage of revenue):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Depreciation, Amortization and Depletion of Property and Equipment - 2018 compared to 2017

Depreciation and amortization of property and equipment increased primarily due to the higher acquisition cost of replacement vehicles, additional assets acquired with our acquisitions, and an increased number of CNG vehicles in our fleet, which are more expensive to purchase than diesel vehicles. 

Landfill depletion and amortization increased due to higher landfill disposal volumes primarily driven by increased solid and special waste volumes coupled with an overall increase in our average depletion rate per ton. This increase was offset by favorable adjustments related to our estimate of future landfill capping retirement obligations.

Depreciation, Amortization and Depletion of Property and Equipment - 2017 compared to 2016

Depreciation and amortization of property and equipment increased in aggregate dollars primarily due to an increase in the cost of replacement vehicles, increased trucks to support volume growth, additional assets acquired with our acquisitions, and an increased number of CNG vehicles in our fleet, which are more expensive to purchase than diesel vehicles. 

Landfill depletion and amortization expense increased primarily due to increased landfill disposal volumes and an overall increase in our average depletion and amortization rate. In addition, we recognized favorable amortization adjustments related to our asset retirement obligations in 2016 that did not recur in 2017. 

Amortization of Other Intangible Assets and Other Assets

Expenses for amortization of other intangible assets and other assets were $56.4 million, $71.0 million and $71.3 million for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively, or 0.6% of revenue for 2018, 0.7% for 2017 and 0.8% for 2016. Our other intangible assets and other assets primarily relate to customer relationships, franchise agreements, other municipal agreements, favorable lease assets and, to a lesser extent, non-compete agreements. In addition, we historically recognized certain upfront payments to acquire customer contracts as a deferred charge in our consolidated balance sheet and amortized the asset as a component of depreciation, amortization and depletion over the respective contract life. In accordance with the new revenue recognition standard, we amortized the asset as a reduction of revenue during the year ended December 31, 2018. Amortization expense further decreased due to the full amortization of certain intangible assets recognized in our 2008 acquisition of Allied.

36
Accretion Expense

Accretion expense was $80.7 million, $79.8 million and $79.1 million, or 0.8% of revenue, for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016. Accretion expense has remained relatively unchanged as our asset retirement obligations remained relatively consistent period over period.

Selling, General and Administrative Expenses

Selling, general and administrative expenses include salaries, health and welfare benefits, and incentive compensation for corporate and field general management, field support functions, sales force, accounting and finance, legal, management information systems, and clerical and administrative departments. Other expenses include rent and office costs, fees for professional services provided by third parties, legal settlements, marketing, investor and community relations services, directors’ and officers’ insurance, general employee relocation, travel, entertainment and bank charges. Restructuring charges are excluded from selling, general and administrative expenses and are discussed separately.

The following table summarizes our selling, general and administrative expenses for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 (in millions of dollars and as a percentage of revenue):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

These cost categories may change from time to time and may not be comparable to similarly titled categories used by other companies. As such, you should take care when comparing our selling, general and administrative expenses by cost component to those of other companies. 

Selling, General and Administrative Expenses – 2018 compared to 2017

Salaries remained relatively unchanged as compared to 2017, excluding the $12.0 million of incremental costs we incurred attributable to the Bridgeton Landfill insurance recovery. 

Other selling, general and administrative expenses decreased primarily due to a decrease in third party consulting costs. 

Selling, General and Administrative Expenses – 2017 compared to 2016

Salaries increased primarily due to higher wages, benefits, and other payroll related items resulting from merit increases.

Other selling, general and administrative expenses increased primarily due to a favorable legal settlement during 2016. Additionally, we had an increase in acquisition-related transaction costs associated with our increased acquisition activity during the year. 

Withdrawal Costs - Multiemployer Pension Funds

During 2017 and 2016, we recorded charges to earnings of $1.2 million and $5.6 million, respectively, for withdrawal events at multiemployer pension funds to which we contribute. As we obtain updated information regarding the multiemployer pension funds, the factors used in deriving our estimated withdrawal liabilities will be subject to change, which may adversely impact our reserves for withdrawal costs.

Gain on business divestitures and impairments, net

We strive to have a number one or number two market position in each of the markets we serve, or have a clear path on how we will achieve a leading market position over time. Where we cannot establish a leading market position, or where operations are not generating acceptable returns, we may decide to divest certain assets and reallocate resources to other markets. Asset or business divestitures could result in gains, losses or asset impairment charges that may be material to our results of operations in a given period. 

During 2018, we recorded a net gain on business divestitures, net of asset impairments of $44.9 million. 

37
During 2017, we recorded a net gain on business divestitures, net of asset impairments of $27.1 million. We also recorded a gain on business divestitures of $6.8 million due to the transfer of ownership of the landfill gas collection and control system and the remaining post-closure and environmental liabilities associated with one of our divested landfills. 

During 2016, we recorded a charge to earnings of $4.6 million primarily related to environmental costs associated with one of our divested landfills. During 2016, we also recorded a net gain related to a business divestiture of $4.7 million. 

Restructuring Charges

In January 2018, we eliminated certain positions following the consolidation of select back-office functions, including but not limited to the integration of our National Accounts support functions into our existing corporate support functions. These changes include a reduction in administrative staffing and the closure of certain office locations. During 2018, we incurred restructuring charges of $26.4 million that primarily consisted of severance and other employee termination benefits, the closure of offices with non-cancelable lease agreements, and the redesign of our back-office functions and upgrades to certain of our software systems. We paid $24.7 million during 2018 related to these restructuring efforts. 

In January 2016, we realigned our field support functions by combining our three regions into two field groups, consolidating our areas and streamlining select operational support roles at our Phoenix headquarters. Additionally, in the second quarter of 2016, we began the redesign of our back-office functions as well as the consolidation of over 100 customer service locations into three Customer Resource Centers. The redesign of our back-office functions and upgrades to certain of our software systems continued into 2018. During the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, we incurred $17.6 million and $40.7 million of restructuring charges, respectively, that primarily consisted of severance and other employee termination benefits, transition costs, relocation benefits, and the closure of offices with lease agreements with non-cancelable terms. The savings realized from these restructuring efforts have been reinvested in our customer-focused programs and initiatives. 

Interest Expense

The following table provides the components of interest expense, including accretion of debt discounts and accretion of discounts primarily associated with environmental and risk insurance liabilities assumed in acquisitions (in millions of dollars):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Total interest expense for 2018 increased compared to 2017 primarily due to the increase in debt outstanding during the period and higher interest rates on floating rate debt. Total interest expense for 2017 decreased compared to 2016 primarily due to the issuance of $500.0 million of 2.90% senior notes in July 2016 that were used to purchase outstanding notes and debentures with coupons ranging from 5.70% to 7.40%. As a result of the debt that was extinguished in 2016, total interest expense for 2016 increased primarily due to $7.2 million of unamortized cash flow hedges reclassified to earnings as non-cash interest expense. 

During 2018, 2017 and 2016, cash paid for interest, excluding net swap settlements for our fixed to floating interest rate swaps, was $351.0 million, $326.9 million and $330.2 million, respectively.

Loss on Extinguishment of Debt

During 2018, we incurred a $0.3 million loss on the extinguishment of certain financing arrangements. 

During 2017, we retired $86.7 million of 5.25% tax-exempt bonds, resulting in a non-cash charge of $0.8 million. 

During 2016, we incurred a loss on the early extinguishment of debt. We paid a cash premium of $148.1 million, early tender consideration of $28.7 million and $1.6 million of associated legal and other fees. We also incurred a non-cash charge related to the proportional share of unamortized discounts and deferred issuance costs of $17.8 million. The unamortized proportional share of certain cash flow hedges reclassified to earnings as non-cash interest expense was $7.2 million.

Income Taxes

Our provision for income taxes was $283.3 million, $3.1 million and $352.7 million for 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively. Our effective income tax rate was 21.5%, 0.2% and 36.5% for 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively. We made income tax payments (net of refunds) of approximately $210 million, $370 million and $265 million for 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively. Cash paid for income taxes (net of refunds) for 2018 was favorably affected by the Tax Act and our investment in solar energy assets.

38
The Tax Act was enacted on December 22, 2017. The Tax Act reduces the U.S. federal corporate tax rate from 35% to 21%, limits deductions for, among other things, interest expense, executive compensation and meals and entertainment while enhancing deductions for equipment and other fixed assets. The Tax Act also requires companies to pay a one-time transition tax on earnings of certain foreign subsidiaries that were previously tax deferred and creates new taxes on certain foreign sourced earnings. 

The SEC staff issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 118 (SAB 118), which provides guidance on accounting for the tax effects of the Tax Act. SAB 118 provides up to a one year measurement period from the Tax Act's enactment date for companies to complete their accounting under ASC 740. 

In accordance with SAB 118, for the year ended December 31, 2017, we recorded provisional amounts based on our estimate of the Tax Act's effect on our deferred taxes, uncertain tax positions and the one-time transition tax. In aggregate, the provisional amounts reduced our 2017 tax provision by approximately $464 million. 

During the year ended December 31, 2018, we adjusted the provisional amounts recorded as of December 31, 2017 for the one-time transition tax, deferred taxes and uncertain tax positions in connection with the filing of our 2017 tax return. These adjustments resulted in a net charge to the tax provision of $0.3 million. 

As of December 31, 2018, our accounting for the tax effects of the enactment of the Tax Act is complete.

The Tax Act also created a new requirement that certain Global Intangible Low Taxed Income (GILTI) earned by controlled foreign corporations (CFCs) must be included currently in gross income of the CFCs U.S. shareholder. Under U.S. GAAP, we are allowed to make an accounting policy choice of either (1) treating taxes due on future U.S. inclusions in taxable income related to GILTI as a current-period expense when incurred (the period cost method) or (2) factoring such amounts into our measurement of deferred taxes (the deferral method). As we do not expect to have significant future U.S. inclusions in taxable income related to GILTI, we have selected the period cost method. 

Outside of the impact of the Tax Act, our 2018 tax provision was reduced by $6.4 million due to the realization of tax credits and lower state tax rates due to changes in estimates following the completion of our 2017 tax returns. 

We reduced our 2018 tax provision by $12.1 million due to excess tax benefits required to be recorded to the income statement resulting from the adoption of FASB's ASU 2016-09, Compensation - Stock Compensation (Topic 718): Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting (ASU 2016-09). Prior to 2017, these benefits were recorded directly to shareholders’ equity.

In addition, during 2018 we acquired non-controlling interests in limited liability companies established to construct solar energy assets that qualified for investment tax credits under Section 48 of the Internal Revenue Code. Our 2018 tax provision was reduced by approximately $50 million due to the tax credits related to these investments. We account for these investments using the equity method of accounting and recognize our share of income or loss and other reductions in the value of our investments in the Loss from unconsolidated equity method investments within our Consolidated Statement of Income. For further discussion regarding our equity method accounting, see Note 3, Business Acquisitions, Investments and Restructuring Charges, to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this Form 10-K.

We have deferred tax assets related to state net operating loss carryforwards with an estimated tax effect of approximately $118 million available as of December 31, 2018. These state net operating loss carryforwards expire at various times between 2018 and 2038. We believe that it is more likely than not that the benefit from some of our state net operating loss carryforwards will not be realized due to limitations on these loss carryforwards in certain states. In recognition of this risk, as of December 31, 2018, we have provided a valuation allowance of approximately $73 million.

As a result of the recent changes in U.S. tax law, as well as our ongoing efforts to streamline and maximize the efficiency of our tax footprint, we could further adjust our valuation allowance in a future period if there is sufficient evidence to support a conclusion that it is more likely than not that certain of the state net operating loss carryforwards, on which we currently provide a valuation allowance, would be realized.

As noted above, our 2017 tax provision reflected provisional amounts related to the Tax Act as a net reduction in our tax provision of approximately $464 million. In addition, our 2017 tax provision was reduced by $19.6 million in excess tax benefits from ASU 2016-09, approximately $13 million related to the tax credits acquired from non-controlling interests in limited liability companies established to construct solar energy assets, and approximately $9 million due to the resolution of various state and federal tax matters as well as the realization of tax credits and lower state tax rates due to changes in estimates.

Our 2016 tax provision was reduced by approximately $13 million due to the resolution of various state and federal tax matters as well as the realization of tax credits and lower state tax rates due to changes in estimates, and approximately $10 million related to tax credits acquired from non-controlling interests in limited liability companies established to construct solar energy assets.

39
Reportable Segments

Our senior management evaluates, oversees and manages the financial performance of our operations through two field groups, referred to as Group 1 and Group 2. Group 1 primarily consists of geographic areas located in the western United States, and Group 2 primarily consists of geographic areas located in the southeastern and mid-western United States, and the eastern seaboard of the United States.

The two field groups, Group 1 and Group 2, are presented below as our reportable segments, which provide integrated waste management services consisting of non-hazardous solid waste collection, transfer, recycling, disposal and energy services. 

Summarized financial information concerning our reportable segments for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 is shown in the following table (in millions of dollars and as a percentage of revenue in the case of operating margin):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Corporate entities include legal, tax, treasury, information technology, risk management, human resources, closed landfills and other administrative functions. National Accounts revenue included in corporate entities represents the portion of revenue generated from nationwide and regional contracts in markets outside our operating areas where the associated waste handling services are subcontracted to local operators. Consequently, substantially all of this revenue is offset with related subcontract costs, which are recorded in cost of operations.

Significant changes in the revenue and operating margins of our reportable segments for 2018 compared to 2017, and 2017 compared to 2016, are discussed below.

2018 compared to 2017 

Group 1

Revenue for 2018 decreased (1.3)% from 2017 primarily due to our adoption of the new revenue recognition standard and a decrease in recycling processing and commodity sales. Excluding the impact of the new revenue recognition standard, revenue increased due to positive pricing and an increase in volumes in all lines of business. 

40
Operating income for Group 1 increased from $1,135.1 million for 2017, or a 23.3% operating margin, to $1,156.9 million for 2018, or a 24.0% operating margin. The following cost categories impacted our operating income margin:

•Cost of operations favorably impacted operating income margin during 2018, primarily due to the adoption of the new revenue recognition standard, offset by higher labor and related benefits, transfer and disposal costs, and increased fuel costs as a result of higher fuel prices. [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•Selling, general and administrative expenses unfavorably impacted operating income margin during 2018, primarily due to increased wages as a result of annual merit increases. 

Group 2

Revenue for 2018 increased 3.1% from 2017 primarily due to positive pricing in all lines of business, which was partially offset by a decrease attributable to our adoption of the new revenue recognition standard and a decrease in recycling processing and commodity sales. Additionally, volume increased in our landfill, transfer stations, and large-container collection lines of business, partially offset by volume declines in our commercial and residential lines of business attributable to non-regrettable losses. 

Operating income in Group 2 decreased from $945.9 million for 2017, or a 19.2% operating margin, to $938.5 million for 2018, or an 18.5% operating margin. The following cost categories impacted our operating income margin:

•Cost of operations unfavorably impacted operating income margin during 2018, primarily due to an increase in labor and related benefits, transfer and disposal costs, transportation and subcontract costs, and maintenance and repairs. 

•Landfill depletion and amortization favorably impacted operating income margin during 2018, primarily as a result of favorable amortization adjustments to our asset retirement obligations.

Corporate Entities

Operating loss in our Corporate Entities decreased from $412.5 million for 2017 to $359.6 million for 2018. The operating loss for 2018 was favorably impacted by certain one-time actuarial developments and an insurance recovery of $40.0 million related to our closed Bridgeton Landfill during 2018, which was offset by $12.0 million of incremental costs attributable to the recovery. In addition, we recognized CNG tax credits that were enacted in 2018 and retroactively effective in 2017. 

2017 compared to 2016 

Group 1

Revenue for 2017 increased 6.9% from 2016 primarily due to increases in average yield in all lines of business, and volume increases in all lines of business. Additionally, we recognized increased recycled commodity revenue due to the increase in commodity prices. 

Operating income for Group 1 increased from $1,059.4 million for 2016, or a 23.2% operating margin, to $1,135.1 million for 2017, or a 23.3% operating margin, primarily as a result of increased revenue. The increase in operating income was offset by the following items:

•Cost of operations unfavorably impacted operating income margin during 2017, primarily due to higher labor and related benefits, transfer and disposal costs, cost of goods sold and increased landfill operating costs. 

•Landfill depletion and amortization unfavorably impacted operating income margin during 2017, primarily due to an overall increase in the average depletion and amortization rates and increased landfill disposal volumes. 

Group 2

Revenue for 2017 increased 6.0% from 2016 primarily due to increases in average yield in all lines of business and volume increases in our large-container collection and disposal lines of business. Volume increases in our landfill line of business were primarily attributable to increased construction and demolition and municipal solid waste volumes. These increases were partially offset by declines in our residential collection and small-container collection lines of business.

Operating income in Group 2 increased from $863.0 million for 2016, or an 18.6% operating margin, to $945.9 million, or a 19.2% operating margin, primarily as a result of an increase in revenue. The increase in operating income was offset by the following items:

41
•Cost of operations unfavorably impacted operating income margin during 2017, primarily due to higher labor and related benefits, transportation and subcontract costs and cost of goods sold. [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Corporate Entities

Operating loss in our Corporate Entities increased from $384.9 million for 2016 to $412.5 million for 2017. The operating loss for 2017 was favorably impacted by a decrease in restructuring charges of $23.1 million from the same period in 2016 and gain on disposition of businesses. Offsetting these favorable items were increases in salaries and related benefits due to certain employees relocating from our field operations to our corporate segment as a result of our restructuring, increased hourly and salaried wages as a result of merit increases, increased facility costs as a result of our restructuring as well as unfavorable actuarial developments in certain of our insurance programs. Additionally, we had favorable legal settlements in 2016 that did not recur in 2017.

Landfill and Environmental Matters

Our landfill costs include daily operating expenses, costs of capital for cell development, costs for final capping, closure and post-closure, and the legal and administrative costs of ongoing environmental compliance. Daily operating expenses include leachate treatment, transportation and disposal costs, methane gas and groundwater monitoring and system maintenance costs, interim cap maintenance costs, and costs associated with applying daily cover materials. We expense all indirect landfill development costs as they are incurred. We use life cycle accounting and the units-of-consumption method to recognize certain direct landfill costs related to landfill development. In life cycle accounting, certain direct costs are capitalized and charged to depletion expense based on the consumption of cubic yards of available airspace. These costs include all costs to acquire and construct a site, including excavation, natural and synthetic liners, construction of leachate collection systems, installation of methane gas collection and monitoring systems, installation of groundwater monitoring wells, and other costs associated with acquiring and developing the site. Obligations associated with final capping, closure and post-closure are capitalized and amortized on a units-of-consumption basis as airspace is consumed.

Cost and airspace estimates are developed at least annually by engineers. Our operating and accounting personnel use these estimates to adjust the rates we use to expense capitalized costs. Changes in these estimates primarily relate to changes in costs, available airspace, inflation and applicable regulations. Changes in available airspace include changes in engineering estimates, changes in design and changes due to the addition of airspace lying in expansion areas that we believe have a probable likelihood of being permitted.

Available Airspace

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

42
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Changes in engineering estimates typically include modifications to the available disposal capacity of a landfill based on a refinement of the capacity calculations resulting from updated information.

As of December 31, 2018, we owned or operated 190 active solid waste landfills with total available disposal capacity estimated to be 5.1 billion in-place cubic yards. Total available disposal capacity represents the sum of estimated permitted airspace plus an estimate of probable expansion airspace. Engineers develop these estimates at least annually using information provided by annual aerial surveys. As of December 31, 2018, total available disposal capacity is estimated to be 4.7 billion in-place cubic yards of permitted airspace plus 0.3 billion in-place cubic yards of probable expansion airspace. Before airspace included in an expansion area is determined to be probable expansion airspace and, therefore, included in our calculation of total available disposal capacity, it must meet all of our expansion criteria. See Note 2, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, and Note 8, Landfill and Environmental Costs, to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this Form 10-K for further information. Also see our Critical Accounting Judgments and Estimates section of this Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.

As of December 31, 2018, twelve of our landfills met all of our criteria for including their probable expansion airspace in their total available disposal capacity. At projected annual volumes, these twelve landfills have an estimated remaining average site life of 56 years, including probable expansion airspace. The average estimated remaining life of all of our landfills is 63 years. We have other expansion opportunities that are not included in our total available airspace because they do not meet all of our criteria for treatment as probable expansion airspace.

43
The following table reflects the estimated operating lives of our active landfill sites based on available and probable disposal capacity using current annual volumes as of December 31, 2018:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Final Capping, Closure and Post-Closure Costs

As of December 31, 2018, accrued final capping, closure and post-closure costs were $1,292.0 million, of which $76.7 million were current and $1,215.3 million were long-term as reflected in our consolidated balance sheets in accrued landfill and environmental costs included in Item 8 of this Form 10-K.

Remediation and Other Charges for Landfill Matters

It is reasonably possible that we will need to adjust our accrued landfill and environmental liabilities to reflect the effects of new or additional information, to the extent that such information impacts the costs, timing or duration of the required actions. Future changes in our estimates of the costs, timing or duration of the required actions could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows.

The following is a discussion of certain of our significant remediation matters:

Bridgeton Landfill. During the year ended December 31, 2018, we paid $16.2 million related to management and monitoring of the remediation area for our closed Bridgeton Landfill in Missouri. We continue to work with state and federal regulatory agencies on our remediation efforts. From time to time, this may require us to modify our future operating timeline and procedures, which could result in changes to our expected liability. As of December 31, 2018, the remediation liability recorded for this site was $161.1 million, of which approximately $15 million is expected to be paid during 2019. We believe the remaining reasonably possible high-end of our range would be approximately $171 million higher than the amount recorded as of December 31, 2018.

During 2018, we collected an insurance recovery of $40.0 million related to our closed Bridgeton Landfill. As such, we recorded a reduction of remediation expenses included in our cost of operations.

West Lake Landfill Superfund Site. Our subsidiary Bridgeton Landfill, LLC is one of several currently designated Potentially Responsible Parties for the West Lake Landfill Superfund site (West Lake) in Missouri. On September 27, 2018, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) issued a Record of Decision Amendment for West Lake that includes a total undiscounted cost estimate of $229 million over a four to five-year design and construction timeline. At this time we are neither able to predict the final design of that remedy, nor estimate how much of the future response costs of the site our subsidiary may agree or be required to pay. During any subsequent administrative proceedings or litigation, our subsidiary will vigorously contest liability for the costs of remediating radiologically-impacted materials generated on behalf of the federal government during the Manhattan Project and delivered to the site by an Atomic Energy Commission licensee and its subcontractor. Currently, we believe we are adequately reserved for our expected remediation liability. However, subsequent events related to remedy design, divisibility or allocation may require us to modify our expected remediation liability.

44
Investment in Landfills

The following tables reflect changes in our investment in landfills for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017, and 2016 (in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

45
As of December 31, 2018, we expect to spend an estimated additional $9.4 billion on existing landfills, primarily related to cell construction and environmental structures, over their remaining lives. Our total expected investment, excluding non-depletable land, estimated to be $13.2 billion, or $2.60 per cubic yard, is used in determining our depletion and amortization expense based on airspace consumed using the units-of-consumption method.

The following table reflects our future expected investment as of December 31, 2018 (in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The following table reflects our net investment in our landfills, excluding non-depletable land, and our depletion, amortization and accretion expense for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017, and 2016:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

During 2018 and 2017, our average compaction rate was approximately 2,000 pounds per cubic yard based on a three-year historical moving average. 

Property and Equipment

The following tables reflect the activity in our property and equipment accounts for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017, and 2016 (in millions of dollars):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

46
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

47
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Liquidity and Capital Resources

The major components of changes in cash flows for 2018, 2017 and 2016 are discussed in the following paragraphs. The following table summarizes our cash flow from operating activities, investing activities and financing activities for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 (in millions of dollars):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Cash Flows Provided by Operating Activities

2018 compared to 2017 

Changes in assets and liabilities, net of effects from business acquisitions and divestitures, decreased our cash flow from operations by $216.3 million in 2018, compared to a decrease of $230.9 million in 2017, primarily as a result of the following:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

In addition, cash paid for income taxes (net of refunds) was approximately $210 million and $370 million for 2018 and 2017, respectively. Income taxes paid (net of refunds) in 2018 was favorably affected by the Tax Act and our investment in solar energy assets. Income taxes paid (net of refunds) in 2017 reflect the passage of the Tax Act which provided for 100% equipment expensing on qualified assets placed in service after September 27, 2017 and the favorable tax depreciation provisions of the Protecting Americans from Tax Hikes Act which provided for bonus depreciation deductions on assets placed in service in 2017 at 50% of the capitalized value. Cash paid for interest was $351.0 million and $326.9 million, excluding net swap settlements for our fixed to floating interest rate swaps, for 2018 and 2017, respectively.

2017 compared to 2016 

Changes in assets and liabilities, net of effects of business acquisitions and divestitures, decreased our cash flow from operations by $230.9 million in 2017, compared to a decrease of $205.2 million in 2016, primarily as a result of the following:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

48
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

In addition, cash paid for income taxes was approximately $370 million and $265 million for 2017 and 2016, respectively. Income taxes paid in 2017 reflect the passage of the Tax Act which provided for 100% equipment expensing on qualified assets placed in service after September 27, 2017 and the favorable tax depreciation provisions of the Protecting Americans from Tax Hikes Act which provided for bonus depreciation deductions on assets placed in service in 2017 at 50% of the capitalized value. Income taxes paid in 2016 reflect the favorable tax depreciation provisions of the Protecting Americans from Tax Hikes Act signed into law in December 2015. Cash paid for interest was $326.9 million and $330.2 million for 2017 and 2016, respectively.

We use cash flows from operations to fund capital expenditures, acquisitions, dividend payments, share repurchases and debt repayments. 

Cash Flows Used in Investing Activities

The most significant items affecting the comparison of our cash flows used in investing activities for 2018, 2017 and 2016 are summarized below:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

We intend to finance capital expenditures and acquisitions through cash on hand, restricted cash held for capital expenditures, cash flows from operations, our revolving credit facilities, and tax-exempt bonds and other financings. We expect to primarily use cash for consideration paid for future business acquisitions.

Cash Flows Used in Financing Activities

The most significant items affecting the comparison of our cash flows used in financing activities for 2018, 2017 and 2016 are summarized below:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

49
Financial Condition

Cash and Cash Equivalents

As of December 31, 2018, we had $70.5 million of cash and cash equivalents and $108.1 million of restricted cash deposits and restricted marketable securities, including $29.5 million of restricted cash and marketable securities pledged to regulatory agencies and governmental entities as financial guarantees of our performance related to our final capping, closure and post-closure obligations at our landfills, and $78.6 million of restricted cash and marketable securities related to our insurance obligations.

We intend to use excess cash on hand and cash from operating activities to fund capital expenditures, acquisitions, dividend payments, share repurchases and debt repayments. Debt repayments may include purchases of our outstanding indebtedness in the secondary market or otherwise. We believe that our excess cash, cash from operating activities and our availability to draw from our credit facilities provide us with sufficient financial resources to meet our anticipated capital requirements and maturing obligations as they come due.

We may choose to voluntarily retire certain portions of our outstanding debt before their maturity dates using cash from operations or additional borrowings. We may also explore opportunities in the capital markets to fund redemptions should market conditions be favorable. Early extinguishment of debt will result in an impairment charge in the period in which the debt is repaid. The loss on early extinguishment of debt relates to premiums paid to effectuate the repurchase and the relative portion of unamortized note discounts and debt issue costs.

Credit Facilities

In June 2018, we entered into a $2.25 billion unsecured revolving credit facility (the Credit Facility), which replaced our $1.0 billion and $1.25 billion unsecured credit facilities that would have matured in May 2021 and June 2019, respectively (the Replaced Credit Facilities). The Credit Facility matures in June 2023. We may request two one-year extensions of the maturity date but none of the lenders are committed to participate in such extension. The Credit Facility also includes a feature that allows us to increase availability, at our option, by an aggregate amount of up to $1.0 billion through increased commitments from existing lenders or the addition of new lenders. At our option, borrowings under the Credit Facility bear interest at a Base Rate, or a Eurodollar Rate, plus an applicable margin based on our Debt Ratings (all as defined in the Credit Facility agreement). 

The Credit Facility requires us to comply with financial and other covenants. To the extent we are not in compliance with these covenants, we cannot pay dividends or repurchase common stock. Compliance with covenants also is a condition for any incremental borrowings under our Credit Facility, and failure to meet these covenants would enable the lenders to require repayment of any outstanding loans (which would adversely affect our liquidity). As of December 31, 2018, our EBITDA to interest ratio was 7.44 compared to the 3.00 minimum required by the covenants, and our total debt to EBITDA ratio was 2.96 compared to the 3.50 maximum allowed by the covenants. As of December 31, 2018, we were in compliance with the covenants under our Credit Facility, and we expect to be in compliance throughout 2019.

EBITDA, which is a non-U.S. GAAP measure, is calculated as defined in our Credit Facility agreement. In this context, EBITDA is used solely to provide information regarding the extent to which we are in compliance with debt covenants and is not comparable to EBITDA used by other companies or used by us for other purposes.

Failure to comply with the financial and other covenants under our Credit Facility, as well as the occurrence of certain material adverse events, would constitute defaults and would allow the lenders under our Credit Facility to accelerate the maturity of all indebtedness under the related agreement. This could also have an adverse effect on the availability of financial assurances. In addition, maturity acceleration on our Credit Facility constitutes an event of default under our other debt instruments, including our senior notes, and, therefore, our senior notes would also be subject to acceleration of maturity. If such acceleration were to occur, we would not have sufficient liquidity available to repay the indebtedness. We would likely have to seek an amendment under our Credit Facility for relief from the financial covenants or repay the debt with proceeds from the issuance of new debt or equity, or asset sales, if necessary. We may be unable to amend our Credit Facility or raise sufficient capital to repay such obligations in the event the maturity is accelerated.

Availability under our Credit Facility totaled $1,694.1 million as of December 31, 2018. The Credit Facility can be used for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, letters of credit and other general corporate purposes. As of December 31, 2018, we had $159.0 million of borrowings under our Credit Facility, and as of December 31, 2017 we had $130.0 million of borrowings under the Replaced Credit Facilities. We had $379.6 million of letters of credit outstanding under our Credit Facility as of December 31, 2018 and $462.7 million of letters of credit outstanding under our Replaced Credit Facilities as of December 31, 2017.

50
During 2016, we amended our existing unsecured bi-lateral credit facility agreement (the Uncommitted Credit Facility), to increase the size to $135.0 million with all other terms remaining unchanged. Our Uncommitted Credit Facility bears interest at LIBOR, plus an applicable margin and is subject to facility fees defined in the Uncommitted Credit Facility agreement, regardless of usage. We can use borrowings under the Uncommitted Credit Facility for working capital and other general corporate purposes. The agreements governing our Uncommitted Credit Facility require us to comply with covenants. The Uncommitted Credit Facility may be terminated by either party at any time. As of December 31, 2018, we had $33.4 million of borrowings under our Uncommitted Credit Facility and no borrowings as of December 31, 2017.

Senior Notes and Debentures

During 2018, we issued $800.0 million of 3.950% senior notes due 2028 (the 3.950% Notes). We used the net proceeds from the 3.950% Notes to repay $700.0 million of 3.800% senior notes that matured in May 2018, and the remaining proceeds were used to repay borrowings under our Replaced Credit Facilities. In connection with this offering, we terminated interest rate lock agreements with a notional value of $600.0 million resulting in net proceeds of $31.1 million. The proceeds will amortize over the term of the 3.950% Notes using the effective interest method. There was no ineffectiveness recognized in the termination of these cash flow hedges. 

During 2017, we issued $650.0 million of 3.375% notes due 2027 (the 3.375% Notes). We used the net proceeds from the 3.375% Notes to repay amounts borrowed under our Replaced Credit Facilities.

During 2016, we completed cash tender offers to purchase up to $575.4 million combined aggregate principal amount of the 6.20% Notes due March 2040, 5.70% Notes due May 2041, 7.40% Debentures due September 2035 and 6.09% Notes due March 2035 (collectively the Existing Notes), subject to priority levels and the other terms and conditions set forth in the Offer to Purchase. During 2016, we issued $500.0 million of 2.90% senior notes due 2026 (the 2.90% Notes). The sale of the 2.90% Notes and the tender offers closed on July 5, 2016. We used the net proceeds of the offering, together with borrowing under our credit facilities, to purchase $575.4 million of the combined aggregate principal amount of the Existing Notes tendered as well as premium due of $148.1 million and early tender consideration of $28.7 million.

As of December 31, 2018 and 2017, we had $6,998.8 million and $6,913.0 million, respectively, of unsecured senior notes and debentures outstanding with maturities ranging from 2019 to 2041. Our senior notes are general senior unsecured obligations. 

Interest Rate Swap and Lock Agreements

During the second half of 2013, we entered into various interest rate swap agreements relative to our 4.750% fixed rate senior notes due in May 2023. The goal was to reduce overall borrowing costs and rebalance our debt portfolio's ratio of fixed to floating interest rates. As of December 31, 2018, these swap agreements have a total notional value of $300.0 million and require us to pay interest at floating rates based on changes in LIBOR, and receive interest at a fixed rate of 4.750%. For 2018, 2017 and 2016, we recognized $1.9 million, $4.8 million and $6.3 million, respectively, as offsetting benefits to our interest expense from these swap agreements, which mature in May 2023.

As of December 31, 2018, our interest rate lock agreements had an aggregate notional value of $725.0 million with fixed interest rates ranging from 1.900% to 3.250%. As of December 31, 2017 our interest rate lock agreements had an aggregate notional value of $825.0 million with fixed interest rates ranging from 1.900% to 2.418%. We entered into these transactions to manage exposure to fluctuations in interest rates in anticipation of planned future issuances of senior notes in 2019 and 2020. Upon the expected issuance of the senior notes, we will terminate the interest rate locks and settle with our counterparties. The aggregate fair values of the outstanding interest rate locks as of December 31, 2018 and 2017 were $10.3 million and $19.1 million, respectively, and were recorded in other long-term assets in our consolidated balance sheets. 

Tax-Exempt Financings

As of December 31, 2018 and 2017, we had $1,036.8 million and $1,036.0 million, respectively, of certain fixed and variable rate tax-exempt financings outstanding with maturities ranging from 2019 to 2044. Approximately 100% of our tax-exempt financings are remarketed quarterly by remarketing agents to effectively maintain a variable yield. The holders of the bonds can put them back to the remarketing agents at the end of each interest period. To date, the remarketing agents have been able to remarket our variable rate unsecured tax-exempt bonds. 

During 2017, we retired $86.7 million of 5.25% tax-exempt bonds in advance of the maturity date. Additionally, the California Pollution Control Financing Authority (CPCFA) adopted a resolution approving the issuance and sale of up to $100.0 million of Solid Waste Disposal Revenue Bonds for the Benefit of Republic, under which CPCFA issued $50.0 million of variable-rate tax-exempt debt on our behalf. The proceeds from the issuance were used to fund qualifying landfill-related capital expenditures in the state of California. 

51
Intended Uses of Cash

We intend to use excess cash on hand and cash from operating activities to fund capital expenditures, acquisitions, dividend payments, share repurchases and debt repayments. Debt repayments may include purchases of our outstanding indebtedness in the secondary market or otherwise. We believe our excess cash, cash from operating activities and our availability to draw from our Credit Facility provide us with sufficient financial resources to meet our anticipated capital requirements and maturing obligations as they come due.

We may choose to voluntarily retire certain portions of our outstanding debt before their maturity dates using cash from operations or additional borrowings. We also may explore opportunities in capital markets to fund redemptions should market conditions be favorable. Early extinguishment of debt will result in an impairment charge in the period in which the debt is repaid.

Contractual Obligations

The following table summarizes our estimated contractual obligations as of December 31, 2018 (in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Scheduled interest payment obligations in the above table were calculated using stated coupon rates for fixed rate debt and interest rates applicable as of December 31, 2018 for variable rate debt. The effect of our outstanding interest rate swaps on the interest payments of our 4.750% fixed rate senior notes due in May 2023 is also included based on the floating rates in effect as of December 31, 2018.

The estimated remaining final capping, closure and post-closure and remediation expenditures presented above are not inflated or discounted and reflect the estimated future payments for liabilities incurred and recorded as of December 31, 2018 and for liabilities yet to be incurred over the remaining life of our landfills.

Unconditional purchase commitments consist primarily of (1) disposal related agreements that include fixed or minimum royalty payments, host agreements and take-or-pay and put-or-pay agreements and (2) other obligations including committed capital expenditures and consulting service agreements.

Financial Assurance

We must provide financial assurance to governmental agencies and a variety of other entities under applicable environmental regulations relating to our landfill operations for capping, closure and post-closure costs, and related to our performance under certain collection, landfill and transfer station contracts. We satisfy these financial assurance requirements by providing surety bonds, letters of credit, or insurance policies (Financial Assurance Instruments), or trust deposits, which are included in restricted cash and marketable securities and other assets in our consolidated balance sheets. The amount of the financial assurance requirements for capping, closure and post-closure costs is determined by applicable state environmental regulations. The financial assurance requirements for capping, closure and post-closure costs may be associated with a portion of the landfill or the entire landfill. Generally, states require a third-party engineering specialist to determine the estimated capping, closure and post-closure costs that are used to determine the required amount of financial assurance for a landfill. The amount of financial assurance required can, and generally will, differ from the obligation determined and recorded under U.S. GAAP. The amount of the financial assurance requirements related to contract performance varies by contract. Additionally, we must provide financial assurance for our insurance program and collateral for certain performance obligations. We do not expect a material increase in financial assurance requirements during 2019, although the mix of Financial Assurance Instruments may change.

52
These Financial Assurance Instruments are issued in the normal course of business and are not considered indebtedness. Because we currently have no liability for the Financial Assurance Instruments, they are not reflected in our consolidated balance sheets; however, we record capping, closure and post-closure liabilities and insurance liabilities as they are incurred.

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

We have no off-balance sheet debt or similar obligations, other than operating leases and financial assurances, which are not classified as debt. We have no transactions or obligations with related parties that are not disclosed, consolidated into or reflected in our reported financial position or results of operations. We have not guaranteed any third-party debt.

Contingencies

For a description of our commitments and contingencies, see Note 8, Landfill and Environmental Costs, Note 10, Income Taxes, and Note 18, Commitments and Contingencies, to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this Form 10-K.

Critical Accounting Judgments and Estimates

Our consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP and necessarily include certain estimates and judgments made by management. The following is a list of accounting policies that we believe are the most critical in understanding our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows and that may require management to make subjective or complex judgments about matters that are inherently uncertain. Such critical accounting policies, estimates and judgments are applicable to all of our operating segments.

We have noted examples of the residual accounting and business risks inherent in the accounting for these areas. Residual accounting and business risks are defined as the inherent risks that we face after the application of our policies and processes that are generally outside of our control or ability to forecast.

Landfill Accounting

Landfill operating costs are treated as period expenses and are not discussed further in this section.

Our landfill assets and liabilities fall into the following two categories, each of which requires accounting judgments and estimates:

•Landfill development costs that are capitalized as an asset.

•Landfill retirement obligations relating to our capping, closure and post-closure liabilities that result in a corresponding landfill retirement asset.

We use life-cycle accounting and the units-of-consumption method to recognize landfill development costs over the life of the site. In life-cycle accounting, all current and future capitalized costs to acquire and construct a site are calculated, and charged to expense based on the consumption of cubic yards of available airspace. Obligations associated with final capping, closure and post-closure are also capitalized, and amortized on a units-of-consumption basis as airspace is consumed. Cost and airspace estimates are developed at least annually by engineers.

Landfill Development Costs

Site permits.  To develop, construct and operate a landfill, we must obtain permits from various regulatory agencies at the local, state and federal levels. The permitting process requires an initial site study to determine whether the location is feasible for landfill operations. The initial studies are reviewed by our environmental management group and then submitted to the regulatory agencies for approval. During the development stage we capitalize certain costs that we incur after site selection but before the receipt of all required permits if we believe that it is probable that the site will be permitted.

Residual risks:

•Changes in legislative or regulatory requirements may cause changes to the landfill site permitting process. These changes could make it more difficult and costly to obtain and maintain a landfill permit.

•Studies performed could be inaccurate, which could result in the denial or revocation of a permit and changes to accounting assumptions. Conditions could exist that were not identified in the study, which may make the location not feasible for a landfill and could result in the denial of a permit. Denial or revocation of a permit could impair the recorded value of the landfill asset.

53
•Actions by neighboring parties, private citizen groups or others to oppose our efforts to obtain, maintain or expand permits could result in denial, revocation or suspension of a permit, which could adversely impact the economic viability of the landfill and could impair the recorded value of the landfill. As a result of opposition to our obtaining a permit, improved technical information as a project progresses, or changes in the anticipated economics associated with a project, we may decide to reduce the scope of, or abandon a project, which could result in an asset impairment.

Technical landfill design. Upon receipt of initial regulatory approval, technical landfill designs are prepared. The technical designs, which include the detailed specifications to develop and construct all components of the landfill including the types and quantities of materials that will be required, are reviewed by our environmental management group. The technical designs are submitted to the regulatory agencies for approval. Upon approval of the technical designs, the regulatory agencies issue permits to develop and operate the landfill.

Residual risks:

•Changes in legislative or regulatory requirements may require changes in the landfill technical designs. These changes could make it more difficult and costly to meet new design standards.

•Technical design requirements, as approved, may need modifications at some future point in time.

•Technical designs could be inaccurate and could result in increased construction costs, difficulty in obtaining a permit or the use of rates to recognize the amortization of landfill development costs and asset retirement obligations that are not appropriate.

Permitted and probable landfill disposal capacity.  Included in the technical designs are factors that determine the ultimate disposal capacity of the landfill. These factors include the area over which the landfill will be developed, such as the depth of excavation, the height of the landfill elevation and the angle of the side-slope construction. The disposal capacity of the landfill is calculated in cubic yards. This measurement of volume is then converted to a disposal capacity expressed in tons based on a site-specific expected density to be achieved over the remaining operating life of the landfill.

Residual risks:

•Estimates of future disposal capacity may change as a result of changes in legislative or regulatory design requirements.

•The density of waste may vary due to variations in operating conditions, including waste compaction practices, site design, climate and the nature of the waste.

•Capacity is defined in cubic yards but waste received is measured in tons. The number of tons per cubic yard varies by type of waste and our rate of compaction.

Development costs. The types of costs that are detailed in the technical design specifications generally include excavation, natural and synthetic liners, construction of leachate collection systems, installation of methane gas collection systems and monitoring probes, installation of groundwater monitoring wells, construction of leachate management facilities and other costs associated with the development of the site. We review the adequacy of our cost estimates on an annual basis by comparing estimated costs with third-party bids or contractual arrangements, reviewing the changes in year-over-year cost estimates for reasonableness, and comparing our resulting development cost per acre with prior period costs. These development costs, together with any costs incurred to acquire, design and permit the landfill, including capitalized interest, are recorded to the landfill asset on the balance sheet as incurred.

Residual risk:

•Actual future costs of construction materials and third-party labor could differ from the costs we have estimated because of the level of demand and the availability of the required materials and labor. Technical designs could be altered due to unexpected operating conditions, regulatory changes or legislative changes.

Landfill development asset amortization. To match the expense related to the landfill asset with the revenue generated by the landfill operations, we amortize the landfill development asset over its operating life on a per-ton basis as waste is accepted at the landfill. The landfill asset is fully amortized at the end of a landfill’s operating life. The per-ton rate is calculated by dividing the sum of the landfill development asset net book value plus estimated future development costs (as described above) for the landfill, by the landfill’s estimated remaining disposal capacity. The expected future development costs are not inflated or discounted, but rather expressed in nominal dollars. This rate is applied to each ton accepted at the landfill to arrive at amortization expense for the period.

Amortization rates are influenced by the original cost basis of the landfill, including acquisition costs, which in turn is determined by geographic location and market values. We secure significant landfill assets through business acquisitions and 

54
value them at the time of acquisition based on fair value. Amortization rates are also influenced by site-specific engineering and cost factors.

Residual risk:

•Changes in our future development cost estimates or our disposal capacity will normally result in a change in our amortization rates and will impact amortization expense prospectively. An unexpected significant increase in estimated costs or reduction in disposal capacity could affect the ongoing economic viability of the landfill and result in asset impairment.

On at least an annual basis, we update the estimates of future development costs and remaining disposal capacity for each landfill. These costs and disposal capacity estimates are reviewed and approved by senior operations management annually. Changes in cost estimates and disposal capacity are reflected prospectively in the landfill amortization rates that are updated annually.

Landfill Asset Retirement Obligations

We have two types of retirement obligations related to landfills: (1) capping and (2) closure and post-closure.

Obligations associated with final capping activities that occur during the operating life of the landfill are recognized on a units-of-consumption basis as airspace is consumed within each discrete capping event. Obligations related to closure and post-closure activities that occur after the landfill has ceased operations are recognized on a units-of-consumption basis as airspace is consumed throughout the entire life of the landfill. Landfill retirement obligations are capitalized as the related liabilities are recognized and amortized using the units-of-consumption method over the airspace consumed within the capping event or the airspace consumed within the entire landfill, depending on the nature of the obligation. All obligations are initially measured at estimated fair value. Fair value is calculated on a present value basis using an inflation rate and our credit-adjusted, risk-free rate in effect at the time the liabilities were incurred. Future costs for final capping, closure and post-closure are developed at least annually by engineers, and are inflated to future value using estimated future payment dates and inflation rate projections.

Landfill capping. As individual areas within each landfill reach capacity, we must cap and close the areas in accordance with the landfill site permit. These requirements are detailed in the technical design of the landfill site process previously described.

Closure and post-closure. Closure costs are costs incurred after a landfill stops receiving waste, but prior to being certified as closed. After the entire landfill has reached capacity and is certified closed, we must continue to maintain and monitor the site for a post-closure period, which generally extends for 30 years. Costs associated with closure and post-closure requirements generally include maintenance of the site, the monitoring of methane gas collection systems and groundwater systems, and other activities that occur after the site has ceased accepting waste. Costs associated with post-closure monitoring generally include groundwater sampling, analysis and statistical reports, third-party labor associated with gas system operations and maintenance, transportation and disposal of leachate, and erosion control costs related to the final cap.

Landfill retirement obligation liabilities and assets. Estimates of the total future costs required to cap, close and monitor each landfill as specified by the landfill permit are updated annually. The estimates include inflation, the specific timing of future cash outflows, and the anticipated waste flow into the capping events. Our cost estimates are inflated to the period of performance using an estimate of inflation, which is updated annually and is based upon the ten year average consumer price index (1.7% in both 2018 and 2017, and 1.8% in 2016).

The present value of the remaining capping costs for specific capping events and the remaining closure and post-closure costs for each landfill are recorded as incurred on a per-ton basis. These liabilities are incurred as disposal capacity is consumed at the landfill.

Capping, closure and post-closure liabilities are recorded in layers and discounted using our credit-adjusted risk-free rate in effect at the time the obligation is incurred (4.3% in both 2018 and 2017, and 3.75% in 2016).

Retirement obligations are increased each year to reflect the passage of time by accreting the balance at the weighted average credit-adjusted risk-free rate that was used to calculate each layer of the recorded liabilities. This accretion is charged to operating expenses. Actual cash expenditures reduce the asset retirement obligation liabilities as they are made.

Corresponding retirement obligation assets are recorded for the same value as the additions to the capping, closure and post-closure liabilities. The retirement obligation assets are amortized to expense on a per-ton basis as disposal capacity is consumed. The per-ton rate is calculated by dividing the sum of each of the recorded retirement obligation asset’s net book value and expected future additions to the retirement obligation asset by the remaining disposal capacity. A per-ton rate is determined for each separate capping event based on the disposal capacity relating to that event. Closure and post-closure per-ton rates are based on the total disposal capacity of the landfill.

55
Residual risks:

•Changes in legislative or regulatory requirements, including changes in capping, closure activities or post-closure monitoring activities, types and quantities of materials used, or term of post-closure care, could cause changes in our cost estimates.

•Changes in the landfill retirement obligation due to changes in the anticipated waste flow, changes in airspace compaction estimates or changes in the timing of expenditures for closed landfills and fully incurred but unpaid capping events are recorded in results of operations prospectively. This could result in unanticipated increases or decreases in expense.

•Actual timing of disposal capacity utilization could differ from projected timing, causing differences in timing of when amortization and accretion expense is recognized for capping, closure and post-closure liabilities.

•Changes in inflation rates could impact our actual future costs and our total liabilities.

•Changes in our capital structure or market conditions could result in changes to the credit-adjusted risk-free rate used to discount the liabilities, which could cause changes in future recorded liabilities, assets and expense.

•Amortization rates could change in the future based on the evaluation of new facts and circumstances relating to landfill capping design, post-closure monitoring requirements, or the inflation or discount rate.

On an annual basis, we update our estimates of future capping, closure and post-closure costs and of future disposal capacity for each landfill. Revisions in estimates of our costs or timing of expenditures are recognized immediately as increases or decreases to the capping, closure and post-closure liabilities and the corresponding retirement obligation assets. Changes in the assets result in changes to the amortization rates which are applied prospectively, except for fully incurred capping events and closed landfills, where the changes are recorded immediately in results of operations since the associated disposal capacity has already been consumed.

Permitted and probable disposal capacity.  Disposal capacity is determined by the specifications detailed in the landfill permit. We classify this disposal capacity as permitted. We also include probable expansion disposal capacity in our remaining disposal capacity estimates, thus including additional disposal capacity being sought through means of a permit expansion. Probable expansion disposal capacity has not yet received final approval from the applicable regulatory agencies, but we have determined that certain critical criteria have been met and that the successful completion of the expansion is probable. We have developed six criteria that must be met before an expansion area is designated as probable expansion airspace. We believe that satisfying all of these criteria demonstrates a high likelihood that expansion airspace that is incorporated in our landfill costing will be permitted. However, because some of these criteria are judgmental, they may exclude expansion airspace that will eventually be permitted or include expansion airspace that will not be permitted. In either of these scenarios, our amortization, depletion and accretion expense could change significantly. Our internal criteria to classify disposal capacity as probable expansion airspace are as follows:

•We own the land associated with the expansion airspace or control it pursuant to an option agreement;

•We are committed to supporting the expansion project financially and with appropriate resources;

•There are no identified fatal flaws or impediments associated with the project, including political impediments;

•Progress is being made on the project;

•The expansion is attainable within a reasonable time frame; and

•We believe it is likely we will receive the expansion permit.

After successfully meeting these criteria, the disposal capacity that will result from the planned expansion is included in our remaining disposal capacity estimates. Additionally, for purposes of calculating landfill amortization and capping, closure and post-closure rates, we include the incremental costs to develop, construct, close and monitor the related probable expansion disposal capacity.

Residual risk:

•We may be unsuccessful in obtaining permits for probable expansion disposal capacity because of the failure to obtain the final local, state or federal permits or due to other unknown reasons. If we are unsuccessful in obtaining permits for probable expansion disposal capacity, or the disposal capacity for which we obtain approvals is less than what was estimated, both our estimated total costs and disposal capacity will be reduced, which generally increases the rates we charge for landfill amortization and capping, closure and post-closure accruals. An unexpected decrease in disposal capacity could also cause an asset impairment.

56
Environmental Liabilities

We are subject to an array of laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, and we remediate sites in the ordinary course of our business. Under current laws and regulations, we may be responsible for environmental remediation at sites that we either own or operate, including sites that we have acquired, or sites where we have (or a company that we have acquired has) delivered waste. Our environmental remediation liabilities primarily include costs associated with remediating groundwater, surface water and soil contamination, as well as controlling and containing methane gas migration and the related legal costs. To estimate our ultimate liability at these sites, we evaluate several factors, including the nature and extent of contamination at each identified site, the required remediation methods, timing of expenditures, the apportionment of responsibility among the potentially responsible parties and the financial viability of those parties. We accrue for costs associated with environmental remediation obligations when such costs are probable and reasonably estimable in accordance with accounting for loss contingencies. We periodically review the status of all environmental matters and update our estimates of the likelihood of and future expenditures for remediation as necessary. Changes in the liabilities resulting from these reviews are recognized currently in earnings in the period in which the adjustment is known. Adjustments to estimates are reasonably possible in the near term and may result in changes to recorded amounts. With the exception of those obligations assumed in the acquisition of Allied, environmental obligations are recorded on an undiscounted basis. Environmental obligations assumed in the acquisition of Allied, which were initially estimated on a discounted basis, are accreted to full value over time through charges to interest expense. Adjustments arising from changes in amounts and timing of estimated costs and settlements may result in increases or decreases in these obligations and are calculated on a discounted basis as they were initially estimated on a discounted basis. These adjustments are charged to operating income when they are known. We perform a comprehensive review of our environmental obligations annually and also review changes in facts and circumstances associated with these obligations at least quarterly. We have not reduced the liabilities we have recorded for recoveries from other potentially responsible parties or insurance companies.

Residual risks:

•We cannot determine with precision the ultimate amounts of our environmental remediation liabilities. Our estimates of these liabilities require assumptions about uncertain future events. Thus, our estimates could change substantially as additional information becomes available regarding the nature or extent of contamination, the required remediation methods, timing of expenditures, the final apportionment of responsibility among the potentially responsible parties identified, the financial viability of those parties, and the actions of governmental agencies or private parties with interests in the matter. The actual environmental costs may exceed our current and future accruals for these costs, and any adjustments could be material.

•Actual amounts could differ from the estimated liabilities as a result of changes in estimated future litigation costs to pursue the matter to ultimate resolution.

•An unanticipated environmental liability that arises could result in a material charge to our consolidated statement of income.

Insurance Reserves and Related Costs

Our insurance policies for workers' compensation, commercial general liability, commercial auto liability and environmental liability are high deductible, or retention programs. The deductibles, or retentions, range from $3 million to $10 million. The employee-related health benefits are also subject to a high deductible insurance policy. Accruals for deductibles or retentions are based on claims filed and actuarial estimates of claims development and claims incurred but not reported.

Residual risks:

•Incident rates, including frequency and severity, and other actuarial assumptions could change causing our current and future actuarially determined obligations to change, which would be reflected in our consolidated statement of income in the period in which such adjustment is known.

•Recorded reserves may not be adequate to cover the future payment of claims. Adjustments, if any, to estimates recorded resulting from ultimate claim payments would be reflected in the consolidated statement of income in the periods in which such adjustments are known.

•The settlement costs to discharge our obligations, including legal and health care costs, could increase or decrease causing current estimates of our insurance reserves to change.

57
Loss Contingencies

We are subject to various legal proceedings, claims and regulatory matters, the outcomes of which are subject to significant uncertainty. We determine whether to disclose material loss contingencies or accrue for loss contingencies based on an assessment of whether the risk of loss is remote, reasonably possible or probable, and whether it can be reasonably estimated. We analyze our litigation and regulatory matters based on available information to assess the potential liabilities. Management develops its assessment based on an analysis of possible outcomes under various strategies. We record and disclose loss contingencies pursuant to the applicable accounting guidance for such matter.

We record losses related to contingencies in cost of operations or selling, general and administrative expenses, depending on the nature of the underlying transaction leading to the loss contingency.

Residual risks:

•Actual costs may vary from our estimates for a variety of reasons, including differing interpretations of laws, opinions on culpability and assessments of the amount of damages.

•Loss contingency assumptions involve judgments that are inherently subjective and generally involve matters that are by their nature complex and unpredictable. If a loss contingency results in an adverse judgment or is settled for a significant amount, it could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows in the period in which such judgment or settlement occurs.

•New claims may be asserted that are not included in our loss contingencies.

Asset Impairment

Valuation methodology.  We evaluate our long-lived assets (other than goodwill) for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying amount of the asset or asset group may not be recoverable based on projected cash flows anticipated to be generated from the ongoing operation of those assets or we intend to sell or otherwise dispose of the assets.

Residual risk:

•If events or changes in circumstances occur, including reductions in anticipated cash flows generated by our operations or determinations to divest assets, certain assets could be impaired, which would result in a non-cash charge to earnings.

Evaluation criteria. We test long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amounts of the assets may not be recoverable. Examples of such events could include a significant adverse change in the extent or manner in which we use a long-lived asset, a change in its physical condition, or new circumstances that could cause an expectation that it is more likely than not that we would sell or otherwise dispose of a long-lived asset significantly before the end of its previously estimated useful life.

Residual risk:

•Our most significant asset impairment exposure, other than goodwill (which is discussed below), relates to our landfills. A significant reduction in our estimated disposal capacity as a result of unanticipated events such as regulatory developments, revocation of an existing permit or denial of an expansion permit, or changes in our assumptions used to calculate disposal capacity, could trigger an impairment charge.

Recognition criteria. If such circumstances arise, we recognize impairment for the difference between the carrying amount and fair value of the asset if the net book value of the asset exceeds the sum of the estimated undiscounted cash flows expected to result from its use and eventual disposition. We generally use the present value of the expected cash flows from that asset to determine fair value.

Goodwill Recoverability

We evaluate goodwill for impairment annually as of October 1st, or when an indicator of impairment exists. We compare the fair value of our reporting units with the carrying value, including goodwill. We recognize an impairment charge for the amount by which the carrying value exceeds a reporting unit’s fair value, not to exceed the total amount of recorded goodwill, as applicable.

During 2018, we managed and evaluated our operations through two field groups: Group 1 and Group 2. In determining fair value, we primarily use discounted future cash flows and operating results based on a comparative multiple of earnings or revenues.

58
Significant estimates used in our fair value calculation using discounted future cash flows include: (1) estimates of future revenue and expense growth by reporting unit, which we estimate to be approximately 3% annually; (2) future estimated effective tax rates, which we estimate to be 27%; (3) future estimated capital expenditures as well as future required investments in working capital; (4) estimated discount rates, which we estimate to range between 7% and 8%; and (5) the future terminal value of the reporting unit, which is based on its ability to exist into perpetuity. Significant estimates used in the fair value calculation using market value multiples include: (a) estimated future growth potential of the reporting unit; (b) estimated multiples of revenue or earnings a willing buyer is likely to pay; and (c) the estimated control premium a willing buyer is likely to pay.

In addition, we evaluate a reporting unit for impairment if events or circumstances change between annual tests, indicating a possible impairment. Examples of such events or circumstances include: (1) a significant adverse change in legal factors or in the business climate; (2) an adverse action or assessment by a regulator; (3) a more likely than not expectation that a reporting unit or a significant portion thereof will be sold; (4) continued or sustained losses at a reporting unit; (5) a significant decline in our market capitalization as compared to our book value; or (6) we conclude that we may not recover a significant asset group within the reporting unit.

We assign assets and liabilities from our corporate operating segment to our two reporting units to the extent that such assets or liabilities relate to the cash flows of the reporting unit and would be included in determining the reporting unit’s fair value.

In preparing our annual test for impairment as of October 1, 2018, we determined that our indicated fair value of total invested capital exceeded our total market capitalization. We believe one of the primary reconciling differences between the indicated fair value of total invested capital and our total market capitalization is due to a control premium. We believe the control premium represents the value a market participant could extract as savings and/or synergies by obtaining control.

As of October 1, 2018, we determined that the indicated fair value of our reporting units exceeded their carrying value by approximately 110% on average and, therefore, we noted no indicators of impairment at our reporting units.

Our operating segments, which also represent our reporting units, are comprised of several vertically integrated businesses. When an individual business within an integrated operating segment is divested, goodwill is allocated to that business based on its fair value relative to the fair value of its operating segment.

Residual risks:

•Future events could cause us to conclude that impairment indicators exist and that goodwill associated with acquired businesses is impaired.

•The valuation of identifiable goodwill requires significant estimates and judgment about future performance, cash flows and fair value. Our future results could be affected if these current estimates of future performance and fair value change. For example, a reduction in long-term growth assumptions could reduce the estimated fair value of the operating segments to below their carrying values, which could trigger an impairment charge. Similarly, an increase in our discount rate could trigger an impairment charge. Any resulting impairment charge could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.

Income Taxes

Our income tax expense, deferred taxes and liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits reflect management's best assessment of estimated future taxes to be paid. We are subject to U.S. federal income taxes and to the income taxes of numerous states and Puerto Rico. Significant judgments and estimates are required in determining the combined income tax expense.

Deferred income taxes arise from temporary differences between the financial reporting and income tax bases of assets (other than non-deductible goodwill) and liabilities, which will result in taxable or deductible amounts in the future. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using the income tax rate in effect during the year in which the differences are expected to reverse.

We record net deferred tax assets to the extent we believe these assets will more likely than not be realized. In making this determination, we consider all available positive and negative evidence, including scheduled reversals of deferred tax liabilities, projected future taxable income, tax planning strategies and recent financial operations. The assumptions about future taxable income require the use of significant judgment and are consistent with the plans and estimates we are using to manage the underlying businesses. In the event we determine that we would be able to realize our deferred income tax assets in the future in excess of their net recorded amount, we will make an adjustment to the valuation allowance which would reduce our provision for income taxes.

59
The calculation of our tax liabilities involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax laws and regulations in a multitude of jurisdictions. Regarding the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes recognized in the financial statements, we record unrecognized tax benefits as liabilities in accordance with ASC 740 when it is not more likely than not that the position will be sustained upon examination, including resolutions of any related appeals or litigation processes, based on the technical merits. We recognize interest and penalties related to uncertain tax positions within the provision for income taxes in our consolidated statement of income. Accrued interest and penalties are included within other accrued liabilities, deferred income taxes and other long-term tax liabilities in our consolidated balance sheets. We adjust these liabilities when our judgment changes as a result of the evaluation of new information not previously available. Because of the complexity of some of these uncertainties, the ultimate resolution may result in a payment that is materially different from our current estimate of the unrecognized tax benefit liabilities. These differences will be reflected as increases or decreases to income tax expense in the period in which new information is available. 

Residual risks:

•Income tax assets and liabilities established in purchase accounting for acquisitions are based on assumptions that could differ from the ultimate outcome of the tax matters. Such adjustments would be charged or credited to earnings, unless they meet certain remeasurement criteria and are allowed to be adjusted to goodwill.

•Changes in the estimated realizability of deferred tax assets could result in adjustments to our provision for income taxes.

•Valuation allowances for deferred tax assets and the realizability of net operating loss carryforwards for tax purposes are based on our judgment. If our judgments and estimates concerning valuation allowances and the realizability of net operating loss carryforwards are incorrect, our provision for income taxes would change.

•We are regularly under examination or administrative review by various taxing authorities. The Internal Revenue Code, state tax laws and income tax regulations are a complex set of rules that we must interpret and apply. Positions taken in tax years under examination or subsequent years are subject to challenge. Accordingly, we may have exposure for additional tax liabilities arising from these audits if any positions taken by us or by companies we have acquired are disallowed by the taxing authorities.

•We adjust our liabilities for uncertain tax positions when our judgment changes as a result of the evaluation of new information not previously available. Due to the complexity of some of these uncertainties, their ultimate resolution may result in payments that are materially different from our current estimates of the tax liabilities. These differences will be reflected as increases or decreases to our provision for income taxes in the period in which they are determined.

New Accounting Standards

For a description of new accounting standards that may affect us, see Note 2, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this Form 10-K.

ITEM 7A.QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK