ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

All financial instruments described in this section are held for purposes other than trading.

Interest Rate Risk

The tables below provide information about long-term debt issued by the Company and Consolidated SCE&G and other financial instruments that are sensitive to changes in interest rates. For debt obligations, the tables present principal cash flows and related weighted average interest rates by expected maturity dates. For interest rate swaps, the figures shown reflect 

19

notional amounts, weighted average interest rates and related maturities. Fair values for debt represent quoted market prices. Interest rate swap agreements are valued using discounted cash flow models with independently sourced data. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

 While a decrease in interest rates would increase the fair value of debt, it is unlikely that events which would result in a realized loss will occur.

20

For further discussion of long-term debt and interest rate derivatives, see Note 5 and Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.

21

Commodity Price Risk

The following table provides information about the Company’s financial instruments, which are limited to financial positions of Energy Marketing and PSNC Energy, that are sensitive to changes in natural gas prices. Weighted average settlement prices are per 10,000 MMBTU. Fair value represents quoted market prices.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a)  Weighted average, in dollars

(b)  Millions of dollars

The Company uses derivative instruments to hedge forward purchases and sales of natural gas, which create market risks of different types. See Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. 

PSNC Energy utilizes futures, options and swaps to hedge gas purchasing activities. PSNC Energy’s tariffs include a provision for the recovery of actual gas costs incurred. PSNC Energy defers premiums, transaction fees, margin requirements and any realized gains or losses from its hedging program for subsequent recovery from customers. 

22

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA