PART I

ITEM 1. BUSINESS

CORPORATE STRUCTURE

Effective January 1, 2019, SCANA became a wholly-owned subsidiary of Dominion Energy under the terms of the Merger Agreement. SCANA's shareholders approved the merger in a special meeting on July 31, 2018, and various regulatory bodies approved the transaction throughout 2018. See additional discussion in Note 2 and Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.

SCANA is a South Carolina corporation created in 1984 as a holding company. SCANA does not directly own or operate any significant physical properties, but it holds directly all of the capital stock of its subsidiaries, including the subsidiaries described below. 

Regulated Utilities

SCE&G is engaged in the generation, transmission, distribution and sale of electricity to approximately 730,000 customers and the purchase, sale and transportation of natural gas to approximately 380,000 customers (each as of December 31, 2018). SCE&G’s business experiences seasonal fluctuations, with generally higher sales of electricity during the summer and winter months because of air conditioning and heating requirements, and generally higher sales of natural gas during the winter months due to heating requirements. SCE&G’s service territory includes portions of central, southern and southwestern South Carolina (for electric and natural gas) as well as portions of eastern South Carolina (for natural gas only). SCE&G’s electric transmission system extends over a large part of the central, southern and southwestern portions of South Carolina. 

GENCO owns Williams Station and sells electricity solely to SCE&G under the terms of a unit power sales agreement and related operating agreement and pursuant to a FERC-approved tariff. Fuel Company acquires, owns and provides financing for SCE&G's nuclear fuel, certain fossil fuels and emission allowances.

PSNC Energy purchases, sells and transports natural gas to approximately 580,000 residential, commercial and industrial customers (as of December 31, 2018). PSNC Energy serves portions of western, central and eastern North Carolina, including the area known as the Research Triangle. 

Nonregulated Businesses

SCANA Energy markets natural gas in the southeast and provides energy-related services. A division of SCANA Energy sells natural gas to approximately 420,000 customers (as of December 31, 2018) in Georgia’s deregulated natural gas market. As Georgia’s provider of last resort, SCANA Energy provides service to customers considered to be low-income or that are otherwise unable to obtain natural gas service from other marketers. SCANA Energy provides this service at rates approved by the GPSC and receives funding from Georgia's Universal Service Fund to offset some of the resulting bad debt. SCANA Energy files financial and other information periodically with the GPSC, and such information is available at www.psc.state.ga.us (which is not intended as an active hyperlink; the information on the GPSC website is not part of this or any other report filed by the Company with the SEC).

SCANA Services provides shared administrative and management services to SCANA's other subsidiaries.

Employees

At December 31, 2018, the Company had approximately 5,200 full-time employees, of which approximately 1,100 were subject to collective bargaining agreements, and Consolidated SCE&G had approximately 2,700 employees, of which approximately 800 were subject to collective bargaining agreements. 

COMPETITION

There is no competition for electric distribution or generation service within SCE&G's service territory in South Carolina and no such competition is currently permitted. However, competition from third-party owners for development, construction and ownership of certain transmission facilities in SCE&G’s service territory is permitted pursuant to FERC Order 

5

1000, subject to state and local siting and permitting approvals. This could result in additional competition to build and own transmission infrastructure in SCE&G’s service area in the future.

Competition in SCE&G's and PSNC Energy's natural gas distribution operations is generally based on price and convenience. Large commercial and industrial customers often have the ability to switch from natural gas to an alternate fuel, such as propane or fuel oil. Natural gas competes with these alternate fuels based on price. As a result, any significant disparity between supply and demand, either of natural gas or of alternate fuels, and due either to production or delivery disruptions or other factors, will affect price and the ability to retain large commercial and industrial customers.

SCANA Energy faces competition from affiliates of large energy companies and electric membership cooperatives, among others. The ability of SCANA Energy to maintain its market share primarily depends on the prices it charges customers relative to the prices charged by its competitors and its ability to provide high levels of customer service.

REGULATION

SCE&G's electric distribution service, including the rates it may charge to jurisdictional customers, is subject to regulation by the SCPSC. SCE&G's electric generation operations are subject to regulation by the SCPSC, FERC, the NRC, the EPA, the DOE and various other federal, state and local authorities. SCE&G's electric transmission service is primarily regulated by FERC and the DOE. SCE&G and PSNC Energy's gas distribution operations are subject to regulation by the SCPSC and the NCUC, respectively, as well as PHMSA, DOT, the ORS and the NCUC for enforcement of federal and state pipeline safety requirements in their respective service territories. SCANA Energy's activities are subject to regulation by the GPSC as to retail prices for customers served under regulated provider contracts and the FERC.

WHERE YOU CAN FIND MORE INFORMATION

SCANA and SCE&G file their annual, quarterly and current reports and other information with the SEC. Their SEC filings are available to the public over the Internet at the SEC’s website at http://www.sec.gov. 

SCANA and SCE&G make their SEC filings available, free of charge, including the annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports, through Dominion Energy’s internet website, http://www.dominionenergy.com, as soon as reasonably practicable after filing or furnishing the material to the SEC. Information contained on Dominion Energy’s website is not incorporated by reference in this report.

ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS