Item 7. Management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations

The following discussion and analysis of the Company’s financial condition and results of operations should be read together with the financial statements and the related notes included elsewhere herein and the description of the Company’s business and reportable segments in item 1 above. This discussion contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results may differ materially from those discussed in forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause a difference include, but are not limited to, those discussed under cautionary note regarding forward-looking statements below and in risk factors in part I, item 1A of this Form 10-K. References herein to the “Company,” “we,” “us,” or “our” refer to Walgreens Boots Alliance, Inc. and its subsidiaries, and in each case do not include unconsolidated partially-owned entities, except as otherwise indicated or the context otherwise requires.

Certain amounts in the Consolidated Financial Statements and associated notes may not add due to rounding. All percentages have been calculated using unrounded amounts for fiscal 2019.

INTRODUCTION AND SEGMENTS

Walgreens Boots Alliance, Inc. (“Walgreens Boots Alliance”) and its subsidiaries are a global leader in retail and wholesale pharmacy. Its operations are conducted through three reportable segments:

•Retail Pharmacy USA;

•Retail Pharmacy International; and

•Pharmaceutical Wholesale

See note 16, segment reporting and note 17, sales further information.

FACTORS AFFECTING OUR RESULTS AND COMPARABILITY

The Company has been, and we expect it to continue to be, affected by a number of factors that may cause actual results to differ from our current expectations. These factors include: financial performance of our equity method investees, including AmerisourceBergen; the influence of certain holidays; seasonality; foreign currency rates; changes in vendor, payer and customer relationships and terms and associated reimbursement pressure; strategic transactions and acquisitions, including the acquisition of stores and other assets from Rite Aid; joint ventures and other strategic collaborations; changes in laws, including the U.S. tax law changes; changes in trade, tariffs, including trade relations between the United States and China, and international relations, including the UK's proposed withdrawal from the European Union and its impact on our operations and prospects and those of our customers and counterparties; the timing and magnitude of cost reduction initiatives, including under our Transformational Cost Management Program (as defined below); fluctuations in variable costs; and general economic conditions in the markets in which the Company operates. These and other factors can affect the Company’s operations and net earnings for any period and may cause such results not to be comparable to the same period in previous years. The results presented in this report are not necessarily indicative of future operating results.

TRANSFORMATIONAL COST MANAGEMENT PROGRAM

On December 20, 2018, the Company announced a transformational cost management program that is expected to deliver in excess of $1.5 billion of annual cost savings by fiscal 2022 (the “Transformational Cost Management Program”). As of the date of this report, the Company now expects to deliver in excess of $1.8 billion of annual cost savings by fiscal 2022. The Transformational Cost Management Program, which is multi-faceted and includes divisional optimization initiatives, global smart spending, global smart organization and the transformation of the Company’s information technology (IT) capabilities, is designed to help the Company achieve increased cost efficiencies. To date, the Company has taken initial actions across all aspects of the Transformational Cost Management Program. The actions under the Transformational Cost Management Program focus on all reportable segments and the Company’s global functions. Divisional optimization within each of the Company’s segments includes activities such as optimization of stores which includes plans to close approximately 200 stores in the United Kingdom and approximately 200 locations in the United States.

The Company currently estimates that the Transformational Cost Management Program will result in cumulative pre-tax charges to its GAAP financial results of approximately $1.9 billion to $2.4 billion, of which $1.6 billion to $2.0 billion are expected to be recorded as exit and disposal activities. The Company estimates that approximately 80% of the cumulative pre-tax charges relating to the Transformational Cost Management Program will result in future cash expenditures, primarily related to lease and other real estate payments, employee severance and technology costs related to the Company’s IT transformation. 

The Company currently estimates that it will recognize aggregate pre-tax charges to its GAAP financial results related to Transformational Cost Management Program as follows:

- 35 -
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

1 Primarily related to asset write-offs from store closures, information technology and other asset write-offs.

In addition to the impacts discussed above, as a result of the actions related to store closures taken under the Transformational Cost Management Program, the Company expects to record $508 million of transition adjustments to decrease retained earnings due to the adoption of the new lease accounting standard (Topic 842) that became effective on September 1, 2019. See note 1, summary of major accounting policies, for additional information.

Since the approval of the Transformational Cost Management Program, the Company has recognized aggregate cumulative pre-tax charges to its financial results in accordance with GAAP of $477 million, of which $432 million are recorded as exit and disposal activities. See note 3, exit and disposal activities, for additional information.

Costs under the Transformational Cost Management Program, which were primarily recorded in selling, general and administrative expenses and included in the fiscal year ended August 31, 2019 were as follows (in millions): 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

1 Primarily includes write down of leasehold improvements, certain software and inventory.

Transformational Cost Management Program charges are recognized as the costs are incurred over time in accordance with GAAP. The Company treats charges related to the Transformational Cost Management Program as special items impacting comparability of results in its earnings disclosures.

The amounts and timing of all estimates are subject to change until finalized. The actual amounts and timing may vary materially based on various factors. See “cautionary note regarding forward-looking statements” below.

ACQUISITION OF CERTAIN RITE AID ASSETS

On September 19, 2017, the Company announced it had secured regulatory clearance for an amended and restated asset purchase agreement to purchase 1,932 stores, three distribution centers and related inventory from Rite Aid for $4.375 billion in cash and other consideration. The Company has completed the acquisition of all 1,932 Rite Aid stores and the first distribution center and related inventory, while the transition of the remaining two distribution centers and related inventory remains subject to closing conditions set forth in the amended and restated asset purchase agreement.

The Company expects to complete integration of the acquired stores and related assets by the end of fiscal 2020, at an estimated total cost of approximately $850 million, which is reported as acquisition-related costs. The Company has recognized cumulative pre-tax charges for the fiscal year 2019 and 2018 of $295 million and $221 million, respectively, related to integration of the acquired stores and related assets. In addition, the Company expects to spend approximately $500 million on store conversions and related activities. The Company expects annual synergies from the transaction of more than $325 million, 

- 36 -
which are expected to be fully realized within four years of the initial closing of this transaction and derived primarily from procurement, cost savings and other operational matters.

The amounts and timing of all estimates are subject to change until finalized. The actual amounts and timing may vary materially based on various factors. See “cautionary note regarding forward-looking statements” below.

STORE OPTIMIZATION PROGRAM

On October 24, 2017, the Company’s Board of Directors approved a plan to implement a program (the “Store Optimization Program”) to optimize store locations through the planned closure of approximately 600 stores and related assets within the Company’s Retail Pharmacy USA segment upon completion of the acquisition of certain stores and related assets from Rite Aid. As of the date of this report, the Company expects to close approximately 750 stores, of which the majority have been closed as part of this program. The actions under the Store Optimization Program commenced in March 2018 and are expected to be complete by the end of fiscal 2020. The Store Optimization Program is expected to result in cost savings of approximately $350 million per year to be fully delivered by the end of fiscal 2020. 

The Company currently estimates that it will recognize cumulative pre-tax charges to its GAAP financial results of approximately $350 million, including costs associated with lease obligations and other real estate costs and employee severance and other exit costs. The Company expects to incur pre-tax charges of approximately $160 million for lease obligations and other real estate costs and approximately $190 million for employee severance and other exit costs. The Company estimates that substantially all of these cumulative pre-tax charges will result in cash expenditures.

Since approval of the Store Optimization Program, the Company has recognized cumulative pre-tax charges to its GAAP financial results of $296 million, including $100 million for fiscal 2018 and $196 million for fiscal 2019, which were primarily recorded within selling, general and administrative expenses. Cumulative pre-tax charges included $138 million related to lease obligations and other real estate costs and $158 million in employee severance and other exit costs. 

Store Optimization Program charges are recognized as the costs are incurred over time in accordance with GAAP. The Company treats charges related to the Store Optimization Program as special items impacting comparability of results in its earnings disclosures. 

The amounts and timing of all estimates are subject to change until finalized. The actual amounts and timing may vary materially based on various factors. See “cautionary note regarding forward-looking statements” below.

U.S. TAX LAW CHANGES

In connection with the U.S. tax law changes enacted in December 2017 and in accordance with SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin 118, the Company completed its analysis of the income tax effects of the U.S. tax law changes during the three months ended February 28, 2019. The incremental net tax benefit recorded upon completion of the analysis of the income tax effects of the U.S. tax law changes was not material to our Consolidated Financial Statements. 

While the Company completed its analysis of the income tax effects of the U.S. tax law changes, the final impact of the U.S. tax law changes may differ from this analysis, due to, among other things, technical clarifications from the U.S. Department of the Treasury and the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”), interpretations of the U.S. tax law changes and actions the Company may take. The Company will continue to evaluate the impact of any future authoritative guidance with respect to the U.S. tax law changes. 

During 2019, the U.S. Treasury Department issued regulations to apply retroactively covering certain components of the 2017 U.S. tax law changes. Certain guidance included in these regulations is inconsistent with the Company’s interpretation that led to the recognition of $247 million of tax benefits in prior periods. Despite this new guidance, the Company remains confident in its interpretation of the U.S. tax law changes and intends to defend this position through litigation, if necessary. However, if the Company is ultimately unsuccessful in defending its position, it may be required to reverse all or a portion of the benefits previously recorded.

As the Company repatriates the undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries for use in the United States, the earnings from our foreign subsidiaries will generally not be subject to U.S. federal tax. The Company continuously evaluates the amount of foreign earnings that are not necessary to be permanently reinvested in our foreign subsidiaries.

INVESTMENT IN AMERISOURCEBERGEN

- 37 -
As of August 31, 2019, the Company owned 56,854,867 shares of AmerisourceBergen common stock (representing approximately 27% of its outstanding common stock) and may, subject to certain conditions, acquire up to an additional 8,398,752 AmerisourceBergen shares in the open market.

The Company accounts for its investment in AmerisourceBergen using the equity method of accounting, subject to a two-month reporting lag, with the net earnings attributable to the investment classified within the operating income of the Company’s Pharmaceutical Wholesale segment. The financial performance of AmerisourceBergen, including any charges which may arise relating to its ongoing opioid litigation, will impact the Company’s results of operations. Additionally, a substantial and sustained decline in the price of AmerisourceBergen’s common stock could trigger an impairment evaluation of our investment. These considerations may materially and adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations.

For more information, see “Business - Relationship with AmerisourceBergen” and note 5, equity method investments to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

THE IMPACT OF BREXIT

In June 2016, voters in the United Kingdom approved an advisory referendum to withdraw from the European Union, which proposed exit (and the political, economic and other uncertainties it has raised) is commonly referred to as “Brexit”. Since the Brexit vote in June 2016, there has been significant volatility in the global stock markets and currency exchange rates, as well as challenging market conditions in the United Kingdom. In March 2017, the United Kingdom formally started the process to leave the European Union. An original exit date was set for March 29, 2019 but following the UK parliament’s rejection of a negotiated outcome, the leaders of the member countries of the European Union have agreed to multiple extensions of the deadline for Brexit and there can be no assurance regarding the terms, timing or consummation of any such arrangements. Although we continue to actively monitor the ongoing potential impacts of Brexit and will seek to minimize its impact on our business, if the UK’s membership in the European Union terminates without an agreement, these conditions could continue and there could be increased costs from tariffs on trade between the United Kingdom and European Union and disruptions to the free movement of goods, services and people between the United Kingdom and the European union and other parties. Further, uncertainty around and developments regarding these and related issues has contributed to deteriorating market conditions and could further adversely impact consumer and investor confidence and the economy of the United Kingdom and the economies of other countries in which we operate and cause significant volatility in currency exchange rates. Given the lack of comparable precedent, it is unclear what financial, trade, regulatory and legal implications the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union will have on our business, particularly European operations; however, Brexit and its related effects could have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial position or operating results. For more information relating to this topic, see “Risk Factors-Our substantial international business operations subject us to a number of operating, economic, political, regulatory and other international business risks.” 

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

The following table presents certain key financial statistics for the Company for fiscal 2019, 2018 and 2017:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

- 38 -
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

2 See “--Non-GAAP Measures” below for a reconciliation to the most directly comparable financial measure calculated in accordance with GAAP and related disclosures.

WALGREENS BOOTS ALLIANCE RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

The following information summarizes our results of operations for fiscal 2019 compared to fiscal 2018. For discussion related to the results of operations by segment for fiscal 2018 compared to fiscal 2017, refer to Part II, Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in our fiscal 2018 Form 10-K, which was filed with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission on October 11, 2018.

Fiscal 2019 compared to fiscal 2018 

Fiscal 2019 net earnings attributable to Walgreens Boots Alliance decreased 20.7 percent to $4.0 billion, while diluted net earnings per share decreased 14.6 percent to $4.31 compared with the prior year. The decrease primarily reflects operating performance, including costs related to the Company’s Transformational Cost Management Program, partially offset by certain legal and regulatory accruals in the prior year. Diluted net earnings per share was positively affected by a lower number of shares outstanding compared with the prior year. Net earnings and diluted earnings per share were negatively by 0.8 percentage points and 0.9 percentage points, respectively, as a result of currency translation.

Other income for fiscal 2019 was $233 million compared to $302 million for fiscal 2018. Other income for fiscal 2019 primarily reflects gains resulting from the termination of the option granted to Rite Aid to become a member of the Company’s group purchasing organization. Results for fiscal 2018 primarily reflect the gain on sale of the Company’s equity interest in Premise Health Holding Corp, partially offset by the impairment of the Company's equity method investment in Guangzhou Pharmaceuticals Corporation in the prior year period.

Interest was a net expense of $704 million and $616 million in fiscal 2019 and 2018, respectively.

The effective tax rate for fiscal 2019 and 2018 was 13.0% and 16.7%, respectively. The net decrease in the effective tax rate was primarily attributable to the reduced U.S. statutory tax rate as a result of the U.S tax law changes.

Adjusted diluted net earnings per share (Non-GAAP measure) fiscal 2019 compared to fiscal 2018 

- 39 -
Adjusted net earnings attributable to Walgreens Boots Alliance in fiscal 2019 decreased 7.6 percent to $5.5 billion compared with the prior year. Adjusted diluted net earnings per share in fiscal 2019 decreased 0.5 percent to $5.99 compared with the prior year. Adjusted net earnings and adjusted diluted earnings per share were negatively impacted by 0.9 percentage points and 1.0 percentage points, respectively, as a result of currency translation.

Excluding the impact of currency translation, the decrease in adjusted net earnings for fiscal 2019 primarily reflects a decrease in operating performance, partly offset by a decrease in the adjusted effective tax rate. Adjusted diluted net earnings per share was positively affected by a lower number of shares outstanding compared with the prior year. See “--Non-GAAP Measures” below for a reconciliation to the most directly comparable financial measure calculated in accordance with GAAP and related disclosures.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS BY SEGMENT

The following information summarizes our results of operations by segment for fiscal 2019 compared to fiscal 2018. For discussion related to the results of operations by segment for fiscal 2018 compared to fiscal 2017, refer to Part II, Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in our fiscal 2018 Form 10-K, which was filed with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission on October 11, 2018.

Retail Pharmacy USA

This division comprises the retail pharmacy business operating in the United States. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

- 40 -
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

2 See “--Non-GAAP Measures” below for a reconciliation to the most directly comparable financial measure calculated in accordance with GAAP and related disclosures.

3 Includes immunizations.

4 Includes the adjustment to convert prescriptions greater than 84 days to the equivalent of three 30-day prescriptions. This adjustment reflects that these prescriptions include approximately three times the amount of product days supplied compared to a normal prescription.

5 Comparable stores are defined as those that have been open for at least twelve consecutive months without closure for seven or more consecutive days and without a major remodel or being subject to a natural disaster in the past twelve months. Relocated stores are not included as comparable stores for the first twelve months after the relocation. Acquired stores are not included as comparable stores for the first twelve months after acquisition or conversion, when applicable, whichever is later. The method of calculating comparable sales varies across the retail industry. As a result, our method of calculating comparable sales may not be the same as other retailers’ methods.

Sales fiscal 2019 compared to fiscal 2018 

The Retail Pharmacy USA division’s sales for fiscal 2019 increased by 6.2% to $104.5 billion. Sales in comparable stores increased by 2.0% in fiscal 2019. The Company operated 9,285 locations (9,277 retail stores) as of August 31, 2019, compared to 9,569 locations (9,560 retail stores) a year earlier. 

Pharmacy sales increased by 8.6% in fiscal 2019 and represented 73.8% of the division’s sales. The increase in fiscal 2019 is due to higher brand inflation and growth in central specialty and reflects the impact of the acquired Rite Aid stores. In fiscal 2018, pharmacy sales increased 17.2% and represented 72.2% of the division’s sales. Comparable pharmacy sales increased 4.0% in fiscal 2019 compared to an increase of 3.4% in fiscal 2018. The effect of generic drugs, which have a lower retail price, replacing brand name drugs reduced prescription sales by 1.2% in fiscal 2019 compared to a reduction of 1.4% in fiscal 2018. The effect of generics on division sales was a reduction of 0.8% in fiscal 2019 compared to a reduction of 0.9% for fiscal 2018. Third-party sales, where reimbursement is received from managed care organizations, governmental agencies, employers or private insurers, were 97.1% of prescription sales for fiscal 2019 compared to 98.3% for fiscal 2018. The total number of prescriptions (including immunizations) filled in fiscal 2019 was 843.7 million compared to 823.1 million in fiscal 2018. Prescriptions (including immunizations) adjusted to 30-day equivalents were 1,150.1 million in fiscal 2019 compared to 1,094.4 million in fiscal 2018. 

Retail sales were flat in fiscal 2019 and were 26.2% of the division’s sales. In comparison, fiscal 2018 retail sales increased 2.4% and comprised 27.8% of the division’s sales. Comparable retail sales decreased 2.4% in each of fiscal 2019 and fiscal 2018. The decrease in comparable retail sales in fiscal 2019 was primarily due to the continued de-emphasis of tobacco. 

Operating income fiscal 2019 compared to fiscal 2018 

Retail Pharmacy USA division’s operating income for fiscal 2019 decreased 14.6% to $4.1 billion. The decrease was primarily due to lower gross margin partially offset by a reduction in selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of sales.

Gross margin was 22.5% in fiscal 2019 compared to 24.1% in fiscal 2018. Gross margin was negatively impacted in the current fiscal year by pharmacy margins, which were negatively impacted by reimbursement pressure. The decrease in pharmacy margins was partially offset by the favorable impact of procurement efficiencies. 

Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of sales were 18.6% in fiscal 2019 compared to 19.3% in fiscal 2018. As a percentage of sales, expenses in the current fiscal year were lower primarily due to a higher mix of specialty sales and lower expenses related to certain legal and regulatory accruals in the prior year. 

Adjusted operating income (Non-GAAP measure) fiscal 2019 compared to fiscal 2018 

Retail Pharmacy USA division’s adjusted operating income for fiscal 2019 decreased 9.6% to $5.3 billion. The decrease was primarily due to lower gross margins partially offset by a reduction in selling, general, and administrative expenses as a percentage of sales. See “--Non-GAAP Measures” below for a reconciliation to the most directly comparable financial measure calculated in accordance with GAAP and related disclosures.

- 41 -
Retail Pharmacy International

This division comprises retail pharmacy businesses operating in countries outside of the United States and in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, including the British pound sterling, Euro, Chilean peso and Mexican peso. Therefore, the division’s results are impacted by movements in foreign currency exchange rates. See item 7A, quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk, foreign currency exchange rate risk, for further information on currency risk.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

2 See “--Non-GAAP Measures” below for a reconciliation to the most directly comparable financial measure calculated in accordance with GAAP and related disclosures.

3 Comparable stores are defined as those that have been open for at least twelve consecutive months without closure for seven or more consecutive days and without a major remodel or being subject to a natural disaster in the past twelve months. Relocated stores are not included as comparable stores for the first twelve months after the relocation. Acquired stores are not included as comparable stores for the first twelve months after acquisition or conversion, when applicable, whichever is later. The method of calculating comparable sales varies across the retail industry. As a result, our method of calculating comparable sales may not be the same as other retailers’ methods.

- 42 -
4 The Company presents certain information related to current period operating results in “constant currency,” which is a non-GAAP financial measure. These amounts are calculated by translating current period results at the foreign currency exchange rates used in the comparable period in the prior year. The Company presents such constant currency financial information because it has significant operations outside of the United States reporting in currencies other than the U.S. dollar and this presentation provides a framework to assess how its business performed excluding the impact of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. See “--Non-GAAP Measures” below.

Sales fiscal 2019 compared to fiscal 2018

Retail Pharmacy International division’s sales for fiscal 2019 decreased 6.7% to $11.5 billion. Sales in comparable stores decreased 6.4%. The negative impact of currency translation on sales and comparable sales was 4.6 percentage points, and 4.7 percentage points, respectively, and comparable store sales in constant currency decreased 1.7%.

Pharmacy sales decreased 6.4% in fiscal 2019 and represented 35.6% of the division’s sales. Comparable pharmacy sales decreased 5.7%. The negative impact of currency translation on pharmacy sales and comparable pharmacy sales was 4.8 percentage points and 4.8 percentage points, respectively. Comparable pharmacy sales in constant currency decreased 0.9 percentage points mainly due to lower National Health Service funding levels and lower volume in Boots UK. 

Retail sales decreased 6.8% for fiscal 2019 and represented 64.4% of the division’s sales. Comparable retail sales decreased 6.8%. The negative impact of currency translation on each of retail sales and comparable retail sales was 4.5 percentage points and 4.6 percentage points respectively. Comparable retail sales in constant currency decreased 2.2% reflecting lower Boots UK retail sales in a challenging market place.

Operating income fiscal 2019 compared to fiscal 2018 

Retail Pharmacy International division’s operating income for fiscal 2019 decreased 46.8% to $438 million. Operating income was negatively impacted by 2.8 percentage points ($23 million) of currency translation. Excluding the impact of currency translation, the decrease in operating income was primarily due to lower sales and gross margin. The remaining decrease is due to higher selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of sales, which includes $89 million of Transformational Cost Management Program expenses and $73 million of impairment for indefinite-lived pharmacy licenses. 

Gross profit decreased 8.8% in fiscal 2019. Gross profit was negatively impacted by 4.4 percentage points ($219 million) of currency translation, the remaining decrease was mainly due lower sales and gross margin.

Selling, general and administrative expenses decreased 1.2% from fiscal 2018. Expenses were positively impacted by 4.7 percentage points ($196 million) as a result of currency translation. As a percentage of sales, selling, general and administrative expenses were 35.6% in fiscal 2019, compared to 33.7% in the prior fiscal year.

Adjusted operating income (Non-GAAP measure) fiscal 2019 compared to fiscal 2018 

Retail Pharmacy International division’s adjusted operating income for fiscal 2019 decreased 19.6% to $747 million. Adjusted operating income was negatively impacted by 3.4 percentage points ($31 million) of currency translation. Excluding the impact of currency translation, the decrease in adjusted operating income was primarily due to lower gross margin and higher selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of sales and lower sales. See “--Non-GAAP Measures” below for a reconciliation to the most directly comparable financial measure calculated in accordance with GAAP and related disclosures.

Pharmaceutical Wholesale

This division includes pharmaceutical wholesale businesses operating in currencies other than the U.S. dollar including the British pound sterling, Euro and Turkish lira. Therefore, the division’s results are impacted by movements in foreign currency exchange rates. See item 7A, quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk, foreign currency exchange rate risk, for further information on currency risk.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

- 43 -
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

2 See “--Non-GAAP Measures” below for a reconciliation to the most directly comparable financial measure calculated in accordance with GAAP and related disclosures.

3 Comparable Sales are defined as sales excluding acquisitions and dispositions.

4 The Company presents certain information related to current period operating results in “constant currency,” which is a non-GAAP financial measure. These amounts are calculated by translating current period results at the foreign currency exchange rates used in the comparable period in the prior year. The Company presents such constant currency financial information because it has significant operations outside of the United States reporting in currencies other than the U.S. dollar and this presentation provides a framework to assess how its business performed excluding the impact of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. See “--Non-GAAP Measures” below.

Sales fiscal 2019 compared to fiscal 2018

Pharmaceutical Wholesale division’s sales for the fiscal 2019 increased 0.2% to $23.1 billion. Comparable sales, which exclude acquisitions and dispositions, increased 0.2%.

Sales and comparable sales were negatively impacted by 7.8 percentage points as a result of currency translation. Comparable sales in constant currency increased 8.0%, reflecting a customer contract change in the UK and growth in emerging markets.

Operating income fiscal 2019 compared to fiscal 2018 

Pharmaceutical Wholesale division’s operating income for fiscal 2019, which included $164 million from the Company’s share of equity earnings in AmerisourceBergen, decreased 30.4% to $471 million. Operating income was negatively impacted by 6.1 percentage points ($41 million) as a result of currency translation. The remaining decrease was due to costs related to the Transformational Cost Management Program in fiscal 2019.

Gross profit decreased 1.9% from the prior fiscal year. Gross profit was negatively impacted by 7.2 percentage points ($149 million) as a result of currency translation. Excluding the impact of currency translation, the increase in gross profit was primarily due to sales growth, partially offset by lower gross margin.

Selling, general and administrative expenses increased 8.8% from the prior fiscal year. Selling, general and administrative expenses were positively impacted by 6.8 percentage points ($108 million) as a result of currency translation. Excluding the impact of currency translation, the increase in selling, general and administrative expenses was primarily due to costs related to the Transformational Cost Management Program. As a percentage of sales, selling, general and administrative expenses were 7.5% in fiscal 2019, compared to 6.9% in fiscal 2018. 

- 44 -
Adjusted operating income (Non-GAAP measure) fiscal 2019 compared to fiscal 2018 

Pharmaceutical Wholesale division’s adjusted operating income for fiscal 2019, which included $397 million from the Company’s share of adjusted equity earnings in AmerisourceBergen, increased 0.4% to $939 million. Adjusted operating income was negatively impacted by 5.5 percentage points ($51 million) as a result of currency translation. 

Excluding the contribution from the Company’s share of adjusted equity earnings in AmerisourceBergen and the negative impact of currency translation, adjusted operating income increased 4.3% ($25 million) over the prior fiscal year, primarily due to higher sales and lower selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of sales, partially offset by lower gross margin. See “--Non-GAAP Measures” below for a reconciliation to the most directly comparable financial measure calculated in accordance with GAAP and related disclosures.

NON-GAAP MEASURES

The following information provides reconciliations of the supplemental non-GAAP financial measures, as defined under the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission, presented herein to the most directly comparable financial measures calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP. The Company has provided the non-GAAP financial measures, which are not calculated or presented in accordance with GAAP, as supplemental information and in addition to the financial measures that are calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP. 

These supplemental non-GAAP financial measures are presented because the Company’s management has evaluated its financial results both including and excluding the adjusted items or the effects of foreign currency translation, as applicable, and believes that the supplemental non-GAAP financial measures presented provide additional perspective and insights when analyzing the core operating performance of the Company from period to period and trends in its historical operating results. These supplemental non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered superior to, as a substitute for or as an alternative to, and should be considered in conjunction with, the GAAP financial measures presented.

The Company also presents certain information related to current period operating results in “constant currency,” which is a non-GAAP financial measure. These amounts are calculated by translating current period results at the foreign currency exchange rates used in the comparable period in the prior year. The Company presents such constant currency financial information because it has significant operations outside of the United States reporting in currencies other than the U.S. dollar and such presentation provides a framework to assess how its business performed excluding the impact of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

- 45 -
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

1 The Company adopted new accounting guidance in Accounting Standards Update 2017-07 as of September 1, 2018 (fiscal 2019) on a retrospective basis for the Consolidated Statements of Earnings presentation. This change resulted in reclassification of all the other net cost components (excluding service cost component) of net pension cost and net postretirement benefit cost from selling, general and administrative expenses to other income (expense) with no impact on the Company’s net earnings.

2 Includes impairment of $73 million for indefinite-lived pharmacy licenses intangible asset recorded during the three months ended August 31, 2019, in the Boots reporting unit within the Retail Pharmacy International segment.  

3 Beginning in the quarter ended August 31, 2018, management reviewed and refined its practice to include all charges related to the matters included in certain legal and regulatory accruals and settlements. This non-GAAP measure is presented on a consistent basis for fiscal year 2019. 

- 46 -
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

- 47 -
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

1 Includes impairment of $73 million for indefinite-lived pharmacy licenses intangible asset recorded during the three months ended August 31, 2019, in the Boots reporting unit within the Retail Pharmacy International segment.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

3 Discrete tax-only items.

4 Represents the adjustment to the GAAP basis tax provision commensurate with non-GAAP adjustments.

5 Beginning in the quarter ended May 31, 2019, management reviewed and refined its practice to reflect the proportionate share of certain equity method investees’ non-cash items or unusual or infrequent items consistent with the Company’s non-GAAP measures in order to provide investors with a comparable view of performance across periods. These adjustments include acquisition-related amortization and acquisition-related costs and were immaterial for the prior periods presented. Although the Company may have shareholder rights and board representation commensurate with its ownership interests in these equity method investees, adjustments relating to equity method investments are not intended to imply that the Company has direct control over their operations and resulting revenue and expenses. Moreover, these non-GAAP financial measures have limitations in that they do not reflect all revenue and expenses of these equity method investees.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

Cash and cash equivalents were $1.0 billion (including $0.4 billion in non-U.S. jurisdictions) as of August 31, 2019, compared to $0.8 billion (including $0.2 billion in non-U.S. jurisdictions) at August 31, 2018. Short-term investment objectives are primarily to minimize risk and maintain liquidity. To attain these objectives, investment limits are placed on the amount, type and issuer of securities. Investments are principally in U.S. Treasury money market funds and AAA-rated money market funds.

The Company’s long-term capital policy is to maintain a strong balance sheet and financial flexibility, reinvest in its core strategies, invest in strategic opportunities that reinforce its core strategies and meet return requirements and return surplus cash flow to stockholders in the form of dividends and share repurchases over the long term. In July 2019, the Company’s Board of Directors reviewed and refined the Company’s dividend policy to set forth the Company’s current intention to increase its dividend each year.

Cash provided by operations and the incurrence of debt are the principal sources of funds for expansion, investments, acquisitions, remodeling programs, dividends to stockholders and stock repurchases. Net cash provided by operating activities was $5.6 billion in fiscal 2019 compared to $8.3 billion in fiscal 2018 and $7.3 billion in fiscal 2017. The $2.7 billion decrease in cash provided by operating activities includes cash outflows relating to the integration of Rite Aid stores, timing of certain legal and regulatory settlements and higher income taxes paid. Changes in income taxes paid are mainly due to the impact of U.S. tax law changes. Changes in accrued expenses and other liabilities, trade accounts payable and trade accounts receivables include cash outflows relating to the integration of Rite Aid stores. Changes in accrued expenses and other liabilities also include the impact of certain legal and regulatory settlements.

Net cash used for investing activities was $2.3 billion in fiscal 2019 compared to $5.5 billion in fiscal 2018 and $0.8 billion in fiscal 2017. Business, investment and asset acquisitions in fiscal 2019 were $0.7 billion compared to $4.8 billion in fiscal 2018. Business, investment and asset acquisitions in fiscal 2018 include the acquisition of Rite Aid assets and the investment in GuoDa. Additions to property, plant and equipment in fiscal 2019 were $1.7 billion compared to $1.4 billion in each of fiscal 2018 and fiscal 2017. Capital expenditures by reporting segment were as follows (in millions): 

- 48 -
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Significant capital expenditures primarily relate to investments in our stores, integration of Rite Aid and information technology projects.

Net cash used for financing activities in fiscal 2019 was $3.0 billion compared to $5.3 billion in fiscal 2018 and $12.9 billion in fiscal 2017. The Company repurchased shares as part of the stock repurchase programs described below and to support the needs of the employee stock plans totaling $4.2 billion in fiscal 2019 compared to $5.2 billion in each of fiscal 2018 and fiscal 2017. Proceeds related to employee stock plans were $174 million in each of fiscal 2019 and fiscal 2018 compared to $217 million in fiscal 2017. Cash dividends paid were $1.6 billion in fiscal 2019 compared to $1.7 billion in each of fiscal 2018 and fiscal 2017. In fiscal 2019 there were $12.4 billion in proceeds compared to $5.9 billion in proceeds in fiscal 2018 primarily from revolving facilities described below and commercial paper debt. There were no proceeds from debt in fiscal 2017. In fiscal 2019 there were $10.5 billion payments of debt made primarily for revolving facilities and commercial paper debt compared to $4.9 billion in fiscal 2018 and $6.2 billion in fiscal 2017.

The Company believes that cash flow from operations, availability under existing credit facilities and arrangements, current cash and investment balances and the ability to obtain other financing, if necessary, will provide adequate cash funds for the foreseeable working capital needs, capital expenditures at existing facilities, pending acquisitions, dividend payments and debt service obligations for at least the next 12 months. The Company’s cash requirements are subject to change as business conditions warrant and opportunities arise. The timing and size of any new business ventures or acquisitions that the Company may complete may also impact its cash requirements.

See item 7A, qualitative and quantitative disclosures about market risk, below for a discussion of certain financing and market risks.

Stock repurchase programs

In April 2017, Walgreens Boots Alliance authorized a stock repurchase program (the “April 2017 stock repurchase program”), which authorized the repurchase of up to $1.0 billion of Walgreens Boots Alliance common stock prior to the program’s expiration on December 31, 2017. In May 2017, the Company completed the April 2017 stock repurchase program, purchasing 11.8 million shares. In June 2017, Walgreens Boots Alliance authorized a stock repurchase program, which authorized the repurchase of up to $5.0 billion of Walgreens Boots Alliance common stock prior to the program’s expiration on August 31, 2018, which authorization was increased by an additional $1.0 billion in October 2017 (as expanded, the “June 2017 stock repurchase program”). In October 2017, the Company completed the June 2017 stock repurchase program, purchasing 77.4 million shares. In June 2018, Walgreens Boots Alliance authorized a stock repurchase program (the “June 2018 stock repurchase program”), which authorized the repurchase of up to $10.0 billion of Walgreens Boots Alliance common stock of which the Company had repurchased $6.5 billion as of August 31, 2019. The June 2018 stock repurchase program has no specified expiration date. 

The Company purchased 57 million and 72 million shares under stock repurchase programs in fiscal 2019 and 2018 at a cost of $3.8 billion and $4.9 billion, respectively. The Company determines the timing and amount of repurchases, including repurchases to offset anticipated dilution from equity incentive plans, based on its assessment of various factors, including prevailing market conditions, alternate uses of capital, liquidity and the economic environment. The Company has repurchased, and may from time to time in the future repurchase, shares on the open market through Rule 10b5-1 plans, which enable the Company to repurchase shares at times when it otherwise might be precluded from doing so under federal securities laws.

Commercial paper

The Company periodically borrows under its commercial paper program and may continue to borrow under it in future periods. The Company had $2,400 million commercial paper outstanding as of August 31, 2019 and $430 million as of August 31, 2018. The Company had average daily commercial paper outstanding of $2.7 billion and $1.4 billion at a weighted average interest rate of 3.07% and 2.11% for the fiscal years ended August 31, 2019 and 2018 respectively. The Company had no activity under its commercial paper program during fiscal year 2017.

Financing actions

- 49 -
On June 1, 2016, Walgreens Boots Alliance issued in an underwritten public offering $1.2 billion of 1.750% notes due 2018 (the “2018 notes”), $1.5 billion of 2.600% notes due 2021 (the “2021 notes”), $0.8 billion of 3.100% notes due 2023 (the “2023 notes”), $1.9 billion of 3.450% notes due 2026 (the “2026 notes”) and $0.6 billion of 4.650% notes due 2046 (the “2046 notes”). Because the merger with Rite Aid was not consummated on or prior to June 1, 2017, the 2018 notes, the 2021 notes and the 2023 notes were redeemed on June 5, 2017 under the special mandatory redemption terms of the indenture governing such notes. The 2026 notes and 2046 notes remain outstanding in accordance with their respective terms.

On February 1, 2017, Walgreens Boots Alliance entered into a $1.0 billion revolving credit facility (as amended, the “February 2017 Revolving Credit Agreement”) with the lenders from time to time party thereto and, on August 1, 2017, Walgreens Boots Alliance entered into an amendment agreement thereto. On January 31, 2019, the February 2017 Revolving Credit Agreement matured and the Company paid all amounts due in connection therewith.

On August 24, 2017, Walgreens Boots Alliance entered into a $1.0 billion revolving credit agreement with the lenders from time to time party thereto (the “August 2017 Revolving Credit Agreement”) and a $1.0 billion term loan credit agreement with Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation (the “2017 Term Loan Credit Agreement”). On November 30, 2018, in connection with the entrance into the November 2018 Credit Agreement (described below), Walgreens Boots Alliance terminated the 2017 Term Loan Credit Agreement in accordance with its terms and as of such date paid all amounts due in connection therewith. On January 31, 2019, the August 2017 Revolving Credit Agreement matured and the Company paid all amounts due in connection therewith.

On August 29, 2018, Walgreens Boots Alliance entered into a revolving credit agreement (the “August 2018 Revolving Credit Agreement”) with the lenders and letter of credit issuers from time to time party thereto. The August 2018 Revolving Credit Agreement is an unsecured revolving credit facility with an aggregate commitment in the amount of $3.5 billion, with a letter of credit subfacility commitment amount of $500 million. The facility termination date is the earlier of (a) August 29, 2023, subject to extension thereof pursuant to the August 2018 Revolving Credit Agreement and (b) the date of termination in whole of the aggregate amount of the revolving commitments pursuant to the August 2018 Revolving Credit Agreement. Borrowings under the August 2018 Revolving Credit Agreement will bear interest at a fluctuating rate per annum equal to, at Walgreens Boots Alliance’s option, the alternate base rate or the Eurocurrency rate, in each case, plus an applicable margin calculated based on Walgreens Boots Alliance’s credit ratings. As of August 31, 2019, there were no borrowings under the August 2018 Revolving Credit Agreement.

On November 30, 2018, Walgreens Boots Alliance entered into a credit agreement (as amended the “November 2018 Credit Agreement”) with the lenders from time to time party thereto and, on March 25, 2019, the Company entered into an amendment to such credit agreement reflecting certain changes to the borrowing notice provisions thereto. The November 2018 Credit Agreement includes a $500 million senior unsecured revolving credit facility and a $500 million senior unsecured term loan facility. The facility termination date is, with respect to the revolving credit facility, the earlier of (a) May 30, 2020 and (b) the date of termination in whole of the aggregate amount of the revolving commitments pursuant to the November 2018 Credit Agreement and, with respect to the term loan facility, the earlier of (a) May 30, 2020 and (b) the date of acceleration of all term loans pursuant to the November 2018 Credit Agreement. Borrowings under the November 2018 Credit Agreement will bear interest at a fluctuating rate per annum equal to, at Walgreens Boots Alliance’s option, the alternate base rate or the Eurocurrency rate, in each case, plus an applicable margin calculated based on Walgreens Boots Alliance’s credit ratings. As of August 31, 2019, there were $0.5 billion of borrowings under the November 2018 Credit Agreement.

On December 5, 2018, Walgreens Boots Alliance entered into a $1.0 billion term loan credit agreement (as amended, the “December 2018 Credit Agreement”) with the lenders from time to time party thereto and, on August 9, 2019, the Company entered into an amendment to such credit agreement to permit the Company to borrow, repay and reborrow amounts borrowed thereunder prior to the maturity date. The December 2018 Credit Agreement is a senior unsecured revolving credit facility with a facility termination date of the earlier of (a) January 29, 2021, subject to extension thereof pursuant to the December 2018 Credit Agreement and (b) the date of termination in whole of the aggregate amount of the commitments pursuant to the December 2018 Credit Agreement. Borrowings under the December 2018 Credit Agreement will bear interest at a fluctuating rate per annum equal to, at Walgreens Boots Alliance’s option, the alternate base rate or the Eurocurrency rate, plus an applicable margin of 0.75% in the case of Eurocurrency rate loans. As of August 31, 2019, there were $0.8 billion of borrowings outstanding under the December 2018 Credit Agreement.

On December 21, 2018, the Company entered into a $1.0 billion revolving credit agreement (the “December 2018 Revolving Credit Agreement”) with the lenders from time to time party thereto. The December 2018 Revolving Credit Agreement is a senior unsecured revolving credit facility with a facility termination date of the earlier of (a) 18 months following January 28, 2019, the date of the effectiveness of the commitments pursuant to the December 2018 Revolving Credit Agreement, subject to extension thereof pursuant to the December 2018 Revolving Credit Agreement and (b) the date of termination in whole of the 

- 50 -
aggregate amount of the commitments pursuant to the December 2018 Revolving Credit Agreement. Borrowings under the December 2018 Revolving Credit Agreement will bear interest at a fluctuating rate per annum equal to, at Walgreens Boots Alliance’s option, the alternate base rate or the Eurocurrency rate, plus an applicable margin of 0.75% in the case of Eurocurrency rate loans. As of August 31, 2019, there were $0.3 billion borrowings outstanding under the December 2018 Revolving Credit Agreement.

On January 18, 2019, the Company entered into a $2.0 billion 364-day revolving credit agreement (the “January 2019 364-Day Revolving Credit Agreement”) with the lenders from time to time party thereto. The January 2019 364-Day Revolving Credit Agreement is a senior unsecured 364-day revolving credit facility, with a facility termination date of the earlier of (a) 364 days following January 31, 2019, the date of the effectiveness of the commitments pursuant to the January 364- Day Revolving Credit Agreement, subject to extension thereof pursuant to the January 2019 364-Day Revolving Credit Agreement and (b) the date of termination in whole of the aggregate amount of the commitments pursuant to the January 2019 364-Day Revolving Credit Agreement. Borrowings under the January 2019 364-Day Revolving Credit Agreement will bear interest at a fluctuating rate per annum equal to, at Walgreens Boots Alliance’s option, the alternate base rate or the Eurocurrency rate, in each case, plus an applicable margin calculated based on the Company’s credit ratings. As of August 31, 2019, there were no borrowings outstanding under the January 364-Day Revolving Credit Agreement.

On August 30, 2019, the Company entered into three $500 million revolving credit agreements (together, the “August 2019 Revolving Credit Agreements” and each individually, an “August 2019 Revolving Credit Agreement”) with the lenders from time to time party thereto. Each of the August 2019 Revolving Credit Agreements are senior unsecured revolving credit facilities, with facility termination dates of the earlier of (a) 18 months following August 30, 2019, subject to extension thereof pursuant to the applicable August 2019 Revolving Credit Agreement and (b) the date of termination in whole of the aggregate amount of the commitments pursuant to the applicable August 2019 Revolving Credit Agreement. Borrowings under each of the August 2019 Revolving Credit Agreements will bear interest at a fluctuating rate per annum equal to, at Walgreens Boots Alliance’s option, the alternate base rate or the Eurocurrency rate, plus an applicable margin of 0.95% in the case of Eurocurrency rate loans. As of August 31, 2019, there were no borrowings outstanding under the August 2019 Revolving Credit Agreements. 

From time to time, the Company may also enter into other credit facilities or financing arrangements.

Debt covenants

Each of the Company’s credit facilities described above contain a covenant to maintain, as of the last day of each fiscal quarter, a ratio of consolidated debt to total capitalization not to exceed 0.60:1.00, subject to increase in certain circumstances set forth in the applicable credit agreement. The credit facilities contain various other customary covenants. As of August 31, 2019, the Company was in compliance with all such applicable covenants.

Credit ratings

As of October 25, 2019, the credit ratings of Walgreens Boots Alliance were:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

In assessing the Company’s credit strength, each rating agency considers various factors including the Company’s business model, capital structure, financial policies and financial performance. There can be no assurance that any particular rating will be assigned or maintained. The Company’s credit ratings impact its borrowing costs, access to capital markets and operating lease costs. The rating agency ratings are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold the Company’s debt securities or commercial paper. Each rating may be subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating agency and should be evaluated independently of any other rating.

AmerisourceBergen relationship

As of August 31, 2019, the Company owned 56,854,867 AmerisourceBergen common shares representing approximately 27% of the outstanding AmerisourceBergen common stock and had designated one member of AmerisourceBergen’s board of directors. As of August 31, 2019, the Company can acquire up to an additional 8,398,752 AmerisourceBergen shares in the open market and thereafter designate another member of AmerisourceBergen’s board of directors, subject in each case to applicable legal and contractual requirements. The amount of permitted open market purchases is subject to increase or 

- 51 -
decrease in certain circumstances. Subject to applicable legal and contractual requirements, share purchases may be made from time to time in open market transactions or pursuant to instruments and plans complying with Rule 10b5-1. See note 5, equity method investments, to the Consolidated Financial Statements included herein for further information.

COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

The information set forth in note 10, commitments and contingencies, to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in part II, item 8 of this Form 10-K is incorporated herein by reference.

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES

The Consolidated Financial Statements are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America and include amounts based on management’s prudent judgments and estimates. Actual results may differ from these estimates. Management believes that any reasonable deviation from those judgments and estimates would not have a material impact on our consolidated financial position or results of operations. To the extent that the estimates used differ from actual results, however, adjustments to the Consolidated Statements of Earnings and corresponding Consolidated Balance Sheets accounts would be necessary. These adjustments would be made in future periods. Some of the more significant estimates include business combinations, goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible asset impairment, cost of sales and inventory, equity method investments, pension and postretirement benefits and income taxes. The Company uses the following methods to determine its estimates:

Business combinations – The Company accounts for business combinations using the acquisition method of accounting, which requires that once control is obtained, all the assets acquired and liabilities assumed, including amounts attributable to noncontrolling interests, be recorded at their respective fair values at the date of acquisition. The determination of fair values of assets and liabilities acquired requires estimates and the use of valuation techniques when market value is not readily available.

For intangible assets, the Company generally uses the income approach to determine fair value. The income approach requires management to make significant estimates and assumptions. These estimates and assumptions primarily include, but are not limited to: discount rates, terminal growth rates, royalty rates, forecasts of revenue, operating income, depreciation, amortization and capital expenditures. The discount rates applied to the projections reflect the risk factors associated with those projections.

Although the Company believes its estimates of fair value are reasonable, actual financial results could differ from those estimates due to the inherent uncertainty involved in making such estimates. Changes in assumptions concerning future financial results or other underlying assumptions could have a significant impact on the determination of the fair value of the intangible assets acquired.

Judgment is also required in determining the intangible asset’s useful life.

Goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible asset impairment – Goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are evaluated for impairment annually during the fourth quarter, or more frequently if an event occurs or circumstances change that could more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit or intangible asset below its carrying value. As part of the Company’s impairment analysis, fair value of a reporting unit is determined using both the income and market approaches. The income approach requires management to estimate a number of factors for each reporting unit, including projected future operating results, economic projections, anticipated future cash flows and discount rates. The market approach estimates fair value using comparable marketplace fair value data from within a comparable industry grouping.

The determination of the fair value of the reporting units requires the Company to make significant estimates and assumptions. These estimates and assumptions primarily include, but are not limited to: the selection of appropriate peer group companies, control premiums appropriate for acquisitions in the industries in which we compete, discount rates, terminal growth rates, forecasts of revenue, operating income, depreciation, amortization and capital expenditures. Although we believe our estimates of fair value are reasonable, actual financial results could differ from those estimates due to the inherent uncertainty involved in making such estimates. Changes in assumptions concerning future financial results or other underlying assumptions could have a significant impact on either the fair value of the reporting units, the amount of any goodwill impairment charge, or both.

The Company also compares the sum of estimated fair values of reporting units to the Company’s fair value as implied by the market value of its equity securities. This comparison provides an indication that, in total, assumptions and estimates are reasonable. Future declines in the overall market value of the Company’s equity securities may provide an indication that the fair value of one or more reporting units has declined below its carrying value.

- 52 -
The fair values of the Company’s reporting units exceeded their carrying amounts ranging from approximately 9% to approximately 269% as of June 1, 2019 valuation date. The fair value of the Boots reporting unit, in the Retail Pharmacy International division, is in excess of its carrying value by approximately 9%. As at August 31, 2019, the carrying value of the goodwill of the Boots reporting unit is $2.6 billion. 

The Company continues to closely monitor industry and market trends and the impact it may have on the Boots reporting unit and indefinite-lived intangibles as the challenging market conditions in the UK continued to impact the operating performance of the Boots reporting unit during the three months ended August 31, 2019.

Indefinite-lived intangible assets are tested by comparing the estimated fair value of the asset to its carrying value. If the carrying value of the asset exceeds its estimated fair value, an impairment loss is recognized and the asset is written down to its estimated fair value. Indefinite-lived intangible assets fair values are estimated using the relief from royalty method and excess earnings method of the income approach. These estimates can be affected by a number of factors including, but not limited to, general economic conditions, availability of market information as well as our profitability. The fair values of indefinite-lived intangibles within the Boots reporting unit exceeded their carrying value amounts ranging from approximately 3% to approximately 29%, except for the pharmacy licenses. As at August 31, 2019, the carrying value of these indefinite-lived intangibles within the Boots reporting unit is $6.9 billion. During the fiscal year ended August 31, 2019, the Company recorded an impairment of $73 million on its pharmacy licenses in the Boots reporting unit, which was included in selling, general, and administrative expenses in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings. 

See note 6, goodwill and other intangible assets, to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.

Cost of sales and inventory – Cost of sales includes the purchase price of goods and cost of services rendered, store and warehouse inventory loss, inventory obsolescence and supplier rebates. In addition to product costs, cost of sales includes warehousing costs for retail operations, purchasing costs, freight costs, cash discounts and vendor allowances.

Cost of sales for our Retail Pharmacy USA segment is derived based upon point-of-sale scanning information with an estimate for shrinkage and is adjusted based on periodic inventory counts. Inventories are valued at the lower of cost or market determined by the last-in, first-out (“LIFO”) method for the Retail Pharmacy USA segment and primarily on a first-in first-out (“FIFO”) basis for inventory in the Retail Pharmacy International and Pharmaceutical Wholesale segments.

Equity method investments – The Company uses the equity method of accounting for equity investments in companies if the investment provides the ability to exercise significant influence, but not control, over operating and financial policies of the investee. The Company’s proportionate share of the net income or loss of these companies is included in consolidated net earnings. Judgment regarding the level of influence over each equity method investment includes considering key factors such as the Company’s ownership interest, legal form of the investee (e.g. limited liability partnership), representation on the board of directors, participation in policy-making decisions and material intra-entity transactions

The Company evaluates equity method investments for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the investment might not be recoverable. Factors considered by the Company when reviewing an equity method investment for impairment include the length of time (duration) and the extent (severity) to which the fair value of the equity method investment has been less than cost, the investee’s financial condition and near-term prospects and the intent and ability to hold the investment for a period of time sufficient to allow for anticipated recovery. An impairment that is other-than-temporary is recognized in the period identified.

Pension and postretirement benefits – The Company has various defined benefit pension plans that cover some of its non-U.S. employees. The Company also has a postretirement healthcare plan that covers qualifying U.S. employees. Eligibility and the level of benefits for these plans vary depending on participants’ status, date of hire and or length of service. Pension and postretirement plan expenses and valuations are dependent on assumptions used by third-party actuaries in calculating those amounts. These assumptions include discount rates, healthcare cost trends, long-term return on plan assets, retirement rates, mortality rates and other factors. 

In determining long-term rate of return on plan assets assumption, the Company considers both the historical performance of the investment portfolio as well as the long-term market return expectations based on the investment mix of the portfolio. A change in any of these assumptions would have an effect on its pension expense. A 25 basis point increase in the discount rate would result in a decline of $368.1 million to the Company’s pension benefit obligation. A 25 basis point decrease on the expected return on plan assets assumption would increase the Company’s pension expense by $19.1 million.

- 53 -
 The Company funds its pension plans in accordance with applicable regulations. The postretirement healthcare plan is not funded.

Income taxes –The Company is subject to routine income tax audits that occur periodically in the normal course of business. U.S. federal, state, local and foreign tax authorities raise questions regarding the Company’s tax filing positions, including the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. In evaluating the tax benefits associated with the various tax filing positions, the Company records a tax benefit for uncertain tax positions using the highest cumulative tax benefit that is more likely than not to be realized. Adjustments are made to the liability for unrecognized tax benefits in the period in which the Company determines the issue is effectively settled with the tax authorities, the statute of limitations expires for the return containing the tax position or when more information becomes available. The liability for unrecognized tax benefits, including accrued penalties and interest, is primarily included in other non-current liabilities and current income taxes on the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheets and in income tax provision in its Consolidated Statements of Earnings. 

In determining its provision for income taxes, the Company uses income, permanent differences between book and tax income and enacted statutory income tax rates. The provision for income taxes rate also reflects its assessment of the ultimate outcome of tax audits in addition to any foreign-based income deemed to be taxable in the United States. Discrete events such as audit settlements or changes in tax laws are recognized in the period in which they occur.

- 54 -
CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS AND COMMITMENTS

The following table lists the Company’s contractual obligations and commitments at August 31, 2019 (in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

*Recorded on balance sheet.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

2 Includes $502 million ($88 million in less than 1 year, $385 million in 1-3 years and $29 million in 3-5 years) of unrecognized tax benefits recorded under Accounting Standards Codification Topic 740, Income Taxes. Includes $352 million ($67 million in 1-3 years, $96 million in 3-5 years and $189 million in over 5 years) of noncurrent income taxes payable as a result of the U.S tax law changes enacted in December 2017.

The information in the foregoing table is presented as of August 31, 2019 and accordingly does not reflect obligations under agreements the Company entered into after that date. 

OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS

The Company does not have any unconsolidated special purpose entities and, except as described herein, the Company does not have significant exposure to any off-balance sheet arrangements. The term “off-balance sheet arrangement” generally means any transaction, agreement or other contractual arrangement to which an entity unconsolidated with the Company is a party, under which the Company has: (i) any obligation arising under a guarantee contract, derivative instrument or variable interest; or (ii) a retained or contingent interest in assets transferred to such entity or similar arrangement that serves as credit, liquidity or market risk support for such assets.

At August 31, 2019, the Company had $51 million of guarantees outstanding and no amounts issued under letters of credit. 

RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS

See “new accounting pronouncements” within note 1, summary of major accounting policies, to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding recent accounting pronouncements.

CAUTIONARY NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

This report and other documents that we file or furnish with the SEC contain forward-looking statements that are based on current expectations, estimates, forecasts and projections about our future performance, our business, our beliefs and our management’s assumptions. In addition, we, or others on our behalf, may make forward-looking statements in press releases or written statements, on the Company’s website or in our communications and discussions with investors and analysts in the normal course of business through meetings, webcasts, phone calls, conference calls and other communications. Some of such forward-looking statements may be based on certain data and forecasts relating to our business and industry that we have obtained from internal surveys, market research, publicly available information and industry publications. Industry publications, surveys and market research generally state that the information they provide has been obtained from sources believed to be reliable, but that the accuracy and completeness of such information is not guaranteed. Statements that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements, including, without limitation, those regarding estimates of and goals for future 

- 55 -
financial and operating performance as well as forward-looking statements concerning the expected execution and effect of our business strategies, our cost-savings and growth initiatives, pilot programs, strategic partnerships and initiatives, and restructuring activities and the amounts and timing of their expected impact and delivery of estimated cost savings, our amended and restated asset purchase agreement with Rite Aid and the transactions contemplated thereby and their possible timing and effects, our commercial agreement with AmerisourceBergen, the arrangements and transactions contemplated by our framework agreement with AmerisourceBergen and their possible effects, estimates of the impact of developments on our earnings, earnings per share and other financial and operating metrics, cough, cold and flu season, prescription volume, pharmacy sales trends, prescription margins and reimbursement rates, changes in generic prescription drug prices, retail margins, number and location of new store openings, network participation, vendor, payer and customer relationships and terms, possible new contracts or contract extensions, the proposed withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union and its possible effects, competition, economic and business conditions, outcomes of litigation and regulatory matters, the level of capital expenditures, industry trends, demographic trends, growth strategies, financial results, cost reduction initiatives, impairment or other charges, acquisition and joint venture synergies, competitive strengths and changes in legislation or regulations. All statements in the future tense and all statements accompanied by words such as “expect,” “likely,” “outlook,” “forecast,” “preliminary,” “pilot,” “would,” “could,” “should,” “can,” “will,” “project,” “intend,” “plan,” “goal,” “guidance,” “target,” “aim,” “continue,” “sustain,” “synergy,” “transform,” “accelerate,” “model,” “long-term,” “on track,” “on schedule,” “headwind,” “tailwind,” “believe,” “seek,” “estimate,” “anticipate,” “upcoming,” “to come,” “may,” “possible,” “assume,” and variations of such words and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements, which are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.

These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions, known or unknown, that could cause actual results to vary materially from those indicated or anticipated, including, but not limited to, those relating to the impact of private and public third-party payers’ efforts to reduce prescription drug reimbursements, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, the timing and magnitude of the impact of branded to generic drug conversions and changes in generic drug prices, our ability to realize synergies and achieve financial, tax and operating results in the amounts and at the times anticipated, the inherent risks, challenges and uncertainties associated with forecasting financial results of large, complex organizations in rapidly evolving industries, particularly over longer time periods, supply arrangements including our commercial agreement with AmerisourceBergen, the arrangements and transactions contemplated by our framework agreement with AmerisourceBergen and their possible effects, the risks associated with our equity method investment in AmerisourceBergen, circumstances that could give rise to the termination, cross-termination or modification of any of our contractual obligations, the amount of costs, and charges incurred with strategic transactions, whether the costs and charges associated with restructuring initiatives, including the Transformational Cost Management Program and Store Optimization Program, will exceed estimates, our ability to realize expected savings and benefits from cost-savings initiatives, including the Transformational Cost Management Program and Store Optimization Program, restructuring activities and acquisitions and joint ventures in the amounts and at the times anticipated, the timing and amount of any impairment or other charges, the timing and severity of cough, cold and flu season, risks related to pilot programs and new business initiatives and ventures generally, including the risks that anticipated benefits may not be realized, changes in management’s plans and assumptions, the risks associated with governance and control matters, the ability to retain key personnel, changes in economic and business conditions generally or in particular markets in which we participate, changes in financial markets, credit ratings and interest rates, the risks relating to the terms, timing and magnitude of any share repurchase activity, the risks associated with international business operations, including the risks associated with the proposed withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union and international trade policies, tariffs, including tariff negotiations between the United States and China, and relations, the risks associated with cybersecurity or privacy breaches related to customer information, changes in vendor, customer and payer relationships and terms, including changes in network participation and reimbursement terms and the associated impacts on volume and operating results, risks related to competition including changes in market dynamics, participants, product and service offerings, retail formats and competitive positioning, risks associated with new business areas and activities, risks associated with acquisitions, divestitures, joint ventures and strategic investments, including those relating to the asset acquisition from Rite Aid, the risks associated with the integration of complex businesses, the impact of regulatory restrictions and outcomes of legal and regulatory matters and risks associated with changes in laws, including those related to the December 2017 U.S. tax law changes, regulations or interpretations thereof. These and other risks, assumptions and uncertainties are described in Item 1A, Risk factors, above and in other documents that we file or furnish with the SEC. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may vary materially from those indicated or anticipated by such forward-looking statements. Accordingly, you are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date they are made. Except to the extent required by law, we do not undertake, and expressly disclaim, any duty or obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statement after the date of this report, whether as a result of new information, future events, changes in assumptions or otherwise.

- 56 -
Item 7A. Quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk