Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk.  

 In the normal course of business, we are exposed to market risks, including changes in interest rates, certain commodity prices and Canadian currency rates. From time to time, we use derivatives to manage some portion of these risks. The Company had no derivatives outstanding as of December 31, 2018.  

 Interest Rate Exposure — Our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our financing activities. As of December 31, 2018, we had $10.1 billion of long-term debt, excluding the impacts of accounting for debt issuance costs, discounts, premiums and fair value adjustments attributable to terminated interest rate derivatives. We have $2.2 billion of debt that is exposed to changes in market interest rates within the next 12 months comprised of (i) $990 million of short-term borrowings under our commercial paper program; (ii) $705 million of tax-exempt bonds with term interest rate periods that expire within the next 12 months; (iii) $513 million of variable-rate tax-exempt bonds that are subject to repricing on either a daily or weekly basis and (iv) C$15 million, or $11 million, of Canadian borrowings under our $2.75 billion revolving credit facility. We currently estimate that a 100‑basis point increase in the interest rates of our outstanding variable-rate debt obligations would increase our 2019 interest expense by $19 million.  

 Our remaining outstanding debt obligations have fixed interest rates through either the scheduled maturity of the debt or, for certain of our fixed-rate tax-exempt bonds, through the end of a term interest rate period that exceeds 12 months. The fair value of our fixed-rate debt obligations can increase or decrease significantly if market interest rates change.  

 We performed a sensitivity analysis to determine how market rate changes might affect the fair value of our market risk-sensitive debt instruments. This analysis is inherently limited because it reflects a singular, hypothetical set of assumptions. Actual market movements may vary significantly from our assumptions. An instantaneous, 100‑basis point increase in interest rates across all maturities attributable to these instruments would have decreased the fair value of our debt by approximately $575 million as of December 31, 2018.  

 We are also exposed to interest rate market risk from our cash and cash equivalent balances, as well as assets held in restricted trust funds and escrow accounts. These assets are generally invested in high quality, liquid instruments including money market funds that invest in U.S. government obligations with original maturities of three months or less. We believe that our exposure to changes in fair value of these assets due to interest rate fluctuations is insignificant as the fair value generally approximates our cost basis. We also invest a portion of our restricted trust and escrow account balances in available-for-sale securities, including U.S. Treasury securities, U.S. agency securities, municipal securities, mortgage- and asset-backed securities and equity securities.  

 Commodity Price Exposure — In the normal course of our business, we are subject to operating agreements that expose us to market risks arising from changes in the prices for commodities such as diesel fuel; recyclable materials, including old corrugated cardboard, old newsprint and plastics; and electricity, which generally correlates with natural gas prices in many of the markets in which we operate. We attempt to manage these risks through operational strategies that focus on capturing our costs in the prices we charge our customers for the services provided. Accordingly, as the market prices for these commodities increase or decrease, our revenues may also increase or decrease.  

 Currency Rate Exposure — We have operations in Canada as well as certain support functions in India. Where significant, we have quantified and described the impact of foreign currency translation on components of income, including operating revenue and operating expenses. However, the impact of foreign currency has not materially affected our results of operations.  

 56  

 Table of Contents  

 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.