ITEM 7A.QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

Market Risk

In addition to the risks inherent in our operations, we are exposed to certain market risks, including changes in interest rates, currency exchange rates and the fair value of our equity investment in JD.com.

The analysis presented below for each of our market risk sensitive instruments is based on a hypothetical scenario used to calibrate potential risk and does not represent our view of future market changes. The effect of a change in a particular assumption is calculated without adjusting any other assumption. In reality, however, a change in one factor could cause a change in another, which may magnify or negate other sensitivities.

Interest Rate Risk

We are exposed to changes in interest rates as a result of our short-term borrowings and long-term debt. We hedge a portion of our interest rate risk by managing the mix of fixed and variable rate debt and by entering into interest rate swaps. For fiscal 2019, the net fair value of our interest rate swaps increased $13 million primarily due to fluctuations in market interest rates. 

The table below provides information about our financial instruments that are sensitive to changes in interest rates. For long-term debt, the table represents the principal cash flows and related weighted-average interest rates by expected maturity dates. For interest rate swaps, the table represents the contractual cash flows and weighted-average interest rates by the contractual maturity date, unless otherwise noted. The notional amounts are used to calculate contractual cash flows to be exchanged under the contracts. The weighted-average variable rates are based upon prevailing market rates as of January 31, 2019.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)The long-term debt amounts in the table exclude the Company's derivatives classified as fair value hedges.

As of January 31, 2019, our variable rate borrowings, including the effect of our commercial paper and interest rate swaps, represented 22% of our total short-term and long-term debt. Based on January 31, 2019 debt levels, a 100 basis point change in prevailing market rates would cause our annual interest costs to change by approximately $110 million.

Foreign Currency Risk

We are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates as a result of our net investments and operations in countries other than the U.S, as well our foreign-currency-denominated long-term debt. For fiscal 2019, movements in currency exchange rates and the related impact on the translation of the balance sheets of the Company's subsidiaries in the UK, Chile, and Canada were the primary cause of the $2.1 billion loss in the currency translation and other category of accumulated other comprehensive loss. 

We hedge a portion of our foreign currency risk by entering into currency swaps. The aggregate fair value of these swaps was in an asset position of $62 million and $413 million as of January 31, 2019 and January 31, 2018, respectively. The change in the fair value of these swaps was due to fluctuations in currency exchange rates, primarily the strengthening of the U.S. dollar relative to other currencies in fiscal 2019. A hypothetical 10% change in the currency exchange rates underlying these swaps from the market rate as of January 31, 2019 would have resulted in a change in the value of the swaps of $515 million. A hypothetical 10% change in interest rates underlying these swaps from the market rates in effect as of January 31, 2019 would have resulted in a change in the value of the swaps of $13 million.

43

In addition to currency swaps, we also hedge a portion of our foreign currency risk by designating foreign-currency-denominated long-term debt as nonderivative hedges of net investments of certain of our foreign operations. We had outstanding long-term debt of £1.7 billion as of January 31, 2019 and January 31, 2018 that was designated as a hedge of our net investment in the United Kingdom. As of January 31, 2019, a hypothetical 10% increase or decrease in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to the British pound would have resulted in a change in the value of the debt of $201 million. In addition, we had outstanding long-term debt of ¥180 billion as of January 31, 2019 and January 31, 2018 that was designated as a hedge of our net investment in Japan. As of January 31, 2019, a hypothetical 10% change in value of the U.S. dollar relative to the Japanese yen would have resulted in a change in the value of the debt of $150 million.

In certain countries, we also enter into immaterial foreign currency forward contracts to hedge the purchase and payment of purchase commitments denominated in non-functional currencies.

Investment Risk

We are exposed to changes in the JD.com ("JD") stock price as a result of our equity investment in JD. Since February 1, 2018, when we adopted the new financial instrument accounting standard, the change in fair value recorded within other gains and losses resulted in a loss of $3.5 billion due to a decrease in the stock price of JD. As of January 31, 2019, the fair value of our equity investment in JD was $3.6 billion.

44

ITEM 8.FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA