ITEM 7.MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

BUSINESS AND OVERVIEW

We are a global provider of hospitality services and products and operate our business in the following two segments:

•Vacation Ownership—develops, markets and sells vacation ownership interests (“VOIs”) to individual consumers, provides consumer financing in connection with the sale of VOIs and provides property management services at resorts.

•Exchange & Rentals—provides vacation exchange services and products to owners of VOIs and manages and markets vacation rental properties primarily on behalf of independent owners.

European Vacation Rentals Business

We sold our European vacation rentals business on May 9, 2018. This sale resulted in final net proceeds of $1.06 billion and an after-tax gain of $456 million, net of $139 million in taxes. We have provided post-closing credit support in order to ensure that Platinum Equity, LLC (the “Buyer”) meets the requirements of certain service providers and regulatory authorities. The results of operations of this business have been classified as discontinued operations on the Consolidated Financial Statements. For further details see Note 6—Discontinued Operations to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Hotel Business Spin-off

We completed the spin-off of our hotel business on May 31, 2018, which resulted in our operations being held by two separate, publicly traded companies. The two public companies have entered into long-term exclusive license agreements to retain their affiliations with one of the industry’s top-rated loyalty programs, Wyndham Rewards, as well as to continue to collaborate on inventory-sharing and customer cross-sell initiatives. This transaction is expected to result in enhanced strategic and management focus on the core business and growth of each company; more efficient capital allocation, direct access to capital and expanded growth opportunities for each company; the ability to implement a tailored approach to recruiting and retaining employees at each company; improved investor understanding of the business strategy and operating results of each company; and enhanced investor choice by offering investment opportunities in separate entities. This transaction was effected through a pro rata distribution of the new hotel entity’s stock to existing Wyndham Destinations shareholders. The new hotel company was named Wyndham Hotels & Resorts, Inc. (“Wyndham Hotels”). As a result of the Spin-off, we have classified the results of operations of our hotel business as discontinued operations on the Consolidated Financial Statements. For further details see Note 6—Discontinued Operations to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

North American Vacation Rentals Business

During 2018, the Company decided to explore strategic alternatives for its North American vacation rentals business and during the fourth quarter commenced activities to facilitate the sale of this business. The assets and liabilities of this business have been classified as held-for-sale as of December 31, 2018. This business does not meet the criteria to be classified as a discontinued operation; therefore, the results were reflected within continuing operations on the Consolidated Statements of Income. See Note 7—Held-for-Sale Business to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further details.

Tax Cuts and Jobs Act

On December 22, 2017 the U.S. enacted the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. The new law, which is also commonly referred to as “U.S. tax reform”, significantly changed U.S. corporate income tax laws by, among other changes, imposing a one-time mandatory tax on previously deferred earnings of foreign subsidiaries, reducing the U.S. corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21% starting on January 1, 2018, creating a territorial tax system which generally eliminates U.S. federal income taxes on dividends from foreign subsidiaries, eliminating or limiting the deduction of certain expenses, and requiring a minimum tax on earnings generated by foreign subsidiaries. This new law significantly impacts our effective tax rate, cash tax expenses and/or deferred income tax balances. 

La Quinta Acquisition

La Quinta Holdings Inc. (“La Quinta”). In January 2018, the Company entered into an agreement with La Quinta to acquire its hotel franchising and management businesses for $1.95 billion. At the time we entered into this agreement, we obtained financing commitments of $2.0 billion in the form of an unsecured bridge term loan, which was subsequently replaced with net 

40
cash proceeds from the issuance of $500 million unsecured notes, a $1.6 billion term loan and a $750 million revolving credit facility, which was undrawn. This acquisition closed on May 30, 2018, prior to the hotel business spin-off on May 31, 2018. Upon completion of the Spin-off, La Quinta became a wholly-owned subsidiary of Wyndham Hotels and the associated debt was transferred to Wyndham Hotels. 

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Vacation Ownership

The Company develops, markets and sells VOIs to individual consumers, provides property management services at resorts and provides consumer financing in connection with the sale of VOIs. The Company’s sales of VOIs are either cash sales or developer-financed sales. Developer financed sales are typically collateralized by the underlying VOI. Revenue is recognized on VOI sales upon transfer of control, which is defined as the point in time when a binding sales contract has been executed, the financing contract has been executed for the remaining transaction price, the statutory rescission period has expired and the transaction price has been deemed to be collectible. 

For developer-financed sales, the Company reduces the VOI sales transaction price by an estimate of uncollectible consideration at the time of the sale. The Company’s estimates of uncollectible amounts are based largely on the results of the Company’s static pool analysis which relies on historical payment data by customer class. 

In connection with entering into a VOI sale, the Company may provide its customers with certain non-cash incentives, such as credits for future stays at its resorts. For those VOI sales, the Company bifurcates the sale and allocates the sales price between the VOI sale and the non-cash incentive. Non-cash incentives generally have expiration periods of 18 months or less and are recognized at a point in time upon transfer of control.  

The Company provides day-to-day property management services including oversight of housekeeping services, maintenance and certain accounting and administrative services for property owners’ associations and clubs. These services may also include reservation and resort renovation activities. Such agreements are generally for terms of one year or less, and are renewed automatically on an annual basis. The Company’s management agreements contain cancellation clauses, which allow for either party to cancel the agreement, by either a majority board vote or a majority vote of non-developer interests. The Company receives fees for such property management services which are collected monthly in advance and are based upon total costs to operate such resorts (or as services are provided in the case of resort renovation activities). Fees for property management services typically approximate 10% of budgeted operating expenses. The Company is entitled to consideration for reimbursement of costs incurred on behalf of the property owners’ association in providing the management services (“reimbursable revenue”). These reimbursable costs principally relate to the payroll costs for management of the associations, club and resort properties where the Company is the employer and are reflected as a component of Operating expenses on the Consolidated Statements of Income. The Company reduces its management fees for amounts it has paid to the property owners’ association that reflect maintenance fees for VOIs for which it retains ownership, as the Company has concluded that such payments are consideration payable to a customer. 

Property management fee revenues are recognized when the services are performed and are recorded as a component of Service and membership fees on the Consolidated Statements of Income. Property management revenues, which are comprised of management fee revenue and reimbursable revenue, were $665 million, $649 million and $623 million during 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively. Management fee revenues were $314 million, $285 million and $273 million during 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively. Reimbursable revenues were $351 million, $364 million and $350 million during 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively. One of the associations that the Company manages paid its Exchange & Rentals segment $29 million for exchange services during 2018 and 2017, and $26 million during 2016.

Within our Vacation Ownership segment, we measure operating performance using the following key operating statistics: (i) gross VOI sales including Fee-for-Service sales before the effect of loan loss provisions, (ii) tours, which represents the number of tours taken by guests in our efforts to sell VOIs and (iii) volume per guest (“VPG”), which represents revenue per guest and is calculated by dividing the gross VOI sales (excluding tele-sales upgrades, which are a component of upgrade sales) by the number of tours.

Exchange & Rentals

As a provider of vacation exchange services, the Company enters into affiliation agreements with developers of vacation ownership properties to allow owners of VOIs to trade their intervals for intervals at other properties affiliated with the Company’s vacation exchange brands and, for some members, for other leisure-related services and products. Additionally, as a 

41
marketer of vacation rental properties, generally the Company enters into contracts for exclusive periods of time with property owners to market the rental of such properties to rental customers. 

The Company’s vacation exchange brands derive a majority of revenues from membership dues and fees for facilitating members’ trading of their intervals. Revenues from membership dues represent the fees paid by members or affiliated clubs on their behalf. The Company recognizes revenues from membership dues paid by the member on a straight-line basis over the membership period as the performance obligations are fulfilled by providing access to travel-related products and services. Consideration paid by affiliated clubs for memberships are recognized as revenue over the term of the contract with the affiliated club in proportion to the estimated average monthly member count. Such estimates are adjusted periodically for changes in the actual and forecasted member activity. For additional fees, members have the right to exchange their intervals for intervals at other properties affiliated with the Company’s vacation exchange networks and, for certain members, for other leisure-related services and products. Fees for facilitating exchanges are recognized as revenue, net of expected cancellations, when these transactions have been confirmed to the member. 

The Company’s vacation exchange brands also derive revenues from: (i) additional services, programs with affiliated resorts, club servicing and loyalty programs and (ii) additional exchange-related products that provide members with the ability to protect trading power or points, extend the life of deposits, and combine two or more deposits for the opportunity to exchange into intervals with higher trading power. Other vacation exchange related product fees are deferred and recognized as revenue upon the occurrence of a future exchange, other related transaction or event.  

The Company’s vacation rental brands derive revenue from fees associated with the rental of vacation rental properties managed and marketed by the Company on behalf of independent owners. The Company remits the rental fee received from the renter to the independent owner, net of the Company’s agreed-upon fee. The related revenue from such fees, net of expected refunds, is recognized over the renter’s stay. The Company’s vacation rental brands also derive revenues from additional services delivered to independent owners, vacation rental guests, and property owners’ associations that are generally recognized when the service is delivered. 

Within our Exchange & Rentals segment, we measure operating performance using the following key operating statistics: (i) average number of vacation exchange members, which represents members in our vacation exchange programs who pay annual membership dues and are entitled, for additional fees, to exchange their intervals for intervals at other properties affiliated with our exchange network and, for certain members, for other leisure-related services and products and (ii) exchange revenue per member, which represents total revenue from fees associated with memberships, exchange transactions, member-related rentals and other services for the year divided by the average number of vacation exchange members during the year.

Other Items

The Company records property management services revenues and RCI Elite Rewards revenues for its Vacation Ownership and Exchange & Rentals segments in accordance with the guidance for reporting revenues gross as a principal versus net as an agent, which requires that these revenues be recorded on a gross basis.

Discussed below are our consolidated results of operations and the results of operations for each of our reportable segments. These reportable segments represent the Company’s operating segments for which discrete financial information is available and which are utilized on a regular basis by its chief operating decision maker to assess performance and to allocate resources. In identifying its reportable segments, the Company also considers the nature of services provided by its operating segments. The Company has updated its segment reporting during the second quarter 2018 to include Adjusted EBITDA, a non-GAAP measure, whereas in the past EBITDA was presented. Following the completion of the spin-off of Wyndham Hotels and the sale of the European vacation rentals business, management uses net revenues and Adjusted EBITDA to assess the performance of the reportable segments. Adjusted EBITDA is defined by the Company as Net income before Depreciation and amortization, Interest expense (excluding Consumer financing interest), Early extinguishment of debt, Interest income (excluding Consumer financing revenues) and Income taxes, each of which is presented on the Consolidated Statements of Income. Adjusted EBITDA also excludes stock-based compensation costs, separation and restructuring costs, transaction costs, impairments, and items that meet the conditions of unusual and/or infrequent. The Company believes that Adjusted EBITDA is a useful measure of performance for its segments which, when considered with GAAP measures, the Company believes it gives a more complete understanding of its operating performance. The Company’s presentation of Adjusted EBITDA may not be comparable to similarly-titled measures used by other companies. 

42
OPERATING STATISTICS

The table below presents our operating statistics for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017. These operating statistics are the drivers of our revenue and therefore provide an enhanced understanding of our business. Refer to the Results of Operations section for a discussion on how these operating statistics affected our business for the periods presented.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a) Represents total sales of VOIs, including sales under the Fee-for-Service program, before the effect of loan loss provisions. We believe that Gross VOI sales provide an enhanced understanding of the performance of our vacation ownership business because it directly measures the sales volume of this business during a given reporting period.

(b) Represents the number of tours taken by guests in our efforts to sell VOIs.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(d) Includes impact of acquisitions from the acquisition date forward.

(e) Represents members in our vacation exchange programs who paid annual membership dues as of the end of the period or who are within the allowed grace period.

(f) Represents total annualized revenues generated from fees associated with memberships, exchange transactions, member-related rentals and other servicing for the period divided by the average number of vacation exchange members during the period.

(g) The following table provides a reconciliation of Gross VOI sales to vacation ownership interest sales for the year ended December 31, (in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

43
Year Ended December 31, 2018 vs. Year Ended December 31, 2017 

Our consolidated results are as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Net revenues increased $125 million (3.3%) during 2018 compared with 2017. Foreign currency translation unfavorably impacted net revenues by $7 million. Excluding foreign currency translation, the increase in net revenues was primarily the result of:

•$141 million of higher revenues in our vacation ownership business primarily due to an increase in net VOI sales, consumer financing and property management revenues; partially offset by

•$8 million decrease in revenues in our exchange and rentals business primarily driven by lower inventory levels and a change in customer mix. 

Expenses increased $41 million (1.2%) during 2018 compared with 2017. Foreign currency translation favorably impacted expenses by $6 million. Excluding foreign translation currency, the increase in expenses was primarily the result of:

•$197 million increase in separation costs related to the spin-off of Wyndham Hotels;

•$70 million of increased expenses from normal operating activities related to higher revenues; and

•$12 million of incremental costs due to acquisitions at our Exchange & Rentals segment; partially offset by

•$209 million decrease in non-cash impairment charges primarily related to the 2017 write-down of undeveloped VOI land and VOI inventory in Saint Thomas, U.S. Virgin Islands at our Vacation Ownership segment as a result of hurricanes; and

•$28 million of cost savings related to overhead and operations due to cost containment initiatives at our Exchange & Rental segment.

Other income, net of other expense increased $10 million during 2018 compared with 2017 due to a favorable value added tax refund and higher business interruption insurance claims received in 2018 related to 2017 hurricanes; partially offset by a non-cash gain related to the Love Home Swap acquisition in 2017 resulting from a re-measurement of our original investment to fair value.

Interest expense increased $15 million during 2018 compared with 2017 primarily due to an increase in the average outstanding revolving credit facility balances, a less favorable debt mix and higher interest rates. 

Our effective tax rate in 2018 was a provision of 32.8%. Our effective rate differs from the 2018 statutory U.S. Federal income tax rate of 21.0% primarily due to an increase in the valuation allowance on the Company’s deferred tax assets. Our effective tax rate in 2017 was a benefit of 103.1%, which differs from the 2017 statutory U.S. Federal income tax rate of 35.0% primarily due to the net benefit from the impact of the U.S. enactment of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act.

44
Our results of operations reflect a negative impact from the 2018 hurricanes, Florence and Michael, and the lingering effects of the 2017 hurricane, Maria. We estimate that the 2018 hurricanes reduced revenues, Adjusted EBITDA, and net income by $23 million, $16 million, and $11 million, respectively. We estimate that hurricane Maria reduced 2018 revenues, Adjusted EBITDA, and net income by $12 million, $11 million, and $7 million, respectively. 

During 2018, there was a $50 million loss from operations of discontinued businesses, net of income taxes, compared to income of $209 million during 2017. The primary drivers of the $259 million change were the spin-off of the hotel business and the sale of the European vacation rentals business in May 2018.

Income on disposal of discontinued business, net of income taxes was $456 million during 2018, representing the gain on the sale of the European vacation rentals business.

As a result of these items, net income attributable to Wyndham Destinations shareholders decreased $182 million (21.3%) as compared with 2017.

45
Following is a discussion of the 2018 results of each of our segments compared to 2017:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a) Includes the elimination of transactions between segments.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(c) Includes $1 million of stock-based compensation expense for the year ended 2017.

(d) Represents the net benefit from the resolution of and adjustment to certain contingent liabilities resulting from the Company’s separation from Cendant.

Vacation Ownership

Net revenues increased $135 million (5%) and Adjusted EBITDA increased $22 million (3%) during 2018 compared with 2017. Foreign currency translation unfavorably impacted net revenues by $6 million and Adjusted EBITDA by $2 million. Increases in net revenues were primarily driven by:

•$122 million increase in gross VOI sales, net of Fee-for-Service sales, primarily driven by a 4% increase in tours, resulting from our continued focus on new owner generation, and a 2% increase in VPG; partially offset by a $37 million increase in our provision for loan losses due to higher gross VOI sales and the impact of higher defaults; 

46
•$28 million increase in consumer financing revenues due to a higher weighted average interest rate earned on a larger average portfolio balance;

•$15 million increase in property management revenues primarily due to higher management fees; and

•$7 million increase in commission revenues as a result of higher Fee-for-Service VOI sales.

In addition to the drivers mentioned above, Adjusted EBITDA was further impacted by:

•$65 million increase in marketing costs due to our continued focus on adding new owners, who typically carry a higher cost per tour, and an increase in licensing fees for the use of the Wyndham tradename;

•$41 million of higher sales and commission expenses primarily due to higher gross VOI sales;

•$31 million increase in the cost of VOIs sold primarily driven by higher gross VOI sales;

•$15 million increase in consumer financing interest expense resulting from an increase in the weighted average interest rate on our non-recourse debt; and

•$6 million increase in commission expenses as a result of higher Fee-for-Service VOI sales.

Such decreases in Adjusted EBITDA were partially offset by:

•$31 million decrease in maintenance fees on unsold inventory;

•$4 million decrease in general and administrative expenses primarily associated with lower employee-related costs and legal settlement expenses; partially offset by information technology and advertising initiatives;

•$4 million increase in ancillary sales and marketing activities; and

•$3 million received from settlement of business interruption claims.

Exchange & Rentals

Net revenues decreased $9 million (1.0%) and Adjusted EBITDA increased $10 million (3.7%) during the twelve months ended December 31, 2018 compared with the same period during 2017. Foreign currency unfavorably impacted net revenues by $1 million and favorably impacted Adjusted EBITDA by $4 million. 

Decreases in net revenues excluding the impact of currency were primarily driven by:

•$12 million net decrease in exchange and related service revenues, inclusive of $9 million incremental acquisition revenue, primarily driven by lower inventory levels and a change in customer mix; and

•$2 million decrease in net revenues generated from vacation rental transactions and related services; partially offset by

$6 million increase in ancillary revenues, inclusive of $2 million incremental acquisition revenue, primarily driven by homeowner services and transition service agreement fees.

In addition to the drivers mentioned above, 2018 Adjusted EBITDA, excluding the impact of currency, was further impacted by:

•$28 million of cost savings related to overhead and operations due to cost containment initiatives; partially offset by

•$12 million of incremental costs due to acquisitions, and

•$4 million negative net impact from the absence of legal settlement proceeds in 2018 compared to proceeds received in 2017.

Corporate and other

Corporate and other Adjusted EBITDA increased $28 million during the twelve months ended December 31, 2018 compared with the same period during 2017. Foreign currency unfavorably impacted Adjusted EBITDA by $3 million. The remaining increase in Adjusted EBITDA was primarily due to lower employee-related costs as a result of restructuring initiatives. 

47
OPERATING STATISTICS

The following table presents our operating statistics for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016. See Results of Operations section for a discussion as to how these operating statistics affected our business for the periods presented.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a) Represents total sales of VOIs, including sales under the Fee-for-Service program, before the effect of loan loss provisions. We believe that Gross VOI sales provide an enhanced understanding of the performance of our vacation ownership business because it directly measures the sales volume of this business during a given reporting period.

(b) Represents the number of tours taken by guests in our efforts to sell VOIs.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(d) Includes impact of acquisitions from the acquisition date forward.

(e) Represents members in our vacation exchange programs who paid annual membership dues as of the end of the period or within the allowed grace period.

(f) Represents total annualized revenues generated from fees associated with memberships, exchange transactions, member-related rentals and other servicing for the period divided by the average number of vacation exchange members during the period. 

(g) The following table provides a reconciliation of Gross VOI sales to vacation ownership interest sales for the year ended December 31 (in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

48
Year Ended December 31, 2017 vs. Year Ended December 31, 2016 

Our consolidated results are as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Net revenues increased $114 million (3.1%) during 2017 compared with 2016. Foreign currency favorably impacted net revenues by $9 million. Excluding foreign currency impact, the increase in net revenues was primarily the result of:

•$101 million of higher revenues in our vacation ownership business primarily due to an increase in net VOI sales, property management and consumer financing revenues; 

•$8 million of higher revenues in our exchange and rentals business primarily due to exchange and related service revenues and acquisitions. 

Expenses increased $333 million (11.0%) during 2017 compared with 2016. Foreign currency unfavorably impacted expenses by $8 million. Excluding foreign currency impact, the increase in expenses was primarily the result of:

•$205 million of non-cash impairment charges primarily related to a write-down of undeveloped VOI land and a write-down of VOI inventory in the Saint Thomas, U.S. Virgin Islands resulting from the impact of the 2017 hurricanes in our vacation ownership business;

•$108 million of higher expenses from operations primarily related to the revenue increases; 

•$26 million of separation and related costs related to the hotel spin-off; and

•$9 million increase in depreciation and amortization resulting from the impact of property and equipment additions; partially offset by 

•$24 million foreign exchange loss related to the devaluation of the Venezuela exchange rate during 2016.

Other income, net increased $7 million during 2017 compared with 2016 due to a non-cash gain related to the Love Home Swap acquisition at our Exchange & Rentals segment resulting from a re-measurement of our original investment to fair value.

Interest expense increased $22 million during 2017 compared with 2016 primarily due to the impact of senior unsecured notes issued during March 2017; partially offset by the repayment of our 2.95% senior unsecured notes during March 2017. 

Our effective tax rate in 2017 was a benefit of 103.1%. Our effective rate differs from the statutory U.S. Federal income tax rate of 35.0% primarily due to the net benefit of $407 million from the impact of the U.S. enactment of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. Our effective tax rate in 2016 was a provision of 35.1%.

Our results of operations reflect a negative impact from hurricanes Harvey, Irma, and Maria in 2017. We estimate that the hurricanes reduced our revenues, Adjusted EBITDA and net income by $32 million, $20 million and $13 million, respectively.

Income from discontinued operations, net of income taxes decreased $51 million during 2017 compared with 2016 primarily from costs associated with the hotel spin-off and the sale of the European vacation rentals business.

49
As a result of these items, net income attributable to Wyndham Destinations shareholders increased $243 million (39.8%) as compared with 2016.

Following is a discussion of the 2017 results of each of our segments and Corporate and Other compared to 2016:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a) Includes the elimination of transactions between segments.

(b) Represents costs incurred for the early repurchase of the remaining portion of our 6.00% senior unsecured notes during 2016.

(c) Includes $4 million of stock based compensation expenses for the year ended 2017.

(d) Includes $1 million of stock-based compensation expense for the year ended 2017.

(e) Represents the net benefit from the resolution of and adjustment to certain contingent liabilities resulting from the Company’s separation from Cendant.

50
Vacation Ownership

Net revenues increased $107 million (4%) and Adjusted EBITDA decreased $15 million (2%), respectively, during 2017 compared with 2016. Foreign currency favorably impacted net revenues by $6 million and Adjusted EBITDA by less than $1 million. Increases in net revenues were primarily driven by:

•$160 million increase in gross VOI sales, net of Fee-for-Service sales, primarily driven by a 6% increase in tours, reflecting our continued focus on new owner generation, and a 0.9% increase in VPG; partially offset by a $78 million increase in our provision for loan losses due to higher gross VOI sales and the impact of third parties encouraging customers to default on their timeshare loans; 

•$27 million increase in property management revenues due to higher management fees and reimbursable revenues, and

•$22 million increase in consumer financing revenues due to a higher weighted average interest rate earned on a larger average portfolio balance; partially offset by

•$22 million decrease in commission revenues as a result of lower Fee-for-Service VOI sales as we continue to shift our focus to utilizing our Just-in-Time inventory for VOI sales.

In addition to the drivers mentioned above, Adjusted EBITDA was further impacted by:

•$49 million increase in marketing costs due to our continued focus on adding new owners, who typically carry a higher cost per tour;

•$27 million of higher sales and commission expenses primarily due to higher gross VOI sales;

•$19 million increase in property management expenses;

•$17 million of higher maintenance fees on unsold inventory;

•$15 million of higher employee-related costs;

•$12 million of higher legal settlement expenses; and

•$6 million of lower proceeds from business interruption claims.

Such decreases in Adjusted EBITDA were partially offset by:

•$19 million decrease of commission expenses as a result of lower Fee-for-Service VOI sales; and

•$1 million decrease of consumer financing interest expense resulting from a decrease in the weighted average interest rate on our non-recourse debt.

Exchange & Rentals

Net revenues and Adjusted EBITDA increased $11 million (1%) and $7 million (3%), respectively, in 2017 compared with 2016. Foreign currency translation favorably impacted net revenues and Adjusted EBITDA by $3 million and $1 million, respectively. Increases in net revenues excluding the impact of currency were primarily driven by:

•$4 million increase in exchange and related service revenues primarily driven by an increase in exchange revenue per member, partially offset by a decline in the average number of members; and 

•$2 million increase in rental transactions and related services principally due to an increase in average net price per vacation rental.

In addition, Adjusted EBITDA also reflected the absence of $3 million from the favorable settlement of business disruption claims related to the Gulf of Mexico oil spill received during 2016. 

Corporate and other

Corporate and other Adjusted EBITDA decreased $2 million during 2017 compared with 2016 primarily due to decreased intercompany revenue partially offset by acquisition-related deal costs incurred in 2016 for which there were no equivalent costs incurred in 2017. 

DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS

We sold our European vacation rentals business on May 9, 2018. This sale resulted in final net proceeds of $1.06 billion and an after-tax gain of $456 million, net of $139 million in taxes. We have provided post-closing credit support in order to ensure that Platinum Equity, LLC (the “Buyer”) meets the requirements of certain service providers and regulatory authorities. The results of operations of this business have been classified as discontinued operations on the Consolidated Financial Statements. For further details see Note 6—Discontinued Operations to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

51
We completed the spin-off of our hotel business on May 31, 2018, which resulted in our operations being held by two separate, publicly traded companies. The two public companies have entered into long-term exclusive license agreements to retain their affiliations with one of the industry’s top-rated loyalty programs, Wyndham Rewards, as well as to continue to collaborate on inventory-sharing and customer cross-sell initiatives. This transaction is expected to result in enhanced strategic and management focus on the core business and growth of each company; more efficient capital allocation, direct access to capital and expanded growth opportunities for each company; the ability to implement a tailored approach to recruiting and retaining employees at each company; improved investor understanding of the business strategy and operating results of each company; and enhanced investor choice by offering investment opportunities in separate entities. This transaction was effected through a pro rata distribution of the new hotel entity’s stock to existing Wyndham Destinations shareholders. The new hotel company was named Wyndham Hotels & Resorts, Inc. As a result of the Spin-off, we have classified the results of operations of our hotel business as discontinued operations on the Consolidated Financial Statements. For further details see Note 6—Discontinued Operations to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

During 2018, there was a $50 million loss from discontinued operations, net of taxes. Income from discontinued operations, net of taxes was $209 million and $260 million in 2017 and 2016, respectively. Separation and related costs from discontinued operations was $111 million and $40 million in 2018 and 2017, respectively.

SEPARATION AND TRANSACTION COSTS

During 2018, the Company incurred $223 million of expenses in connection with the spin-off of the hotel business which are reflected within continuing operations and include related costs of the Spin-off, of which $217 million were related to stock compensation modification expense, severance and other employee costs offset, in part, by favorable foreign currency. In addition, these costs include certain impairment charges related to the separation including property sold to Wyndham Hotels.

Additionally, during 2018, the Company incurred $111 million of separation related expenses in connection with the hotel spin-off and sale of the European vacation rentals business which are reflected within discontinued operations. These expenses include legal, consulting and auditing fees, stock compensation modification expense, severance and other employee-related costs.

During 2017, the Company incurred $26 million of expenses associated with the planned spin-off of the hotel business and the exploration of strategic alternatives for the European vacation rentals business which are reflected within continuing operations. Additionally, during this same time period the Company incurred $40 million of separation related costs that are included within discontinued operations. These costs include legal, consulting and auditing fees, stock compensation modification expense, severance and other employee-related costs.

RESTRUCTURING PLANS

During 2018, the Company recorded $16 million of charges related to restructuring initiatives, all of which are personnel-related resulting from a reduction of approximately 500 employees. This action was primarily focused on enhancing organizational efficiency and rationalizing operations. The charges consisted of (i) $11 million at the Vacation Ownership segment, (ii) $4 million at the Exchange & Rentals segment, and (iii) $1 million at the Company’s corporate operations. During 2018, the Company reduced its restructuring liability by $4 million of cash payments. The remaining 2018 restructuring liability of $12 million is expected to be paid by the end of 2019.

During 2017, the Company recorded $14 million of charges related to restructuring initiatives, all of which were personnel-related resulting from a reduction of approximately 200 employees. The charges consisted of (i) $8 million at its Exchange & Rentals segment which primarily focused on enhancing organizational efficiency and rationalizing its operations, and (ii) $6 million at the Company’s corporate operations which focused on rationalizing its sourcing function and outsourcing certain information technology functions. During 2017, the Company reduced its restructuring liability by $11 million, of which $9 million was in cash payments and $1 million was through the issuance of Wyndham stock. During 2018, the Company reduced its restructuring liability by $3 million of cash payments. The 2017 restructuring liability was paid in full as of December 31, 2018. 

During 2016, the Company recorded $12 million of charges related to restructuring initiatives, primarily focused on enhancing organizational efficiency and rationalizing existing facilities which included the closure of four vacation ownership sales offices. In connection with these initiatives, the Company initially recorded $8 million of personnel-related costs resulting from a reduction of 450 employees, $4 million at both the Vacation Ownership and the Exchange & Rentals segments. The Vacation Ownership segment also incurred a $2 million non-cash asset impairment charge resulting from the write-off of assets from 

52
sales office closures, and $2 million of facility-related expenses. In both 2016 and 2017, the Company reduced its liability with $5 million of cash payments. During 2018, the Company reduced its liability with $1 million of cash payments. During 2018, the Company reduced its liability with $1 million in cash payments. As of December 31, 2018, the remaining liability of less than $1 million, all of which is related to leased facilities, is expected to be paid by the end of 2020.

We have additional restructuring plans which were implemented prior to 2016. During 2018 the Company reduced its liability for such plans with less than $1 million of cash payments, and $1 million of cash payments in each of 2017 and 2016, respectively. As of December 31, 2018, the remaining liability of less than $1 million, all of which is related to leased facilities, is expected to be paid by 2020. 

FINANCIAL CONDITION, LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

Financial Condition

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Total assets decreased $3.29 billion from December 31, 2017 to December 31, 2018 primarily due to:

•$3.56 billion decrease as a result of the spin-off of Wyndham Hotels and the sale of the European vacation rentals business.

Such deceases in assets were partially offset by:

•$170 million increase in cash primarily related to our international businesses; and

•$136 million increase in net vacation ownership contract receivables.

Total liabilities decreased $1.95 billion from December 31, 2017 to December 31, 2018 primarily due to:

•$1.42 billion decrease as a result of the spin-off of Wyndham Hotels and the sale of the European vacation rentals business;

•$1.03 billion reduction in debt, primarily related to the repayment of the $450 million 2.5% senior unsecured notes that matured in March 2018, the terminations of the revolving credit facility maturing in 2020, the $325 million secured term loan B maturing in 2021, and the commercial paper program, partially offset by borrowings under the new revolving credit facility maturing in 2023 and the $300 million term loan maturing in 2025; and

•$166M decrease in accounts payable, $87 million of which is due to the classification of North American vacation rentals as held-for-sale, the remaining variance is primarily due to timing of purchases and payments in the normal course of business.

Such decreases in liabilities were partially offset by:

•$259 million increase in non-recourse vacation ownership debt;

•$157 million increase in accrued expenses and other liabilities, primarily due to an increase in income taxes payable, and guarantee liabilities relating to the sale of the European vacation rentals business, partially offset by $27 million due to the classification of North American vacation rentals as held-for-sale; and

•$123 million increase in deferred income taxes, primarily related to installment sales of VOIs and the valuation allowance on the Company’s deferred tax assets.

Total equity decreased $1.34 billion from December 31, 2017 to December 31, 2018 primarily due to:

•$1.53 billion decrease in retained earnings due to the distribution related to the spin-off of Wyndham Hotels;

•$324 million treasury stock repurchases; and

•$191 million of dividends.

Such decreases were partially offset by:

•$672 million of net income attributable to Wyndham Destinations shareholders; and

•$81 million increase in additional paid-in capital primarily related to stock-based compensation.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

Currently, our financing needs are supported by cash generated from operations and borrowings under our revolving credit facility as well as the issuance of secured debt. In addition, we use our bank conduit facility and non-recourse debt borrowings 

53
to finance our vacation ownership contract receivables. We believe that our net cash from operations, cash and cash equivalents, access to our revolving credit facilities, our bank conduit facility, and continued access to the debt markets provide us with sufficient liquidity to meet our ongoing cash needs.

In connection with the spin-off of Wyndham Hotels and the entry into new credit facilities, on May 31, 2018, the Company used net proceeds from the secured term loan B and $220 million of borrowings under the new $1.0 billion revolving credit facility to repay $484 million of outstanding principal borrowings under its revolving credit facility maturing in 2020. In addition, effective May 31, 2018, the Company terminated the $1.5 billion revolving credit facility maturing in 2020, the $400 million 364-day credit facility maturing in 2018 and the $325 million term loan maturing in 2021.

Following the Spin-off, the Company’s corporate notes were downgraded by Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services (“S&P”) and Moody’s Investors Service, Inc. (“Moody’s”). As a result of such notes being downgraded, pursuant to the terms of the indentures governing the Company’s 4.15% Notes due 2024 (the “2024 Notes”) were increased to 5.40%, the 5.10% Notes due 2025 (the “2025 Notes”) were increased to 6.35%, and the 4.50% Notes due 2027 (the “2027 Notes”) were increased to 5.75% per annum, respectively. Pursuant to the terms of the indentures governing such series of notes, the interest rate on each such series of notes may be subject to future increases or decreases, as a result of future downgrades or upgrades to the credit ratings of such notes by S&P, Moody’s or a substitute rating agency. 

Our five-year revolving credit facility, which expires in May 2023, has a total capacity of $1.0 billion and available capacity of $784 million, net of letters of credit, as of December 31, 2018. 

The Company terminated its European and U.S. commercial paper programs during the first and second quarter of 2018, respectively. Prior to termination, the U.S. and European commercial paper programs had total capacities of $750 million and $500 million, respectively. As of December 31, 2018, the Company had no outstanding borrowings under these programs. As of December 31, 2017, the Company had outstanding borrowings of $147 million, all under our U.S. commercial paper program, at a weighted average interest rate of 2.34%.

Our current two-year, $800 million non-recourse vacation ownership bank conduit facility, with a borrowing capability through April 2020, had $282 million of available capacity as of December 31, 2018. Borrowings under this facility are required to be repaid as the collateralized receivables amortize, but no later than May 2021.

Our fifteen-month, $750 million non-recourse vacation ownership bank conduit facility, was terminated and repayments were accelerated. No balance remained as of December 31, 2018. 

We may, from time to time, depending on market conditions and other factors, repurchase our outstanding indebtedness, whether or not such indebtedness trades above or below its face amount, for cash and/or in exchange for other securities or other consideration, in each case in open market purchases and/or privately negotiated transactions.

The Company is currently evaluating the impact of the transition from the London Interbank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”) as an interest rate benchmark to other potential alternative reference rates, including but not limited to the Secured Overnight Financing Rate (“SOFR”). Currently the Company has several debt and derivative instruments in place that reference LIBOR-based rates. The transition from LIBOR is estimated to take place in 2021 and management will continue to actively assess the related opportunities and risks involved in this transition.  

54
CASH FLOWS

The following table summarizes the changes in cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash during 2018, 2017 and 2016:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Operating Activities 

Net cash provided by operating activities from continuing operations for the year ended December 31, 2018 decreased by $208 million compared to the same period in 2017. Such decrease was driven by:

•$380 million decrease in net income from continuing operations; and 

•$253 million increase in cash utilized for working capital primarily due to increased separation-related receivables classified in Other assets and increased Vacation ownership contract receivables, net; partially offset by 

•$425 million increase in non-cash items primarily due to deferred income taxes as the prior year included significant adjustments due to the change in the U.S. corporate tax rate. 

Net cash provided by operating activities from discontinued operations for the year ended December 31, 2018 decreased by $336 million compared to the same period of the prior year. Such decrease was driven by:

•$600 million decrease in non-cash items; partially offset by 

•$198 million increase in net income from discontinued operations; and 

•$66 million increase in cash provided by working capital.

Net cash provided by operating activities from continuing operations for the year ended December 31, 2017, increased by $59 million compared to the same period in 2016. Such increase was driven by:

•$294 million increase in net income from continuing operations, offset in part by:

•$57 million increase in cash utilized for working capital primarily due to an increase in vacation ownership contract receivables resulting from higher originations and increased spending on vacation ownership development projects partially offset by an increase in accrued expenses associated with higher employee-related costs; and

•$178 million decrease in non-cash items primarily due to deferred income taxes in 2017 which included significant adjustments due to the change in the U.S. corporate tax rate.

Net cash provided by operating activities from discontinued operations decreased by $36 million compared to 2016. This was primarily due to:

•$51 million decrease in net income; partially offset by 

•$12 million increase in non-cash items; and 

•$3 million increase in net working capital. 

Investing Activities

Net cash used in investing activities from continuing operations for the year ended December 31, 2018 decreased by $52 million primarily due to the Love Home Swap and DAE acquisitions in 2017 for which there was no equivalent in 2018. 

55
Net cash used in investing activities from discontinued operations for the year ended December 31, 2018 increased by $415 million compared to the same period of the prior year. The increase was due to:

•$1.55 billion higher cash used for acquisitions in 2018; offset by 

•$1.1 billion of cash proceeds from the sale of businesses in 2018; as well as $43 million lower additions to property and equipment in 2018 compared to 2017.

Net cash used in investing activities from continuing operations for the year ended December 31, 2017, increased $11 million compared to the prior year, primarily due to the Love Home Swap and DAE acquisitions in 2017, partially offset by $10 million of lower proceeds from asset sales in 2017 compared to 2016. 

Net cash used in investing activities for discontinued operations increased by $5 million.

Financing Activities

Net cash used in financing activities from continuing operations for the year ended December 31, 2018, increased $1.25 billion compared to the same period in 2017, primarily due to:

•$1.07 billion higher net repayments; and 

•$476 million of cash transferred to Wyndham Hotels upon Spin-off; partially offset by 

•$269 million of lower share repurchases.

Net cash provided by financing activities for discontinued operations increased $2.09 billion compared to the same period of the prior year representing the proceeds from borrowings associated with the La Quinta acquisition.

Net cash used in financing activities for continuing operations for the year ended December 31, 2017, decreased $38 million compared to 2016, primarily due to $52 million of higher net borrowings. 

Net cash used in financing activities for discontinued operations increased $10 million primarily due to contingent payments related to prior-year acquisitions.

Capital Deployment

We focus on deploying capital for the highest possible returns. Ultimately, our business objective is to grow our business while optimizing cash flow and Adjusted EBITDA. We intend to continue to invest in select capital and technological improvements across our business. We may also seek to strategically grow the business through merger and acquisition activities. Finally, we intend to continue to return value to shareholders through the repurchase of common stock and payment of dividends.

During 2018, we invested $202 million in vacation ownership development projects (inventory). We believe that our vacation ownership business currently has adequate finished inventory on our balance sheet to support vacation ownership sales for at least the next year. The average inventory spend on vacation ownership development projects for the five-year period from 2019 through 2023 is expected to be approximately $250 million annually. After factoring in the anticipated additional average annual spending, we expect to have adequate inventory to support vacation ownership sales through at least the next four to five years.

During 2018, we invested $99 million for capital expenditures for continuing operations, primarily on information technology enhancement and facility related projects. During 2019, we anticipate investing approximately $110 million to $120 million on capital expenditures for continuing operations.

In connection with our focus on optimizing cash flow, we are continuing our asset-light efforts in vacation ownership by seeking opportunities with financial partners whereby they make strategic investments to develop assets on our behalf. We refer to this as Just-in-Time. The partner may invest in new ground-up development projects or purchase from us, for cash, existing in-process inventory which currently resides on our balance sheet. The partner will complete the development of the project and we may purchase finished inventory at a future date as needed or as obligated under the agreement.

We expect that the majority of the expenditures that will be required to pursue our capital spending programs, strategic investments and vacation ownership development projects will be financed with cash flow generated through operations. Additional expenditures are financed with general secured corporate borrowings, including through the use of available capacity under our revolving credit facility.

56
Share Repurchase Program 

On August 20, 2007, our Board authorized a share repurchase program that enables us to purchase our common stock. The Board has since increased the capacity of the program eight times, most recently on October 23, 2017 by $1.0 billion, bringing the total authorization under the current program to $6.0 billion. Proceeds received from stock option exercises have increased the repurchase capacity by $78 million since the inception of this program. We had $816 million of remaining availability in our program as of December 31, 2018.

Under our current share repurchase program, we repurchased 6.2 million shares during the year ended December 31, 2018. Of these repurchases, 0.9 million shares were repurchased prior to the spin-off of Wyndham Hotels at an average price of $114.89 for a total of $103 million, and 5.3 million shares were repurchased since the spin-off of Wyndham Hotels at an average price of $41.31 for a total cost of $221 million.

As of December 31, 2018, we have repurchased under our current and prior share repurchase programs, a total of 126 million shares for a cost of $6.07 billion since our separation from Cendant. 

The average prices for both current year repurchases and total repurchases were impacted by five months of higher per share price prior to the spin-off of Wyndham Hotels and seven months of lower per share price after the Spin-off.

During the period January 1, 2019 through February 25, 2019, we repurchased an additional 1.0 million shares at an average price of $41.47 for a cost of $40 million. We currently have $776 million remaining availability in our program. The amount and timing of specific repurchases are subject to market conditions, applicable legal requirements and other factors. Repurchases may be conducted in the open market or in privately negotiated transactions.

Dividends

During the quarterly period ended March 31, 2018 the Company paid cash dividends of $0.66 per share, in each of the quarterly periods ended June 30, September 30 and December 31, 2018, the Company paid cash dividends of $0.41 per share. For each of the quarterly periods in 2017 and 2016, the Company paid cash dividends of $0.58 and $0.50 per share, respectively. The aggregate of dividends paid to shareholders for 2018, 2017 and 2016 were $194 million, $242 million, and $223 million, respectively. 

Our ongoing dividend policy is to grow our dividend at the rate of growth of our earnings at a minimum, with the exception of the adjustment during the second quarter as a result of the separation. The declaration and payment of future dividends to holders of our common stock are at the discretion of our Board and depend upon many factors, including our financial condition, earnings, capital requirements of our business, covenants associated with certain debt obligations, legal requirements, regulatory constraints, industry practice and other factors that our Board deems relevant. There is no assurance that a payment of a dividend will occur in the future.

Foreign Earnings

Although the one-time mandatory deemed repatriation tax during 2017 and the territorial tax system created as a result of U.S. tax reform generally eliminate U.S. federal income taxes on dividends from foreign subsidiaries, the Company continues to assert that all of the undistributed foreign earnings of $654 million will be reinvested indefinitely as of December 31, 2018. In the event the Company determines not to continue to assert that all or part of its undistributed foreign earnings are permanently reinvested, such a determination in the future could result in the accrual and payment of additional foreign withholding taxes and U.S. taxes on currency transaction gains and losses, the determination of which is not practicable.

LONG-TERM DEBT COVENANTS

The revolving credit facilities and term loan B are subject to covenants including the maintenance of specific financial ratios as defined in the credit agreement. Commencing with the fiscal quarter ending September 30, 2018, the financial ratio covenants consist of a minimum interest coverage ratio of at least 2.5 to 1.0 as of the measurement date and a maximum first lien leverage ratio not to exceed 4.25 to 1.0 as of the measurement date. The interest coverage ratio is calculated by dividing consolidated EBITDA (as defined in the credit agreement) by consolidated interest expense (as defined in the credit agreement), both as measured on a trailing 12-month basis preceding the measurement date. As of December 31, 2018, our interest coverage ratio was 6.2 to 1.0. The first lien leverage ratio is calculated by dividing consolidated first lien debt (as defined in the credit agreement) as of the measurement date by consolidated EBITDA (as defined in the credit agreement) as measured on a trailing 12-month basis preceding the measurement date. As of December 31, 2018, our first lien leverage ratio was 2.8 to 1.0. These ratios do not include interest expense or indebtedness related to any qualified securitization financing (as defined in the credit agreement). As of December 31, 2018, we were in compliance with all of the financial covenants described above.

57
Each of our non-recourse, securitized term notes, and the bank conduit facilities contain various triggers relating to the performance of the applicable loan pools. If the vacation ownership contract receivables pool that collateralizes one of our securitization notes fails to perform within the parameters established by the contractual triggers (such as higher default or delinquency rates), there are provisions pursuant to which the cash flows for that pool will be maintained in the securitization as extra collateral for the note holders or applied to accelerate the repayment of outstanding principal to the note holders. As of December 31, 2018, all of our securitized loan pools were in compliance with applicable contractual triggers.

LIQUIDITY

Our vacation ownership business finances certain of its receivables through (i) an asset-backed bank conduit facilities and (ii) periodically accessing the capital markets by issuing asset-backed securities. None of the currently outstanding asset-backed securities contain any recourse provisions to us other than interest rate risk related to swap counterparties (solely to the extent that the amount outstanding on our notes differs from the forecasted amortization schedule at the time of issuance).

We believe that our $800 million bank conduit facility with a term through April 2020, combined with our ability to issue term asset-backed securities, should provide sufficient liquidity for our expected sales pace, and we expect to have available liquidity to finance the sale of VOIs. As of December 31, 2018, we had $282 million of availability under these asset-backed bank conduit facilities. Any disruption to the asset-backed securities market could adversely impact our future ability to obtain asset-backed financings. 

We primarily utilize surety bonds in our vacation ownership business for sales and development transactions in order to meet regulatory requirements of certain states. In the ordinary course of the Company’s business, it has assembled commitments from 15 surety providers in the amount of $2.60 billion, of which the Company had $365 million outstanding as of December 31, 2018. The availability, terms and conditions and pricing of bonding capacity are dependent on, among other things, continued financial strength and stability of the insurance company affiliates providing the bonding capacity, general availability of such capacity and the Company’s corporate credit rating. If the bonding capacity is unavailable or, alternatively, the terms and conditions and pricing of the bonding capacity are unacceptable to the Company, its vacation ownership business could be negatively impacted.

Our liquidity position may also be negatively affected by unfavorable conditions in the capital markets in which we operate or if our vacation ownership contract receivables portfolios do not meet specified portfolio credit parameters. Our liquidity as it relates to our vacation ownership contract receivables securitization program could be adversely affected if we were to fail to renew or replace our conduit facilities on their expiration dates, or if a particular receivables pool were to fail to meet certain ratios, which could occur in certain instances if the default rates or other credit metrics of the underlying vacation ownership contract receivables deteriorate. Our ability to sell securities backed by our vacation ownership contract receivables depends on the continued ability and willingness of capital market participants to invest in such securities.

Our debt is rated Ba2 with a “stable outlook” by Moody’s Investors Service and BB- with a “positive outlook” by Standard and Poor’s, and BB- with a “stable outlook” by Fitch Rating Agency. A security rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities and is subject to revision or withdrawal by the assigning rating organization. Reference in this report to any such credit rating is intended for the limited purpose of discussing or referring to aspects of our liquidity and of our costs of funds. Any reference to a credit rating is not intended to be any guarantee or assurance of, nor should there be any undue reliance upon, any credit rating or change in credit rating, nor is any such reference intended as any inference concerning future performance, future liquidity or any future credit rating. 

SEASONALITY 

We experience seasonal fluctuations in our net revenues and net income from sales of VOIs, vacation exchange fees and commission income earned from renting vacation properties. Revenues from sales of VOIs are generally higher in the third quarter than in other quarters due to increased leisure travel. Revenues from vacation exchange fees are generally highest in the first quarter, which is generally when members of our vacation exchange business book their vacations for the year. Revenues from vacation rentals are generally highest in the third quarter, when vacation arrivals are highest. The seasonality of our business may cause fluctuations in our quarterly operating results. As we expand into new markets and geographical locations, we may experience increased or different seasonality dynamics that create fluctuations in operating results different from the fluctuations we have experienced in the past.

58
COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

From time to time, the Company is involved in claims, legal and regulatory proceedings, and governmental inquiries related to the Company’s business, none of which, in the opinion of management, is expected to have a material effect on our results of operations or financial condition. See Note 19—Commitments and Contingencies to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a description of claims and legal actions arising in the ordinary course of our business along with the Company’s guarantees and indemnifications and Note 27—Transactions with Former Parent and Former Subsidiaries to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a description of our obligations regarding Cendant contingent litigation, matters related to Wyndham Hotels and matters related to the European vacation rentals business.

CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS

The following table summarizes the future contractual obligations of our continuing operations for the 12-month periods beginning on January 1st of each of the years set forth below:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a) Represents debt that is securitized through bankruptcy-remote SPEs, the creditors to which have no recourse to us for principal and interest.

(b) Includes interest on both debt and non-recourse debt; estimated using the stated interest rates on our debt and the swapped interest rates on our non-recourse debt. [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(f) Excludes a $34 million liability for unrecognized tax benefits associated with the guidance for uncertainty in income taxes since it is not reasonably estimable to determine the periods in which such liability would be settled with the respective tax authorities.

In addition to amounts shown in the table above, we have $42 million of contractual obligations related to our held-for-sale business, of which $12 million is due within one year. Such obligations primarily relate to operating leases and purchase obligations.

In addition to the above and in connection with our Separation from Cendant, we entered into certain guarantee commitments with Cendant (pursuant to our assumption of certain liabilities and our obligation to indemnify Cendant, Realogy and Travelport for such liabilities) and guarantee commitments related to deferred compensation arrangements with each of Cendant and Realogy. For information on matters related to the Company’s former parent and subsidiaries see Note 27—Transactions with Former Parent and Former Subsidiaries to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

OTHER COMMERCIAL COMMITMENTS AND OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS

Purchase Commitments. In the normal course of business, we make various commitments to purchase goods or services from specific suppliers, including those related to vacation ownership resort development and other capital expenditures. Purchase commitments made by us as of December 31, 2018 aggregated $1.12 billion, of which $848 million were for marketing-related activities, $153 million were related to the development of vacation ownership properties, and $64 million were for information technology activities. 

59
Standard Guarantees/Indemnifications. In the ordinary course of business, we enter into agreements that contain standard guarantees and indemnities whereby we indemnify another party for specified breaches of or third-party claims relating to an underlying agreement. Such underlying agreements are typically entered into by one of our subsidiaries. The various underlying agreements generally govern purchases, sales or outsourcing of products or services, leases of real estate, licensing of software and/or development of vacation ownership properties, access to credit facilities, derivatives and issuances of debt securities. Also in the ordinary course of business, we provide corporate guarantees for our operating business units relating to merchant credit-card processing for prepaid customer stays and other deposits. While a majority of these guarantees and indemnifications extend only for the duration of the underlying agreement, some survive the expiration of the agreement. We are not able to estimate the maximum potential amount of future payments to be made under these guarantees and indemnifications as the triggering events are not predictable. In certain cases we maintain insurance coverage that may mitigate any potential payments.

Other Guarantees/Indemnifications. In the ordinary course of business, our vacation ownership business provides guarantees to certain owners’ associations for funds required to operate and maintain vacation ownership properties in excess of assessments collected from owners of the VOIs. We may be required to fund such excess as a result of unsold Company-owned VOIs or failure by owners to pay such assessments. In addition, from time to time, we will agree to reimburse certain owner associations up to 80% of their uncollected assessments. These guarantees extend for the duration of the underlying subsidy or similar agreement (which generally approximate one year and are renewable at our discretion on an annual basis). The maximum potential future payments that we could be required to make under these guarantees was approximately $369 million as of December 31, 2018. We would only be required to pay this maximum amount if none of the assessed owners paid their assessments. Any assessments collected from the owners of the VOIs would reduce the maximum potential amount of future payments to be made by us. Additionally, should we be required to fund the deficit through the payment of any owners’ assessments under these guarantees, we would be permitted access to the property for our own use and may use that property to engage in revenue-producing activities, such as rentals. During 2018, 2017 and 2016, we made payments related to these guarantees of $10 million, $11 million and $13 million, respectively. As of December 31, 2018 and 2017, we maintained a liability in connection with these guarantees of $33 million and $35 million, respectively, on our Consolidated Balance Sheets.

We guarantee our Vacation Ownership subsidiary’s obligations to repurchase completed property in Las Vegas, Nevada from a third-party developer subject to the property meeting the Company’s vacation ownership resort standards and provided that the third-party developer has not sold the property to another party. The maximum potential future payments that the Company may be required to make under these commitments was $160 million as of December 31, 2018.

As part of the Fee-for-Service program, the Company may guarantee to reimburse the developer a certain payment or to purchase inventory from the developer, for a percentage of the original sale price if certain future conditions exist. As of December 31, 2018 the maximum potential future payments that the Company may be required to make under these guarantees were approximately $37 million. As of December 31, 2018 and 2017, the Company had no recognized liabilities in connection with these guarantees. 

In connection with the Company’s vacation ownership inventory sale transactions, for which it has conditional rights and conditional obligations to repurchase the completed properties, the Company was required to maintain an investment-grade credit rating from at least one rating agency. As a result of the spin-off of Wyndham Hotels, the Company failed to maintain an investment-grade credit rating with at least one rating agency, which triggered a default. The Company agreed to pay $8 million in fees in lieu of posting collateral in favor of the development partner in an amount equal to the remaining obligations under the agreements. 

Securitizations. We pool qualifying vacation ownership contract receivables and sell them to bankruptcy-remote entities, all of which are consolidated into the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2018.

Letters of Credit. As of December 31, 2018, we had $70 million of irrevocable standby letters of credit outstanding, of which $35 million were backed by our revolving credit facilities. As of December 31, 2017, we had $47 million of irrevocable standby letters of credit outstanding, of which $1 million were under our revolving credit facility. Such letters of credit issued during 2018 and 2017 primarily supported the securitization of vacation ownership contract receivables funding, certain insurance policies and development activity in our vacation ownership business.

Surety Bonds. As of December 31, 2018, we had assembled commitments from 15 surety providers in the amount of $2.60 billion, of which $365 million was outstanding. See Note 19—Commitments and Contingencies to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional discussion of our surety bonds.

60
CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES

In presenting our financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles, we are required to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported therein. Several of the estimates and assumptions we are required to make relate to matters that are inherently uncertain as they pertain to future events. However, events that are outside of our control cannot be predicted and, as such, they cannot be contemplated in evaluating such estimates and assumptions. If there is a significant unfavorable change to current conditions, it could result in a material impact to our consolidated results of operations, financial position and liquidity. We believe that the estimates and assumptions we used when preparing our financial statements were the most appropriate at that time. In addition to our significant accounting policies referenced in Note 2—Summary of Significant Accounting Policies to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, presented below are those accounting policies that we believe require subjective and complex judgments that could potentially affect reported results. However, the majority of our businesses operate in environments where we are paid a fee for a service performed, and therefore the results of the majority of our recurring operations are recorded in our financial statements using accounting policies that are not particularly subjective, nor complex.

Vacation Ownership Revenue Recognition. Our sales of VOIs are either cash sales or developer-financed sales. Developer financed sales are typically collateralized by the underlying VOI. Revenue is recognized on VOI sales upon transfer of control, which is defined as the point in time when a binding sales contract has been executed, the financing contract has been executed for the remaining transaction price, the statutory rescission period has expired and the transaction price has been deemed to be collectible. For developer-financed sales, the Company reduces the VOI sales transaction price by an estimate of uncollectible consideration at the time of the sale. The Company’s estimates of uncollectible amounts are based largely on the results of the Company’s static pool analysis which relies on historical payment data by customer class. In connection with entering into a VOI sale, the Company may provide its customers with certain non-cash incentives, such as credits for future stays at its resorts. For those VOI sales, the Company bifurcates the sale and allocates the sales price between the VOI sale and the non-cash incentive. Non-cash incentives generally have expiration periods of 18 months or less and are recognized at a point in time upon transfer of control.

Allowance for Loan Losses. In our Vacation Ownership segment, we provide for estimated vacation ownership contract receivable defaults at the time of VOI sales by recording a provision for loan losses as a reduction of VOI sales on the Consolidated Statements of Income. We assess the adequacy of the allowance for loan losses based on the historical performance of similar vacation ownership contract receivables. We use a technique referred to as static pool analysis, which tracks defaults for each year’s sales over the entire life of those contract receivables. We consider current defaults, past due aging, historical write-offs of contracts and consumer credit scores (FICO scores) in the assessment of a borrower’s credit strength, down payment amount and expected loan performance. We also consider whether the historical economic conditions are comparable to current economic conditions. If current or expected future conditions differ from the conditions in effect when the historical experience was generated, we adjust the allowance for loan losses to reflect the expected effects of the current environment on the collectability of our vacation ownership contract receivables.

Inventory. Our inventory primarily consists of completed VOIs, VOIs under construction, land held for future VOI development, vacation credits and real estate interests sold subject to conditional repurchase. We carry our inventory at the lower of cost, or estimated fair value less costs to sell, which can result in impairment charges and/or recoveries of previous impairments. Cost of VOIs includes all costs directly associated with the acquisition, development and construction of the underlying resort property, including capitalized interest, property taxes and certain other carrying costs incurred during the construction process.

We use the relative sales value method of costing and relieving our VOI inventory. This method requires us to make estimates subject to significant uncertainty, including future sales prices and volumes as well as credit losses and related inventory recoveries. The impact of any changes in estimates under the relative sales value method is recorded in Cost of vacation ownership interests on the Consolidated Statements of Income in order to retrospectively adjust the margin previously recorded subject to those estimates.

Impairment of Long-Lived Assets. With regard to the goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets recorded in connection with business combinations, we annually (during the fourth quarter of each year subsequent to completing our annual forecasting process), or more frequently if circumstances indicate that the value of goodwill may be impaired, review the reporting units’ carrying values as required by the guidance for goodwill and other intangible assets. This is done either by performing a qualitative assessment or utilizing the two-step process, with an impairment being recognized only where the fair value is less than carrying value. In any given year we can elect to perform a qualitative assessment to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is in excess of its carrying value. If it is not more likely than not that the fair value is in excess of the carrying value, or we elect to bypass the qualitative assessment, we would utilize the two-step 

61
process. The qualitative factors evaluated include macroeconomic conditions, industry and market considerations, cost factors, overall financial performance, our historical share price as well as other industry-specific considerations. We performed a qualitative assessment for impairment on each reporting unit’s goodwill. Based on the results of our qualitative assessments performed during the fourth quarter of 2018, we determined that no impairment existed, nor do we believe there is a material risk of it being impaired in the near term at our exchange, rentals, or vacation ownership reporting units. To the extent estimated market-based valuation multiples and/or discounted cash flows are revised downward, we may be required to write-down all or a portion of goodwill, which would adversely impact earnings. During the third quarter of 2017, we decided to explore strategic alternatives for our European vacation rentals business, which was previously part of our Wyndham Exchange & Rentals segment, and in the fourth quarter of 2017, we commenced activities to facilitate the sale of this business. As a result, we performed a qualitative assessment of our remaining Exchange & Rentals segment and determined that no impairment existed.

We also determine whether the carrying value of other indefinite-lived intangible assets is impaired on an annual basis or more frequently if indicators of potential impairment exist. Application of the other indefinite-lived intangible assets impairment test requires judgment in the assumptions underlying the approach used to determine fair value. The fair value of each other indefinite-lived intangible asset is estimated using a discounted cash flow methodology. This analysis requires significant judgments, including anticipated market conditions, operating expense trends, estimation of future cash flows, which are dependent on internal forecasts, and estimation of long-term rate of growth. The estimates used to calculate the fair value of other indefinite-lived intangible assets change from year to year based on operating results and market conditions. Changes in these estimates and assumptions could materially affect the determination of fair value and the other indefinite-lived intangible assets impairment.

We also evaluate the recoverability of our other long-lived assets, including property and equipment and amortizable intangible assets, if circumstances indicate impairment may have occurred, pursuant to guidance for impairment or disposal of long-lived assets. This analysis is performed by comparing the respective carrying values of the assets to the current and expected future cash flows, on an undiscounted basis, to be generated from such assets. Property and equipment is evaluated separately within each segment. If such analysis indicates that the carrying value of these assets is not recoverable, the carrying value of such assets is reduced to fair value.

Business Combinations. A component of our growth strategy has been to acquire and integrate businesses that complement our existing operations. We account for business combinations in accordance with the guidance for business combinations and related literature. Accordingly, we allocate the purchase price of acquired companies to the tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed based upon their estimated fair values at the date of purchase. The difference between the purchase price and the fair value of the net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.

In determining the fair values of assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a business combination, we use various recognized valuation methods including present value modeling and referenced market values (where available). Further, we make assumptions within certain valuation techniques including discount rates and timing of future cash flows. Valuations are performed by management or independent valuation specialists under management’s supervision, where appropriate. We believe that the estimated fair values assigned to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed are based on reasonable assumptions that marketplace participants would use. However, such assumptions are inherently uncertain and actual results could differ from those estimates.

Guarantees. In the ordinary course of business, the Company enters into agreements that contain standard guarantees and indemnities whereby the Company indemnifies another party for specified breaches of, or third-party claims relating to, an underlying agreement. Such underlying agreements are typically entered into by one of the Company’s subsidiaries. The various underlying agreements generally govern purchases, sales or outsourcing of products or services, leases of real estate, licensing of software and/or development of vacation ownership properties, access to credit facilities, derivatives and issuances of debt securities. Also in the ordinary course of business, the Company provides corporate guarantees for its operating business units relating to merchant credit-card processing for prepaid customer stays and other deposits. While a majority of these guarantees and indemnifications extend only for the duration of the underlying agreement, some survive the expiration of the agreement. The Company is not able to estimate the maximum potential amount of future payments to be made under these guarantees and indemnifications as the triggering events are not predictable. In certain cases, the Company maintains insurance coverage that may mitigate any potential payments.

Income Taxes. We recognize deferred tax assets and liabilities based on the differences between the financial statement carrying amounts and the tax basis of assets and liabilities using currently enacted tax rates. We recognize the effects of changes in tax laws, or rates, as a component of income taxes from continuing operations within the period that includes the enactment date. We regularly review our deferred tax assets to assess their potential realization and establish a valuation allowance for portions 

62
of such assets that we believe will not be ultimately realized. In performing this review, we make estimates and assumptions regarding projected future taxable income, the expected timing of the reversals of existing temporary differences and the implementation of tax planning strategies. A change in these assumptions may increase or decrease our valuation allowance resulting in an increase or decrease in our effective tax rate, which could materially impact our results of operations.

For tax positions we have taken or expect to take in our tax return, we apply a more likely than not threshold, under which we must conclude a tax position is more likely than not to be sustained, assuming that the position will be examined by the appropriate taxing authority that has full knowledge of all relevant information, in order to recognize or continue to recognize the benefit. In determining our provision for income taxes, we use judgment, reflecting our estimates and assumptions, in applying the more likely than not threshold.

Refer to Note 2—Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Note 9—Income Taxes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional detail.

63
ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK