ITEM 7.MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

This discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes included in Item 8. "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data."

Nature of Operations

We design, develop and market programmable devices and associated technologies, including advanced ICs in the form of PLDs, boards, software design tools and predefined system functions delivered as IP. In addition to our programmable platforms, we provide design services, customer training, field engineering and technical support. Our PLDs include FPGAs, CPLDs and programmable SoCs. These devices are standard products that our customers program to perform desired logic functions. Our products are designed to provide high integration and quick time-to-market for electronic equipment manufacturers in end markets such as Communication & Data Center, Industrial, Aerospace & Defense, and Automotive, Broadcast & Consumer. We sell our products globally through an independent domestic and foreign distributor channel and through direct sales to OEMs by selected independent sales representative firms and by a direct sales management organization.

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates

The methods, estimates and judgments we use in applying our most critical accounting policies have a significant impact on the results we report in our consolidated financial statements. The SEC has defined critical accounting policies as those that are most important to the portrayal of our financial condition and results of operations and require us to make our most difficult and subjective judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates of matters that are inherently uncertain. Based on this definition, our critical accounting policies include: valuation of marketable securities, which impacts losses on debt and equity securities when we record impairments; revenue recognition, which impacts the recording of revenues; and valuation of inventories, which impacts cost of revenues and gross margin. Our critical accounting policies also include: the assessment of impairment of long-lived assets which impacts their valuation; the assessment of the recoverability of goodwill, which impacts goodwill impairment; accounting for income taxes, which impacts the provision or benefit recognized for income taxes, as well as, the valuation of deferred tax assets recorded on our consolidated balance sheet and accounting for business combinations, which impacts the valuation of tangible and intangible assets recognized and liabilities assumed. Below, we discuss these policies further, as well as the estimates and judgments involved. We also have other key accounting policies that are not as subjective, and therefore, their application would not require us to make estimates or judgments that are as difficult, but which nevertheless could significantly affect our financial reporting.

Valuation of Marketable Securities and Non-marketable Securities

Our short-term and long-term investments consist of primarily marketable debt, and to a lesser extent, equity securities. As of March 30, 2019, we had marketable debt and equity securities with a fair value of $2.74 billion.

We determine the fair values for marketable debt and equity securities using industry standard pricing services, data providers and other third-party sources and by internally performing valuation testing and analyses. See "Note 3. Fair Value Measurements" to our consolidated financial statements, included in Item 8. "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data," for details of the valuation methodologies. In determining if and when a decline in value below the adjusted cost of marketable debt securities is other than temporary, we evaluate on an ongoing basis the market conditions, trends of earnings, financial condition, credit ratings, any underlying collateral and other key measures for our investments. We did not record any other-than-temporary impairment for marketable debt securities in fiscal 2019, 2018 or 2017. Marketable equity securities are measured and recorded at fair value on a recurring basis with changes in fair value, whether realized or unrealized, recorded through the consolidated statements of income beginning in fiscal 2019 after the adoption of Accounting Standards Update (ASU) 2016-01. 

Our investments in non-marketable equity securities of private companies are accounted for under the measurement alternative upon the adoption of ASU 2016-01. The carrying value is measured at cost, less any impairment, plus or minus changes resulting from observable price changes in orderly transactions for the identical or a similar investment of the same issuer. Determining whether an observed transaction is similar to a security within our portfolio requires judgment based on the rights and obligations of the securities. Our periodic assessment of impairment is made by considering available evidence, including the general market conditions in the investee’s industry, the investee’s product development status and subsequent rounds of financing and the related valuation and/or our participation in such financings. We also assess the investee’s ability to meet business milestones and the financial condition and near-term prospects of the individual investee, including the rate at which the investee is using its cash, the investee’s need for possible additional funding at a lower valuation and any bona fide offer to purchase the investee from a 

29
prospective acquirer. The valuation methodology for determining the fair value of non-marketable equity securities is based on the factors noted above which require management judgment and are Level 3 inputs. See “Note 3. Fair Value Measurements” to our consolidated financial statements, included in Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” for additional information. When a decline in value is deemed to be other than temporary, we recognize an impairment loss in the current period’s operating results to the extent of the decline. The impairments loss for non-marketable equity securities were not material during all periods presented.

Revenue Recognition

Revenue from sales to our distributors is recognized upon the transfer of control, which typically occurs at shipment, and is reduced by estimated allowances for distributor price adjustments and rights of return. The distributor price adjustments are estimated using the expected value method based on an analysis of actual and forecasted ship and debit claims, at the distributor and part level to account for current pricing and business trends. For fiscal 2019, approximately 54% of our net revenues were from products sold to distributors primarily for subsequent resale to OEMs or their subcontract manufacturers. 

Revenue from sales to our non-distributor customers is recognized net of sales incentives (if any) upon transfer of control to the customer, which typically occurs at shipment. Sales returns and allowances on product sales are recorded as a reduction of revenue. 

Revenue from software license agreements and renewals is recognized at commencement date. Revenue from support services is recognized when the service is performed. Revenue from software licenses and support services were less than 2% of net revenues for all of the periods presented.

Valuation of Inventories

Inventories are stated at the lower of actual cost (determined using the first-in, first-out method) or market (estimated net realizable value). The valuation of inventory requires us to estimate excess or obsolete inventory as well as inventory that is not of salable quality. We review and set standard costs quarterly to approximate current actual manufacturing costs. Our manufacturing overhead standards for product costs are calculated assuming full absorption of actual spending over actual volumes. Given the cyclicality of the market, the obsolescence of technology and product lifecycles, we write down inventory based on forecasted demand and technological obsolescence. These forecasts are developed based on inputs from our customers, including bookings and extended but uncommitted demand forecasts, and internal analyses such as customer historical purchasing trends and actual and anticipated design wins, as well as market and economic conditions, technology changes, new product introductions and changes in strategic direction. These factors require estimates that may include uncertain elements. The estimates of future demand that we use in the valuation of inventory are the basis for our published revenue forecasts, which are also consistent with our short-term manufacturing plans. The differences between our demand forecast and the actual demand in the recent past have not resulted in any material write down in our inventory. If our demand forecast for specific products is greater than actual demand and we fail to reduce manufacturing output accordingly, we could be required to write down additional inventory, which would have a negative impact on our gross margin.

Impairment of Long-Lived Assets

Long-lived assets to be held and used are reviewed for impairment if indicators of potential impairment exist. Impairment indicators are reviewed on a quarterly basis. When indicators of impairment exist and assets are held for use, we estimate future undiscounted cash flows attributable to the assets. In the event such cash flows are not expected to be sufficient to recover the recorded value of the assets, the assets are written down to their estimated fair values based on the expected discounted future cash flows attributable to the assets or based on appraisals. Factors affecting impairment of assets held for use include the ability of the specific assets to generate separately identifiable positive cash flows. 

When assets are removed from operations and held for sale, we estimate impairment losses as the excess of the carrying value of the assets over their fair value. Market conditions are amongst the factors affecting impairment of assets held for sale. Changes in any of these factors could necessitate impairment recognition in future periods for assets held for use or assets held for sale. 

Long-lived assets such as property, plant and equipment are considered non-financial assets, and are only measured at fair value when indicators of impairment exist.

30
Goodwill

Goodwill is not amortized but is subject to impairment tests on an annual basis, or more frequently if indicators of potential impairment exist, and goodwill is written down when it is determined to be impaired. We perform an annual impairment review in the fourth quarter of each fiscal year and compare the fair value of the reporting unit in which the goodwill resides to its carrying value. If the carrying value exceeds the fair value, the goodwill of the reporting unit is potentially impaired. For purposes of impairment testing, Xilinx operates as a single reporting unit. We use the quoted market price method to determine the fair value of the reporting unit. Based on the impairment review performed during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2019, there was no impairment of goodwill in fiscal 2019. Unless there are indicators of impairment, our next impairment review for goodwill will be performed and completed in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2020. To date, no impairment indicators have been identified.

Accounting for Income Taxes

Xilinx is a multinational corporation operating in multiple tax jurisdictions. We must determine the allocation of income to each of these jurisdictions based on estimates and assumptions and apply the appropriate tax rates for these jurisdictions. We undergo routine audits by taxing authorities regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. Tax audits often require an extended period of time to resolve and may result in income tax adjustments if changes to the allocation are required between jurisdictions with different tax rates. 

In determining income for financial statement purposes, we must make certain estimates and judgments. These estimates and judgments occur in the calculation of certain tax liabilities and in the determination of the recoverability of certain deferred tax assets, which arise from temporary differences between the tax and financial statement recognition of revenue and expense. Additionally, we must estimate the amount and likelihood of potential losses arising from audits or deficiency notices issued by taxing authorities. The taxing authorities' positions and our assessment can change over time resulting in a material effect on the provision for income taxes in periods when these changes occur. 

We must also assess the likelihood that we will be able to recover our deferred tax assets. If recovery is not likely, we must increase our provision for taxes by recording a reserve in the form of a valuation allowance for the deferred tax assets that we estimate will not ultimately be recoverable. 

We perform a two-step approach to recognize and measure uncertain tax positions relating to accounting for income taxes. The first step is to evaluate the tax position for recognition by determining if the weight of available evidence indicates that it is more likely than not that the position will be sustained on audit, including resolution of related appeals or litigation processes, if any. The second step is to measure the tax benefit as the largest amount that is more than 50% likely of being ultimately realized. 

Business Combination

We use the acquisition method of accounting and allocate the fair value of purchase consideration to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed from the acquiree based on their respective fair values as of the acquisition date. The excess of the fair value of purchase consideration over the fair value of these assets acquired and liabilities assumed is recorded as goodwill. When determining the fair values of assets acquired and liabilities assumed, we make significant estimates and assumptions, especially with respect to intangible assets. Critical estimates in valuing intangible assets include, but are not limited to, expected future cash flows, which includes consideration of future growth and margins, future changes in technology, expected cost and time to develop in-process research and development, brand awareness and discount rates. Fair value estimates are based on the assumptions that we believe a market participant would use in pricing the asset or liability.

Results of Operations

The following table sets forth statement of income data as a percentage of net revenues for the fiscal years indicated. Prior year balances have been restated to reflect the retrospective application of the new revenue recognition accounting standard. Please refer to "Note 2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Concentrations of Risk." to our consolidated financial statements, included in Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” for additional information. 

31
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Net Revenues

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Net revenues in fiscal 2019 were $3.06 billion, an increase of 24% as compared to fiscal 2018. Revenues from Advanced Products increased 43% in fiscal 2019 while revenues from our Core Products remained relatively stable. The increase in Advanced Products was due to higher Advanced Products sales across all end markets, particularly in Communications. Net revenues in fiscal 2018 were $2.47 billion, an increase of 5% as compared to fiscal 2017. Revenues from Advanced Products increased 20% in fiscal 2018 but were partially offset by declines from our Core Products. The increase in Advanced Products was due to higher sales across all end markets, especially in Data Center & TME. See also "Net Revenues by Product" and "Net Revenues by End Markets" below for more information on our product and end market categories.

Except for Avnet, no other distributor or end customer accounted for more than 10% of net revenues for any of the periods presented.

Net Revenues by Product

We sell our products to global manufacturers of electronic products in end markets such as Communication & Data Center, Industrial, Aerospace & Defense, and Automotive, Broadcast & Consumer. The vast majority of our net revenues are generated from sales of our semiconductor products, but we also generate sales from support products. We classify our product offerings into two categories: Advanced Products and Core Products:

•Advanced Products are our most recent product offerings and include the UltraScale+, UltraScale and 7-series product families, and our Alveo boards business.

•Core Products are all other product families.

These product categories are modified on a periodic basis to better reflect the maturity of the products and advances in technology. The most recent modification was made on April 3, 2016, which was the beginning of our fiscal 2017, whereby we reclassified our product categories to be consistent with how these categories are analyzed and reviewed internally. Specifically, we have grouped the products manufactured at the 28nm, 20nm and 16nm nodes into a category named Advanced Products while all other products are included in a category named Core Products. 

Net revenues by product categories for the fiscal years indicated were as follows:

32
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Net revenues from Advanced Products increased significantly in fiscal 2019 driven by sales growth in 28nm, 20nm and, in particular, 16nm product families. Sales from our 16nm products were over $500.0 million, while sales from our 20nm and 28nm products exceeded $400.0 million and $900.0 million, respectively, during fiscal 2019. In fiscal 2018, growth across all nodes of our Advanced Products families contributed to the strong revenue growth versus the comparable prior year period. Sales from our 28nm products were approximately $900.0 million, while sales from our 20nm and 16nm products exceeded $300.0 million and $100.0 million, respectively, during fiscal 2018. We expect sales of Advanced Products to continue to grow as more customer programs enter into volume production with our 16nm products. 

Net revenues from Core Products were flat in fiscal 2019, while they decreased in fiscal 2018 from the comparable prior year periods. In fiscal 2019 the increase in sales from Spartan-6 product was offset by declines in sales from our Virtex-6 and Virtex-5 product families, while the decrease in fiscal 2018 was largely due to the decline in sales from our Virtex-5, Virtex-6 and Spartan-3 product families. 

Net Revenues by End Markets

Our end market revenue data is derived from our understanding of our end customers’ primary markets, which is based on reports provided by distributors and our internal records. To provide additional visibility, starting April 1, 2018, we classify our end markets into businesses with similar market drivers: Data Center & TME; Automotive, Broadcast & Consumer; Communications; and Industrial, Aerospace & Defense. Additionally, we classify revenue recognized from shipments to distributors, but not yet subsequently sold to the end markets, and not identifiable to an end market, as Channel revenue. The Channel revenue represents the difference between the shipments to distributors and what the distributors subsequently sold to the end customers within the given period. The percentage change calculation in the table below represents the year-to-year dollar change in each end market.

Net revenues by end markets for fiscal years indicated were as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

*not meaningful

Net revenues from Data Center & TME increased, in terms of absolute dollars, in both fiscal 2019 and 2018 from the comparable prior year periods. The increase in fiscal 2019 was primarily due to higher sales from Data Center. The increase in fiscal 2018 from the comparable prior year period was due to higher sales from TME, and to a lesser extent, Data Center. 

Net revenues from Automotive, Broadcast & Consumer increased, in terms of absolute dollars, in both fiscal 2019 and 2018 from the comparable prior year periods. The increases in fiscal 2019 and 2018 were primarily due to higher sales from Automotive and Audio, Video and Broadcast. 

Net revenues from Communications increased in fiscal 2019 from the comparable prior year period. The increase was primarily due to higher sales from all sub-segments, with particular strength coming from Wireless business driven by both the continued deployment of 4G Long Term Evolution (LTE) networks and the accelerated global deployment ramp of 5G wireless networks. In fiscal 2018, net revenues from Communications decreased, driven by declines in sales from both Wireline and Wireless, from the comparable prior year period.

33
Net revenues from Industrial, Aerospace & Defense increased, in terms of absolute dollars, in both fiscal 2019 and 2018 from the comparable prior year periods. The increases in both fiscal 2019 and 2018 were due to higher sales from all sub-segments.

Channel revenue was a positive amount in fiscal 2019, because shipments to distributors exceeded what the distributors subsequently shipped to their customers during such period. In fiscal 2018, Channel revenue was a negative amount because shipments to distributors was lower than what the distributors subsequently shipped to their customers during such period.

Net Revenues by Geography

Geographic revenue information reflects the geographic location of the distributors, OEMs or contract manufacturers who purchased our products. This may differ from the geographic location of the end customers. Net revenues by geography for the fiscal years indicated were as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Net revenues in North America increased in both fiscal 2019 and 2018 from the comparable prior year periods. The increase in fiscal 2019 was primarily due to higher sales from Data Center and Wireline, and the increase in fiscal 2018 was primarily due to higher sales from Aerospace and Defense. 

Net revenues in Asia Pacific increased in both fiscal 2019 and 2018 from the comparable prior year periods. The increase in fiscal 2019 was primarily due to higher sales from Wireless, and to a lesser extent, from Industrial, Scientific and Medical, while the increase in fiscal 2018 was primarily driven by higher sales from Consumer, and to a lesser extent from Industrial, Scientific and Medical.

Net revenues in Europe increased in both fiscal 2019 and 2018 from the comparable prior year periods. In fiscal 2019, the increase was primarily due to higher sales from Automotive, while in fiscal 2018 the increase was driven by revenue growth from TME, partially offset by lower revenues from Wireless Communications. 

Net revenues in Japan increased in both fiscal 2019 and 2018 from the comparable prior year periods. In fiscal 2019, the increase was primarily driven by higher sales in TME and Audio, Video and Broadcast, while in fiscal 2018 the increase was primarily driven by higher sales in TME and Industrial, Scientific and Medical.

Gross Margin 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Gross margin was lower by 1.1 percentage points in fiscal 2019, while remaining flat in 2018, from the comparable prior year periods. The decrease in gross margin in fiscal 2019 was primarily due to end-market mix, as the percentage of revenue derived from Wireless (which has relatively lower gross margin) has increased significantly.

Gross margin may be affected in the future due to multiple factors, including but not limited to, those set forth above in "Risk Factors," included in Part I of this Form 10-K, shifts in the mix of customers and products, competitive-pricing pressure, manufacturing-yield issues and wafer pricing. While we expect to mitigate any adverse impacts from these factors by continuing to improve yields on our Advanced Products, improve manufacturing efficiencies and improve average selling price management, continuing growth in Wireless driven by both the continued deployment of 4G Long Term Evolution (LTE) networks and the ramp up global deployment of 5G wireless networks would negatively impact gross margin in the future.

34
In order to compete effectively, we pass manufacturing cost reductions to our customers in the form of reduced prices to the extent that we can maintain acceptable margins. Price erosion is common in the semiconductor industry, as advances in both product architecture and manufacturing process technology permit continual reductions in unit cost. We have historically been able to offset much of this revenue decline in our mature products with increased revenues from newer products.

Research and Development

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

R&D spending increased by $103.2 million or 16% during fiscal 2019, and by $38.4 million or 6% during fiscal 2018, from the comparable prior year periods. The increases were primarily attributable to higher employee compensation (including stock-based compensation), as we increased headcount to support the development of new products. For fiscal 2018, the increase was partially offset by lower mask and wafer spending.

We plan to continue to selectively invest in R&D efforts in areas such as new products and more advanced process development, IP cores and software development environments. We may also consider acquisitions to complement our strategy for technology leadership and engineering resources in critical areas.

Selling, General and Administrative

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

SG&A expenses increased by $36.1 million or 10% during fiscal 2019, and by $27.1 million or 8% during fiscal 2018, from the comparable prior year periods. The increase in fiscal 2019 was primarily due to higher variable spending associated with higher revenue and operating margin such as sales commission and incentive compensation expense, as well as expenses related to merger and acquisition activities. In fiscal 2018, the increase was largely due to higher employee compensation (including stock-based compensation) from increased headcount relating to revenue growth.

Executive Transition Costs

During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018, we announced the transition of our President and Chief Executive Officer position, whereby Moshe Gavrielov resigned from those roles and Victor Peng assumed these roles. Additionally, we also implemented restructuring measures to realign resources and drive overall operating efficiencies, which impacted approximately 60 positions in various geographies and functions worldwide. We recorded total transition charges of $33.4 million in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018, primarily related to severance pay expenses and other benefits. As of the end of fiscal 2019, the remaining accrual for severance and other benefits was immaterial.

Amortization of Acquisition-Related Intangibles

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Amortization of acquisition-related intangibles expense increased in fiscal 2019 as compared to fiscal 2018, which was primarily due to additional amortization expense from intangible assets acquired through the Deephi Technology., Ltd

(Deephi Tech) acquisition in the second quarter of fiscal 2019 (See "Note 20. Business Combination" to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. "Financial Information and Supplementary Data" for more information). The amortization expense decreased in fiscal 2018 as compared to prior year period as certain intangibles were fully amortized in fiscal 2017 and during fiscal 2018.

35
Stock-Based Compensation

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Excluding the executive transition costs portion, stock-based compensation increased by $10.7 million and $14.4 million in fiscal 2019 and 2018, respectively, as compared to the prior year periods. The increases were primarily related to higher expenses associated with restricted stock units, as we granted restricted stock units at a higher fair value in the recent years. 

Interest and Other Income (Expense), Net

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

In fiscal 2019 we had net interest and other income of $11.5 million as compared to net interest and other income of $5.4 million in fiscal 2018. The increase was primarily due to higher interest income from the investment portfolio. In fiscal 2018, we had net interest and other income of $5.4 million as compared to net interest and other expense of $8.3 million in fiscal 2017. The increase was primarily due to higher interest income from the investment portfolio, and to a lesser extent, lower interest expenses from the 2024 Notes and its related interest rate swap contracts. 

Provision for Income Taxes

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

On December 22, 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (TCJA) was enacted into law. The TCJA provides for numerous significant tax law changes and modifications including the reduction of the U.S. federal corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21%, the requirement for companies to pay a one-time transition tax on earnings of certain foreign subsidiaries that were previously tax deferred and the creation of a new tax on the global intangible low-taxed income (GILTI) of foreign subsidiaries. Some provisions of the TCJA began to impact us in fiscal 2018, while other provisions impacted us beginning in fiscal 2019. 

Staff Accounting Bulletin (SAB) 118 allowed companies to record provisional amounts and recognize the effect of the tax law changes during a measurement period. We recorded provisional income tax expense of $214.7 million in our fiscal 2018 results. During fiscal 2019, we recorded income tax expense of $2.4 million as measurement period adjustments to the provisional amounts recorded in fiscal 2018. The measurement period ended in the third quarter of fiscal 2019. Although the measurement period has closed, further technical guidance related to the TCJA, including final regulations on a broad range of topics, is expected to be issued. In accordance with Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 740, the Company will recognize any effects of the guidance in the period that such guidance is issued.

The difference between the U.S. federal statutory tax rate of 21% and our effective tax rate in fiscal 2019 was primarily due to the favorable impact of income earned in lower tax rate jurisdictions, which was partially offset by the new tax on GILTI. 

The difference between the blended U.S. federal tax rate of 31.5% and our effective tax rate in fiscal 2018 was primarily due to the one-time transition tax net of the reversal of the related deferred tax liabilities and the beneficial impact of income earned in lower tax rate jurisdictions.

The decrease in the effective tax rate for fiscal 2019 from the comparable prior year period was primarily due to the U.S. federal one-time transition tax of $590.2 million recognized in fiscal 2018, partially offset by the reversal of deferred tax liabilities related 

36
to U.S. federal income tax on a portion of unremitted foreign earnings that had been accrued through fiscal 2017 in the amount of $381.7 million. 

The increase in the effective tax rate in fiscal 2018 compared with fiscal 2017 was primarily due to the U.S. federal one-time transition tax of $590.2 million recognized in fiscal 2018, partially offset by the reversal of deferred tax liabilities related to U.S. federal income tax on a portion of unremitted foreign earnings that had been accrued through fiscal 2017 in the amount of $381.7 million. 

Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources

We have historically used a combination of cash flows from operations and equity and debt financing to support ongoing business activities, acquire or invest in critical or complementary technologies, purchase facilities and capital equipment, repurchase our common stock and debentures under our repurchase program, pay dividends and finance working capital. Additionally, our investments in debt securities are liquid and available for future business needs.

Fiscal 2019 Compared to Fiscal 2018 

Cash, Cash Equivalents and Short-term and Long-term Investments

The combination of cash, cash equivalents and short-term and long-term investments as of March 30, 2019 and March 31, 2018 totaled $3.23 billion and $3.55 billion, respectively. As of March 30, 2019, we had cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments of $3.18 billion and working capital of $3.42 billion. As of March 31, 2018, cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments were $3.45 billion and working capital was $3.24 billion.

As of March 30, 2019, we had $1.80 billion of cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments held by our non-U.S. entities. The recent TCJA that was signed into law on December 22, 2017, subjects U.S. companies to a one-time transition tax on total post-1986 earnings and profits of their foreign subsidiaries. The TCJA also generally allows companies to repatriate these accumulated foreign earnings without incurring additional U.S. federal taxes beginning after December 31, 2017. Accordingly, substantially all $1.80 billion of cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments held by our non-U.S. entities will be available for use in the U.S. without incurring additional U.S. federal income taxes. The one-time transition tax liability is payable in eight annual installments, as outlined in "Contractual Obligations" below. The first installment was paid in the second quarter of fiscal 2019. The second installment is classified as a current income tax payable. See “Note 14. Income Taxes” to our consolidated financial statements, included in Item 8. "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data," for additional information about the one-time transition tax.

During fiscal 2019, our operations generated net positive cash flow of $1.09 billion, which was $271.1 million higher than the $820.0 million generated during fiscal 2018. The positive cash flow from operations generated during fiscal 2019 was primarily from net income as adjusted for non-cash related items and decreases in accounts receivable, increases in accounts payable and accrued liabilities. These items were partially offset by increases in inventories and other assets and a decrease in income taxes payable. 

Net cash used in investing activities was $690.5 million during fiscal 2019 as compared to net cash provided by investing activities of $948.2 million in fiscal 2018. Net cash used in investing activities during fiscal 2019 consisted of $312.5 million of net purchases of available-for-sale securities, $234.1 million of net cash paid in connection with the Deephi Tech acquisition, $89.0 million of purchases of property, plant and equipment and other intangibles and $54.8 million of other investing activities.

Net cash used in financing activities was $1.04 billion in fiscal 2019, as compared to $555.6 million in fiscal 2018. Net cash used in financing activities during fiscal 2019 consisted of $500.0 million of payment for settlement of our $500.0 million principal amount of 2.125% Notes issued in March 2014 (2019 Notes), $364.2 million of dividend payments to stockholders and $161.6 million of payment to repurchase common stock, which were partially offset by $48.7 million from issuance of common stock under employee stock plans.

Accounts Receivable

Accounts receivable decreased by $47.1 million and days sales outstanding (DSO) decreased to 40 days at March 30, 2019 from 56 days at March 31, 2018. The decrease was primarily due to strong collections during the year as well as timing of customer shipments. Our accounts receivable were primarily current. 

37
Inventories

Inventories increased to $315.4 million as of March 30, 2019 from $236.1 million as of March 31, 2018, while inventory days at Xilinx increased to 120 days at March 30, 2019 from 116 days at March 31, 2018. We attempt to maintain sufficient levels of inventory in various product, package and speed configurations in order to keep lead times short and to meet forecasted customer demand as well as address potential supply constraints. Conversely, we also attempt to minimize the handling costs associated with maintaining higher inventory levels and to fully realize the opportunities for cost reductions associated with architecture and manufacturing process advancements. We continually strive to balance these two objectives to provide excellent customer response at a competitive cost.

Property, Plant and Equipment and Other Intangibles 

During fiscal 2019, we invested $89.0 million in property, plant and equipment and other intangibles, as compared to $49.9 million in fiscal 2018. Primary investments in fiscal 2019 were for machinery and equipment, building improvements, computer equipment and equipment related to the support of our new products development and infrastructures.

Current Liabilities

Current liabilities decreased to $475.0 million at the end of fiscal 2019 from $911.9 million at the end of fiscal 2018. The changes were primarily due to a $500.0 million payment of our 2019 Notes, as well as a decrease in our income taxes payable. These decreases were partially offset by increases of $40.9 million in accrued payroll and related liabilities, $21.9 million in other accrued liabilities and $18.5 million in accounts payable.

Stockholders' Equity

Stockholders' equity increased $501.2 million to $2.86 billion during fiscal 2019 from $2.36 billion in fiscal 2018. The increase was primarily due to $889.8 million in net income for fiscal 2019 and $147.9 million of stock-based compensation, partially offset by repurchase of common stock of approximately $161.6 million and $364.2 million of payment of dividends to stockholders.

Fiscal 2018 Compared to Fiscal 2017 

Cash, Cash Equivalents and Short-term and Long-term Investments

The combination of cash, cash equivalents and short-term and long-term investments as of March 31, 2018 and April 1, 2017 totaled $3.55 billion and $3.44 billion, respectively. As of March 31, 2018, we had cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments of $3.45 billion and working capital of $3.24 billion. As of April 1, 2017, cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments were $3.32 billion and working capital was $3.08 billion. 

As of March 31, 2018, we had $1.45 billion of cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments held by our non-U.S. entities. Substantially all $1.45 billion of cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments held by our non-U.S. entities will be available for use in the U.S. without incurring additional U.S. federal income taxes. 

During fiscal 2018, our operations generated net positive cash flow of $820.0 million, which was $114.1 million lower than the $934.1 million generated during fiscal 2017. The positive cash flow from operations generated during fiscal 2018 was primarily from net income as adjusted for non-cash related items and increases in income taxes payable and accrued liabilities. These items were partially offset by increases in accounts receivable and other assets and increase in account payable.

Net cash provided by investing activities was $948.2 million during fiscal 2018, as compared to net cash used by investing activities of $494.0 million in fiscal 2017. Net cash provided by investing activities during fiscal 2018 consisted of $1.02 billion of net proceeds from sales and maturity of available-for-sale securities, which was partially offset by $49.9 million for purchases of property, plant and equipment and other intangibles and $24.6 million of other investing activities.

Net cash used in financing activities was $555.6 million in fiscal 2018, as compared to $965.2 million in fiscal 2017. Net cash used in financing activities during fiscal 2018 consisted of $474.3 million of payment to repurchase of common stock, $353.1 million of dividend payments to stockholders and $457.9 million of payment for settlement of our $600.0 million principal amount of 2.625% convertible notes issued in June 2010 (2017 Convertible Notes), which were partially offset by $745.2 million of proceeds from issuance of long-term debt and $47.5 million of proceeds from issuance of common stock under employee stock plans.

38
Accounts Receivable

Accounts receivable increased by $98.4 million and DSO increased to 56 days at March 31, 2018 from 44 days at April 1, 2017. The increase was primarily due to timing of customer shipments and collections.

Inventories

Inventories increased to $236.1 million as of March 31, 2018 from $227.0 million as of April 1, 2017, while inventory days at Xilinx decreased to 116 days at March 31, 2018 from 117 days at April 1, 2017. We attempt to maintain sufficient levels of inventory in various product, package and speed configurations in order to keep lead times short and to meet forecasted customer demand as well as address potential supply constraints. Conversely, we also attempt to minimize the handling costs associated with maintaining higher inventory levels and to fully realize the opportunities for cost reductions associated with architecture and manufacturing process advancements. We continually strive to balance these two objectives to provide excellent customer response at a competitive cost.

Property, Plant and Equipment and Other Intangibles 

During fiscal 2018, we invested $49.9 million in property, plant and equipment and other intangibles, as compared to $72.1 million in fiscal 2017. Primary investments in fiscal 2018 were for building improvements, computer equipment and equipment related to the support of our new products development and infrastructures.

Current Liabilities

Current liabilities increased to $911.9 million at the end of fiscal 2018 from $842.7 million at the end of fiscal 2017. The changes were primarily due to a net increase in our short-term portion of long-term debt, as we reclassified $499.2 million of our 2019 Notes to short term and paid $457.9 million for conversion of our 2017 Convertible Notes, as well as increases in our income taxes payable and accrued payroll and related liabilities. These increases were partially offset by decrease of $35.5 million in other accrued liabilities. 

Temporary and Stockholders' Equity

Temporary and stockholders' equity decreased $225.8 million during fiscal 2018 from $2.59 billion in fiscal 2017 to $2.36 billion in fiscal 2018. The decrease was primarily due to repurchase of common stock of approximately $474.3 million and $353.1 million of payment of dividends to stockholders. These decreases were partially offset by $464.0 million in net income for fiscal 2018 and $153.8 million of stock-based compensation.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

Cash generated from operations is used as our primary source of liquidity and capital resources. Our investment portfolio is also available for future cash requirements as is our $400.0 million revolving credit facility entered into in December 2016 (expiring in December 2021). We are not aware of any lack of access to the revolving credit facility; however, we can provide no assurance that access to the credit facility will not be impacted by adverse conditions in the financial markets. Our credit facility is not reliant upon a single bank. There have been no borrowings to date under our existing revolving credit facility.

We repurchased 2.4 million shares of our common stock for approximately $161.6 million during fiscal 2019. During fiscal 2018, we repurchased 7.0 million shares of common stock for approximately $474.3 million. During fiscal 2019, we paid $364.2 million in cash dividends to stockholders, representing $1.44 per common share. During fiscal 2018, we paid $353.1 million in cash dividends to stockholders, representing $1.40 per common share. On April 18, 2019, our Board of Directors declared a cash dividend of $0.37 per common share for the first quarter of fiscal 2020. The dividend is payable on June 3, 2019 to stockholders of record as of May 16, 2019. Our common stock and debentures repurchase program and dividend policy could be impacted by, among other items, our views on potential future capital requirements relating to R&D, investments and acquisitions, legal risks, principal and interest payments on our debentures and other strategic investments.

We anticipate that existing sources of liquidity and cash flows from operations will be sufficient to satisfy our cash needs for the foreseeable future. We will continue to evaluate opportunities for investments to obtain additional wafer capacity, to procure additional capital equipment and facilities, to develop new products, and to potentially acquire technologies or businesses that could complement our business. However, certain risks and other factors, including those discussed in Item 1A and below, could affect our cash positions adversely. 

39
Contractual Obligations

The following table summarizes our significant contractual obligations as of March 30, 2019 and the effect such obligations are expected to have on our liquidity and cash flows in future periods. This table excludes amounts already recorded on our consolidated balance sheet as accounts payable, income taxes payable, other accrued liabilities and other long-term liabilities as of March 30, 2019.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(2)Due to the nature of our business, we depend entirely upon subcontractors to manufacture our silicon wafers and provide assembly and some test services. The lengthy subcontractor lead times require us to order the materials and services in advance, and we are obligated to pay for the materials and services when completed. We expect to receive and pay for these materials and services in the next three to six months, as the products meet delivery and quality specifications.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(5)For purposes of this table we have assumed the outstanding principal of our debentures will be paid on maturity dates, March 15, 2021 for the 2021 Notes and June 1, 2024 for the 2024 Notes. See "Note 12. Debt and Credit Facility" to our consolidated financial statements, included in Item 8. "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data," for additional information about our debentures.

(6)Tax obligations represent the future cash payments related to the one-time transition tax that resulted from the enactment of the TCJA as described in “Note 14. Income Taxes” to our consolidated financial statements, included in Item 8. "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” The table does not include the current transition tax installment payable of $37.7 million which is due in fiscal 2020 and classified as a current liability on the consolidated balance sheet.

As of March 30, 2019, $515.2 million of liabilities were classified as long-term income taxes payable in the consolidated balance sheets. Of the $515.2 million, $477.6 million was the estimated long-term portion of the one-time transition tax that resulted from the enactment of the TCJA. The remaining $37.6 million of the long-term income taxes payable was for uncertain tax positions and related interest and penalties. Since the Company is unable to reasonably estimate the timing of settlements and any future payments related to uncertain tax positions, these liabilities have been excluded from the contractual obligations table above.

Off-Balance-Sheet Arrangements

As of March 30, 2019, we did not have any significant off-balance-sheet arrangements, as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of SEC Regulation S-K.

Recent Accounting Pronouncements

See "Note 2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Concentrations of Risk" to our consolidated financial statements, included in Item 8. "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data," for information about recent accounting pronouncements, including the expected dates of adoption and estimated effects, if any, on our consolidated financial statements.

40
ITEM 7A.QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK