ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

We are exposed to market risk, primarily related to foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. These exposures are actively monitored by management. Our exposure to foreign exchange rate risk is due to certain costs, revenue and borrowings being denominated in currencies other than one of our subsidiaries functional currency. Similarly, we are exposed to market risk as the result of changes in interest rates which may affect the cost of our financing. It is our policy and practice to use derivative financial instruments only to the extent necessary to manage exposures.

Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk

We conduct approximately 53% of our business in various locations outside the United States.

Our economic foreign currency risk primarily relates to receipts from customers, payments to suppliers and intercompany transactions denominated in foreign currencies. We may use derivative financial instruments to offset risk related to receipts from customers and payments to suppliers, when it is believed that the exposure will not be limited by our normal operating and financing activities. We enter into currency forward contracts periodically in order to manage the exchange rate fluctuation risk on certain intercompany transactions associated with third party sales and purchases. These risks are also mitigated by natural hedges including the presence of manufacturing facilities outside the United States, global sourcing and other spending which occurs in foreign countries. Our principal foreign currency transaction exposures primarily relate to the Euro, Swedish Krona, Polish Zloty, Canadian Dollar, British Pound, and Australian Dollar. We estimate that a hypothetical 10% movement in foreign currency exchange rates would not have a material economic impact to Xylem’s financial position and results of operations.

Additionally, we are subject to foreign exchange translation risk due to changes in the value of foreign currencies in relation to our reporting currency, the U.S. Dollar. The translation risk is primarily concentrated in the exchange rate between the U.S. Dollar and the Euro, Chinese Yuan, British Pound, Canadian Dollar, Swedish Krona and Australian Dollar. As the U.S. Dollar strengthens against other currencies in which we transact business, revenue and income will generally be negatively impacted, and if the U.S. Dollar weakens, revenue and income will generally be positively impacted. We expect to continue to generate significant revenue from non-U.S. operations and we expect our cash will be predominately held by our foreign subsidiaries. We expect to manage our worldwide cash requirements considering available funds among the many subsidiaries through which we conduct business and the cost effectiveness with which those funds can be accessed. We may transfer cash from certain international subsidiaries to the U.S. and other international subsidiaries when it is cost effective to do so, though we continually review our domestic and foreign cash profile, expected future cash generation and investment opportunities and reassess whether there is a need to repatriate funds held internationally to support our U.S. operations. We also hedge our investment in certain foreign subsidiaries via the use of cross currency swaps and the designation of our 2.25% Senior Notes of €500 million aggregate principal amount due March 2023 as a net investment hedge. Accordingly, we estimate that a 10% movement of the U.S. Dollar to various foreign currency exchange rates we translate from, in aggregate would not have a material economic impact on our financial position and results of operations.

Effective July 1, 2018, Argentina was determined to be a highly inflationary economy, and as such we evaluated the impact of revaluing our monetary assets and liabilities under the applicable guidance and do not expect it to have a material impact.

Interest Rate Risk

As of December 31, 2018, our long-term debt portfolio is primarily comprised of four series of fixed-rate senior notes that total $2.1 billion. The senior notes are not exposed to interest rate risk as the bonds are at a fixed rate until maturity. Based on current interest rate market we do not anticipate material risk associated with our debt refinancing within the target time frame of completion. 

Commodity Price Exposures

For a discussion of risks relating to commodity prices, refer to “Item 1A. Risk Factors.”

55

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA