ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

The company is exposed to risk that its earnings, cash flows and equity could be adversely impacted by changes in foreign exchange rates and interest rates. Certain derivative instruments are used when available on a cost-effective basis to hedge the company's underlying economic exposures. See Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the company's financial instruments and hedging strategies.

Foreign Currency Risk

AbbVie's primary net foreign currency exposures are the Euro, Japanese yen and British pound. The following table reflects the total foreign currency forward exchange contracts outstanding at December 31, 2018 and 2017:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The company estimates that a 10% appreciation in the underlying currencies being hedged from their levels against the U.S. dollar, with all other variables held constant, would decrease the fair value of foreign exchange forward contracts by $1.0 billion at December 31, 2018. If realized, this appreciation would negatively affect earnings over the remaining life of the contracts. However, gains and losses on the hedging instruments offset losses and gains on the hedged transactions and reduce the earnings and stockholders' equity volatility relating to foreign exchange. A 10% appreciation is believed to be a reasonably possible near-term change in foreign currencies.

In November 2016, the company issued €3.6 billion aggregate principal amount of unsecured senior Euro notes, which are exposed to foreign currency risk. The company has designated these foreign currency denominated notes as hedges of its net investments in certain foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. As a result, any foreign currency translation gains or losses related to the Euro notes will be included in accumulated other comprehensive income. See Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information related to the senior Euro note issuance and Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information related to the net investment hedging program. 

Interest Rate Risk

The company estimates that an increase in interest rates of 100 basis points would adversely impact the fair value of AbbVie's interest rate swap contracts by approximately $403 million at December 31, 2018. If realized, the fair value reduction would affect earnings over the remaining life of the contracts. The company estimates that an increase of 100 basis points in long-term interest rates would decrease the fair value of long-term debt by $2.4 billion at December 31, 2018. A 100 basis point change is believed to be a reasonably possible near-term change in interest rates. 

Market Price Risk

AbbVie’s debt securities investment portfolio (the portfolio) is its main exposure to market price risk. The portfolio is subject to changes in fair value as a result of interest rate fluctuations and other market factors. It is AbbVie’s policy to mitigate market price risk by maintaining a diversified portfolio that limits the amount of exposure to a particular issuer and security type while placing limits on the amount of time to maturity. AbbVie’s investment policy limits investments to investment grade credit ratings. The company estimates that an increase in interest rates of 100 basis points would decrease the fair value of the portfolio by approximately $16 million as of December 31, 2018. If the portfolio were to be liquidated, the fair value reduction would affect the statement of earnings in the period sold.

2018 Form 10-K  |  41

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA