ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 

The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with our Consolidated Financial Statements and related Notes included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. This discussion and analysis also contains forward-looking statements and should also be read in conjunction with the disclosures and information contained in “Disclosure Regarding Forward-Looking Statements” and “Risk Factors” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

We use the terms “Accenture,” “we,” the “Company,” “our” and “us” in this report to refer to Accenture plc and its subsidiaries. All references to years, unless otherwise noted, refer to our fiscal year, which ends on August 31. For example, a reference to “fiscal 2019” means the 12-month period that ended on August 31, 2019. All references to quarters, unless otherwise noted, refer to the quarters of our fiscal year. 

We use the term “in local currency” so that certain financial results may be viewed without the impact of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, thereby facilitating period-to-period comparisons of business performance. Financial results “in local currency” are calculated by restating current period activity into U.S. dollars using the comparable prior-year period’s foreign currency exchange rates. This approach is used for all results where the functional currency is not the U.S. dollar. 

Overview 

Revenues are driven by the ability of our executives to secure new contracts, to renew and extend existing contracts, and to deliver services and solutions that add value relevant to our clients’ current needs and challenges. The level of revenues we achieve is based on our ability to deliver market-leading services and solutions and to deploy skilled teams of professionals quickly and on a global basis. 

Our results of operations are affected by economic conditions, including macroeconomic conditions and levels of business confidence. There continues to be significant volatility and economic and geopolitical uncertainty in many markets around the world, which may impact our business. We continue to monitor the impact of this volatility and uncertainty and seek to manage our costs in order to respond to changing conditions. There also continues to be volatility in foreign currency exchange rates. The majority of our revenues are denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, including the Euro, U.K. pound and Japanese yen. Unfavorable fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates have had and could have in the future a material effect on our financial results.

Effective September 1, 2018, we adopted Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606). In connection with the adoption, we present total revenues and no longer report revenues before reimbursements (net revenues). This change has no impact on operating income but does affect ratios calculated as a percentage of revenue, such as operating margin. Prior period results have been revised to reflect the fiscal 2019 presentation. For additional information, see Note 1 (Summary of Significant Accounting Policies) to our Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” 

Summary of Results 

Revenues for fiscal 2019 increased 5% in U.S. dollars and 8.5% in local currency compared to fiscal 2018. Demand for our services and solutions continued to be strong, resulting in growth across all areas of our business. During fiscal 2019, revenue growth in local currency was very strong in Resources, strong in Communications, Media & Technology, Products, and Health & Public Service and modest in Financial Services. We experienced local currency revenue growth that was very strong in Growth Markets, strong in North America and solid in Europe. Revenue growth in local currency was strong in both outsourcing and consulting during fiscal 2019. While the business environment remained competitive, we experienced pricing improvement in several areas of our business. We use the term “pricing” to mean the contract profitability or margin on the work that we sell.

In our consulting business, revenues for fiscal 2019 increased 5% in U.S. dollars and 8% in local currency compared to fiscal 2018. Consulting revenue growth in local currency in fiscal 2019 was led by very strong growth in Resources, strong growth in Health & Public Service, Products and Communications, Media & Technology and modest growth in Financial Services. Our consulting revenue growth continues to be driven by strong demand for digital-, cloud- and security-related services and assisting clients with the adoption of new technologies. In addition, clients continue to be focused on initiatives designed to deliver cost savings and operational efficiency, as well as projects to integrate their global operations and grow and transform their businesses.

In our outsourcing business, revenues for fiscal 2019 increased 6% in U.S. dollars and 9% in local currency compared to fiscal 2018. Outsourcing revenue growth in local currency in fiscal 2019 was led by very strong growth in Resources, Communications, Media & Technology and Products, solid growth in Financial Services and modest 

27
growth in Health & Public Service. We continue to experience growing demand to assist clients with the operation and maintenance of digital-related services and cloud enablement. In addition, clients continue to be focused on transforming their operations to improve effectiveness and cost efficiency.

As we are a global company, our revenues are denominated in multiple currencies and may be significantly affected by currency exchange rate fluctuations. If the U.S. dollar weakens against other currencies, resulting in favorable currency translation, our revenues, revenue growth and results of operations in U.S. dollars may be higher. If the U.S. dollar strengthens against other currencies, resulting in unfavorable currency translation, our revenues, revenue growth and results of operations in U.S. dollars may be lower. The U.S. dollar strengthened against various currencies during fiscal 2019, resulting in unfavorable currency translation and U.S. dollar revenue growth that was approximately 3% lower than our revenue growth in local currency for the year. Assuming that exchange rates stay within recent ranges, we estimate that our full fiscal 2020 revenue growth in U.S. dollars will be approximately 1% lower in U.S. dollars than our revenue growth in local currency. 

The primary categories of operating expenses include Cost of services, Sales and marketing and General and administrative costs. Cost of services is primarily driven by the cost of client-service personnel, which consists mainly of compensation, subcontractor and other personnel costs, and non-payroll costs on outsourcing contracts. Cost of services includes a variety of activities such as: contract delivery; recruiting and training; software development; and integration of acquisitions. Sales and marketing costs are driven primarily by: compensation costs for business development activities; marketing- and advertising-related activities; and certain acquisition-related costs. General and administrative costs primarily include costs for non-client-facing personnel, information systems, office space and certain acquisition-related costs. 

Utilization for fiscal 2019 was 91%, consistent with fiscal 2018. We continue to hire to meet current and projected future demand. We proactively plan and manage the size and composition of our workforce and take actions as needed to address changes in the anticipated demand for our services and solutions, given that compensation costs are the most significant portion of our operating expenses. Based on current and projected future demand, we have increased our headcount, the majority of which serve our clients, to approximately 492,000 as of August 31, 2019, compared to approximately 459,000 as of August 31, 2018. The year-over-year increase in our headcount reflects an overall increase in demand for our services and solutions, as well as headcount added in connection with acquisitions. Attrition, excluding involuntary terminations, for fiscal 2019 was 17%, up from 15% in fiscal 2018. We evaluate voluntary attrition, adjust levels of new hiring and use involuntary terminations as means to keep our supply of skills and resources in balance with changes in client demand. In addition, we adjust compensation in certain skill sets and geographies in order to attract and retain appropriate numbers of qualified employees. For the majority of our personnel, compensation increases become effective December 1st of each fiscal year. We strive to adjust pricing and/or the mix of resources to reduce the impact of compensation increases on our margin. Our ability to grow our revenues and maintain or increase our margin could be adversely affected if we are unable to: keep our supply of skills and resources in balance with changes in the types or amounts of services and solutions clients are demanding; recover increases in compensation; deploy our employees globally on a timely basis; manage attrition; and/or effectively assimilate and utilize new employees. 

Effective September 1, 2018, we adopted ASU No. 2017-07, Compensation—Retirement Benefits (Topic 715), which required us to reclassify certain components of pension costs from operating expenses to non-operating expenses. Prior period results have been revised to reflect the fiscal 2019 presentation. For additional information, see Note 1 (Summary of Significant Accounting Policies) to our Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” 

Gross margin (Revenues less Cost of services as a percentage of Revenues) for fiscal 2019 was 30.8%, compared with 30.5% for fiscal 2018. The increase in gross margin for fiscal 2019 was primarily due to lower non-payroll and labor costs as a percentage of revenues compared to fiscal 2018.

Sales and marketing and General and administrative costs as a percentage of revenues were 16.2% for fiscal 2019, compared with 16.1% for fiscal 2018. For fiscal 2019 compared to fiscal 2018, Sales and marketing costs as a percentage of revenues increased 10 basis points and General and administrative costs as a percentage of revenues were flat. We continuously monitor these costs and implement cost-management actions, as appropriate. 

Operating margin (Operating income as a percentage of revenues) for fiscal 2019 was 14.6%, compared with 14.4% for fiscal 2018.

Effective September 1, 2018, we adopted ASU No. 2016-16, Income Taxes (Topic 740). Upon adoption, we recorded deferred tax assets of $2.1 billion, and we will recognize incremental income tax expense going forward as these deferred tax assets are utilized. For additional information, see Note 1 (Summary of Significant Accounting Policies) to our Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” 

28
The effective tax rate for fiscal 2019 was 22.5%, compared with 27.4% for fiscal 2018. During fiscal 2018, we recorded a $258 million charge associated with tax law changes. Absent this charge, our effective tax rate for fiscal 2018 would have been 23.0%. For additional information, see Note 10 (Income Taxes) to our Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.”

Diluted earnings per share were $7.36 for fiscal 2019, compared with $6.34 for fiscal 2018. The impact of tax law changes decreased diluted earnings per share by $0.40 in fiscal 2018. Excluding the impact of these changes, diluted earnings per share would have been $6.74 for fiscal 2018. 

We have presented our effective tax rate and diluted earnings per share excluding the impacts of the tax law changes in fiscal 2018, as we believe doing so facilitates understanding as to both the impact of these changes and our financial performance when comparing these periods. 

Our operating income and diluted earnings per share are affected by currency exchange rate fluctuations on revenues and costs. Most of our costs are incurred in the same currency as the related revenues. Where practical, we seek to manage foreign currency exposure for costs not incurred in the same currency as the related revenues, such as the costs associated with our global delivery model, by using currency protection provisions in our customer contracts and through our hedging programs. For more information on our hedging programs, see Note 8 (Financial Instruments) to our Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.”

Bookings

New bookings for fiscal 2019 were $45.5 billion, with consulting bookings of $24.7 billion and outsourcing bookings of $20.8 billion. 

We provide information regarding our new bookings, which include new contracts, including those acquired through acquisitions, as well as renewals, extensions and changes to existing contracts, because we believe doing so provides useful trend information regarding changes in the volume of our new business over time. New bookings can vary significantly quarter to quarter depending in part on the timing of the signing of a small number of large outsourcing contracts. The types of services and solutions clients are demanding and the pace and level of their spending may impact the conversion of new bookings to revenues. For example, outsourcing bookings, which are typically for multi-year contracts, generally convert to revenue over a longer period of time compared to consulting bookings. Information regarding our new bookings is not comparable to, nor should it be substituted for, an analysis of our revenues over time. New bookings involve estimates and judgments. There are no third-party standards or requirements governing the calculation of bookings. We do not update our new bookings for material subsequent terminations or reductions related to bookings originally recorded in prior fiscal years. New bookings are recorded using then-existing foreign currency exchange rates and are not subsequently adjusted for foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. 

The majority of our contracts are terminable by the client on short notice with little or no termination penalties, and some without notice. Under Topic 606, only the non-cancelable portion of these contracts is included in our performance obligations. Accordingly, a significant portion of what we consider contract bookings is not included in our remaining performance obligations.

29
Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates 

The preparation of our Consolidated Financial Statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the Consolidated Financial Statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses. We continually evaluate our estimates, judgments and assumptions based on available information and experience. Because the use of estimates is inherent in the financial reporting process, actual results could differ from those estimates. Certain of our accounting policies require higher degrees of judgment than others in their application. These include certain aspects of accounting for revenue recognition and income taxes. 

Revenue Recognition 

Determining the method and amount of revenue to recognize requires us to make judgments and estimates. Specifically, complex arrangements with nonstandard terms and conditions may require contract interpretation to determine the appropriate accounting, including whether promised goods and services specified in an arrangement are distinct performance obligations and should be accounted for separately. Other judgments include determining whether performance obligations are satisfied over-time or at a point-in-time and the selection of the method to measure progress towards completion. 

We measure progress towards completion for technology integration consulting services using costs incurred to date relative to total estimated costs at completion. Revenues, including estimated fees, are recorded proportionally as costs are incurred. The amount of revenue recognized for these contracts in a period is dependent on our ability to estimate total contract costs. We continually evaluate our estimates of total contract costs based on available information and experience. 

Additionally, the nature of our contracts gives rise to several types of variable consideration, including incentive fees. Many contracts include incentives or penalties related to costs incurred, benefits produced or adherence to schedules that may increase the variability in revenues and margins earned on such contracts. We conduct reviews prior to signing such contracts to evaluate whether these incentives are reasonably achievable. Our estimates are monitored over the lives of our contracts and are based on an assessment of our anticipated performance, historical experience and other information available at the time. 

For additional information, see Note 2 (Revenues) to our Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” 

Income Taxes 

On December 22, 2017, the U.S. enacted the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the “Tax Act”), which significantly changed U.S. tax law. The Tax Act lowered the U.S. statutory federal income tax rate from 35% to 21%, effective January 1, 2018, resulting in a blended U.S. statutory federal income tax rate of 25.7% for our fiscal year ended August 31, 2018 and a U.S. statutory federal income tax rate of 21.0% for our fiscal year ended August 31, 2019. The Tax Act’s “base erosion and anti-abuse tax” provision, and regulations issued thereunder, adversely impact our effective tax rate by limiting our ability to deduct certain expenses. 

Determining the consolidated provision for income tax expense, income tax liabilities and deferred tax assets and liabilities involves judgment. Deferred tax assets and liabilities, measured using enacted tax rates, are recognized for the future tax consequences of temporary differences between the tax and financial statement bases of assets and liabilities. As a global company, we calculate and provide for income taxes in each of the tax jurisdictions in which we operate. This involves estimating current tax exposures in each jurisdiction as well as making judgments regarding the recoverability of deferred tax assets. Tax exposures can involve complex issues and may require an extended period to resolve. In assessing the realizability of deferred tax assets, we consider whether it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized and adjust the valuation allowances accordingly. Factors considered in making this determination include the period of expiration of the tax asset, planned use of the tax asset, tax planning strategies and historical and projected taxable income as well as tax liabilities for the tax jurisdiction in which the tax asset is located. Valuation allowances will be subject to change in each future reporting period as a result of changes in one or more of these factors. Changes in the geographic mix or estimated level of annual income before taxes can affect the overall effective tax rate. 

We apply an estimated annual effective tax rate to our quarterly operating results to determine the interim provision for income tax expense. A change in judgment that impacts the measurement of a tax position taken in a prior year is recognized as a discrete item in the interim period in which the change occurs. In the event there is a significant unusual or infrequent item recognized in our quarterly operating results, the tax attributable to that item is recorded in the interim period in which it occurs. 

30
No taxes have been provided on undistributed foreign earnings that are planned to be indefinitely reinvested. If future events, including material changes in estimates of cash, working capital and long-term investment requirements, necessitate that these earnings be distributed, an additional provision for taxes may apply, which could materially affect our future effective tax rate. We currently do not foresee any event that would require us to distribute these indefinitely reinvested earnings. For additional information, see Note 10 (Income Taxes) to our Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.”

As a matter of course, we are regularly audited by various taxing authorities, and sometimes these audits result in proposed assessments where the ultimate resolution may result in us owing additional taxes. We establish tax liabilities or reduce tax assets when, despite our belief that our tax return positions are appropriate and supportable under local tax law, we believe we may not succeed in realizing the tax benefit of certain positions if challenged. In evaluating a tax position, we determine whether it is more likely than not that the position will be sustained upon examination, including resolution of any related appeals or litigation processes, based on the technical merits of the position. Our estimate of the ultimate tax liability contains assumptions based on past experiences, judgments about potential actions by taxing jurisdictions as well as judgments about the likely outcome of issues that have been raised by taxing jurisdictions. The tax position is measured at the largest amount of benefit that is greater than 50 percent likely of being realized upon settlement. We evaluate tax positions each quarter and adjust the related tax liabilities or assets in light of changing facts and circumstances, such as the progress of a tax audit or the expiration of a statute of limitations. We believe the estimates and assumptions used to support our evaluation of tax positions are reasonable. However, final determinations of prior-year tax liabilities, either by settlement with tax authorities or expiration of statutes of limitations, could be materially different from estimates reflected in assets and liabilities and historical income tax provisions. The outcome of these final determinations could have a material effect on our income tax provision, net income, or cash flows in the period in which that determination is made. We believe our tax positions comply with applicable tax law and that we have adequately accounted for these positions.

Revenues by Segment/Operating Group 

Our five reportable operating segments are our operating groups, which are Communications, Media & Technology; Financial Services; Health & Public Service; Products; and Resources. In addition to reporting revenues by operating group, we also report revenues by two types of work: consulting and outsourcing, which represent the services sold by our operating groups. Consulting revenues, which include strategy, management and technology consulting and systems integration, reflect a finite, distinct project or set of projects with a defined outcome and typically a defined set of specific deliverables. Outsourcing revenues typically reflect ongoing, repeatable services or capabilities provided to transition, run and/or manage operations of client systems or business functions. 

From time to time, our operating groups work together to sell and implement certain contracts. The resulting revenues and costs from these contracts may be apportioned among the participating operating groups. Generally, operating expenses for each operating group have similar characteristics and are subject to the same factors, pressures and challenges. However, the economic environment and its effects on the industries served by our operating groups affect revenues and operating expenses within our operating groups to differing degrees. The mix between consulting and outsourcing is not uniform among our operating groups. Local currency fluctuations also tend to affect our operating groups differently, depending on the geographic concentrations and locations of their businesses. 

While we provide discussion about our results of operations below, we cannot measure how much of our revenue growth in a particular period is attributable to changes in price or volume. Management does not track standard measures of unit or rate volume. Instead, our measures of volume and price are extremely complex, as each of our services contracts is unique, reflecting a customized mix of specific services that does not fit into standard comparability measurements. Revenue for our services is a function of the nature of each service to be provided, the skills required and the outcome sought, as well as estimated cost, risk, contract terms and other factors. 

31
Results of Operations for Fiscal 2019 Compared to Fiscal 2018 

Revenues (by operating group, geographic region and type of work) were as follows: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

_______________ 

n/m = not meaningful

Amounts in table may not total due to rounding. 

(1) Effective September 1, 2018, we adopted FASB ASU No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606) and eliminated our net revenues presentation. Prior period amounts have been revised to conform with the current period presentation. In addition, we updated operating group results for fiscal 2018 to include an acquisition previously categorized within Other. 

Our business in the United States represented 44%, 43% and 45% of our consolidated revenues during fiscal 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively. No other country individually comprised 10% or more of our consolidated revenues during these periods. 

Revenues 

The following revenues commentary discusses local currency revenue changes for fiscal 2019 compared to fiscal 2018: 

Operating Groups 

•Communications, Media & Technology revenues increased 9% in local currency, driven by growth in Software & Platforms across all geographic regions, led by North America.

•Financial Services revenues increased 3% in local currency, driven by growth in Insurance across all geographic regions and Banking & Capital Markets in Growth Markets, partially offset by a decline in Banking & Capital Markets in Europe.

•Health & Public Service revenues increased 6% in local currency, driven by growth in Public Service in North America and Europe.

•Products revenues increased 9% in local currency, driven by growth across all industry groups and geographic regions, led by Consumer Goods, Retail & Travel Services in Europe and Growth Markets and Life Sciences in North America.

32
•Resources revenues increased 18% in local currency, driven by growth across all industry groups and geographic regions.

Geographic Regions 

•North America revenues increased 9% in local currency, driven by the United States.

•Europe revenues increased 5% in local currency, led by Italy, the United Kingdom and Ireland.

•Growth Markets revenues increased 14% in local currency, driven by Japan, as well as Brazil and China.

Operating Expenses 

Operating expenses for fiscal 2019 increased $1,816 million, or 5%, over fiscal 2018, and decreased as a percentage of revenues to 85.4% from 85.6% during this period.

Cost of Services 

Cost of services for fiscal 2019 increased $1,401 million, or 5%, over fiscal 2018, and decreased as a percentage of revenues to 69.2% from 69.5% during this period. Gross margin for fiscal 2019 increased to 30.8% from 30.5% in fiscal 2018. The increase in gross margin for fiscal 2019 was primarily due to lower non-payroll and labor costs as a percentage of revenues compared to fiscal 2018. 

Sales and Marketing 

Sales and marketing expense for fiscal 2019 increased $251 million, or 6%, over fiscal 2018, and increased as a percentage of revenues to 10.3% from 10.2% during this period. 

General and Administrative Costs 

General and administrative costs for fiscal 2019 increased $164 million, or 7%, over fiscal 2018, and remained flat as a percentage of revenues at 5.9% during this period.

Operating Income and Operating Margin 

Operating income for fiscal 2019 increased $406 million, or 7%, over fiscal 2018.

Operating income and operating margin for each of the operating groups were as follows: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

 _______________ 

Amounts in table may not total due to rounding.

(1) Effective September 1, 2018, we adopted FASB ASU No. 2017-07, Compensation-Retirement Benefits (Topic 715): Improving the Presentation of Net Periodic Pension Cost and Net Periodic Postretirement Benefit Cost. Certain components of pension service costs were reclassified from Operating expenses to Non-operating expenses. Prior period amounts have been revised to conform with the current period presentation. 

We estimate that the aggregate percentage impact of foreign currency exchange rates on our operating income during fiscal 2019 was similar to that disclosed for revenue. The commentary below provides insight into other factors affecting operating group performance and operating margin for fiscal 2019 compared with fiscal 2018: 

•Communications, Media & Technology operating income increased primarily due to revenue growth and higher contract profitability.

•Financial Services operating income decreased as higher consulting contract profitability and revenue growth were offset by higher operating expenses as a percentage of revenues.

33
•Health & Public Service operating income decreased as revenue growth was offset by lower consulting contract profitability and higher operating expenses as a percentage of revenues.

•Products operating income increased primarily due to revenue growth and higher contract profitability, partially offset by higher operating expenses as a percentage of revenues.

•Resources operating income increased primarily due to revenue growth and higher contract profitability.

Provision for Income Taxes 

The effective tax rate for fiscal 2019 was 22.5%, compared with 27.4% for fiscal 2018. In fiscal 2018, we recorded a $258 million charge associated with tax law changes. Absent this charge, our effective tax rate for fiscal 2018 would have been 23.0%. The lower effective tax rate for fiscal 2019 was primarily due to changes in the geographic distribution of earnings, higher benefits from final determinations of prior year taxes and lower expense for adjustments to prior year tax liabilities. These decreases were partially offset by higher expense from the adoption of FASB ASU No. 2016-16 and lower tax benefits from share-based payments. For additional information, see Note 10 (Income Taxes) to our Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” 

Net Income Attributable to Noncontrolling Interests

Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests reflects the income earned or expense incurred attributable to the equity interest that some current and former members of Accenture Leadership and their permitted transferees have in our Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. subsidiary. See “Business—Organizational Structure.” Noncontrolling interests also includes amounts primarily attributable to noncontrolling shareholders in our Avanade Inc. subsidiary. Net income attributable to Accenture plc represents the income attributable to the shareholders of Accenture plc. 

Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests for fiscal 2019 decreased $88 million, or 57%, from fiscal 2018, due to the decrease in the non-controlling ownership percentage in March 2018 from 4% held by Accenture Holdings plc and Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. to less than 1% held by only Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. driven by the Accenture Holdings plc merger with and into Accenture plc. For additional information on the merger, see Note 1 (Summary of Significant Accounting Policies) to our Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 8,“Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.”

Earnings Per Share 

Diluted earnings per share were $7.36 for fiscal 2019, compared with $6.34 for fiscal 2018. The $1.02 increase in our diluted earnings per share included the impact of tax law changes, which decreased diluted earnings per share for fiscal 2018 by $0.40. Excluding the impact of these changes, diluted earnings per share for fiscal 2019 increased $0.62 compared with fiscal 2018, due to increases of $0.48 from higher revenues and operating results, $0.05 from a lower effective tax rate, $0.05 from lower weighted average shares outstanding, and $0.04 from lower non-operating expense. For information regarding our earnings per share calculations, see Note 3 (Earnings Per Share) to our Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” 

34
Results of Operations for Fiscal 2018 Compared to Fiscal 2017 

Revenues (by operating group, geographic region and type of work) were as follows: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

_______________ 

n/m = not meaningful

Amounts in table may not total due to rounding. 

(1) Effective September 1, 2018, we adopted FASB ASU No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606) and eliminated our net revenues presentation. Prior period amounts have been revised to conform with the current period presentation. In addition, we updated operating group results for fiscal 2018 to include an acquisition previously categorized within Other. 

(2)Effective September 1, 2017, we revised the reporting of our geographic regions as follows: North America (the United States and Canada), Europe and Growth Markets (Asia Pacific, Latin America, Africa and the Middle East). Four countries, including Russia, were previously in Growth Markets, but are now included in Europe. Fiscal 2017 amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current period presentation. 

Revenues 

The following revenues commentary discusses local currency revenue changes for fiscal 2018 compared to fiscal 2017: 

Operating Groups 

•Communications, Media & Technology revenues increased 14% in local currency, driven by growth across all geographic regions in Software & Platforms and Communications & Media, led by Software & Platforms in North America. 

•Financial Services revenues increased 8% in local currency, driven by growth across all industry groups and geographic regions, led by Banking & Capital Markets in Europe and Growth Markets. 

•Health & Public Service revenues increased 7% in local currency, driven by growth in Public Service across all geographic regions and Health in North America. 

•Products revenues increased 11% in local currency, driven by growth across all geographic regions, in Consumer Goods, Retail & Travel Services and Industrial. 

35
•Resources revenues increased 13% in local currency, driven by growth across all industry groups and geographic regions led by Chemicals & Natural Resources and Energy. 

Geographic Regions 

•North America revenues increased 9% in local currency, driven by the United States. 

•Europe revenues increased 9% in local currency, driven by Germany, Italy, France, Ireland and Spain. 

•Growth Markets revenues increased 16% in local currency, led by Japan, as well as Australia, Brazil, and Singapore. 

Operating Expenses 

Operating expenses for fiscal 2018 increased $4,108 million, or 13%, over fiscal 2017, and remained flat as a percentage of revenues at 85.6% during this period.

Cost of Services 

Cost of services for fiscal 2018 increased $3,394 million, or 14%, over fiscal 2017, and increased as a percentage of revenues to 69.5% from 69.4% during this period. Gross margin for fiscal 2018 decreased to 30.5% from 30.6% in fiscal 2017. The decrease in gross margin for fiscal 2018 was principally due to higher labor costs compared to fiscal 2017, partially offset by other cost efficiencies in fiscal 2018. 

Sales and Marketing 

Sales and marketing expense for fiscal 2018 increased $444 million, or 12%, over fiscal 2017, and decreased as a percentage of revenues to 10.2% from 10.4% during this period.

General and Administrative Costs 

General and administrative costs for fiscal 2018 increased $271 million, or 13%, over fiscal 2017, and remained flat as a percentage of revenues at 5.9% during this period. 

Operating Income and Operating Margin 

Operating income for fiscal 2018 increased $707 million, or 14%, over fiscal 2017. 

 Operating income and operating margin for each of the operating groups were as follows: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

 _______________ 

Amounts in table may not total due to rounding. 

(1)Effective September 1, 2018, we adopted FASB ASU No. 2017-07, Compensation-Retirement Benefits (Topic 715): Improving the Presentation of Net Periodic Pension Cost and Net Periodic Postretirement Benefit Cost. Certain components of pension service costs were reclassified from Operating expenses to Non-operating expenses. Prior period amounts have been revised to conform with the current period presentation. 

We estimate that the aggregate percentage impact of foreign currency exchange rates on our operating income during fiscal 2018 was similar to that disclosed for revenue. The commentary below provides insight into other factors affecting operating group performance and operating margin for fiscal 2018 compared with fiscal 2017: 

•Communications, Media & Technology operating income increased primarily due to revenue growth and higher contract profitability.  

•Financial Services operating income increased primarily due to consulting revenue growth.  

36
•Health & Public Service operating income decreased primarily due to lower consulting contract profitability. 

•Products operating income increased primarily due to revenue growth, partially offset by lower consulting contract profitability. 

•Resources operating income increased primarily due to revenue growth.  

Other Income (Expense), net 

Other income (expense), net primarily consists of foreign currency gains and losses, non-operating components of pension expense, as well as gains and losses associated with our investments in privately held companies. During fiscal 2018, other expense increased $40 million over fiscal 2017, primarily due to higher net foreign exchange losses. 

Pension Settlement Charge 

We recorded a pension settlement charge of $509,793 during fiscal 2017 as a result of the termination of our U.S. pension plan. For additional information, see Note 11 (Retirement and Profit Sharing Plans) to our Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” 

Provision for Income Taxes 

The effective tax rate for fiscal 2018 was 27.4%, compared with 21.3% for fiscal 2017. In fiscal 2018, we recorded a $258 million charge associated with tax law changes. Absent this charge, our effective tax rate for fiscal 2018 would have been 23.0%. Absent the pension settlement charge of $510 million and related tax impact of $198 million, the effective tax rate for fiscal 2017 would have been 23.0%. For additional information, see Note 10 (Income Taxes) to our Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” 

Net Income Attributable to Noncontrolling Interests 

Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests reflects the income earned or expense incurred attributable to the equity interest that some current and former members of Accenture Leadership and their permitted transferees have in our Accenture Holdings plc and Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. subsidiaries. See “Business—Organizational Structure.” Noncontrolling interests also includes amounts primarily attributable to noncontrolling shareholders in our Avanade Inc. subsidiary. Net income attributable to Accenture plc represents the income attributable to the shareholders of Accenture plc. 

Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests for fiscal 2018 decreased $35 million, or 18%, from fiscal 2017, primarily due to the Accenture Holdings plc merger with and into Accenture plc on March 13, 2018, which decreased the non-controlling ownership percentage from 4% held by Accenture Holdings plc and Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. to less than 1% held by only Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. For additional information on the merger, see Note 1 (Summary of Significant Accounting Policies) to our Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 8,“Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” 

Earnings Per Share 

Diluted earnings per share were $6.34 for fiscal 2018, compared with $5.44 for fiscal 2017. The $0.90 increase in our diluted earnings per share included the impact of the tax law changes, which decreased diluted earnings per share for fiscal 2018 by $0.40. The impact of the pension settlement charge, net of taxes, decreased diluted earnings per share for fiscal 2017 by $0.47. Excluding these impacts, diluted earnings per share would have been $6.74 and $5.91 for fiscal 2018 and 2017, respectively, an increase of $0.83. This increase was due to increases of $0.82 from higher revenues and operating results and $0.05 from lower weighted average shares outstanding, partially offset by decreases of $0.02 from lower non-operating income and $0.02 from higher net income attributable to non-controlling interest. For information regarding our earnings per share calculations, see Note 3 (Earnings Per Share) to our Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” 

We have presented our effective tax rate and diluted earnings per share excluding the impacts of the tax law changes in fiscal 2018 and the pension settlement charge in fiscal 2017, as we believe doing so facilitates understanding as to both the impact of these changes and our financial performance when comparing these periods.

37
Liquidity and Capital Resources 

Our primary sources of liquidity are cash flows from operations, available cash reserves and debt capacity available under various credit facilities. We could raise additional funds through other public or private debt or equity financings. We may use our available or additional funds to, among other things: 

•facilitate purchases, redemptions and exchanges of shares and pay dividends; 

•acquire complementary businesses or technologies; 

•take advantage of opportunities, including more rapid expansion; or 

•develop new services and solutions. 

As of August 31, 2019, Cash and cash equivalents were $6.1 billion, compared with $5.1 billion as of August 31, 2018. 

Cash flows from operating, investing and financing activities, as reflected in our Consolidated Cash Flows Statements, are summarized in the following table: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Operating activities: The $600 million year-over-year increase in operating cash flow was due to higher net income as well as changes in operating assets and liabilities, including an increase in accounts payable, partially offset by higher tax disbursements. 

Investing activities: The $506 million increase in cash used was primarily due to higher spending on business acquisitions and investments. For additional information, see Note 6 (Business Combinations) to our Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” 

Financing activities: The $58 million increase in cash used was primarily due to an increase in cash dividends paid as well as an increase in purchases of shares, partially offset by an increase in proceeds from share issuances and a decrease in the purchase of additional interests in consolidated subsidiaries. For additional information, see Note 14 (Material Transactions Affecting Shareholders’ Equity) to our Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” 

We believe that our current and longer-term working capital, investments and other general corporate funding requirements will be satisfied for the next twelve months and thereafter through cash flows from operations and, to the extent necessary, from our borrowing facilities and future financial market activities.

Substantially all of our cash is held in jurisdictions where there are no regulatory restrictions or material tax effects on the free flow of funds. In addition, domestic cash inflows for our Irish parent, principally dividend distributions from lower-tier subsidiaries, have been sufficient to meet our historic cash requirements, and we expect this to continue into the future.

Borrowing Facilities 

See Note 9 (Borrowings and Indebtedness) to our Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” 

Share Purchases and Redemptions 

We intend to continue to use a significant portion of cash generated from operations for share repurchases during fiscal 2020. The number of shares ultimately repurchased under our open-market share purchase program may vary depending on numerous factors, including, without limitation, share price and other market conditions, our ongoing capital allocation planning, the levels of cash and debt balances, other demands for cash, such as acquisition activity, general economic and/or business conditions, and board and management discretion. Additionally, as these factors 

38
may change over the course of the year, the amount of share repurchase activity during any particular period cannot be predicted and may fluctuate from time to time. Share repurchases may be made from time to time through open-market purchases, in respect of purchases and redemptions of Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. exchangeable shares, through the use of Rule 10b5-1 plans and/or by other means. The repurchase program may be accelerated, suspended, delayed or discontinued at any time, without notice. For additional information, see Note 14 (Material Transactions Affecting Shareholders’ Equity) to our Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” 

Subsequent Events

See Note 14 (Material Transactions Affecting Shareholders’ Equity) to our Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” 

Obligations and Commitments 

As of August 31, 2019, we had the following obligations and commitments to make future payments under contracts, contractual obligations and commercial commitments: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

_______________ 

Amounts in table may not total due to rounding. 

(1)The liability related to unrecognized tax benefits has been excluded from the contractual obligations table because a reasonable estimate of the timing and amount of cash outflows from future tax settlements cannot be determined. For additional information, see Note 10 (Income Taxes) to our Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” 

(2)Amounts represent projected payments under certain unfunded retirement plans for former pre-incorporation partners. Given these plans are unfunded, we pay these benefits directly. These plans were eliminated for active partners after May 15, 2001. 

(3)Other commitments include, among other things, information technology, software support and maintenance obligations, as well as other obligations in the ordinary course of business that we cannot cancel or where we would be required to pay a termination fee in the event of cancellation. Amounts shown do not include recourse that we may have to recover termination fees or penalties from clients. 

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements 

In the normal course of business and in conjunction with some client engagements, we have entered into contractual arrangements through which we may be obligated to indemnify clients with respect to certain matters. To date, we have not been required to make any significant payment under any of these arrangements. For further discussion of these transactions, see Note 16 (Commitments and Contingencies) to our Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” 

New Accounting Pronouncements 

See Note 1 (Summary of Significant Accounting Policies) to our Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” 

39
ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK