Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk.  

We are exposed to various market risks in our day to day operations. Market risk is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in market rates and prices, such as interest and foreign currency exchange rates and equity prices. The following analyses present the hypothetical loss in fair value of the financial instruments held by us at December 31, 2018 that are sensitive to changes in interest rates. The range of changes in interest rates used in the analyses reflects our view of changes that are reasonably possible over a one-year period. This discussion of market risks related to our consolidated balance sheet includes estimates of future economic environments caused by changes in market risks. The effect of actual changes in these market risk factors may differ materially from our estimates. In the ordinary course of business, we also face risks that are either nonfinancial or unquantifiable, including credit risk and legal risk. These risks are not included in the following analyses.  

Our invested assets are primarily held as cash and cash equivalents, which are subject to various market risk exposures such as interest rate risk. The fair value of our portfolio of cash and cash equivalents as of December 31, 2018 approximated its carrying value due to its short-term duration. We estimated market risk as the potential decrease in fair value resulting from a hypothetical one-percentage point increase in interest rates for the instruments contained in the cash and cash equivalents investment portfolio. The resulting fair values were not materially different from their carrying values at December 31, 2018.  

As of December 31, 2018, we had $3,198.0 million of borrowings outstanding under our various note purchase agreements. The aggregate estimated fair value of these borrowings at December 31, 2018 was $3,194.4 million due to the long-term duration and fixed interest rates associated with these debt obligations. No active or observable market exists for our private placement long-term debt. Therefore, the estimated fair value of this debt is based on the income valuation approach, which is a valuation technique that converts future amounts (for example, cash flows or income and expenses) to a single current (that is, discounted) amount. The fair value measurement is determined on the basis of the value indicated by current market expectations about those future amounts. Because our debt issuances generate a measurable income stream for each lender, the income approach was deemed to be an appropriate methodology for valuing the private placement long-term debt. The methodology used calculated the original deal spread at the time of each debt issuance, which was equal to the difference between the yield of each issuance (the coupon rate) and the equivalent benchmark treasury yield at that time. The market spread as of the valuation date was calculated, which is equal to the difference between an index for investment grade insurers and the equivalent benchmark treasury yield today. An implied premium or discount to the par value of each debt issuance based on the difference between the origination deal spread and market as of the valuation date was then calculated. The index we relied on to represent investment graded insurers was the Bloomberg Valuation Services (BVAL) U.S. Insurers BBB index. This index is comprised primarily of insurance brokerage firms and was representative of the industry in which we operate. For the purposes of our analysis, the average BBB rate was assumed to be the appropriate borrowing rate for us based on our current estimated credit rating.  

We estimated market risk as the potential impact on the value of the debt recorded in our consolidated balance sheet based on a hypothetical one-percentage point change in our weighted average borrowing rate as of December 31, 2018. A one-percentage point decrease would result in an estimated fair value of $3,399.2 million, or $201.2 million more than their current carrying value. A one-percentage point increase would result in an estimated fair value of $3,006.2 million, or $191.8 million less than their current carrying value.  

As of December 31, 2018, we had $265.0 million of borrowings outstanding under our Credit Agreement and $154.0 million of borrowings outstanding under our Premium Financing Debt Facility. Market risk is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from a hypothetical one-percentage point decrease in our weighted average short-term borrowing rate at December 31, 2018. Because these are short-term borrowings with variable interest rates, the estimated fair values of these borrowings approximate their carrying value.  

57  

Table of Contents 

We are subject to foreign currency exchange rate risk primarily from one of our larger U.K. based brokerage subsidiaries that incurs expenses denominated primarily in British pounds while receiving a substantial portion of its revenues in U.S. dollars. Please see Item 1A, “Risk Factors,” for additional information regarding potential foreign exchange rate risks arising from Brexit. In addition, we are subject to foreign currency exchange rate risk from our Australian, Canadian, Indian, Jamaican, New Zealand, Norwegian, Singaporean and various Caribbean and South American operations because we transact business in their local denominated currencies. Foreign currency gains (losses) related to this market risk are recorded in earnings before income taxes as transactions occur. Assuming a hypothetical adverse change of 10% in the average foreign currency exchange rate for 2018 (a weakening of the U.S. dollar), earnings before income taxes would have increased by approximately $16.8 million. Assuming a hypothetical favorable change of 10% in the average foreign currency exchange rate for 2018 (a strengthening of the U.S. dollar), earnings before income taxes would have decreased by approximately $19.5 million. We are also subject to foreign currency exchange rate risk associated with the translation of local currencies of our foreign subsidiaries into U.S. dollars. We manage the balance sheets of our foreign subsidiaries, where practical, such that foreign liabilities are matched with equal foreign assets, maintaining a “balanced book” which minimizes the effects of currency fluctuations. However, our consolidated financial position is exposed to foreign currency exchange risk related to intra-entity loans between our U.S. based subsidiaries and our non-U.S. based subsidiaries that are denominated in the respective local foreign currency. A transaction that is in a foreign currency is first remeasured at the entity’s functional (local) currency, where applicable, (which is an adjustment to consolidated earnings) and then translated to the reporting (U.S. dollar) currency (which is an adjustment to consolidated stockholders’ equity) for consolidated reporting purposes. If the transaction is already denominated in the foreign entity’s functional currency, only the translation to U.S. dollar reporting is necessary. The remeasurement process required by U.S. GAAP for such foreign currency loan transactions will give rise to a consolidated unrealized foreign exchange gain or loss, which could be material, that is recorded in accumulated other comprehensive earnings (loss).  

Historically, we have not entered into derivatives or other similar financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. However, with respect to managing foreign currency exchange rate risk in India, Norway and the U.K., we have periodically purchased financial instruments to minimize our exposure to this risk. During 2018, 2017 and 2016, we had several monthly put/call options in place with an external financial institution that were designed to hedge a significant portion of our future U.K. currency revenues through various future payment dates. In addition, during 2018, 2017 and 2016, we had several monthly put/call options in place with an external financial institution that were designed to hedge a significant portion of our Indian currency disbursements through various future payment dates. Although these hedging strategies were designed to protect us against significant U.K. and Indian currency exchange rate movements, we are still exposed to some foreign currency exchange rate risk for the portion of the payments and currency exchange rate that are unhedged. All of these hedges are accounted for in accordance with ASC Topic 815, “Derivatives and Hedging”, and periodically are tested for effectiveness in accordance with such guidance. In the scenario where such hedge does not pass the effectiveness test, the hedge will be re-measured at the stated point and the appropriate loss, if applicable, would be recognized. For the year ended December 31, 2018 there has been no such effect on our consolidated financial presentation. The impact of these hedging strategies was not material to our consolidated financial statements for 2018, 2017 and 2016. See Note 19 to our 2018 consolidated financial statements for the changes in fair value of these derivative instruments reflected in comprehensive earnings in 2018, 2017 and 2016.  

58  

Table of Contents 

Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.