Item 7A.Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.

The primary currencies to which we have foreign currency exchange rate exposure are the Euro, Japanese Yen, Chinese Renminbi, South Korean Won, Australian Dollar, Chilean Peso and Taiwan Dollar. In response to greater fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates in recent periods, we have increased the degree of exposure risk management activities to minimize the potential impact on earnings.

We manage our foreign currency exposures by balancing certain assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies and through the use, from time to time, of foreign currency forward contracts. The principal objective of such contracts is to minimize the financial impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. The counterparties to these contractual agreements are major financial institutions with which we generally have other financial relationships. We are exposed to credit loss in the event of nonperformance by these counterparties. However, we do not anticipate nonperformance by the counterparties. We do not utilize financial instruments for trading or other speculative purposes.

The primary method we use to reduce foreign currency exposure is to identify natural hedges, in which the operating activities denominated in respective currencies across various subsidiaries balance in respect to timing and the underlying exposures. In the event a natural hedge is not available, we may employ a forward contract to reduce exposure, generally expiring within one year. While these contracts are subject to fluctuations in value, such fluctuations are intended to offset the changes in the value of the underlying exposures being hedged. Unless otherwise noted, gains and losses on foreign currency forward contracts are recognized currently in Other expenses, net, and generally do not have a significant impact on results of operations.

At December 31, 2018, our financial instruments subject to foreign currency exchange risk consisted of foreign currency forward contracts with an aggregate notional value of $626.5 million and with a fair value representing a net asset position of $0.4 million. Fluctuations in the value of these contracts are intended to offset the changes in the value of the underlying exposures being hedged. We conducted a sensitivity analysis on the fair value of our foreign currency hedge portfolio assuming an instantaneous 10% change in select foreign currency exchange rates from their levels as of December 31, 2018, with all other variables held constant. A 10% appreciation of the U.S. Dollar against foreign currencies that we hedge would result in a decrease of approximately $24.4 million in the fair value of our foreign currency forward contracts. A 10% depreciation of the U.S. Dollar against these foreign currencies would result in an increase of approximately $26.8 million in the fair value of our foreign currency forward contracts. The sensitivity of the fair value of our foreign currency hedge portfolio represents changes in fair values estimated based on market conditions as of December 31, 2018, without reflecting the effects of underlying anticipated transactions. When those anticipated transactions are realized, actual effects of changing foreign currency exchange rates could have a material impact on our earnings and cash flows in future periods.

On December 18, 2014, the carrying value of our 1.875% Euro-denominated senior notes was designated as an effective hedge of our net investment in foreign subsidiaries where the Euro serves as the functional currency, and beginning on the date of designation, gains or losses on the revaluation of these senior notes to our reporting currency have been and will be recorded in Accumulated other comprehensive loss. In January 2017, we repaid €307.0 million of these senior notes using proceeds from 

56

Albemarle Corporation and Subsidiaries

the sale of the Chemetall Surface Treatment business. This repayment did not impair the designated hedge of our net investment in foreign subsidiaries where the Euro serves as the functional currency.

We are exposed to changes in interest rates that could impact our results of operations and financial condition. We manage global interest rate and foreign exchange exposure as part of our regular operational and financing strategies. We had variable interest rate borrowings of $313.8 million and $426.6 million outstanding at December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. These borrowings represented 18% and 23% of total outstanding debt and bore average interest rates of 2.85% and 1.78% at December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. A hypothetical 10% increase (approximately 29 basis points) in the average interest rate applicable to these borrowings would change our annualized interest expense by approximately $0.9 million as of December 31, 2018. We may enter into interest rate swaps, collars or similar instruments with the objective of reducing interest rate volatility relating to our borrowing costs.

Our raw materials are subject to price volatility caused by weather, supply conditions, political and economic variables and other unpredictable factors. Historically, we have not used futures, options or swap contracts to manage the volatility related to the above exposures. However, the refinery catalysts business has used financing arrangements to provide long-term protection against changes in metals prices. We seek to limit our exposure by entering into long-term contracts when available, and we seek price increase limitations through contracts. These contracts do not have a significant impact on our results of operations.

57

Albemarle Corporation and Subsidiaries

Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.