ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURE ABOUT MARKET RISK

We have interest-rate risk on our variable-rate debt obligations and our available-for-sale marketable investment portfolio, and commodity-price risk in jet fuel required to operate our aircraft fleet. We purchase the majority of our jet fuel at prevailing market prices and seek to manage market risk through execution of our hedging strategy and other means. We have market-sensitive instruments in the form of fixed-rate debt instruments and financial derivative instruments used to hedge our exposure to jet fuel price increases and interest-rate increases. We do not purchase or hold any derivative financial instruments for trading purposes.

 52

Aircraft Fuel

Currently, our fuel-hedging portfolio consists of crude oil call options. Call options effectively cap our pricing for the crude oil component of jet fuel, limiting our exposure to increasing fuel prices for about half of our planned fuel consumption. With call options, we are hedged against volatile crude oil price increases, and, during a period of decline in crude oil prices, we only forfeit cash previously paid for hedge premiums. We believe there is risk in not hedging against the possibility of fuel price increases. We estimate that a hypothetical 10% increase or decrease in the forward curve for crude oil prices as of December 31, 2018 would change the fair value of our crude oil hedge portfolio to approximately $8 million or $2 million, respectively. 

Our portfolio value of fuel hedge contracts was $4 million at December 31, 2018 compared to a portfolio value of $22 million at December 31, 2017. We do not have any collateral held by counterparties to these agreements as of December 31, 2018.

We continue to believe that our fuel hedge program is an important part of our strategy to reduce our exposure to volatile fuel prices. We expect to continue to enter into these types of contracts prospectively, although significant changes in market conditions could affect our decisions. For more discussion, see Note 4 to our consolidated financial statements.

Interest Rates

We have exposure to market risk associated with changes in interest rates related primarily to our debt obligations and short-term investment portfolio. Our debt obligations include variable-rate instruments, which have exposure to changes in interest rates. In order to mitigate the risk of interest rate fluctuations, we have a number of interest rate swaps that fix the interest rates on certain variable-rate debt agreements. A hypothetical 10% change in the average interest rates incurred on average variable-rate debt held during 2018 would have correspondingly changed our net earnings and cash flows associated with these items by less than $5 million. Our variable-rate debt represents approximately 70% and 63% of our total long-term debt as of December 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively.

Our exposure to interest rate variability is further mitigated through our variable-rate investment portfolio. We also have investments in marketable securities, which are exposed to market risk associated with changes in interest rates. If short-term interest rates were to average one point more than they did in 2018, interest income would increase by approximately $14 million.

ITEM 8. CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA