Item 7A.Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

Assets Under Management Market Price Risk

Our Consolidated revenue and equity method revenue are derived primarily from asset based fees that are typically determined as a percentage of the value of a client’s assets under management. Such values are affected by changes in financial markets (including interest rates and foreign exchange rates) and, accordingly, declines in the financial markets may negatively impact our Consolidated revenue and equity method revenue. 

As of December 31, 2018, we estimate a proportional 1% increase or decrease in the value of our assets under management would have resulted in an annualized increase or decrease in asset based fees in Consolidated revenue of $18.3 million for our consolidated Affiliates and in equity method revenue of $18.0 million for our equity method Affiliates. This proportional increase or decrease excludes assets under management on which asset based fees are charged on committed capital.

Interest Rate Risk

We have fixed rates of interest on our senior notes and on our junior convertible securities. While a change in market interest rates would not affect the interest expense incurred on our fixed rate securities, such a change may affect the fair value of these securities. We estimate that a 1% change in interest rates would have resulted in a net change in the fair value of our fixed rate securities of $78.4 million, as of December 31, 2018. We pay a variable rate of interest on our credit facilities. We estimate that a 1% increase in interest rates would have increased our annual interest expense on the outstanding balance under our credit facilities by $7.8 million, as of December 31, 2018. 

Foreign Currency Exchange Risk

The functional currency of most of our Affiliates is U.S. dollars. Certain of our Affiliates have a foreign currency as their functional currency, primarily pound sterling or Canadian dollars, and are impacted by movements in foreign currency exchange rates. In addition, the valuations of our foreign Affiliates with a non-U.S. dollar functional currency are impacted by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, which are recorded as a component of stockholders’ equity. To illustrate the effect of possible changes in foreign currency exchange rates, we estimate a 1% change in the pound sterling and Canadian dollar to U.S. dollar exchange rates would have resulted in changes to stockholders’ equity of $3.8 million and $2.0 million, respectively, based on the December 31, 2018 carrying value of these Affiliates and annual changes to Income before income taxes (controlling interest) of $1.1 million and $0.3 million, respectively.

Derivative Risk

From time to time, we and our Affiliates seek to offset exposure to changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and markets by entering into derivative financial instruments. There can be no assurance that our or our Affiliates’ derivative financial instruments will meet their overall objective or that we or our Affiliates will be successful in entering into such instruments in the future. Further, if our or our Affiliates’ derivative counterparties fail to honor their obligations in a timely manner, including any obligations to return posted collateral, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely impacted. 

37
 In 2018, we entered into derivative financial instruments to mitigate the potential risk of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. See Note 9 of our Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.

38
Item 8.Financial Statements and Supplementary Data