Item 7.Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

The following Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of Affiliated Managers Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries (collectively, the “Company”) should be read in conjunction with the “Forward-Looking Statements” section set forth in Part I and the “Risk Factors” section set forth in Item 1A of Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in any more recent filings with the SEC, each of which describes these risks, uncertainties and other important factors in more detail.

Executive Overview 

The following executive overview summarizes the significant trends affecting our results of operations and financial condition. This overview and the remainder of this Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations should be read in conjunction with our Consolidated Financial Statements and the notes thereto contained elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

We are a global asset management company with equity investments in leading boutique investment management firms, which we refer to as our “Affiliates.” Our innovative partnership approach allows each Affiliate’s management team to own significant equity in their firm and maintain operational autonomy. Our strategy is to generate shareholder value through the growth of our existing Affiliates, as well as through investments in new Affiliates and additional investments in our existing Affiliates. In addition, we provide centralized assistance to our Affiliates in strategic matters, marketing, distribution, product development and operations. As of December 31, 2018, our aggregate assets under management were $736.0 billion in more than 500 investment products across a broad range of active, return-oriented strategies. 

Under accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. (“GAAP”), we are required to consolidate certain of our Affiliates and use the equity method of accounting for others. Whether we consolidate an Affiliate or use the equity method of accounting, we maintain the same partnership approach and provide support and assistance in substantially the same manner for all of our Affiliates. Furthermore, all of our Affiliates are boutique investment managers and are impacted by similar marketplace factors and industry trends. Therefore, our key aggregate operating performance measures, which include the assets under management and fees of all of our Affiliates whether consolidated or accounted for under the equity method, are important in providing management with a more comprehensive view of the operating performance and material trends across our entire business.

 The following table presents our key operating performance measures:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

_____________________

(1)  Aggregate fees is provided in addition to, but not as a substitute for, our financial performance measures.

Assets under management is presented on a current basis without regard to the timing of the inclusion of an Affiliate’s results in our operating performance measures and Consolidated Financial Statements. Average assets under management provides a more meaningful relationship to our operating performance measures and financial results, as it reflects both the particular billing patterns of Affiliate sponsored products and client accounts and corresponds with the timing of the inclusion of an Affiliate's results in our operating performance measures and Consolidated Financial Statements. For certain of our equity method Affiliates, we report aggregate fees and the Affiliate’s financial results in our Consolidated Financial Statements one quarter in arrears.

Assets under Management

Through our Affiliates, we manage active, return-oriented strategies, rather than passively-managed products, which typically carry lower fee rates. We continue to see client demand for active, return-oriented strategies, particularly in alternative 

20
strategies and multi-asset strategies, reflecting continued investor demand for returns that are less correlated to traditional equity and fixed income markets. However, broad declines in equity markets in the three months ended December 31, 2018 resulted in significant declines in the value of our assets under management and an increase in net client cash outflows, particularly from liquid alternative strategies and global equity strategies by retail clients. In addition, investor demand for passively-managed products has continued, particularly for the large cap U.S. equity portions of client portfolios, and we experienced outflows in U.S. equity strategies during the year consistent with this industry-wide trend. 

We expect client demand for illiquid alternative strategies and multi-asset strategies to continue and demand for global equity strategies and liquid alternative strategies to improve from the three months ended December 31, 2018. We believe the best-performing active equity managers (whether global-, regional-, or country-specific) will continue to have significant opportunities to grow from net client cash flows. We believe we are well positioned to benefit from these trends. 

The following charts present information regarding the composition of our assets under management by active, return-oriented strategy as of December 31, 2017 and 2018: 

Assets under Management by Strategy

(in billions)

_____________________

(1) Alternatives primarily include assets under management in liquid and illiquid alternative strategies. Alternative strategies generate earnings from (i) asset based fees from products subject to lock-ups or similar restrictions, (ii) asset based fees from products not subject to such restrictions and/or (iii) performance based fees and carried interest.

(2) Global equities include emerging markets strategies, which accounted for 9% and 8% of our aggregate assets under management as of December 31, 2017 and 2018, respectively.

21
The following table presents changes in our assets under management by active, return-oriented strategy: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

__________________________

(1) Foreign exchange reflects the impact of translating into U.S. dollars the assets under management of our Affiliates whose functional currency is not the U.S. dollar.

(2) Other primarily includes the assets under management attributable to Affiliate product transitions and transfers of our interests in our Affiliates.

The following charts present information regarding the composition of our assets under management by client type as of December 31, 2017 and 2018: 

Assets under Management by Client Type

(in billions)

22
The following table presents changes in our assets under management by client type: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]_________________________

(1) Foreign exchange reflects the impact of translating into U.S. dollars the assets under management of our Affiliates whose functional currency is not the U.S. dollar.

(2) Other primarily includes the assets under management attributable to Affiliate product transitions and transfers of our interests in our Affiliates.

In addition to assets under management, we also report average assets under management. This measure provides a more meaningful relationship to aggregate fees as it reflects both the particular billing patterns of Affiliate sponsored products and client accounts and corresponds with the timing of the inclusion of an Affiliate’s results in our operating performance measures and Consolidated Financial Statements. Average assets under management was $819.9 billion in 2018, an increase of $40.7 billion or 5% compared to 2017.

Aggregate Fees

Aggregate fees consists of the total asset and performance based fees earned by all of our Affiliates. Asset based fees include advisory and other fees earned by our Affiliates for services provided to their clients and are typically determined as a percentage of the value of a client’s assets under management. Performance based fees are based on investment performance, typically on an absolute basis or relative to a benchmark, and are recognized when they are earned (i.e., when they become billable to customers and are not subject to claw-back). Performance based fees are generally billed less frequently than asset based fees, and although performance based fees inherently depend on investment performance and will vary from period to period, we anticipate performance based fees will be a recurring component of our aggregate fees. 

Aggregate fees are generally determined by the level of our average assets under management, the composition of these assets across our active, return-oriented strategies that realize different asset based fee ratios, and performance based fees. Our asset based fee ratio is calculated as asset based fees divided by average assets under management. 

 Aggregate fees were $5,442.4 million in 2018, a decrease of $103.4 million or 2% as compared to 2017. The decrease in our aggregate fees was primarily due to a decrease in performance based fees of $213.5 million or 4% as a result of a broad decline in equity markets in the three months ended December 31, 2018, which resulted in negative performance for most asset classes. The decrease from performance based fees was partially offset by an increase in asset based fees of $90.5 million or 2%. The increase in asset based fees was primarily due to a 5% increase in our average assets under management (primarily alternative strategies and global equities strategies), partially offset by a 3% decline in our asset based fee ratio due to a change in the composition of our average assets under management and fee rate reductions at certain Affiliate products. The decrease in aggregate fees was also partially offset by a $19.6 million or less than 1% increase from our adoption of Accounting Standard Update (“ASU”) 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers.

Financial and Supplemental Financial Performance Measures

The following table presents our key financial and supplemental financial performance measures:

23
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

__________________________

(1) Adjusted EBITDA (controlling interest) and Economic net income (controlling interest) are non-GAAP performance measures and are discussed in “Supplemental Financial Performance Measures.”

Adjusted EBITDA (controlling interest) is an important supplemental financial performance measure for management as it provides a comprehensive view of our share of the financial performance of our business before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization, impairments, and adjustments to our contingent payment arrangements. While our aggregate fees decreased $103.4 million or 2% in 2018, our Adjusted EBITDA (controlling interest) decreased $154.4 million or 14%. This decrease was primarily due to decreases in performance based fees, which were predominantly at our equity method Affiliates in which we share in the Affiliate’s revenue less agreed-upon expenses. The expense bases of these Affiliates are generally less variable and, therefore, when performance based fees decline the percentage impact is greater on the Affiliate’s earnings relative to the impact on the Affiliate’s revenue. The decrease in our Adjusted EBITDA (controlling interest) was also due to a decrease of $22.5 million in Investment and other income attributable to the controlling interest and a $20.0 million charitable contribution.

While Adjusted EBITDA (controlling interest) decreased $154.4 million or 14% in 2018, our Net income (controlling interest) decreased $445.9 million or 65%. This decrease was primarily due to a $207.6 million (net of tax) increase in expenses to reduce the carrying value to fair value of one of our non-U.S. alternative Affiliates and to reduce the carrying value to zero of one of our U.S. alternative Affiliates, both accounted for under the equity method. This decrease was also due to a $194.1 million one-time tax benefit recognized in 2017 as a result of changes in U.S. tax laws, primarily due to the re-measurement of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, which did not recur in 2018. These decreases were partially offset by a lower U.S. corporate income tax rate from the changes in U.S. tax laws and a $7.2 million or 8% reduction in Interest expense.

We consider Economic net income (controlling interest) to be an important measure of our financial performance, as we believe it best represents our performance after tax and before our share of non-cash expenses relating to our acquisition of interests in our Affiliates. While Adjusted EBITDA (controlling interest) decreased $154.4 million or 14% in 2018, our Economic net income (controlling interest) decreased $43.7 million or 5%, primarily due to a reduction in our effective tax rate from changes in U.S. tax laws and a $28.2 million tax benefit recognized on the liquidation of the U.S. alternative Affiliate accounted for under the equity method.

Results of Operations

The following discussion includes the financial results of our consolidated and equity method Affiliates. Our consolidated Affiliates’ financial results are included in our Consolidated revenue, Consolidated expenses, and Investment and other income, and our share of our equity method Affiliates’ financial results is reported (net of intangible amortization and impairments) in Equity method income (loss) (net). 

Consolidated Revenue

 Our Consolidated revenue is derived from our consolidated Affiliates, primarily from asset and performance based fees from investment management services. For these Affiliates, we typically use structured partnership interests in which we contractually share in the Affiliate’s revenue without regard to expenses. Consolidated revenue is generally determined by the level of our consolidated Affiliate average assets under management, the composition of these assets across our Affiliate sponsored products and client accounts that realize different asset based fee ratios, and performance based fees. 

The following table presents our consolidated Affiliate average assets under management and Consolidated revenue:

24
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Our Consolidated revenue increased $73.4 million or 3% in 2018, due to a $52.6 million or 2% increase from asset based fees, a $19.6 million or less than 1% increase from our adoption of ASU 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers and a $1.2 million increase from performance based fees. The increase in asset based fees was due to a 3% increase in consolidated Affiliate average assets under management, primarily in our alternative strategies and multi-asset and other strategies. The increase in asset based fees was partially offset by a 1% decline in our asset based fee ratio due to a change in the composition of our average assets under management. 

Our Consolidated revenue increased $110.4 million or 5% in 2017, due to a $129.1 million or 6% increase from asset based fees, partially offset by a $18.7 million or 1% decrease from performance based fees. The increase in asset based fees was due to a 9% increase in consolidated Affiliate average assets under management, primarily in our global equity strategies and multi-asset and other strategies. The increase in asset based fees was partially offset by a 3% decline in our consolidated Affiliate asset based fee ratio due to a change in the composition of our average assets under management.

Consolidated Expenses 

The following table presents our Consolidated expenses:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Our Consolidated expenses are primarily attributable to the non-controlling interests of our consolidated Affiliates in which we share in revenue without regard to expenses. For these Affiliates, the amount of expenses attributable to the non-controlling interests, including compensation, is generally determined by the percentage of revenue allocated to expenses as part of the structured partnership interests in place at the respective Affiliate. Accordingly, increases in revenue generally will increase a consolidated Affiliate’s expenses attributable to the non-controlling interest and decreases in revenue will generally decrease a consolidated Affiliate’s expenses attributable to the non-controlling interest. 

Compensation and related expenses increased $8.2 million or 1% in 2018, primarily due to a $4.3 million or less than 1% increase in share-based compensation expense and a $3.0 million or less than 1% increase in compensation expenses associated with Affiliate equity transactions. These changes were primarily attributable to the controlling interest.

Compensation and related expenses increased $46.6 million or 5% in 2017, primarily due to a $35.0 million or 4% increase in compensation expenses at Affiliates and a $8.5 million or 1% increase in compensation expenses associated with Affiliate equity transactions. These changes were primarily attributable to the non-controlling interests.

Selling, general and administrative expenses increased $44.6 million or 12% in 2018, due to a $25.1 million or 7% increase in expenses related to the non-controlling interests, primarily due to an increase in investment research and other costs. This increase was also due to a $19.6 million or 5% increase in distribution-related expenses from our adoption of ASU 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, also primarily attributable to the non-controlling interests.

25
Selling, general and administrative expenses decreased $25.0 million or 6% in 2017, primarily due to a $15.0 million or 4% decrease in expenses associated with legal claims and a $5.7 million or 1% reduction in distribution expenses related to commissions at certain of our UK Affiliates, both attributable to the non-controlling interests. The decrease was also due to a $5.8 million or 1% reduction in expenses related to wealth management initiatives attributable to the controlling interest. 

Intangible amortization and impairments increased $28.4 million or 33% in 2018, due to a $30.1 million or 35% increase from a change in the pattern of economic benefit for certain assets, partially offset by a $1.7 million or 2% decrease from certain assets being fully amortized. These changes were primarily attributable to the controlling interest.

Intangible amortization and impairments decreased $23.8 million or 22% in 2017, due to a $16.0 million or 15% decrease from a change in the pattern of economic benefit for certain assets and a $7.8 million or 7% decrease from certain assets being fully amortized. These changes were primarily attributable to the controlling interest.

Interest expense decreased $7.2 million or 8% in 2018, primarily due to an $8.6 million or 10% decrease from the redemption of our 6.375% senior unsecured notes due 2042 in August 2017 and a $3.8 million or 4% decrease due to our pound sterling-denominated forward foreign currency contracts. These decreases were partially offset by a $4.0 million or 5% increase in interest expense on our credit facilities due to an increase in the applicable borrowing rates. These changes were attributable to the controlling interest.

Interest expense decreased $3.9 million or 4% in 2017, primarily due to a $5.3 million or 6% decrease from the redemption of our 6.375% senior unsecured notes due 2042 in August 2017. This change was attributable to the controlling interest.

There were no significant changes in Depreciation and other amortization in 2018 or 2017. 

Other expenses (net) increased $11.7 million or 20% in 2018, primarily due to a $20.0 million or 34% increase in charitable contributions and a $3.0 million or 5% increase in rent expense. These increases were partially offset by a $6.3 million or 11% decrease in losses resulting from changes in the value of contingent payment arrangements and a $6.2 million or 11% decrease in expenses from changes in the value of Affiliate equity repurchase obligations. These changes were primarily attributable to the controlling interest.

Other expenses (net) increased $14.7 million or 34% in 2017, primarily due to a $9.3 million or 21% increase in losses resulting from the changes in the value of contingent payment arrangements, a $2.1 million or 5% increase in expenses from changes in the value of Affiliate equity repurchase obligations and a $2.0 or 5% increase in rent expense. These changes were primarily attributable to the controlling interest.

Equity Method Income (Loss) (Net) 

When we do not own a controlling interest in an Affiliate, but have significant influence, we account for our interest in the Affiliate under the equity method. Our share of earnings or losses from these Affiliates, net of amortization and impairments, is included in Equity method income (loss) (net) in our Consolidated Statements of Income. 

 For a majority of these Affiliates, we use structured partnership interests in which we contractually share in the Affiliate’s revenue less agreed-upon expenses. This type of partnership interest allows us to benefit from any increase in revenue or any decrease in the agreed-upon expenses, but also exposes us to any decrease in revenue or any increase in such expenses. The degree of our exposure to expenses from these structured partnership interests varies by Affiliate and includes Affiliates in which we fully share in the expenses of the business. We also use structured partnership interests in which we contractually share in the Affiliate’s revenue without regard to expenses, and in this type of partnership interest, our contractual share of revenue generally has priority over distributions to Affiliate management. 

Our equity method revenue is derived primarily from asset and performance based fees from investment management services. Equity method revenue incorporates the total asset and performance based fees earned by all of our equity method Affiliates and is generally determined by the level of our equity method Affiliate average assets under management, the composition of these assets across our Affiliate sponsored products and client accounts that realize different asset based fee ratios and performance based fees. Our equity method Affiliates manage a greater proportion of assets subject to performance based fees than our consolidated Affiliates and, as a result, our equity method revenue will generally have more performance based fees than Consolidated revenue.

The following table presents equity method Affiliate average assets under management and equity method revenue, as well as equity method earnings and equity method intangible amortization and impairments, which in aggregate form Equity method income (loss) (net): 

26
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

__________________________

(1) Equity method revenue is an operating measure and is provided in addition to, but not as a substitute for, Equity method income (loss) (net) or other financial performance measures. Equity method revenue differs from the revenue of our equity method Affiliates reported in Note 13 to our Consolidated Financial Statements, as it does not include the financial impact of any consolidated sponsored investment products or other entities that may need to be consolidated by our equity method Affiliates under GAAP.

Our equity method revenue decreased $176.8 million or 5% in 2018, primarily due to a $214.7 million or 7% decrease from performance based fees due to a broad decline in equity markets in the three months ended December 31, 2018, which resulted in negative performance for most asset classes, partially offset by a $37.9 million or 1% increase from asset based fees. The increase in asset based fees was due to a 7% increase in equity method Affiliate average assets under management, partially offset by a 5% decline in our asset based fee ratio due to a change in the composition of our average assets under management and fee rate reductions at certain Affiliate products.

While equity method revenue decreased 5% in 2018, equity method earnings decreased $130.8 million or 26%, primarily due to the decline in performance based fees at our equity method Affiliates in which we share in the Affiliate’s revenue less agreed-upon expenses. The expense bases of these Affiliates are generally less variable and, therefore, when performance based fees decline the percentage impact is greater on the Affiliate’s earnings relative to the impact on the Affiliate’s revenue. The decrease was also due to an increase in expenses at certain of our Affiliates as they continue to invest in new investment strategies and enhance their distribution capabilities.

Equity method intangible amortization and impairments increased $171.6 million or 86% in 2018. This increase was primarily due to a $180.2 million or 90% increase in expenses to reduce the carrying value of one of our U.S. alternative Affiliates to zero and reduce the carrying value to fair value of one of our non-U.S. alternative Affiliates. See Note 13 of our Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. This increase was partially offset by an $8.6 million or 4% decrease in amortization from a change in the pattern of economic benefit for certain assets.

Our equity method revenue increased $1,139.1 million or 54% in 2017, due to a $649.1 million or 31% increase from asset based fees and a $490.0 million or 23% increase from performance based fees. The increase in asset based fees was due to a 32% increase in equity method Affiliate average assets under management, primarily due to an increase in assets under management from investments in new Affiliates and a 3% increase in our equity method Affiliate asset based fee ratio due to the change in the composition of our average assets under management. Performance based fees increased due to the full-year impact in 2017 of our 2016 investments in new Affiliates and due to increases in performance based fees at our existing Affiliates. 

While equity method revenue increased $1,139.1 million or 54% in 2017, equity method earnings increased $113.4 million or 29% in 2017, primarily due to our 2016 investments in new Affiliates, in which we own less of the economic interests.

Equity method intangible amortization and impairments increased $140.0 million in 2017, primarily due to a $93.1 million expense to reduce the carrying value to fair value of the U.S. alternative Affiliate for which we recorded an expense in 2018 to reduce the carrying value to zero and a $41.0 million increase in amortization from the full-year impact in 2017 of our 2016 investments in new Affiliates.

27
Investment and other income

The following table presents our Investment and other income:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Investment and other income decreased $37.1 million or 58% in 2018, primarily due to a $28.8 million or 45% decrease in realized gains on the sale of marketable securities, primarily attributable to the controlling interest, and a $4.3 million or 7% increase in foreign currency transaction losses, primarily attributable to the non-controlling interests.

Investment and other income increased $18.1 million or 39% in 2017, due to an $11.4 million or 25% increase in the fair value of investments and a $6.7 million or 14% increase in net realized gains, both primarily attributable to the controlling interest.

Income Tax Expense

The following table presents our Income tax expense:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]__________________________

(1) Percentage change is not meaningful.

Income tax expense increased $122.9 million in 2018, primarily due to a $194.1 million one-time net benefit recognized in 2017 as a result of changes in U.S. tax laws, principally from the re-measurement of our deferred tax liabilities associated with our intangible assets and convertible securities, which did not recur in 2018. Without the one-time impact of the changes in U.S. tax laws in 2017, Income tax expense would have decreased approximately $76 million or 31% in 2018, primarily due to lower Income before income taxes (controlling interest) and the lower U.S. corporate income tax rate. 

Income tax expense decreased $177.2 million or 75% in 2017, primarily due to a $194.1 million one-time net benefit from the changes in U.S. tax laws, partially offset by an increase in income tax expense due to an increase in Income before income taxes (controlling interest). The net benefit from changes in U.S. tax laws was primarily due to the re-measurement of our deferred tax liabilities associated with our intangible assets and convertible securities. 

Net Income

The previously discussed changes in revenue and expenses had the following effect on Net income:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Supplemental Financial Performance Measures

Adjusted EBITDA (controlling interest)

As supplemental information, we provide a non-GAAP measure that we refer to as Adjusted EBITDA (controlling interest). Adjusted EBITDA (controlling interest) is an important supplemental financial performance measure for management as it provides a comprehensive view of our share of the financial performance of our business before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization, impairments, and adjustments to our contingent payment arrangements. This non-GAAP 

28
performance measure is provided in addition to, but not as a substitute for, Net income (controlling interest) or other GAAP performance measures. 

The following table presents a reconciliation of Net income (controlling interest) to Adjusted EBITDA (controlling interest):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

__________________________

(1) For the year end December 31, 2017, Income taxes include a one-time net benefit of $194.1 million from changes in U.S. tax laws. 

(2) Our consolidated Intangible amortization and impairments includes amortization attributable to our non-controlling interests. For our equity method Affiliates, we do not separately report intangible amortization and impairments in our Consolidated Statements of Income. Our share of these Affiliates’ amortization is reported in Equity method income (loss) (net). 

The following table presents the Intangible amortization and impairments shown above:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

For the year ended December 31, 2017, equity method intangible amortization and impairments includes a $93.1 million non-cash expense to reduce the carrying value to fair value of one of our U.S. alternative Affiliates accounted for under the equity method. For the year ended December 31, 2018, equity method intangible amortization and impairments includes a $240.0 million non-cash expense to reduce the carrying value to fair value of one of our non-U.S. alternative Affiliates accounted for under the equity method and a $33.3 million non-cash expense to reduce the carrying value to zero of the U.S. alternative Affiliate. 

(3)   Other items include depreciation and adjustments to contingent payment arrangements. 

Economic Net Income (controlling interest) and Economic Earnings Per Share

As supplemental information, we also provide non-GAAP performance measures that we refer to as Economic net income (controlling interest) and Economic earnings per share. We consider Economic net income (controlling interest) and Economic earnings per share to be important measures of our financial performance, as we believe they best represent performance before our share of non-cash expenses relating to our acquisition of interests in our Affiliates, and they are, therefore, employed as our principal performance measures. Economic net income (controlling interest) and Economic earnings per share are used by our management and Board of Directors as our principal performance benchmarks, including as one of the measures for aligning executive compensation with stockholder value. These measures are provided in addition to, but not as substitutes for, Net income (controlling interest) and Earnings per share (diluted) or other GAAP performance measures.

Under our Economic net income (controlling interest) definition, we add to Net income (controlling interest) our share of pre-tax intangible amortization and impairments (including the portion attributable to equity method investments in Affiliates), 

29
deferred taxes related to intangible assets and other economic items, which include non-cash imputed interest (principally related to the accounting for convertible securities and contingent payment arrangements) and certain Affiliate equity expenses. For the year ended December 31, 2017, we excluded from Economic net income (controlling interest) a one-time net benefit from changes in U.S. tax laws. We add back intangible amortization and impairments because these expenses do not correspond to the changes in value of these assets, which do not diminish predictably over time. The portion of deferred taxes generally attributable to intangible assets (including goodwill) is added back because we believe it is unlikely these accruals will be used to settle material tax obligations. We add back non-cash imputed interest and reductions or increases in contingent payment arrangements to better reflect our contractual interest obligations. We add back non-cash expenses relating to certain transfers of equity between Affiliate partners when these transfers have no dilutive effect to shareholders. We have excluded the one-time impact of the changes in U.S. tax laws to ensure comparability with prior and future periods.

Economic earnings per share represents Economic net income (controlling interest) divided by the Average shares outstanding (adjusted diluted). In this calculation, the potential share issuance in connection with our convertible securities is measured using a “treasury stock” method. Under this method, only the net number of shares of common stock equal to the value of these convertible securities in excess of par, if any, is deemed to be outstanding. We believe the inclusion of net shares under a treasury stock method best reflects the benefit of the increase in available capital resources (which could be used to repurchase shares of common stock) that occurs when these securities are converted and we are relieved of our debt obligation. This method does not take into account any increase or decrease in our cost of capital in an assumed conversion.

The following table presents a reconciliation of Net income (controlling interest) to Economic net income (controlling interest):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

__________________________

(1) See note (2) to the table in “Adjusted EBITDA (controlling interest).”

(2) For the year ended December 31, 2017, we recorded a $93.1 million non-cash expense to reduce the carrying value to fair value of one of our U.S. alternative Affiliates accounted for under the equity method, which reduced intangible-related deferred taxes by $35.7 million. For the year ended December 31, 2018, we recognized a $33.3 million non-cash expense to reduce the carrying value of this equity method investment to zero and recognized a tax loss on its liquidation, which resulted in a $19.9 million net increase in intangible-related deferred taxes. 

(3) During 2016, 2017 and 2018, Other economic items were net of income tax expense of $1.5 million, $5.8 million and $0.8 million, respectively. 

(4) See note (1) to the table in “Adjusted EBITDA (controlling interest).”

Liquidity and Capital Resources

In 2018, we met our cash requirements through cash generated by operating activities. Our principal uses of cash during the year were, and for the foreseeable future are expected to be, for repurchases of common stock, distributions to Affiliate equity holders, repayments of senior debt, the payment of cash dividends on our common stock, repurchases of Affiliate equity 

30
interests and general working capital purposes. We also expect that principal uses of cash will be for investments in new and existing Affiliates. We anticipate that cash flows from operations, together with borrowings under our revolver, will be sufficient to support our cash flow needs for the foreseeable future. In addition, we may draw funding from the debt and equity capital markets, and our credit ratings, among other factors, allow us to access these sources of funding on favorable terms. We are currently rated A3 by Moody’s Investors Service and A- by S&P Global Ratings. 

Cash and cash equivalents were $565.5 million and $439.5 million at December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. The following table presents our operating, investing and financing cash flow activities:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Operating Cash Flow

Operating cash flows decreased $29.8 million in 2018, primarily due to a $137.0 million increase in net purchases of securities by Affiliate sponsored consolidated products. This decrease was partially offset by a $42.3 million increase in Net income as adjusted for non-cash items and a $36.5 million increase in distributions received from equity method investments. In 2018, approximately 70% of operating cash flows were attributable to the controlling interest. 

Operating cash flows increased $120.1 million in 2017, primarily due to a $83.4 million increase in distributions received from equity method investments. In 2017, approximately 70% of operating cash flows were attributable to the controlling interest. 

Investing Cash Flow

Investing cash flows decreased $32.0 million in 2018, primarily due to a $55.1 million decrease in net sales of investment securities, partially offset by a $23.3 million decrease in investments in Affiliates. These changes were primarily attributable to the controlling interest.

Investing cash flows increased $1.3 billion in 2017, primarily due to a $1.3 billion decrease in cash used to make investments in Affiliates attributable to the controlling interest.

Financing Cash Flow

Financing cash flows increased $206.6 million in 2018. This increase was primarily due to a $229.4 million decrease in net repayments of senior bank debt and senior notes, which was partially offset by a $112.6 million increase in repurchases of our common stock, all of which were attributable to the controlling interest. This increase was also due to a $130.1 million increase in subscriptions to Affiliate sponsored consolidated products, net of redemptions, which were primarily attributable to the non-controlling interests.

Financing cash flows decreased $1.4 billion in 2017. This decrease was primarily due to a $485.0 million change in senior debt activity (from $225.0 million of net borrowings in 2016 to $260.0 million of net repayments in 2017), a $423.9 million decrease in proceeds from the issuance of common stock and a $359.8 million increase in the repurchase of our common stock, all of which were attributable to the controlling interest.

Senior Debt and Convertible Securities

The following table presents the carrying value of our outstanding indebtedness:

31
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Senior Bank Debt

We have a senior unsecured multicurrency revolving credit facility (the “revolver”), which, as of December 31, 2018, had $1.45 billion in borrowing capacity and outstanding borrowings of $330.0 million. We also have a senior unsecured term loan facility (the “term loan” and, together with the revolver, the “credit facilities”), which, as of December 31, 2018, had outstanding borrowings of $450.0 million. As of December 31, 2018, we had approximately $1 billion of remaining capacity under our revolver, and could borrow all such capacity and remain in compliance with our credit facilities. 

Under the terms of the credit facilities we are required to meet two financial ratio covenants. The first of these covenants is a maximum ratio of debt to EBITDA (the “bank leverage ratio”) of 3.25x. The second covenant is a minimum EBITDA to cash interest expense ratio of 3.00x (the “bank interest coverage ratio”). For purposes of calculating these ratios, share-based compensation and Affiliate equity expense are added back to EBITDA. As of December 31, 2018, our bank leverage and bank interest coverage ratios were 1.4x and 13.5x, respectively, and we were in compliance with all of the terms of our credit facilities. 

On January 18, 2019, we amended and restated the credit facilities to provide for a $1.25 billion revolver and a $450.0 million term loan. The revolver matures on January 18, 2024 and the term loan matures on January 18, 2023. Subject to certain conditions, we may increase commitments under the revolver by up to an additional $500.0 million and may borrow up to an additional $75.0 million under the term loan. We pay interest on any outstanding obligations under the amended and restated credit facilities at specified rates, based either on the applicable LIBOR rate or the prime rate as in effect from time to time. 

Senior Notes

In 2017, we redeemed, canceled and retired all $200.0 million principal amount outstanding of our 6.375% senior unsecured notes due 2042 at a redemption price equal to 100% of the principal amount. At December 31, 2018, we had two senior notes outstanding, the respective principal terms of which are presented below. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

__________________________

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Convertible Securities

32
At December 31, 2018, we had junior convertible trust preferred securities outstanding (the “junior convertible securities”) with a carrying value of $312.5 million. The carrying value is accreted to the principal amount at maturity ($430.8 million) over a remaining life of approximately 19 years. The junior convertible securities bear interest at 5.15% per annum, payable quarterly in cash. Effective August 10, 2018 and in accordance with the convertible securities indenture, we adjusted the conversion rate of the junior convertible securities from 0.2500 shares of common stock to 0.2525 shares of common stock per $50.00 junior convertible security, equivalent to an adjusted conversion price of $198.02 per share of common stock. The adjustment was the result of our cumulative declared dividends on our common stock since the initiation of our dividend through August 2018. Holders of the junior convertible securities have no rights to put these securities to us. Upon conversion, holders will receive cash or shares of our common stock, or a combination thereof, at our election. We may redeem the junior convertible securities if the closing price of our common stock exceeds $257.43 per share for 20 trading days in a period of 30 consecutive trading days. The junior convertible securities are considered contingent payment debt instruments under federal income tax regulations, which require us to deduct interest in an amount greater than our reported interest expense. These deductions result in annual deferred tax liabilities of $7.8 million. These deferred tax liabilities will be reclassified directly to stockholders’ equity if our common stock is trading above certain thresholds at the time of the conversion of the securities.

Equity Distribution Program

We have equity distribution and forward equity agreements with several major securities firms under which we, from time to time, may issue and sell shares of our common stock (immediately or on a forward basis) having an aggregate sales price of up to $500.0 million (the “equity distribution program”). As of December 31, 2018, no sales had occurred under the equity distribution program. 

Derivatives

In 2018, we entered into two separate pound sterling-denominated forward foreign currency contracts (the “forward contracts”) with a large financial institution (the “counterparty”) to access lower interest rates. In order to limit our exposure to both gains and losses on the forward contracts, we concurrently entered into two separate collar contracts (the “collar contracts”) with the same counterparty for the same notional amounts and expiration dates as the forward contracts. Under one of the forward contracts, we will deliver £285.8 million for $400.0 million in 2024, and under the other forward contract, we will deliver £325.3 million for $450.0 million in 2021. Under one of the collar contracts, we sold a put option with a lower strike price of 1.288 U.S. dollars per one pound sterling and purchased a call option with an upper strike price of 1.535 U.S. dollars per one pound sterling. Under the other collar contract, we sold a put option with a lower strike price of 1.318 U.S. dollars per one pound sterling and purchased a call option with an upper strike price of 1.448 U.S. dollars per one pound sterling. The forward contracts and the collar contracts provide net settlement rights and require the parties to post collateral throughout the term of the contracts. 

The combination of the forward contracts and the collar contracts were designated as net investment hedges against fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates on certain of our investments in Affiliates with the pound sterling as their functional currency. See Note 9 of our Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.

Affiliate Equity

Many of our consolidated Affiliate agreements provide us with a conditional right to call and Affiliate equity holders with the conditional right to put their Affiliate equity interests to us at certain intervals. For equity method Affiliates, we do not typically have such put and call arrangements. The purchase price of these conditional purchases is generally calculated based upon a multiple of the Affiliate’s cash flow distributions, which is intended to represent fair value. Affiliate equity holders are also permitted to sell their equity interests to other individuals or entities in certain cases, subject to our approval or other restrictions. 

As of December 31, 2018, the current redemption value of $833.7 million for these interests (including $91.0 million of Affiliate sponsored consolidated products primarily attributable to third-party investors) has been presented as Redeemable non-controlling interests. Although the timing and amounts of these purchases are difficult to predict, we paid $120.0 million for repurchases and received $6.3 million for sales of Affiliate equity during 2018, and expect to repurchase a net total of approximately $100 million in 2019. In the event of a repurchase, we become the owner of the cash flow associated with the repurchased equity.

33
Commitments

See Note 10 of our Consolidated Financial Statements.

Share Repurchases

Our Board of Directors authorized share repurchase programs in January 2019, January 2018 and January 2017, authorizing us to repurchase up to 3.3 million, 3.4 million and 1.9 million shares of our common stock, respectively, and these authorizations have no expiry. Purchases may be made from time to time, at management’s discretion, in the open market or in privately negotiated transactions, including through the use of derivative financial instruments and accelerated share repurchase programs. As of December 31, 2018, we had repurchased all of the shares of the January 2017 authorized amount. As of the January 2019 authorization, there were a total of 5.0 million shares remaining available for repurchase under the January 2019 and January 2018 programs.

Contractual Obligations

The following table presents our contractual obligations as of December 31, 2018. Contractual debt obligations include the cash payment of fixed interest.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

__________________________

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Recent Accounting Developments

See Note 1 of our Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Critical Accounting Estimates and Judgments 

The preparation of financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with GAAP requires us to make judgments, assumptions and estimates that affect the amounts reported in our Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying notes. See Note 1 of our Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of our significant accounting policies.

34
The following are our critical accounting estimates and judgments used in the preparation of our Consolidated Financial Statements, and due to their nature, actual results could differ materially from the amounts reported.

Fair Value Measurements

Accounting standards define fair value as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in the principal or most advantageous market in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. These standards establish a fair value hierarchy that gives the highest priority to quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities and the lowest priority to unobservable inputs.

We make judgments to determine the fair value of certain assets, liabilities and equity interests when allocating the purchase price of our new investments, when revaluing our contingent payment arrangements, when we issue or repurchase Affiliate equity interests and when we test our intangible assets or equity method investments for impairment.

In determining fair values for which market prices or quotations are not readily available, we typically use valuation techniques, including discounted cash flow analyses, where we make assumptions about growth rates of assets under management, profitability and useful lives of existing and prospective client accounts. In these analyses, we also consider historical and current market multiples, tax benefits, credit risk, interest rates, tax rates, discount rates and discounts for lack of marketability. We consider the reasonableness of our assumptions by comparing our valuation conclusions to observed market transactions and, in certain instances, by consulting with third-party valuation firms.

Goodwill

Goodwill represents the future economic benefits arising from assets acquired in a business combination that are not separately recognized. We perform a qualitative impairment test at least annually to determine if the carrying value of our single reporting unit is in excess of its fair value. If the carrying value of the reporting unit is in excess of the fair value under this test, then we must determine if a potential impairment is more-likely-than-not. To determine if a potential impairment is more-likely-than-not, we perform a single step quantitative test with any excess of carrying value over fair value recorded as an expense in Intangible amortization and impairments. We completed our annual goodwill impairment assessment as of September 30, 2018 and no impairment was identified. For purposes of our assessment, we considered various qualitative factors (including market multiples for asset management businesses) and determined that it was more-likely-than-not that the fair value of our reporting unit was greater than its respective carrying amount, including goodwill. 

Indefinite-Lived Intangible Assets

Indefinite-lived intangible assets include investment advisory contracts between our Affiliates and their mutual funds and other retail-oriented investment products. Because these contracts are with the investment products themselves, and not with the underlying investors, and the contracts between our Affiliates and the investment products are typically renewed on an annual basis, industry practice under GAAP is to consider the contract life to be indefinite and, as a result, not amortizable.

We perform indefinite-lived intangible asset impairment tests annually, or more frequently should circumstances suggest fair value has declined below the related carrying value. If we determine that the fair value has declined below our related carrying value, an expense is recognized to reduce the carrying value to its fair value. We completed our annual impairment assessment as of December 31, 2018 and no impairments were identified. For purposes of our assessment, we considered various qualitative factors (including market multiples) and determined that it was more-likely-than-not that the fair value of each asset was greater than its carrying amount. 

Definite-Lived Intangible Assets

Definite-lived intangible assets include investment advisory contracts between our Affiliates and their underlying investors, and are amortized over their expected period of economic benefit. We monitor the expected period of economic benefit of these assets and revise it, if necessary. We review historical and projected attrition rates and other events that may influence our projections of the future period of economic benefit that we will derive from these relationships. Significant judgment is required to estimate the period that these assets will contribute to our cash flows and the pattern over which these assets will provide an economic benefit. 

We perform definite-lived intangible asset impairment tests annually, or more frequently should circumstances suggest fair value has declined below the related carrying value. If we determine that the fair value has declined below our related carrying value, an expense is recognized to reduce the carrying value to its fair value. We assess each of our definite-lived acquired client relationships for impairment by comparing their carrying value to the projected undiscounted cash flows of the acquired 

35
client relationships. We completed our annual assessment as of December 31, 2018 and noted that projected undiscounted cash flows over the remaining life of each of these assets exceed their carrying value and, accordingly, no impairments were identified.

Equity Method Investments in Affiliates

We perform equity method investment impairment tests annually, or more frequently should circumstances suggest fair value may have declined below the related carrying value. Impairments are recognized when the fair value of the Affiliate has declined below its carrying value for a period we consider other-than-temporary. If we determine that a decline in fair value below our carrying value is other-than-temporary, the expense recognized reduces the carrying value of the Affiliate to its fair value.

For the year ended December 31, 2018, we determined that the fair value of one of our U.S. alternative Affiliates and one of our non-U.S. alternative Affiliates had declined below their respective carrying values. The decline in the fair values of these Affiliates was caused by the decline in assets under management as a result of client redemptions, coupled with recent negative investment returns, which resulted in a decrease of forecasted performance based fees for these Affiliates. For the U.S. alternative Affiliate, we recorded a $33.3 million expense to reduce the carrying value of this Affiliate to zero as the business was liquidated. For the non-U.S. alternative Affiliate, we determined fair value using a discounted cash flow analysis. The significant assumptions used in the cash flow analysis included a projected growth rate of 2.5%, discount rates of 11.0% and 20.0% for asset and performance based fees, respectively, and a market participant tax rate of 25.0%. We considered the decline in fair value of the non-U.S. alternative Affiliate to be other-than-temporary and, accordingly, recognized a $240.0 million expense to reduce the asset to fair value. For our remaining equity method investments in Affiliates, we completed our annual evaluation as of December 31, 2018 and no other impairments were identified.

Income Taxes

Our income tax expense, deferred tax assets and liabilities and liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits reflect management’s best estimate of current and future taxes to be paid. We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and certain foreign jurisdictions. 

Deferred income taxes arise from temporary differences between the tax basis of assets and liabilities and their reported amounts in the financial statements, which will result in taxable or deductible amounts in the future. We measure our deferred taxes based on enacted tax rates and projected state apportionment percentages for the years in which the differences are expected to reverse. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates is recognized in income tax expense in the period in which the change in tax rates is enacted.

Our principal deferred tax assets relate to deferred compensation, state and foreign operating loss carryforwards and the indirect benefits of uncertain foreign tax positions. We regularly assess the recoverability of our deferred tax assets, considering all available positive and negative evidence, including future reversals of existing taxable temporary differences, projected future taxable income, tax-planning strategies and results of recent operations. A valuation allowance is utilized to adjust the carrying values of deferred tax assets to the amount that is more-likely-than-not to be realized.

We record unrecognized tax benefits based on whether it is more-likely-than-not that uncertain tax positions will be sustained on the basis of the technical merits of the position. If it is determined an uncertain tax position is more-likely-than-not to be sustained, we recognize the largest amount of tax benefit that is more than 50% likely to be realized upon ultimate settlement with the related tax authority.

Share-Based Compensation and Affiliate Equity

We have share-based compensation arrangements covering directors, senior management and employees (including our Affiliates). We calculate share-based compensation using the fair value of the awards on the grant date. Our share-based compensation arrangements typically vest and become fully exercisable over three to five years of continued employment and, in some cases, are further subject to certain performance or market conditions. We recognize expense net of expected forfeitures on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period, including grants that are subject to graded vesting.

We estimate the fair value of stock option awards using the Black-Scholes option pricing model, which requires us to make assumptions about the volatility and dividend yield of our common stock and the expected life of our stock options. In measuring expected volatility, we consider both the historical volatility of our common stock, as well as the current implied volatility from traded options.

36
For restricted stock awards with performance conditions, we determine the fair value of the awards using our share price on the date of grant and the number of awards that are expected to be delivered. For awards with market conditions, the fair value of the award is determined using a Monte Carlo simulation with inputs for expected volatility, a risk-free rate and expected dividends. Our estimate of expected volatility is developed in a manner consistent with that of our stock options.

From time to time, we grant equity interests in our Affiliates to Affiliate partners and our officers, with vesting, forfeiture and repurchase terms established at the date of grant. The fair value of the equity interests is determined as of the date of grant using a discounted cash flow analysis. Key valuation assumptions include projected assets under management, fee rates, tax rates, discount rates and discounts for lack of marketability.

Redeemable non-controlling interests represent the currently redeemable value of Affiliate equity interests. We may pay for these Affiliate equity purchases in cash, shares of our common stock or other forms of consideration, at our election. We generally value these interests upon their transfer or repurchase by applying market multiples to cash flows, which is intended to represent fair value. The use of different assumptions could change the value of these interests, including the amount of compensation expense, if any, that we may report upon their transfer or repurchase.

Item 7A.Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk