ITEM 7A.  QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

The primary objective of the following information is to provide forward-looking quantitative and qualitative information about our exposure to market risk. The term market risk relates to the risk of loss arising from adverse changes in oil, gas, and NGL prices, interest rates, or foreign currency and adverse governmental actions. The disclosures are not meant to be precise indicators of expected future losses, but rather indicators of reasonably possible losses. The forward-looking information provides indicators of how we view and manage our ongoing market risk exposures.

Commodity Risk

The Company’s revenues, earnings, cash flow, capital investments and, ultimately, future rate of growth are highly dependent on the prices we receive for our crude oil, natural gas and NGLs, which have historically been very volatile because of unpredictable events such as economic growth or retraction, weather and political climate. The Company’s average crude oil realizations have increased 27 percent to $65.30 per barrel in 2018 from $51.46 per barrel in 2017. The Company’s average natural gas price realizations have decreased 5 percent to $2.61 per Mcf in 2018 from $2.74 per Mcf in 2017. Based on average daily production for 2018, a $1.00 per barrel change in the weighted average realized oil price would have increased or decreased revenues for the year by approximately $90 million, and a $0.10 per Mcf change in the weighted average realized price of natural gas would have increased or decreased revenues for the year by approximately $35 million.

Apache periodically enters into derivative positions on a portion of its projected oil and natural gas production through a variety of financial and physical arrangements intended to manage fluctuations in cash flows resulting from changes in commodity prices. Apache periodically uses futures contracts, swaps, and options to mitigate commodity price risk. Apache does not hold or issue derivative instruments for trading purposes. As of December 31, 2018, the Company had open natural gas derivatives in an asset position with a fair value of $69 million. A 10 percent increase in gas prices would increase the asset by approximately $2 million, while a 10 percent decrease in prices would decrease the asset by approximately $1 million. As of December 31, 2018, the Company had open oil derivatives to protect basis differentials on Permian Basin production. These derivatives were in a liability position with a fair value of $25 million. A 10 percent increase in oil prices would decrease the liability by approximately $4 million, while a 10 percent decrease in prices would increase the liability by approximately $4 million. These fair value changes assume volatility based on prevailing market parameters at December 31, 2018. See Note 4—Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements set forth in Part IV, Item 15 of this Form 10-K for notional volumes and terms with the Company’s derivative contracts.

Interest Rate Risk

At December 31, 2018, Apache had approximately $8.1 billion of long-term debt (excluding capital lease and other obligations) outstanding, all of which was fixed-rate debt, with a weighted average interest rate of 4.89 percent. Although near-term changes in interest rates may affect the fair value of Apache’s fixed-rate debt, they do not expose the Company to the risk of earnings or cash flow loss associated with that debt. Apache is also exposed to interest rate risk related to its interest-bearing cash and cash equivalents balances and amounts outstanding under its credit facilities. As of December 31, 2018, the Company’s cash and cash equivalents totaled approximately $714 million, approximately 98 percent of which was invested in money market funds and short-term investments with major financial institutions. A change in the interest rate applicable to the Company’s short-term investments would have a de minimis impact on earnings and cash flows but could impact interest costs associated with future debt issuances or any future borrowings under its revolving credit facility and/or money market lines of credit. Apache currently has no interest rate derivative instruments outstanding. However, the Company may enter into interest rate derivative instruments in the future if it determines that it is necessary to invest in such instruments in order to mitigate its interest rate risk.

Foreign Currency Risk

The Company’s cash activities relating to certain international operations is based on the U.S. dollar equivalent of cash flows measured in foreign currencies. Our North Sea production is sold under U.S. dollar contracts, and the majority of costs incurred are paid in British pounds. In Egypt, substantially all oil and gas production is sold under U.S. dollar contracts, and the majority of the costs incurred are denominated in U.S. dollars. Revenue and disbursement transactions denominated in British pounds are converted to U.S. dollar equivalents based on the average exchange rates during the period.

Foreign currency gains and losses also arise when monetary assets and monetary liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the end of each month. Currency gains and losses are included as either a component of “Other” under “Revenues and Other” or, as is the case when we re-measure our foreign tax liabilities, as a component of the Company’s provision for income tax expense on the statement of consolidated operations. A 10 percent strengthening or weakening of the British pound against the U.S. dollar as of December 31, 2018, would result in a foreign currency net loss or gain, respectively, of approximately $1 million.

 49

We have outstanding foreign exchange contracts with a total notional amount of £150 million that are used to reduce our exposure to fluctuating foreign exchange rates for the British pound. A 10 percent strengthening of the British pound against the U.S. dollar would result in a foreign currency net gain of $6 million, while a 10 percent weakening of the British pound against the U.S. dollar would result in a loss of $3 million.

ITEM 8.FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA