Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

The Company’s primary market risks are attributable to fluctuations in energy prices and interest rates. These risks can affect revenues and cash flows, and the Company’s risk-management policies provide for the use of derivative instruments to manage these risks. The types of commodity derivative instruments used by the Company include futures, swaps, options, and fixed-price physical-delivery contracts. The volume of commodity derivatives entered into by the Company is governed by risk-management policies and may vary from year to year. Both exchange and over-the-counter traded derivative instruments may be subject to margin-deposit requirements, and the Company may be required from time to time to deposit cash or provide letters of credit with exchange brokers or counterparties to satisfy these margin requirements. For additional information relating to the Company’s derivative and financial instruments, see Note 11—Derivative Instruments in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 8 of this Form 10-K.

COMMODITY-PRICE RISK 

The Company’s most significant market risk relates to prices for oil, natural gas, and NGLs. Management expects energy prices to remain unpredictable and potentially volatile. As energy prices decline or rise significantly, revenues and cash flows are likewise affected. In addition, a non-cash write-down of the Company’s oil and gas properties or goodwill may be required if commodity prices experience a significant decline. Below is a sensitivity analysis for the Company’s commodity-price-related derivative instruments.

Derivative Instruments Held for Non-Trading Purposes The Company had derivative instruments in place to reduce the price risk associated with future production of 32 MMBbls of oil at December 31, 2018, with a net derivative asset position of $171 million. Based on actual derivative contractual volume, a 10% increase in underlying commodity prices would reduce the fair value of these derivatives by $67 million, while a 10% decrease in underlying commodity prices would increase the fair value of these derivatives by $56 million. However, any cash received or paid to settle these derivatives would be substantially offset by the sales value of production covered by the derivative instruments.

For additional information regarding the Company’s marketing activities, see Items 1 and 2 of this Form 10-K.

INTEREST-RATE RISK 

Borrowings, if any, under each of the 364-Day Facility, the APC RCF, the WES RCF, the WES 364-Day Facility, and the WGP RCF are subject to variable interest rates. The remaining balance of Anadarko’s short-term and long-term borrowings has fixed interest rates. The Company has $2.9 billion of LIBOR-based obligations that are presented on the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheets net of preferred investments in two noncontrolled entities. These obligations give rise to minimal net interest-rate risk because coupons on the related preferred investments are also LIBOR-based. While a 10% change in the applicable benchmark interest rate would not materially impact the Company’s interest cost, it would affect the fair value of outstanding fixed-rate debt.

At December 31, 2018, the Company had a net derivative liability position of $1.2 billion related to interest-rate swaps. A 10% increase (decrease) in the LIBOR interest-rate curve would decrease (increase) the aggregate fair value of outstanding interest-rate swap agreements by $92 million. However, any change in the interest-rate derivative gain or loss could be substantially offset by changes in actual borrowing costs associated with future debt issuances. For a summary of the Company’s outstanding interest-rate derivative positions, see Note 11—Derivative Instruments in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 8 of this Form 10-K.

86  | APC 2018 FORM 10-K

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

INDEX
Index to Financial Statements

Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data