PART I

Item 1. Business

Overview

Biogen is a global biopharmaceutical company focused on discovering, developing and delivering worldwide innovative therapies for people living with serious neurological and neurodegenerative diseases, including in our core growth areas of multiple sclerosis (MS) and neuroimmunology, Alzheimer’s disease (AD) and dementia, movement disorders, including Parkinson's disease, and neuromuscular disorders, including spinal muscular atrophy (SMA) and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). We are also focused on discovering, developing and delivering worldwide innovative therapies in our emerging growth areas of acute neurology, neurocognitive disorders, pain and ophthalmology. In addition, we are employing innovative technologies to discover potential treatments for rare and genetic disorders, including new ways of treating diseases through gene therapy in our core and emerging growth areas. We also manufacture and commercialize biosimilars of advanced biologics.

Our marketed products include TECFIDERA, AVONEX, PLEGRIDY, TYSABRI and FAMPYRA for the treatment of MS, SPINRAZA for the treatment of SMA and FUMADERM for the treatment of severe plaque psoriasis. We also have certain business and financial rights with respect to RITUXAN for the treatment of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) and other conditions, RITUXAN HYCELA for the treatment of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma and CLL, GAZYVA for the treatment of CLL and follicular lymphoma, OCREVUS for the treatment of primary progressive MS (PPMS) and relapsing MS (RMS) and other potential anti-CD20 therapies pursuant to our collaboration arrangements with Genentech, Inc. (Genentech), a wholly-owned member of the Roche Group. For additional information on our collaboration arrangements with Genentech, please read Note 19, Collaborative and Other Relationships, to our consolidated financial statements included in this report.

We support our drug discovery and development efforts through the commitment of significant resources to discovery, research and development programs and business development opportunities. For over two decades we have led in the research and development of new therapies to treat MS, resulting in our leading portfolio of MS treatments. Now our research is focused on additional improvements in the treatment of MS, such as the development of next generation therapies for MS, with a goal to reverse or possibly repair damage caused by the disease. We are also applying our scientific expertise to solve some of the most challenging and complex diseases, including AD, progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP), Parkinson's disease, ALS, stroke, epilepsy, cognitive impairment associated with schizophrenia (CIAS) and pain.

Our innovative drug development and commercialization activities are complemented by our biosimilar products that expand access to medicines and reduce the cost burden for healthcare systems. We are leveraging our manufacturing capabilities and know-how to develop, manufacture and market biosimilar products through Samsung Bioepis Co., Ltd. (Samsung Bioepis), our joint venture with Samsung BioLogics Co., Ltd. (Samsung BioLogics). Under our commercial agreement, we market and sell BENEPALI, an etanercept biosimilar referencing ENBREL, FLIXABI, an infliximab biosimilar referencing REMICADE, and IMRALDI, an adalimumab biosimilar referencing HUMIRA, in the E.U. For additional information on our collaboration arrangement with Samsung Bioepis, please read Note 19, Collaborative and Other Relationships, to our consolidated financial statements included in this report.

1
Key Business Developments

The following is a summary of key developments affecting our business since the beginning of 2018. 

For additional information on our acquisitions, collaborative and other relationships discussed below, please read Note 2, Acquisitions, Note 19, Collaborative and Other Relationships, Note 20, Investments in Variable Interest Entities, and Note 27, Subsequent Events, to our consolidated financial statements included in this report.

Acquisitions, Collaborative and Other Relationships

BIIB100 Acquisition

In January 2018 we acquired BIIB100 (formerly known as KPT-350) from Karyopharm Therapeutics Inc. (Karyopharm). BIIB100 is a Phase 1 ready investigational oral compound for the treatment of certain neurological and neurodegenerative diseases, primarily in ALS. BIIB100 is a novel therapeutic candidate that works by inhibiting a protein known as XP01, with the goal of reducing inflammation and neurotoxicity, along with increasing neuroprotective responses. 

BIIB104 Acquisition

In April 2018 we acquired BIIB104 (formerly known as PF-04958242) from Pfizer Inc. (Pfizer). BIIB104 is a first-in-class, Phase 2b ready AMPA receptor potentiator for CIAS, representing our first program in neurocognitive disorders. AMPA receptors mediate fast excitatory synaptic transmission in the central nervous system, a process which can be disrupted in a number of neurological and psychiatric diseases, including schizophrenia.

Neurimmune SubOne AG

In May 2018 we made a $50.0 million payment to Neurimmune SubOne AG (Neurimmune) under the terms of our amended collaboration and license agreement with Neurimmune (as amended, the Neurimmune Agreement) to reduce the previously negotiated royalty rates payable on products developed under the Neurimmune Agreement, including royalties payable on potential commercial sales of aducanumab, our anti-amyloid beta antibody candidate for the treatment of AD, by 5%. Our royalty rates payable on products developed under the Neurimmune Agreement, including royalties payable on potential commercial sales of aducanumab, will now range from the high single digits to sub-teens.

Ionis Pharmaceuticals, Inc.

In June 2018 we closed a 10-year exclusive agreement with Ionis Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Ionis) to develop novel antisense oligonucleotide (ASO) drug candidates for a broad range of neurological diseases (the 2018 Ionis Agreement). We have the option to license therapies arising out of the 2018 Ionis Agreement and will be responsible for the development and potential commercialization of such therapies.

TMS Co., Ltd. Option Agreement

In June 2018 we entered into an exclusive option agreement with TMS Co., Ltd. (TMS) granting us the option to acquire TMS-007, a plasminogen activator with a novel mechanism of action (MOA) associated with breaking down blood clots, which is in Phase 2 development in Japan, and backup compounds for the treatment of stroke.

Samsung Bioepis

In June 2018 we exercised our option under our joint venture agreement with Samsung BioLogics to increase our ownership percentage in Samsung Bioepis from approximately 5% to approximately 49.9%. The share purchase transaction was completed in November 2018.

BIIB110 Acquisition

In July 2018 we acquired BIIB110 (formerly known as ALG-801) (Phase 1a) and ALG-802 (preclinical) from AliveGen Inc. (AliveGen). BIIB110 and ALG-802 represent novel ways of targeting the myostatin pathway. We initially plan to study BIIB110 in multiple neuromuscular indications, including SMA and ALS.

BIIB067 Option Exercise

In December 2018 we exercised our option with Ionis and obtained a worldwide, exclusive, royalty-bearing license to develop and commercialize BIIB067 (IONIS-SOD1Rx), an investigational treatment for ALS with superoxide dismutase 1 (SOD1) mutations. 

C4 Therapeutics

In December 2018 we entered into a collaborative research and license agreement with C4 Therapeutics (C4T) to investigate the use of C4T’s novel protein degradation platform to discover and develop potential new treatments 

2
for neurological diseases, such as AD and Parkinson’s disease. We will be responsible for the development and potential commercialization of any therapies resulting from this collaboration.

Skyhawk Therapeutics, Inc.

In January 2019 we entered into a collaboration and research and development services agreement with Skyhawk Therapeutics, Inc. (Skyhawk) pursuant to which the companies will leverage Skyhawk’s SkySTAR technology platform with the goal of discovering innovative small molecule treatments for patients with neurological diseases, including MS and SMA. We will be responsible for the development and potential commercialization of any therapies resulting from this collaboration. 

Other Key Developments

ZINBRYTA Withdrawal

In March 2018 we and AbbVie Inc. (AbbVie) announced the voluntary worldwide withdrawal of ZINBRYTA for RMS.

IMRALDI

In October 2018 we began to recognize revenues on sales of IMRALDI, an adalimumab biosimilar referencing HUMIRA, to third parties in the E.U. We and Samsung Bioepis previously entered into an agreement with AbbVie for the commercialization of IMRALDI. Under the terms of the agreement, AbbVie granted us and Samsung Bioepis patent licenses for the use and sale of IMRALDI in Europe, on a country-by-country basis, and we make royalty payments to AbbVie on behalf of Samsung Bioepis. 

2018 Share Repurchase Program

In August 2018 our Board of Directors authorized a program to repurchase up to $3.5 billion of our common stock (2018 Share Repurchase Program). Our 2018 Share Repurchase Program does not have an expiration date. All share repurchases under our 2018 Share Repurchase Program will be retired.

3
Product and Pipeline Developments

Core Growth Areas

Multiple Sclerosis and Neuroimmunology

TECFIDERA (dimethyl fumarate)

•In April 2018 we presented new real-world data that demonstrated that people with RMS treated with TECFIDERA early in the course of their disease may experience better long-term outcomes. These data were presented at the 70th annual meeting of the American Academy of Neurology (AAN) in Los Angeles, CA.

•In October 2018 we presented clinical and real-world evidence that further support the long-term efficacy and well characterized safety of TECFIDERA early within the disease course. These data were presented at the 34th Congress of the European Committee for Treatment and Research in MS (ECTRIMS) in Berlin, Germany.

TYSABRI (natalizumab)

•In April 2018, at the 70th annual meeting of the AAN in Los Angeles, CA, we presented new real-world data that demonstrated that people with RMS treated with TYSABRI early in the course of their disease may experience better long-term outcomes.

•In April 2018 we presented observational data that demonstrated that extended interval dosing with TYSABRI is associated with a significant reduction in the risk of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML), a serious brain injury, compared with standard interval dosing in the TOUCH prescribing program. These data were presented at the 70th annual meeting of the AAN in Los Angeles, CA. In November 2018 we initiated the Phase 3b NOVA study evaluating the efficacy and safety of extended interval dosing (every six weeks) for natalizumab compared to standard interval dosing in patients with RMS and enrolled the first patient in December 2018.

•In October 2018 we presented clinical and real-world evidence that further support the long-term efficacy and well characterized safety of TYSABRI early within the disease course. These data were presented at the 34th Congress of ECTRIMS in Berlin, Germany.

PLEGRIDY (peginterferon beta-1a)

•In December 2018 we dosed the first patient in a bioequivalence study to test whether exposure levels of PLEGRIDY are maintained with intramuscular administration.

ZINBRYTA (daclizumab)

•In March 2018 we and AbbVie announced the voluntary worldwide withdrawal of ZINBRYTA for RMS.

BIIB098 (formerly known as ALKS 8700) (diroximel fumarate; DRF)

•In April 2018 MRI and relapse results from the Phase 3 EVOLVE-MS-1 study for diroximel fumarate in patients with relapsing remitting MS (RRMS) were presented at the 70th annual meeting of the AAN in Los Angeles, CA.

•In December 2018 Alkermes Pharma Ireland Limited, a subsidiary of Alkermes plc (Alkermes), submitted a New Drug Application (NDA) to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for diroximel fumarate. Alkermes is seeking approval of diroximel fumarate under the 505(b)(2) regulatory pathway. If approved, we intend to market diroximel fumarate under the brand name VUMERITY. This name has been conditionally accepted by the FDA and will be confirmed upon approval.

Opicinumab (anti-LINGO)

•In September 2018 we completed enrollment of the Phase 2b AFFINITY study, evaluating opicinumab as an add-on therapy in MS patients who are adequately controlled on their anti-inflammatory disease-modifying therapy (DMT), versus the DMT alone.

4
Neuromuscular Disorders

SPINRAZA (nusinersen)

•In February 2018 the end of study results from CHERISH, the Phase 3 study evaluating SPINRAZA for the treatment of individuals with later-onset SMA, were published in The New England Journal of Medicine. Results from CHERISH demonstrated meaningful motor function and upper limb improvements in individuals with later-onset SMA rarely seen in the natural course of the disease, which is typically a continued decline in motor function over time.

•In March 2018 we presented new interim Phase 2 results from NURTURE, the ongoing open-label, single-arm study evaluating the efficacy and safety of SPINRAZA among pre-symptomatic infants with SMA. In NURTURE, all infants treated with SPINRAZA were alive, did not require permanent ventilation and showed improvement in motor function and motor milestone achievements as of July 5, 2017, compared to the disease's natural history. We also presented a case series demonstrating SPINRAZA's effectiveness among teens and young adults. These data were presented at the Muscular Dystrophy Association Clinical Conference in Arlington, VA.

•In April 2018 we presented data from the CS2/CS12 studies that demonstrated that with SPINRAZA treatment, older patients were able to walk longer distances while experiencing stable or less fatigue at the same time, in contrast to natural history. The study participants have Type 2 or Type 3 SMA and were ages 12 to 15 years at study enrollment.

We also presented data on part one of the Phase 2 EMBRACE study as well as an interim analysis of the SHINE open-label extension study, which examined the longer-term safety and efficacy of SPINRAZA in infantile-onset SMA patients.

These data were presented at the 70th annual meeting of the AAN in Los Angeles, CA.

•In June 2018 we presented data from our SPINRAZA clinical development program for SMA at the Cure SMA 2018 Annual SMA Conference in Dallas, TX. Platform and poster presentations highlighted interim analyses from the SHINE and NURTURE studies, which assess SPINRAZA's safety and efficacy among those with infantile-onset SMA, and data on the utility of plasma phosphorylated neurofilament heavy chain (pNF-H) as a potential biomarker for SMA.

•In October 2018 we presented new interim results from NURTURE, an ongoing open-label, single-arm efficacy and safety study of SPINRAZA in 25 presymptomatic infants with SMA at the Annual Congress of the World Muscle Society held in Mendoza, Argentina. As of May 2018 all NURTURE study participants were alive and none required permanent ventilation, in contrast to the natural history of SMA. In addition, 100% of study participants achieved the motor milestone of sitting independently, 88% were able to walk with assistance and 77% were able to walk independently. All NURTURE study participants were older than 15 months at the time of the analysis.

•In November 2018 we were awarded the 2018 International Prix Galien as Best Biotechnology Product for SPINRAZA. The prestigious honor marks the seventh Prix Galien for SPINRAZA, following country recognitions in the U.S., Germany, Italy, Belgium-Luxembourg, the Netherlands, and the U.K. The International Prix Galien is given every two years by Prix Galien International Committee members in recognition of excellence in scientific innovation to improve human health.

BIIB089 - SMA

•In May 2018 we submitted an Investigational New Drug Application for BIIB089 in SMA.

•In October 2018 we announced that the FDA had placed BIIB089 on a clinical hold.

BIIB078 (IONIS-C9Rx) - ALS

•In September 2018 we enrolled the first patient in the Phase 1 study evaluating BIIB078, an ASO drug candidate, in adults with C9ORF72-associated ALS.

BIIB067 (IONIS-SOD1Rx) - ALS

•In December 2018 we and Ionis announced results from a positive interim analysis of the ongoing Phase 1 study of BIIB067 in ALS with SOD1 mutations. The interim analysis showed that, over a three month period, 

5
BIIB067 resulted in a statistically significant lowering of SOD1 protein levels in the cerebrospinal fluid and a numerical trend towards slowing of clinical decline as measured by the ALS Functional Rating Scale Revised, both compared to placebo.

Alzheimer's Disease and Dementia

Aducanumab (Aβ mAb)

•In February 2018 we announced that, following a pre-planned blinded sample size review of the data per study protocol and based on variability in the primary endpoint that was greater than study protocol assumed, we increased the sample size of ENGAGE and EMERGE, the Phase 3 studies of aducanumab.

•In March 2018 we presented data from the long-term extension (LTE) of the Phase 1b PRIME study of aducanumab at the Advances in Alzheimer's and Parkinson's Therapies (AAT-AD/PD) Focus Meeting in Torino, Italy. The data presentation included the Centiloid scale, a method used to standardize the aducanumab Phase 1b PRIME study amyloid-PET (positron emission tomography) results as previously measured by the composite Standardized Uptake Value Ratio.

•In April 2018 we presented 36-month data and 24-month titration data from the Phase 1b PRIME study of aducanumab at the 70th annual meeting of the AAN in Los Angeles, CA.

•In July 2018 we completed enrollment of ENGAGE and EMERGE, the Phase 3 studies of aducanumab.

•In July 2018 we presented a new analysis from the Phase 1b PRIME study of aducanumab at the Alzheimer's Association International Conference (AAIC) 2018 in Chicago, IL. These data included a poster presentation on the 24-month analysis of APOE ε4 carriers in the Phase 1b PRIME study and a platform presentation on the 24-month clinical dementia rating scale analysis of the Phase 1b PRIME study.

•In August 2018 we and our collaboration partner Eisai Co., Ltd. (Eisai) announced results from a recent analysis of the ongoing LTE of the Phase 1b PRIME study of aducanumab. The updated analyses include data from the placebo-controlled period and LTE for patients treated with aducanumab up to 36 months in the titration cohort and up to 48 months in the fixed dose cohorts. The results are generally consistent with previous interim analyses, and there were no changes to the risk-benefit profile of aducanumab.

•In October 2018 we presented data on the efficacy of aducanumab and the cumulative safety data from the LTE of the Phase 1b PRIME study of patients with prodromal and mild Alzheimer's disease. These data were presented at the Clinical Trials on Alzheimer's Disease (CTAD) annual meeting in Barcelona, Spain. These results are generally consistent with previous interim analyses, and there were no changes to the risk-benefit profile of aducanumab.

•In November 2018 we initiated a Phase 2 study of aducanumab to assess the clinical relevance of asymptomatic amyloid related imaging abnormalities (ARIA). This Phase 2 study was not required by regulators and is not necessary for registration.

BAN2401 (Aβ mAb)

•In December 2017 we and our collaboration partner Eisai announced that the Phase 2 study of BAN2401, a monoclonal antibody that targets amyloid beta aggregates, an Eisai product candidate for the treatment of AD, did not meet the criteria for success based on a Bayesian analysis at 12 months as the primary endpoint in an 856-patient Phase 2 clinical study, an endpoint that was designed to enable a potentially more rapid entry into Phase 3 development. In July 2018, based upon the final analysis of the data at 18 months, we and Eisai announced that the topline results from the Phase 2 study demonstrated a statistically significant slowing in clinical decline and reduction of amyloid beta accumulated in the brain. The study achieved statistical significance on key predefined endpoints evaluating efficacy at 18 months on slowing progression in Alzheimer’s Disease Composite Score (ADCOMS) and on reduction of amyloid accumulated in the brain as measured using amyloid-PET. In July 2018 Eisai presented this data in an oral session at AAIC 2018 in Chicago, IL.

•In October 2018 our collaboration partner Eisai presented clinical and biomarker updates from the Phase 2 study of BAN2401 at the CTAD annual meeting in Barcelona, Spain.

6
Elenbecestat (E2609)

•In June 2018 we and our collaboration partner Eisai announced that elenbecestat, the oral BACE (beta amyloid cleaving enzyme) inhibitor, demonstrated an acceptable safety and tolerability profile in the Phase 2 study, and the results demonstrated a statistically significant difference in amyloid-beta levels in the brain measured by amyloid-PET. A numerical slowing of decline in functional clinical scales of a potentially clinically important difference was also observed, although this effect was not statistically significant. In July 2018 the data were featured in an Eisai poster presentation at AAIC 2018 in Chicago, IL.

•In October 2018 our collaboration partner Eisai presented safety and efficacy data for elenbecestat from the Phase 2 study in mild cognitive impairment-to-moderate AD at the CTAD annual meeting in Barcelona, Spain.

BIIB092 (anti-tau mAb)

•In May 2018 we initiated a Phase 2 study of BIIB092 for AD.

Movement Disorders

BIIB054 (α-synuclein antibody) - Parkinson's Disease

•In January 2018 we dosed the first patient in the Phase 2 SPARK study of BIIB054 in Parkinson's disease.

•In April 2018 we presented Phase 1 study results for BIIB054 in Parkinson's disease at the 70th annual meeting of the AAN in Los Angeles, CA.

•In October 2018 we presented an overview of the design of the Phase 2 SPARK study of BIIB054 in Parkinson's disease at the International Congress of Parkinson's Disease and Movement Disorders in Hong Kong.

BIIB092 (anti-tau mAb) - PSP

•In March 2018 we presented data regarding details about the design of the ongoing Phase 2 PASSPORT study of BIIB092 for PSP at the AAT-AD/PD Focus Meeting in Torino, Italy.

•In April 2018 we presented Phase 1 study results of BIIB092 for PSP as well as details about the design of the ongoing Phase 2 PASSPORT study of BIIB092 for PSP at the 70th annual meeting of the AAN in Los Angeles, CA.

•In September 2018 we completed enrollment of the Phase 2 PASSPORT study of BIIB092 for PSP.

•In October 2018 the FDA granted BIIB092 fast track designation for PSP.

•In October 2018 we presented safety data from the Phase 1 LTE study of BIIB092 for PSP and baseline demographics from the Phase 2 PASSPORT study of BIIB092 for PSP at the International Congress of Parkinson's Disease and Movement Disorders in Hong Kong.

Emerging Growth Areas

Acute Neurology

BIIB093 (glibenclamide IV) - Large Hemispheric Infarction

•In September 2018 we enrolled the first patient in the Phase 3 CHARM study of BIIB093 in large hemispheric infarction (LHI), a severe form of ischemic stroke.

Natalizumab (α4-integrin inhibitor) - Epilepsy

•In March 2018 we dosed the first patient in the Phase 2 OPUS study of natalizumab in drug-resistant focal epilepsy.

Neurocognitive Disorders

BIIB104 (AMPA) - CIAS

•In December 2018 we dosed the first patient in our Phase 2b study of BIIB104 in CIAS.

Pain

7
Vixotrigine (BIIB074) - Small Fiber Neuropathy

•In May 2018 we initiated a Phase 2 study of BIIB074 in small fiber neuropathy (SFN).

BIIB095 (Nav 1.7) - Neuropathic Pain

•In March 2018 we initiated a Phase 1 study of BIIB095, a Nav 1.7 inhibitor for neuropathic pain.

Biosimilars

Samsung Bioepis - Biogen's Joint Venture with Samsung BioLogics

•In June 2018 we and Samsung Bioepis announced pooled analysis results from three separate Phase 3 studies comparing the efficacy and safety of BENEPALI in reference to etanercept, FLIXABI in reference to infliximab and IMRALDI in reference to adalimumab in patients with moderate to severe rheumatoid arthritis. The data indicated that the incidence of anti-drug antibodies was comparable between the biosimilars and their reference products and that radiographic progression of disease was minimal and comparable across all treatment groups. The data were presented at the Annual European Congress of Rheumatology (EULAR 2018) in Amsterdam, Netherlands.

IMRALDI (Adalimumab)

•In October 2018 we and Samsung Bioepis launched IMRALDI, an adalimumab biosimilar referencing HUMIRA, in Europe. 

Genentech Relationship

Anti-CD20 Therapies

OCREVUS (ocrelizumab)

•In January 2018 the European Commission (EC) granted a marketing authorization for OCREVUS for the treatment of RMS and PPMS.

RITUXAN (rituximab)

•In June 2018 the FDA approved RITUXAN for the treatment of adult patients with moderate to severe pemphigus vulgaris. Subsequently, the FDA confirmed orphan-drug exclusivity associated with this approval.

Other

BG00011 (STX-100) - Idiopathic Pulmonary Fibrosis

•In September 2018 we dosed the first patient in the Phase 2b study of BG00011 in idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF), a chronic irreversible and ultimately fatal disease characterized by a progressive decline in lung function.

Dapirolizumab Pegol (anti-CD40L) - Systemic Lupus Erythematosus

•In October 2018 we and our collaboration partner UCB announced top-line results from the Phase 2b study evaluating the safety and efficacy of dapirolizumab pegol (DZP), an anti-CD40L pegylated Fab, in adults with moderately-to-severely active systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) despite receiving standard-of-care treatment such as corticosteroids, anti-malarials and non-biological immunosuppressants. The primary endpoint of the study, which was to demonstrate a dose response at 24 weeks on the British Isles Lupus Assessment Group (BILAG)-based Composite Lupus Assessment (BICLA), was not met (p=0.06). The study did demonstrate consistent and potentially meaningful improvements for the majority of clinical endpoints in patients treated with DZP compared with placebo. In addition, biomarker data demonstrated evidence of proof of biology and DZP demonstrated an acceptable safety profile.

Discontinued Programs

•In February 2018 we announced that the Phase 2b dose-ranging ACTION study investigating natalizumab in individuals with acute ischemic stroke (AIS) did not meet its primary endpoint. Based on these results, we have discontinued development of natalizumab in AIS. The results of the Phase 2b ACTION study do not impact the benefit-risk profile of natalizumab in approved indications, including MS.

•In October 2018 we announced that we completed the Phase 2b study of vixotrigine (BIIB074) for the treatment of painful lumbosacral radiculopathy (PLSR). The study did not meet its primary or secondary 

8
efficacy endpoints and we have discontinued development of vixotrigine for the treatment of PLSR. The safety data were consistent with the safety profile reported in previous studies.

•In December 2018 we notified Applied Genetic Technologies Corporation (AGTC) of the termination of our collaboration agreement with AGTC. The termination of this collaboration agreement will be effective in March 2019. As a result, we will have no further involvement in the development of BIIB087, an investigational adeno-associated virus (AAV)-based gene therapy for the treatment of X-linked Retinoschisis (XLRS), BIIB088, an investigational AAV-based gene therapy for the treatment of X-linked Retinitis Pigmentosa (XLRP), and early stage discovery programs in two ophthalmic diseases and one non-ophthalmic condition.

•In December 2018 we notified the University of Pennsylvania (UPenn) that we will be terminating certain programs under our collaboration and alliance with UPenn, including the development of therapeutic approaches that target the eye, skeletal muscle and central nervous system and research and validation of next generation gene transfer technology using AAV gene delivery vectors and exploring the expanded use of genome editing technology as a potential therapeutic platform. The termination of these programs will be effective in May 2019. This termination did not impact our collaboration with UPenn for the development of BIIB089 for the treatment of SMA.

Marketed Products

The following graph shows our revenues by product and revenues from anti-CD20 therapeutic programs for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016.

(1)Interferon includes product revenues from AVONEX and PLEGRIDY.

(2)For 2018, 2017 and 2016 other includes product revenues from FAMPYRA, FUMADERM, BENEPALI, FLIXABI and ZINBRYTA. For 2018 other also includes product revenues from IMRALDI, which was launched in Europe in October 2018. For 2017 

9
and 2016 other also includes product revenues from ALPROLIX and ELOCTATE through January 31, 2017. No product revenues for ELOCTATE and ALPROLIX were recognized subsequent to February 1, 2017, the effective date of the spin-off of our hemophilia business.

(3)Anti-CD20 therapeutic programs includes revenues from RITUXAN, RITUXAN HYCELA, GAZYVA and OCREVUS.

Product sales for TECFIDERA, AVONEX and TYSABRI as well as our share of pre-tax profits in the U.S. for RITUXAN each accounted for more than 10% of our total revenues for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016. Product sales for SPINRAZA also accounted for more than 10% of our total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2018. For additional financial information about our product and other revenues and geographic areas where we operate, please read Note 5, Revenues, and Note 25, Segment Information, to our consolidated financial statements included in this report and Item 6. Selected Financial Data and Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in this report. A discussion of the risks attendant to our operations is set forth in Item 1A. Risk Factors included in this report. 

Multiple Sclerosis and Neuroimmunology

We develop, manufacture and market a number of products designed to treat patients with MS. MS is a progressive neurological disease in which the body loses the ability to transmit messages along nerve cells, leading to a loss of muscle control, paralysis and, in some cases, death. Patients with active RMS experience an uneven pattern of disease progression characterized by periods of stability that are interrupted by flare-ups of the disease after which the patient returns to a new baseline of functioning. 

Our MS products and major markets are as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

10
Neuromuscular Disorders

SMA is characterized by loss of motor neurons in the spinal cord and lower brain stem, resulting in severe and progressive muscular atrophy and weakness. Ultimately, individuals with the most severe type of SMA can become paralyzed and have difficulty performing the basic functions of life, like breathing and swallowing. Due to a loss of, or defect in, the SMN1 gene, people with SMA do not produce enough survival motor neuron (SMN) protein, which is critical for the maintenance of motor neurons. The severity of SMA correlates with the amount of SMN protein. People with Type 1 SMA, the most severe life-threatening form, produce very little SMN protein and do not achieve the ability to sit without support or live beyond two years without respiratory support. People with Type 2 and Type 3 SMA produce greater amounts of SMN protein and have less severe, but still life-altering, forms of SMA.

Our SMA product and major markets are as follows: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Biosimilars

Biosimilars are a group of biologic medicines that are similar to currently available biologic therapies known as originators. Under our agreement with Samsung Bioepis, we manufacture and commercialize three anti-tumor necrosis factor (TNF) biosimilars in certain countries in the E.U.: BENEPALI, an etanercept biosimilar referencing ENBREL, FLIXABI, an infliximab biosimilar referencing REMICADE, and IMRALDI, an adalimumab biosimilar referencing HUMIRA.

Our biosimilar products and major markets are as follows: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

11
Genentech Relationships

We have agreements with Genentech that entitle us to certain business and financial rights with respect to RITUXAN, RITUXAN HYCELA, GAZYVA, OCREVUS and other potential anti-CD20 therapies. 

Our current anti-CD20 therapeutic programs and major markets are as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

For additional information on our collaboration arrangements with Genentech, please read Note 1, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, and Note 19, Collaborative and Other Relationships, to our consolidated financial statements included in this report.

Other

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

12
Patient Support and Access 

We interact with patients, advocacy organizations and healthcare societies in order to gain insights into unmet needs. The insights gained from these engagements help us support patients with services, programs and applications that are designed to help patients lead better lives. Among other things, we provide customer service and other related programs for our products, such as disease and product specific websites, insurance research services, financial assistance programs and the facilitation of the procurement of our marketed products. 

We are dedicated to helping patients obtain access to our therapies. Our patient representatives have access to a suite of financial assistance tools. With those tools, we help patients understand their insurance coverage and, if needed, help patients compare and select new insurance options and programs. In the U.S., we have established programs that provide co-pay assistance or free marketed product for qualified uninsured or underinsured patients, based on specific eligibility criteria. We also provide charitable contributions to independent charitable organizations that assist patients with out-of-pocket expenses associated with their therapy.

Marketing and Distribution

Sales Force and Marketing

We promote our products worldwide, including in the U.S., most of the major countries of the E.U. and Japan, primarily through our own sales forces and marketing groups. In some countries, particularly in areas where we continue to expand into new geographic areas, we partner with third parties. 

We and Eisai co-promote AVONEX, TYSABRI and TECFIDERA in Japan in certain settings.

RITUXAN, RITUXAN HYCELA, GAZYVA and OCREVUS are marketed by the Roche Group and its sublicensees.

We co-promote BENEPALI, FLIXABI and IMRALDI with Samsung Bioepis in certain countries in the E.U.

We focus our sales and marketing efforts on specialist physicians in private practice or at major medical centers. We use customary industry practices to market our products and to educate physicians, such as sales representatives calling on individual physicians, advertisements, professional symposia, direct mail, public relations and other methods. 

Distribution Arrangements

We distribute our products in the U.S. principally through wholesale distributors of pharmaceutical 

products, mail order specialty distributors or shipping service providers. In other countries, the distribution of our products varies from country to country, including through wholesale distributors of pharmaceutical products and third-party distribution partners who are responsible for most marketing and distribution activities.

Eisai distributes AVONEX, TYSABRI, TECFIDERA and PLEGRIDY in India and other Asia-Pacific markets, excluding China.

RITUXAN, RITUXAN HYCELA, GAZYVA and OCREVUS are distributed by the Roche Group and its sublicensees.

We distribute BENEPALI, FLIXABI and IMRALDI in certain countries in the E.U.

Our product sales to two wholesale distributors, AmerisourceBergen and McKesson, each accounted for more than 10% of our total revenues for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, and on a combined basis, accounted for approximately 50%, 56% and 57% of our gross product revenues for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively. For additional information, please read Note 5, Revenues, to our consolidated financial statements included in this report.

Patents and Other Proprietary Rights

Patents are important to obtaining and protecting exclusive rights in our products and product candidates. We regularly seek patent protection in the U.S. and in selected countries outside the U.S. for inventions originating from our research and development efforts. In addition, we license rights to various patents and patent applications. 

U.S. patents, as well as most foreign patents, are generally effective for 20 years from the date the earliest application was filed; however, U.S. patents that issue on applications filed before June 8, 1995, may be effective until 17 years from the issue date, if that is later than the 20-year date. In some cases, the patent term may be extended to recapture a portion of the term lost during regulatory review of the claimed therapeutic or, in the case of the U.S., because of U.S. Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO) delays in prosecuting the application. Specifically, in the U.S., under the Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act of 1984, commonly known as the Hatch-Waxman Act, a patent that covers a drug approved by the FDA may be eligible for patent term extension (for up to 5 years, but not beyond a total of 14 years from the date of product approval) as compensation for patent term lost during the FDA regulatory review process. The duration and extension of the term of foreign patents varies, in accordance 

13
with local law. For example, supplementary protection certificates (SPCs) on some of our products have been granted in a number of European countries, compensating in part for delays in obtaining marketing approval.

Regulatory exclusivity, which may consist of regulatory data protection and market protection, also can provide meaningful protection for our products. Regulatory data protection provides to the holder of a drug or biologic marketing authorization, for a set period of time, the exclusive use of the proprietary pre-clinical and clinical data that it created at significant cost and submitted to the applicable regulatory authority to obtain approval of its product. After the applicable set period of time, third parties are then permitted to rely upon such data to file for approval of their abbreviated applications for, and to market (subject to any applicable market protection), their generic drugs and biosimilars referencing such data. Market protection provides to the holder of a drug or biologic marketing authorization the exclusive right to commercialize its product for a set period of time, thereby preventing the commercialization of another product containing the same active ingredient(s) during that period. Although the World Trade Organization's agreement on trade-related aspects of intellectual property rights (TRIPS) requires signatory countries to provide regulatory exclusivity to innovative pharmaceutical products, implementation and enforcement varies widely from country to country.

We also rely upon other forms of unpatented confidential information to remain competitive. We protect such information principally through confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, outside scientific collaborators, 

scientists whose research we sponsor and other advisers. In the case of our employees, these agreements also provide, in compliance with relevant law, that inventions and other intellectual property conceived by such employees during their employment shall be our exclusive property.

Our trademarks are important to us and are generally covered by trademark applications or registrations in the USPTO and the patent or trademark offices of other countries. We also use trademarks licensed from third parties, such as the trademark FAMPYRA, which we license from Acorda. Trademark protection varies in accordance with local law, and continues in some countries as long as the trademark is used and in other countries as long as the trademark is registered. Trademark registrations generally are for fixed but renewable terms.

Our Patent Portfolio 

The following table describes our patents in the U.S. and Europe that we currently consider of primary importance to our marketed products, including the territory, patent number, general subject matter and expected expiration dates. Except as otherwise noted, the expected expiration dates include any granted patent term extensions and issued SPCs. In some instances, there are later-expiring patents relating to our products directed to, among other things, particular forms or compositions, methods of manufacturing or use of the drug in the treatment of particular diseases or conditions. We also continue to pursue additional patents and patent term extensions in the U.S. and other territories covering various aspects of our products that may, if issued, extend exclusivity beyond the expiration of the patents listed in the table.

14
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Footnotes follow on next page.

15
(1)In addition to patent protection, certain of our products are entitled to regulatory exclusivity in the U.S. and the E.U. expected until the dates set forth below:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(2)This patent is subject to granted SPCs in certain European countries, which extended the patent term in those countries to 2024. 

(3)This patent was revoked in a European opposition. This decision is being appealed. This patent is subject to granted SPCs in certain European countries, which extended the patent term in those countries to 2029.

(4)This patent is subject to granted SPCs in certain European countries, which extended the patent term in those countries to 2028.

(5)Reflects SPCs granted in most European countries and pediatric extension in some countries.

(6)This patent is subject to granted SPCs in certain European countries, which extended the patent term in those countries to 2026.

(7)This patent was revoked in a European opposition. This decision is being appealed. This patent is subject to granted SPCs in certain European countries, which extended the patent term in those countries to 2026.

(8)This patent is subject to granted SPCs in certain European countries, which extended the patent term in those countries to 2031.

(9)This patent is subject to granted SPCs in certain European countries, which extended the patent term in those countries to 2031.

The existence of patents does not guarantee our right to practice the patented technology or commercialize the patented product. Patents relating to pharmaceutical, biopharmaceutical and biotechnology products, compounds and processes, such as those that cover our existing products, compounds and processes and those that we will likely file in the future, do not always provide complete or adequate protection. Litigation, interferences, oppositions, inter partes reviews or other proceedings are, have been and may in the future be necessary in some instances to determine the validity and scope of certain of our patents, regulatory exclusivities or other proprietary rights, and in other instances to determine the validity, scope or non-infringement of certain patent rights claimed by third parties to be pertinent to the manufacture, use or sale of our products. We may also face challenges to our patents, regulatory exclusivities or other proprietary rights covering our products by manufacturers of generics, biosimilars, prodrugs and other products approved under alternative regulatory pathways. A discussion of certain risks and uncertainties that may affect our patent position, regulatory exclusivities or other proprietary rights is set forth in Item 1A. Risk Factors included in this report, and a discussion of legal proceedings related to certain patents described above is set forth in Note 21, Litigation, to our consolidated financial statements included in this report.

16
Competition

Competition in the biopharmaceutical industry is intense and comes from many sources, including specialized biotechnology firms and large pharmaceutical companies. Many of our competitors are working to develop or have commercialized products similar to those we market or are developing and have considerable experience in undertaking clinical trials and in obtaining regulatory approval to market pharmaceutical products. Certain of these companies have substantially greater financial, marketing and research and development resources than we do.

We believe that competition and leadership in the industry is based on managerial and technological excellence and innovation as well as establishing patent and other proprietary positions through research and development. The achievement of a leadership position also depends largely upon our ability to maximize the approval, acceptance and use of products resulting from research and the availability of adequate financial resources to fund facilities, equipment, personnel, clinical testing, manufacturing and marketing. Another key aspect of remaining competitive within the industry is recruiting and retaining leading scientists and technicians. We believe that we have been successful in attracting and retaining skilled and experienced scientific personnel.

Competition among products approved for sale may be based, among other things, on patent position, product efficacy, safety, convenience/delivery devices, reliability, availability and price. In addition, early entry of a new pharmaceutical product into the market may have important advantages in gaining product acceptance and market share. Accordingly, the relative speed with which we can develop products, complete the testing and approval process and supply commercial quantities of products will have a significant impact on our competitive position.

The introduction of new products or technologies, including the development of new processes or technologies by competitors or new information about existing products or technologies, may result in increased competition for our marketed products or pricing pressure on our marketed products. It is also possible that the development of new or improved treatment options or standards of care or cures for the diseases our products treat could reduce or eliminate the use of our products or may limit the utility and application of ongoing clinical trials for our product candidates. We may also face increased competitive pressures as a result of generic versions, prodrugs of existing therapies, biosimilars of existing products, other products approved under alternative regulatory pathways or other technologies. If a generic, prodrug, biosimilar or 

other product approved under alternative regulatory pathways of one of our products were approved, it could reduce our sales of that product.

Additional information about the competition that our marketed products face is set forth below.

Multiple Sclerosis

TECFIDERA, AVONEX, PLEGRIDY and TYSABRI each compete with one or more of the following products as well as generic and biosimilar versions of such products: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

FAMPYRA is indicated as a treatment to improve walking in adult patients with MS who a have walking disability and is the first treatment that addresses this unmet medical need with demonstrated efficacy in people with all types of MS. FAMPYRA is currently the only therapy approved to improve walking in patients with MS. 

Competition in the MS market is intense. Along with us, a number of companies are working to develop additional treatments for MS that may in the future compete with our MS products. One such product that was approved in the U.S. in 2017 and in the E.U. in 2018 is OCREVUS, a treatment for RMS and PPMS that was developed by Genentech. While we have a financial interest in OCREVUS, future sales of our MS products may be adversely affected if OCREVUS continues to gain market share, or if other MS products that we or our competitors are developing are commercialized. Future sales may also be negatively impacted by the introduction of generics, prodrugs of existing therapeutics, biosimilars of existing products, other products approved under alternative regulatory pathways or other technologies.

Spinal Muscular Atrophy

SPINRAZA is the only approved treatment for SMA. We are aware of other products in development that, if successfully developed and approved, may 

17
compete with SPINRAZA in the SMA market, including a potential gene therapy product for the treatment of SMA Type 1, which could come to market in the U.S. in 2019. Future sales of SPINRAZA may be adversely affected by the commercialization of competing products. 

Psoriasis

FUMADERM competes with several different types of therapies in the psoriasis market within Germany, including oral systemics such as methotrexate and cyclosporine.

Biosimilars

BENEPALI, FLIXABI and IMRALDI, the three biosimilars we currently manufacture and commercialize in the E.U. for Samsung Bioepis, compete with their reference products, ENBREL, REMICADE and HUMIRA, respectively, as well as other biosimilars of those reference products. 

Genentech Relationships in Other Indications

RITUXAN, RITUXAN HYCELA and GAZYVA in Oncology

RITUXAN, RITUXAN HYCELA and GAZYVA compete with a number of therapies in the oncology market, including TREANDA (bendamustine HCL), ARZERRA (ofatumumab), IMBRUVICA (ibrutinib) and ZYDELIG (idelalisib). 

We also expect that over time RITUXAN HYCELA and GAZYVA will increasingly compete with RITUXAN in the oncology market. In addition, we are aware of anti-CD20 molecules, including biosimilars, in development that, if successfully developed and approved, may compete with RITUXAN, RITUXAN HYCELA and GAZYVA in the oncology market. In 2018 the FDA approved a rituximab biosimilar in the U.S. A biosimilar of RITUXAN could come to market in the U.S. in 2019, which may adversely affect the pre-tax profits of our collaboration arrangements with Genentech, which would, in turn adversely affect our co-promotion profits in the U.S. in future years.

RITUXAN in Rheumatoid Arthritis

RITUXAN competes with several different types of therapies in the rheumatoid arthritis market, including, among others, traditional disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drugs such as steroids, methotrexate and cyclosporine, TNF inhibitors, ORENCIA (abatacept), ACTEMRA (tocilizumab) and XELJANZ (tofacitinib).

We are also aware of other products, including biosimilars, in development that, if successfully developed and approved, may compete with RITUXAN in the rheumatoid arthritis market. 

Research and Development Programs

A commitment to research is fundamental to our mission. Our research efforts are focused on better understanding the underlying biology of diseases so we can discover and deliver treatments that have the potential to make a real difference in the lives of patients with high unmet medical needs. By applying our expertise in biologics and our growing capabilities in small molecule, antisense, gene therapy, gene editing and other technologies, we target specific medical needs where we believe new or better treatments are needed.

We intend to continue committing significant resources to targeted research and development opportunities. As part of our ongoing research and development efforts, we have devoted significant resources to conducting clinical studies to advance the development of new pharmaceutical products and technologies and to explore the utility of our existing products in treating disorders beyond those currently approved in their labels.

For additional information on our research and development expense included in our consolidated statements of income, please read Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in this report.

18
The table below highlights our current research and development programs that are in clinical trials and the current phase of such programs. Drug development involves a high degree of risk and investment, and the status, timing and scope of our development programs are subject to change. Important factors that could adversely affect our drug development efforts are discussed in Item 1A. Risk Factors included in this report. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

* Collaboration programs

# Option agreements

^ Systemic Lupus Erythematosus (SLE)

@ Idiopathic Pulmonary Fibrosis (IPF)

For information about certain of our agreements with collaborators and other third parties, please read the subsection entitled Business Relationships below and Note 2, Acquisitions, Note 19, Collaborative and Other Relationships, and Note 20, Investments in Variable Interest Entities, to our consolidated financial statements included in this report.

19
Business Relationships

As part of our business strategy, we establish business relationships, including joint ventures and collaborative arrangements with other companies, universities and medical research institutions, to assist in the clinical development and/or commercialization of certain of our products and product candidates and to provide support for our research programs. We also evaluate opportunities for acquiring products or rights to products and technologies that are complementary to our business from other companies, universities and medical research institutions.

Below is a brief description of certain business relationships and collaborations that expand our pipeline and provide us with certain rights to existing and potential new products and technologies. For additional information on certain of these relationships, including their ongoing financial and accounting impact on our business, please read Note 2, Acquisitions, Note 19, Collaborative and Other Relationships, Note 20, Investments in Variable Interest Entities, and Note 27, Subsequent Events, to our consolidated financial statements included in this report.

AbbVie, Inc.

We have a collaboration agreement with AbbVie for the development and commercialization of ZINBRYTA in MS, which was approved for the treatment of RMS in the U.S. in May 2016 and in the E.U. in July 2016. In March 2018 we and AbbVie announced the voluntary worldwide withdrawal of ZINBRYTA for RMS. 

Under this agreement, we and AbbVie conducted ZINBRYTA co-promotion activities in the U.S., E.U. and Canadian territories, and we were responsible for all manufacturing and research and development activities.

Acorda Therapeutics, Inc.

We have a collaboration and license agreement with Acorda to develop and commercialize products containing fampridine, such as FAMPYRA, in markets outside the U.S. We are responsible for all regulatory activities and the future clinical development of related products in those markets.

Applied Genetic Technologies Corporation

In December 2018 we notified AGTC of the termination of our collaboration agreement with AGTC to develop gene-based therapies for multiple ophthalmic diseases. This collaboration focused on the development of BIIB087, an investigational AAV-based gene therapy for the treatment of XLRS, and BIIB088, an investigational AAV-based gene therapy 

for the treatment of XLRP. This collaboration also provided us with options to early stage discovery programs in two ophthalmic diseases and one non-ophthalmic condition. The termination of this collaboration agreement will be effective in March 2019 and we will have no further involvement in the development of any of these programs.

Alkermes

We have an exclusive license and collaboration agreement with Alkermes to develop and commercialize diroximel fumarate (BIIB098), a novel oral fumarate in Phase 3 development for the treatment of RMS. Under this agreement, we received an exclusive, worldwide license to develop and commercialize diroximel fumarate. Alkermes will maintain responsibility for regulatory interactions with the FDA through the potential approval of the NDA for diroximel fumarate.

Bristol-Myers Squibb Company

We have an exclusive license agreement with Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (BMS) for the development and potential commercialization of BIIB092, a phase 2 investigational therapy with potential in AD and PSP. Under this agreement, we received worldwide rights to BIIB092 and are responsible for the full development and potential commercialization of BIIB092 in AD and PSP. 

C4 Therapeutics

In December 2018 we entered into a collaborative research and license agreement with C4T to investigate the use of C4T’s novel protein degradation platform to discover and develop potential new treatments for neurological diseases, such as AD and Parkinson’s disease. We will be responsible for the development and potential commercialization of any therapies resulting from this collaboration.

Eisai Co., Ltd.

We have a collaboration agreement with Eisai to jointly develop and commercialize BAN2401 and elenbecestat, two Eisai product candidates for the treatment of AD. Eisai serves as the global operational and regulatory lead for BAN2401 and elenbecestat and all costs, including research, development, sales and marketing expenses, are shared equally between us and Eisai. Upon marketing approval in major markets, we and Eisai will co-promote BAN2401 and elenbecestat and share profits equally. 

We also have a collaboration agreement with Eisai to jointly develop and commercialize aducanumab (the Aducanumab Collaboration Agreement). Under the Aducanumab Collaboration 

20
Agreement, the two companies will co-promote aducanumab with a region-based profit split and we will continue to lead the ongoing Phase 3 development of aducanumab. 

We and Eisai co-promote AVONEX, TYSABRI and TECFIDERA in Japan in certain settings and Eisai distributes AVONEX, TYSABRI, TECFIDERA and PLEGRIDY in India and other Asia-Pacific markets, excluding China.

Genentech, Inc. (Roche Group)

We have collaboration arrangements with Genentech which entitle us to certain business and financial rights with respect to RITUXAN, RITUXAN HYCELA, GAZYVA, OCREVUS and other potential anti-CD20 therapies. 

Ionis Pharmaceuticals, Inc.

We have an exclusive, worldwide option and collaboration agreement with Ionis relating to the development and commercialization of up to three gene targets, and an exclusive, worldwide option and collaboration agreement with Ionis under which both companies are responsible for the development and commercialization of SPINRAZA for the treatment of SMA. We also have the 2018 Ionis Agreement, which is a 10-year exclusive collaboration agreement with Ionis to develop novel ASO drug candidates for a broad range of neurological diseases.

In addition, we have research collaboration agreements with Ionis, under which both companies perform discovery level research and will develop and commercialize new ASO drug candidates for the treatment of SMA and additional antisense and other therapeutics for the treatment of neurological diseases.

Neurimmune SubOne AG

We have a collaboration and license agreement with Neurimmune for the development and commercialization of antibodies for the treatment of AD, including aducanumab (as amended, the Neurimmune Agreement). Under the Neurimmune Agreement, we are responsible for the development, manufacturing and commercialization of all licensed products.

Samsung Bioepis Co., Ltd.

We and Samsung BioLogics established a joint venture, Samsung Bioepis, to develop, manufacture and market biosimilar products. We also have an agreement with Samsung Bioepis to commercialize, over a 10-year term, 3 anti-TNF biosimilar product candidates in Europe and, in the case of BENEPALI, Japan. Under this agreement, we are manufacturing and commercializing BENEPALI, an etanercept biosimilar referencing ENBREL, FLIXABI, an infliximab 

biosimilar referencing REMICADE, and IMRALDI, an adalimumab biosimilar referencing HUMIRA. 

In addition to our joint venture and commercialization agreements with Samsung Bioepis, we license certain of our proprietary technology to Samsung Bioepis in connection with Samsung Bioepis' development, manufacture and commercialization of its biosimilar products. We also provide technical development and technology transfer services to Samsung Bioepis and manufacture clinical and commercial quantities of bulk drug substance of Samsung Bioepis' biosimilar products.

Skyhawk Therapeutics, Inc.

In January 2019 we entered into a collaboration and research and development services arrangement with Skyhawk pursuant to which the companies will leverage Skyhawk’s SkySTAR technology platform with the goal of discovering innovative small molecule treatments for patients with neurological diseases, including MS and SMA. We will be responsible for the development and potential commercialization of any therapies resulting from this collaboration.

TMS Co., Ltd.

We have an exclusive option agreement with TMS granting us the option to acquire TMS-007 and backup compounds for the treatment of stroke.

University of Pennsylvania

We have a collaboration and alliance with UPenn to advance gene therapy and gene editing technologies. 

In December 2018 we notified UPenn that we will be terminating certain programs under this collaboration, including the development of therapeutic approaches that target the eye, skeletal muscle and central nervous system and research and validation of next generation gene transfer technology using AAV gene delivery vectors and exploring the expanded use of genome editing technology as a potential therapeutic platform. The termination of these programs will be effective in May 2019. This termination did not impact our collaboration with UPenn for the development of BIIB089 for the treatment of SMA.

Regulatory

Our current and contemplated activities and the products, technologies and processes that result from such activities are subject to substantial government regulation.

21
Regulation of Pharmaceuticals

Product Approval and Post-Approval Regulation in the U.S.

APPROVAL PROCESS

Before new pharmaceutical products may be sold in the U.S., preclinical studies and clinical trials of the products must be conducted and the results submitted to the FDA for approval. With limited exceptions, the FDA requires companies to register both pre-approval and post-approval clinical trials and disclose clinical trial results in public databases. Failure to register a trial or disclose study results within the required time periods could result in penalties, including civil monetary penalties. Clinical trial programs must establish efficacy, determine an appropriate dose and dosing regimen and define the conditions for safe use. This is a high-risk process that requires stepwise clinical studies in which the candidate product must successfully meet predetermined endpoints. The results of the preclinical and clinical testing of a product are then submitted to the FDA in the form of a Biologics License Application (BLA) or a NDA. In response to a BLA or NDA, the FDA may grant marketing approval, request additional information or deny the application if it determines the application does not provide an adequate basis for approval.

Product development and receipt of regulatory approval takes a number of years, involves the expenditure of substantial resources and depends on a number of factors, including the severity of the disease in question, the availability of alternative treatments, potential safety signals observed in preclinical or clinical tests and the risks and benefits of the product as demonstrated in clinical trials. The FDA has substantial discretion in the product approval process, and it is impossible to predict with any certainty whether and when the FDA will grant marketing approval. The agency may require the sponsor of a BLA or NDA to conduct additional clinical studies or to provide other scientific or technical information about the product, and these additional requirements may lead to unanticipated delays or expenses. Furthermore, even if a product is approved, the approval may be subject to limitations based on the FDA's interpretation of the existing pre-clinical or clinical data. 

The FDA has developed four distinct approaches intended to make therapeutically important drugs available as rapidly as possible, especially when the drugs are the first available treatment or have advantages over existing treatments: accelerated approval, fast track, breakthrough therapy and priority review.

•Accelerated Approval: The FDA may grant “accelerated approval” status to products that treat serious or life-threatening illnesses and that provide meaningful therapeutic benefits to patients over existing treatments. Under this pathway, the FDA may approve a product based on surrogate endpoints, or clinical endpoints other than survival or irreversible morbidity. When approval is based on surrogate endpoints or clinical endpoints other than survival or morbidity, the sponsor will be required to conduct additional post-approval clinical studies to verify and describe clinical benefit. Under the FDA's accelerated approval regulations, if the FDA concludes that a drug that has been shown to be effective can be safely used only if distribution or use is restricted, it may require certain post-marketing restrictions to assure safe use. In addition, for products approved under accelerated approval, sponsors may be required to submit all copies of their promotional materials, including advertisements, to the FDA at least 30 days prior to initial dissemination. The FDA may withdraw approval under accelerated approval after a hearing if, for instance, post-marketing studies fail to verify any clinical benefit, it becomes clear that restrictions on the distribution of the product are inadequate to ensure its safe use, or if a sponsor fails to comply with the conditions of the accelerated approval.

•Fast Track: The FDA may grant "fast track" status to products that treat a serious condition and have data demonstrating the potential to address an unmet medical need or a drug that has been designated as a qualified infectious disease product.

•Breakthrough Therapy: The FDA may grant “breakthrough therapy” status to drugs designed to treat, alone or in combination with another drug or drugs, a serious or life-threatening disease or condition and for which preliminary clinical evidence suggests a substantial improvement over existing therapies. Such drugs need not address an unmet need, but are nevertheless eligible for expedited review if they offer the potential for an improvement. Breakthrough therapy status entitles the sponsor to earlier and more frequent meetings with the FDA regarding the development of nonclinical and clinical data and permits the FDA to offer product development or regulatory advice for the purpose of shortening the time to product approval. Breakthrough therapy status does not guarantee that a product will be reviewed more quickly and does not ensure FDA approval.

22
•Priority Review: “Priority review” only applies to applications (original or efficacy supplement) for a drug that treats a serious condition and, if approved, would provide a significant improvement in safety or effectiveness of the treatment, diagnosis or prevention of a serious condition when compared to standard applications. Priority review may also be granted for any supplement that proposes a labeling change due to studies completed in response to a written request from the FDA for pediatric studies, for an application for a drug that has been designated as a qualified infectious disease product or for any application or supplement for a drug submitted with a priority review voucher.

In December 2016 the FDA issued us a rare pediatric disease priority review voucher in connection with the approval of SPINRAZA. 

POST-MARKETING STUDIES

Regardless of the approval pathway employed, the FDA may require a sponsor to conduct additional post-marketing studies as a condition of approval to provide data on safety and effectiveness. If a sponsor fails to conduct the required studies, the FDA may withdraw its approval. In addition, if the FDA concludes that a drug that has been shown to be effective can be safely used only if distribution or use is restricted, it can mandate post-marketing restrictions to assure safe use. In such a case, the sponsor may be required to establish rigorous systems to assure use of the product under safe conditions. These systems are usually referred to as Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategies (REMS). The FDA can impose financial penalties for failing to comply with certain post-marketing commitments, including REMS. In addition, any changes to an approved REMS must be reviewed and approved by the FDA prior to implementation.

ADVERSE EVENT REPORTING

We monitor information on side effects and adverse events reported during clinical studies and after marketing approval and report such information and events to regulatory agencies. Non-compliance with the FDA's safety reporting requirements may result in civil or criminal penalties. Side effects or adverse events that are reported during clinical trials can delay, impede or prevent marketing approval. Based on new safety information that emerges after approval, the FDA can mandate product labeling changes, impose a new REMS or the addition of elements to an existing REMS, require new post-marketing studies (including additional clinical trials) or suspend or withdraw approval of the product. These requirements may affect our ability to maintain marketing approval of our products or require us to 

make significant expenditures to obtain or maintain such approvals.

APPROVAL OF CHANGES TO AN APPROVED PRODUCT

If we seek to make certain types of changes to an approved product, such as adding a new indication, making certain manufacturing changes or changing manufacturers or suppliers of certain ingredients or components, the FDA will need to review and approve such changes in advance. In the case of a new indication, we are required to demonstrate with additional clinical data that the product is safe and effective for a use other than what was initially approved. FDA regulatory review may result in denial or modification of the planned changes, or requirements to conduct additional tests or evaluations that can substantially delay or increase the cost of the planned changes.

REGULATION OF PRODUCT ADVERTISING AND PROMOTION

The FDA regulates all advertising and promotion activities and communications for products under its jurisdiction both before and after approval. Pursuant to FDA guidance, a company can make safety and efficacy claims from data either in or consistent with the label. However, physicians may prescribe legally available drugs for uses that are not described in the drug's labeling. Such off-label uses are common across medical specialties, and often reflect a physician's belief that the off-label use is the best treatment for patients. The FDA does not regulate the behavior of physicians in their choice of treatments, but FDA regulations do impose stringent restrictions on manufacturers' communications regarding off-label uses. Failure to comply with applicable FDA requirements may subject a company to adverse publicity, enforcement action by the FDA, corrective advertising and the full range of civil and criminal penalties available to the government. 

Regulation of Combination Products

Combination products are defined by the FDA to include products comprising two or more regulated components (e.g., a biologic and a device). Biologics and devices each have their own regulatory requirements, and combination products may have additional requirements. Some of our marketed products meet this definition and are regulated under this framework and similar regulations outside the U.S., and we expect that some of our pipeline product candidates may be evaluated for regulatory approval under this framework as well. 

23
Product Approval and Post-Approval Regulation Outside the U.S.

We market our products in numerous jurisdictions outside the U.S. Most of these jurisdictions have product approval and post-approval regulatory processes that are similar in principle to those in the U.S. In Europe, for example, where a substantial part of our ex-U.S. efforts are focused, there are several tracks for marketing approval, depending on the type of product for which approval is sought. Under the centralized procedure, a company submits a single application to the European Medicines Agency (EMA). The marketing authorization application is similar to the NDA or BLA in the U.S. and is evaluated by the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP), the expert scientific committee of the EMA responsible for human medicines. If the CHMP determines that the marketing authorization application fulfills the requirements for quality, safety and efficacy and that the medicine has a positive benefit risk balance, it will adopt a positive opinion recommending the granting of the marketing authorization by the EC. The CHMP opinion is not binding, but is typically adopted by the EC. A marketing application approved by the EC is valid in all member states of the E.U. The centralized procedure is required for all biological products, orphan medicinal products and new treatments for neurodegenerative disorders, and it is available for certain other products, including those which constitute a significant therapeutic, scientific or technical innovation.

In addition to the centralized procedure, the European regulatory framework includes the following options for regulatory review and approval in E.U. member states: 

•a national procedure, which requires an application to the competent authority of an E.U. country (if an application is to be made in more than one E.U. country, following approval in the first country, the applicant must submit applications in the other countries using the mutual recognition procedure); 

•a decentralized procedure, whereby applicants submit identical applications to several countries and receive simultaneous approval, if the medicine has not yet been authorized in any E.U. country; and 

•a mutual recognition procedure, where applicants that have a medicine authorized in one E.U. country can apply for mutual recognition of this authorization in other E.U. countries. 

As in the U.S., the E.U. also has distinct approaches intended to optimize the regulatory pathways for therapeutically important drugs, 

including the Priority Medicines Evaluation Scheme (PRIME), accelerated assessment and conditional authorization. PRIME is intended to provide additional support to medicine developers throughout the development process. Regulatory review timelines in the E.U. may be truncated under accelerated assessment for products that address an unmet medical need. In addition, conditional authorizations may be granted for such products in the interest of public health, where the benefit of immediate availability outweighs the risk of less comprehensive data than normally required. Conditional authorizations are valid for one year and can be renewed annually. The marketing authorization holder is required to complete specific obligations (ongoing or new studies and, in some cases, additional activities) with a view to providing comprehensive data confirming that the benefit risk balance is positive. Once comprehensive data on the product have been obtained, the marketing authorization may be converted into a standard marketing authorization.

In the E.U. there is detailed legislation on pharmacovigilance and extensive guidance on good pharmacovigilance practices. A failure to comply with the E.U. pharmacovigilance obligations may result in significant financial penalties.

Regardless of the approval process employed, various parties share responsibilities for the monitoring, detection and evaluation of adverse events post-approval, including national competent authorities, the EMA, the EC and the marketing authorization holder. The EMA’s Pharmacovigilance Risk Assessment Committee is responsible for assessing and monitoring the safety of human medicines and makes recommendations on product safety issues. Marketing authorization holders have an obligation to inform regulatory agencies of any new information which may influence the evaluation of benefits and risks of the medicinal product concerned. In the U.S., E.U. and other jurisdictions, regulatory agencies, including the FDA, conduct periodic inspections of NDA and BLA holders to assess their compliance with pharmacovigilance obligations.

In some regions, it is possible to receive an “accelerated” review whereby the national regulatory authority will commit to truncated review timelines for products that meet specific medical needs.

Good Manufacturing Practices

Regulatory agencies regulate and inspect equipment, facilities and processes used in the manufacturing and testing of pharmaceutical and biologic products prior to approving a product. If, after receiving approval from regulatory agencies, a company makes a material change in manufacturing 

24
equipment, location or process, additional regulatory review and approval may be required. We also must adhere to current Good Manufacturing Practices (cGMP) and product-specific regulations enforced by regulatory agencies following product approval. The FDA, the EMA and other regulatory agencies also conduct periodic visits to re-inspect equipment, facilities and processes following the initial approval of a product. If, as a result of these inspections, it is determined that our equipment, facilities or processes do not comply with applicable regulations and conditions of product approval, regulatory agencies may seek civil, criminal or administrative sanctions or remedies against us, including significant financial penalties and the suspension of our manufacturing operations.

Good Clinical Practices

The FDA, the EMA and other regulatory agencies promulgate regulations and standards for designing, conducting, monitoring, auditing and reporting the results of clinical trials to ensure that the data and results are accurate and that the rights and welfare of trial participants are adequately protected (commonly referred to as current Good Clinical Practices (cGCP)). Regulatory agencies enforce cGCP through periodic inspections of trial sponsors, principal investigators and trial sites, contract research organizations (CROs) and institutional review boards. If our studies fail to comply with applicable cGCP guidelines, the clinical data generated in our clinical trials may be deemed unreliable and relevant regulatory agencies may require us to perform additional clinical trials before approving our marketing applications. Noncompliance can also result in civil or criminal sanctions. We rely on third parties, including CROs, to carry out many of our clinical trial-related activities. Failure of such third parties to comply with cGCP can likewise result in rejection of our clinical trial data or other sanctions.

In April 2014 the EC adopted a new Clinical Trial Regulation, which was effective in June 2014 but is not expected to apply until early 2020. The regulation harmonizes the procedures for assessment and governance of clinical trials throughout the E.U. and will require that information on the authorization, conduct and results of each clinical trial conducted in the E.U. be publicly available.

Approval of Biosimilars 

The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (PPACA) amended the Public Health Service Act (PHSA) to authorize the FDA to approve biological products, referred to as biosimilars or follow-on biologics that are shown to be highly similar to previously approved biological products based upon potentially abbreviated data packages. The biosimilar must show it has no clinically meaningful differences 

in terms of safety and effectiveness from the reference product, and only minor differences in clinically inactive components are allowable in biosimilars products. The approval pathway for biosimilars does, however, grant a biologics manufacturer a 12-year period of exclusivity from the date of approval of its biological product before biosimilar competition can be introduced. There is uncertainty, however, as the approval framework for biosimilars originally was enacted as part of the PPACA. There have been, and there are likely to continue to be, federal legislative and administrative efforts to repeal, substantially modify or invalidate some or all of the provisions of the PPACA. If the PPACA is repealed, substantially modified or invalidated, it is unclear what, if any, impact such action would have on biosimilar regulation.

A biosimilars approval pathway has been in place in the E.U. since 2003. The EMA has issued a number of scientific and product specific biosimilar guidelines, including requirements for approving biosimilars containing monoclonal antibodies. In the E.U., biosimilars are generally approved under the centralized procedure. The approval pathway allows sponsors of a biosimilar to seek and obtain regulatory approval based in part on reliance on the clinical trial data of an innovator product to which the biosimilar has been demonstrated, through comprehensive comparability studies, to be “similar.” In many cases, this allows biosimilars to be brought to market without conducting the full complement of clinical trials typically required for novel biologic drugs.

Orphan Drug Act

Under the U.S. Orphan Drug Act, the FDA may grant orphan drug designation to drugs or biologics intended to treat a “rare disease or condition,” which generally is a disease or condition that affects fewer than 200,000 individuals in the U.S. If a product which has an orphan drug designation subsequently receives the first FDA approval for the indication for which it has such designation, the product is entitled to orphan exclusivity, i.e., the FDA may not approve any other applications to market the same drug for the same indication for a period of seven years following marketing approval, except in certain very limited circumstances, such as if the later product is shown to be clinically superior to the orphan product. Legislation similar to the U.S. Orphan Drug Act has been enacted in other countries to encourage the research, development and marketing of medicines to treat, prevent or diagnose rare diseases. In the E.U., medicinal products that receive an orphan designation are entitled to 10 years of market exclusivity following approval, protocol assistance and access to the centralized procedure for marketing authorization. SPINRAZA has been granted orphan drug designation in the U.S., E.U. and Japan.

25
Regulation Pertaining to Pricing and Reimbursement

In both domestic and foreign markets, sales of our products depend, to a significant extent, on the availability and amount of reimbursement by third-party payors, including governments, private health plans and other organizations. Substantial uncertainty exists regarding the pricing and reimbursement of our products, and drug prices continue to receive significant scrutiny. Governments may regulate coverage, reimbursement and pricing of our products to control cost or affect utilization of our products. Challenges to our pricing strategies, by either government or private stakeholders, could harm our business. The U.S. and foreign governments have enacted and regularly consider additional reform measures that affect health care coverage and costs. Private health plans may also seek to manage cost and utilization by implementing coverage and reimbursement limitations. Other payors, including managed care organizations, health insurers, pharmacy benefit managers, government health administration authorities and private health insurers, seek price discounts or rebates in connection with the placement of our products on their formularies and, in some cases, may impose restrictions on access, coverage or pricing of particular drugs based on perceived value.

Within the U.S.

•Medicaid: Medicaid is a joint federal and state program that is administered by the states for low income and disabled beneficiaries. Under the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program, we are required to pay a rebate for each unit of product reimbursed by the state Medicaid programs. The amount of the rebate is established by law and is adjusted upward if the average manufacture price (AMP) increases more than inflation (measured by the Consumer Price Index - Urban). The rebate amount is calculated each quarter based on our report of current AMP and best price for each of our products to the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS). The requirements for calculating AMP and best price are complex. We are required to report any revisions to AMP or best price previously reported within a certain period, which revisions could affect our rebate liability for prior quarters. In addition, if we fail to provide information timely or we are found to have knowingly submitted false information to the government, the statute governing the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program provides for civil monetary penalties.

•Medicare: Medicare is a federal program that is administered by the federal government. The program covers individuals age 65 and over as 

well as those with certain disabilities. Medicare Part B generally covers drugs that must be administered by physicians or other health care practitioners, are provided in connection with certain durable medical equipment or are certain oral anti-cancer drugs and certain oral immunosuppressive drugs. Medicare Part B pays for such drugs under a payment methodology based on the average sales price (ASP) of the drugs. Manufacturers, including us, are required to provide ASP information to the CMS on a quarterly basis. The manufacturer-submitted information is used to calculate Medicare payment rates. If a manufacturer is found to have made a misrepresentation in the reporting of ASP, the governing statute provides for civil monetary penalties.

Medicare Part D provides coverage to enrolled Medicare patients for self-administered drugs (i.e., drugs that are not administered by a physician). Medicare Part D is administered by private prescription drug plans approved by the U.S. government. Each drug plan establishes its own Medicare Part D formulary for prescription drug coverage and pricing, which the drug plan may modify from time-to-time. The prescription drug plans negotiate pricing with manufacturers and pharmacies, and may condition formulary placement on the availability of manufacturer discounts. In addition, manufacturers, including us, are required to provide to the CMS a discount of up to 70% on brand name prescription drugs utilized by Medicare Part D beneficiaries when those beneficiaries reach the coverage gap in their drug benefits.

•Federal Agency Discounted Pricing: Our products are subject to discounted pricing when purchased by federal agencies via the Federal Supply Schedule (FSS). FSS participation is required for our products to be covered and reimbursed by the Veterans Administration (VA), Department of Defense, Coast Guard and Public Health Service (PHS). Coverage under Medicaid, Medicare and the PHS pharmaceutical pricing program is also conditioned upon FSS participation. FSS pricing is intended not to exceed the price that we charge our most-favored non-federal customer for a product. In addition, prices for drugs purchased by the VA, Department of Defense (including drugs purchased by military personnel and dependents through the TriCare retail pharmacy program), Coast Guard and PHS are subject to a cap on pricing equal to 76% of the non-federal average manufacturer price (non-FAMP). An additional discount applies if non-FAMP increases more than inflation (measured by the Consumer Price 

26
Index - Urban). In addition, if we fail to provide information timely or we are found to have knowingly submitted false information to the government, the governing statute provides for civil monetary penalties.

•340B Discounted Pricing: To maintain coverage of our products under the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program and Medicare Part B, we are required to extend significant discounts to certain covered entities that purchase products under Section 340B of the PHS pharmaceutical pricing program. Purchasers eligible for discounts include hospitals that serve a disproportionate share of financially needy patients, community health clinics and other entities that receive certain types of grants under the PHSA. For all of our products, we must agree to charge a price that will not exceed the amount determined under statute (the “ceiling price”) when we sell outpatient drugs to these covered entities. In addition, we may, but are not required to, offer these covered entities a price lower than the 340B ceiling price. The 340B discount formula is based on AMP and is generally similar to the level of rebates calculated under the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program. 

Outside the U.S.

Outside the U.S., our products are paid for by a variety of payors, with governments being the primary source of payment. Governments may determine or influence reimbursement of products and may also set prices or otherwise regulate pricing. Negotiating prices with governmental authorities can delay commercialization of our products. Governments may use a variety of cost-containment measures to control the cost of products, including price cuts, mandatory rebates, value-based pricing and reference pricing (i.e., referencing prices in other countries and using those reference prices to set a price). Budgetary pressures in many countries are continuing to cause governments to consider or implement various cost-containment measures, such as price freezes, increased price cuts and rebates and expanded generic substitution and patient cost-sharing. 

Regulation Pertaining to Sales and Marketing

We are subject to various federal and state laws pertaining to health care “fraud and abuse,” including anti-kickback laws and false claims laws. Anti-kickback laws generally prohibit a prescription drug manufacturer from soliciting, offering, receiving or paying any remuneration to generate business, including the purchase or prescription of a particular drug. Although the specific provisions of these laws vary, their scope is generally broad and there may be no regulations, guidance or court decisions that clarify how the laws apply to particular industry practices. 

There is therefore a possibility that our practices might be challenged under anti-kickback or similar laws. False claims laws prohibit anyone from knowingly and willingly presenting, or causing to be presented, for payment to third-party payors (including Medicare and Medicaid), claims for reimbursed drugs or services that are false or fraudulent, claims for items or services not provided as claimed or claims for medically unnecessary items or services. Our activities relating to the sale and marketing of our products may be subject to scrutiny under these laws. Violations of fraud and abuse laws may be punishable by criminal or civil sanctions, including fines and civil monetary penalties, and exclusion from federal health care programs (including Medicare and Medicaid). In the U.S., federal and state authorities are paying increased attention to enforcement of these laws within the pharmaceutical industry and private individuals have been active in alleging violations of the laws and bringing suits on behalf of the government under the federal civil False Claims Act. If we were subject to allegations concerning, or were convicted of violating, these laws, our business could be harmed.

Laws and regulations have been enacted by the federal government and various states to regulate the sales and marketing practices of pharmaceutical manufacturers. The laws and regulations generally limit financial interactions between manufacturers and health care providers or require disclosure to the government and public of such interactions. The laws include federal “sunshine” provisions. The sunshine provisions apply to pharmaceutical manufacturers with products reimbursed under certain government programs and require those manufacturers to disclose annually to the federal government (for re-disclosure to the public) certain payments made to physicians and certain other healthcare practitioners or to teaching hospitals. State laws may also require disclosure of pharmaceutical pricing information and marketing expenditures. Many of these laws and regulations contain ambiguous requirements. Given the lack of clarity in laws and their implementation, our reporting actions could be subject to the penalty provisions of the pertinent federal and state laws and regulations. Outside the U.S., other countries have implemented requirements for disclosure of financial interactions with healthcare providers and additional countries may consider or implement such laws.

Other Regulations

Foreign Anti-Corruption

We are subject to various federal and foreign laws that govern our international business practices with respect to payments to government officials. Those laws include the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA), which prohibits U.S. companies and their 

27
representatives from paying, offering to pay, promising to pay or authorizing the payment of anything of value to any foreign government official, government staff member, political party or political candidate for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business or to otherwise obtain favorable treatment or influence a person working in an official capacity. In many countries, the health care professionals we regularly interact with may meet the FCPA's definition of a foreign government official. The FCPA also requires public companies to make and keep books and records that accurately and fairly reflect their transactions and to devise and maintain an adequate system of internal accounting controls.

The laws to which we are subject also include the U.K. Bribery Act 2010 (Bribery Act), which proscribes giving and receiving bribes in the public and private sectors, bribing a foreign public official and failing to have adequate procedures to prevent employees and other agents from giving bribes. U.S. companies that conduct business in the U.K. generally will be subject to the Bribery Act. Penalties under the Bribery Act include significant fines for companies and criminal sanctions for corporate officers under certain circumstances.

NIH Guidelines

We seek to conduct research at our U.S. facilities in compliance with the current U.S. National Institutes of Health Guidelines for Research Involving Recombinant DNA Molecules (NIH Guidelines). By local ordinance, we are required to, among other things, comply with the NIH Guidelines in relation to our facilities in Research Triangle Park (RTP), NC and are required to operate pursuant to certain permits.

Other Laws

Our present and future business has been and will continue to be subject to various other laws and regulations. Various laws, regulations and recommendations relating to data privacy and protection, safe working conditions, laboratory practices, the experimental use of animals and the purchase, storage, movement, import, export and use and disposal of hazardous or potentially hazardous substances, including radioactive compounds and infectious disease agents, used in connection with our research work are or may be applicable to our activities. Certain agreements entered into by us involving exclusive license rights may be subject to national or international antitrust regulatory control, the effect of which cannot be predicted. The extent of government regulation, which might result from future legislation or administrative action, cannot accurately be predicted.

The European Parliament and the Council of the European Union adopted a comprehensive general 

data privacy regulation (GDPR) in 2016 to replace the current E.U. Data Protection Directive and related country-specific legislation. The GDPR took effect in May 2018 and governs the collection and use of personal data in the E.U. The GDPR, which is wide-ranging in scope, imposes several requirements relating to the consent of the individuals to whom the personal data relates, the information provided to the individuals, the security and confidentiality of the personal data, data breach notification and the use of third-party processors in connection with the processing of the personal data. The GDPR also imposes strict rules on the transfer of personal data out of the E.U. to the U.S., provides an enforcement authority and imposes large penalties for noncompliance, including the potential for fines of up to €20.0 million or 4% of the annual global revenues of the infringer, whichever is greater.

Environmental Matters

We strive to comply in all material respects with applicable laws and regulations concerning the environment. While it is impossible to predict accurately the future costs associated with environmental compliance and potential remediation activities, compliance with environmental laws is not expected to require significant capital expenditures and has not had, and is not expected to have, a material adverse effect on our operations or competitive position.

Manufacturing

We are committed to ensuring an uninterrupted supply of medicines to patients around the world. To that end, we continually review our manufacturing capacity, capabilities, processes and facilities. We believe that our manufacturing facilities, together with the third-party contract manufacturing organizations we outsource to, currently provide sufficient capacity for our products and the contract manufacturing services we provide to Samsung Bioepis, our joint venture that develops, manufactures and markets biosimilar products, and other strategic contract manufacturing partners. Due to the long lead times necessary for the expansion of manufacturing capacity, we are expanding our large molecule production capacity by building a large-scale biologics manufacturing facility in Solothurn, Switzerland. We expect this facility to be operational by the end of 2020.

28
Manufacturing Facilities

Our drug substance manufacturing facilities include:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

* Other includes products manufactured for contract manufacturing partners.

In addition to our drug substance manufacturing facilities, we have a drug product manufacturing facility and supporting infrastructure in RTP, NC, including a parenteral facility and an oral solid dose products manufacturing facility. 

The parenteral facility adds capabilities and capacity for filling biologics into vials and is principally used for filling product candidates. The oral solid dose products facility supplements our outsourced small molecule manufacturing capabilities, including the manufacture of TECFIDERA.

We also have an oligonucleotide synthesis manufacturing facility in RTP, NC. This facility gives us the capability to manufacture ASO drugs like SPINRAZA as well as our other ASO candidates currently in our clinical pipeline.

We are building a large-scale biologics manufacturing facility in Solothurn, Switzerland. We expect this facility to be operational by the end of 2020. 

Genentech is responsible for all worldwide manufacturing activities for bulk RITUXAN, RITUXAN HYCELA and GAZYVA and has sourced the manufacture of certain bulk RITUXAN, RITUXAN HYCELA and GAZYVA requirements to a third party. Acorda supplies FAMPYRA to us pursuant to its supply agreement with Alkermes, Inc. and Ionis supplies the active pharmaceutical ingredient (API) for SPINRAZA.

Third-Party Suppliers and Manufacturers

We principally use third parties to manufacture the API and the final product for our small molecule products and product candidates, including TECFIDERA and FUMADERM, and the final drug product for our large molecule products and, to a lesser extent, product candidates. 

We source all of our fill-finish and the majority of final product assembly and storage operations for our products, along with a substantial part of our packaging operations, to a concentrated group of third-party contract manufacturing organizations. We have internal label and packaging capability for clinical and commercial products at our Hillerød facility. Raw materials, delivery devices, such as syringes and auto-injectors, and other supplies required for the production of our products and product candidates are procured from various third-party suppliers and manufacturers in quantities adequate to meet our needs. Continuity of supply of such raw materials, devices and supplies is assured using a strategy of dual sourcing where possible or by a risk-based inventory strategy. Our third-party service providers, suppliers and manufacturers may be subject to routine cGMP inspections by the FDA or comparable agencies in other jurisdictions and undergo assessment and certification by our quality management group.

29
Our Employees

As of December 31, 2018, we had approximately 7,800 employees worldwide.

Our Executive Officers (as of February 6, 2019)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

30
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

31
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

32
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Available Information

Our principal executive offices are located at 225 Binney Street, Cambridge, MA 02142 and our telephone number is (617) 679-2000. Our website address is www.biogen.com. We make available free of charge through the Investors section of our website our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). We include our website address in this report only as an inactive textual reference and do not intend it to be an active link to our website. The contents of our website are not incorporated into this report.

33
Item 1A. Risk Factors