Item 7a. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk  

AUM Market Price Risk. BlackRock’s investment advisory and administration fees are primarily comprised of fees based on a percentage of the value of AUM and, in some cases, performance fees expressed as a percentage of the returns realized on AUM. At December 31, 2018, the majority of the Company’s investment advisory and administration fees were based on average or period end AUM of the applicable investment funds or separate accounts. Movements in equity market prices, interest rates/credit spreads, foreign exchange rates or all three could cause the value of AUM to decline, which would result in lower investment advisory and administration fees.  

Corporate Investments Portfolio Risks. As a leading investment management firm, BlackRock devotes significant resources across all of its operations to identifying, measuring, monitoring, managing and analyzing market and operating risks, including the management and oversight of its own investment portfolio. The Board of Directors of the Company has adopted guidelines for the review of investments to be made by the Company, requiring, among other things, that investments be reviewed by certain senior officers of the Company, and that certain investments may be referred to the Audit Committee or the Board of Directors, depending on the circumstances, for approval.  

In the normal course of its business, BlackRock is exposed to equity market price risk, interest rate/credit spread risk and foreign exchange rate risk associated with its corporate investments.  

BlackRock has investments primarily in sponsored investment products that invest in a variety of asset classes, including real assets, private equity and hedge funds. Investments generally are made for co-investment purposes, to establish a performance track record, to hedge exposure to certain deferred compensation plans or for regulatory purposes. Currently, the Company has a seed capital hedging program in which it enters into swaps to hedge market and interest rate exposure to certain investments. At December 31, 2018, the Company had outstanding total return swaps with an aggregate notional value of approximately $483 million. At December 31, 2018, there were no outstanding interest rate swaps.  

At December 31, 2018, approximately $3.2 billion of BlackRock’s Total Investments were maintained in consolidated sponsored investment products accounted for as VREs and VIEs. Excluding the impact of the Federal Reserve Bank stock, carried interest, investments made to hedge exposure to certain deferred compensation plans and certain investments that are hedged via the seed capital hedging program, the Company’s economic exposure to its investment portfolio is $2.4 billion. See Balance Sheet Overview-Investments and Investments of Consolidated VIEs in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for further information on the Company’s Total Investments.  

Equity Market Price Risk. At December 31, 2018, the Company’s net exposure to equity market price risk in its investment portfolio was approximately $845 million of the Company’s total economic investment exposure. Investments subject to market price risk include private equity and real assets investments, hedge funds and funds of funds as well as mutual funds. The Company estimates that a hypothetical 10% adverse change in market prices would result in a decrease of approximately $84.5 million in the carrying value of such investments.  

Interest-Rate/Credit Spread Risk. At December 31, 2018, the Company was exposed to interest rate risk and credit spread risk as a result of approximately $1,540 million of Total Investments in debt securities and sponsored investment products that invest primarily in debt securities. Management considered a hypothetical 100 basis point fluctuation in interest rates or credit spreads and estimates that the impact of such a fluctuation on these investments, in the aggregate, would result in a decrease, or increase, of approximately $39 million in the carrying value of such investments.  

Foreign Exchange Rate Risk. As discussed above, the Company invests in sponsored investment products that invest in a variety of asset classes. The carrying value of the total economic investment exposure denominated in foreign currencies, primarily the British pound and Euro, was $666 million at December 31, 2018. A 10% adverse change in the applicable foreign exchange rates would result in approximately a $66.6 million decline in the carrying value of such investments.  

Other Market Risks. The Company executes forward foreign currency exchange contracts to mitigate the risk of certain foreign exchange risk movements. At December 31, 2018, the Company had outstanding forward foreign currency exchange contracts with an aggregate notional value of approximately $2.2 billion.  

58 

Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplemental Data