ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

The following discussion and analysis provides information management believes to be relevant to understanding the financial condition and results of operations of Boston Scientific Corporation and its subsidiaries. For a full understanding of our financial condition and results of operations, this discussion should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this Annual Report.

Executive Summary 

Financial Highlights and Trends

In 2018, we generated net sales of $9.823 billion, as compared to $9.048 billion in 2017. This increase of $775 million, or 8.6 percent, included operational growth of 8.0 percent and the positive impact of 60 basis points from foreign currency fluctuations. Operational net sales included approximately $78 million in 2018 due to the acquisitions of Symetis SA (Symetis) in the second quarter of 2017, NxThera, Inc. (NxThera) in the second quarter of 2018, Claret Medical, Inc. (Claret) in the third quarter of 2018 and Augmenix, Inc. (Augmenix) in the fourth quarter of 2018, each with no prior period related net sales.1 Refer to the Business and Market Overview section for further discussion of our net sales by global business.  

Our reported net income in 2018 was $1.671 billion, or $1.19 per diluted share. Our reported results for 2018 included certain charges and/or credits totaling $389 million (after-tax), or $0.28 per diluted share. Excluding these items, adjusted net income for 2018 was $2.060 billion, or $1.47 per diluted share.1 

Our reported net income in 2017 was $104 million, or $0.08 per diluted share. Our reported results for 2017 included certain charges and/or credits totaling $1.647 billion (after-tax), or $1.18 per diluted share. Excluding these items, adjusted net income for 2017 was $1.752 billion, or $1.26 per diluted share.1 

1 Operational net sales growth rates, which exclude the impact of foreign currency fluctuations and adjusted net income and adjusted net income per share, which exclude certain items required by generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (U.S. GAAP), are not prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP and should not be considered in isolation from, or as a replacement for, the most directly comparable GAAP measure. Refer to Additional Information for a discussion of management’s use of these non-GAAP financial measures. 

 35

The following is a reconciliation of our results of operations prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP to those adjusted results considered by management. Refer to Results of Operations for a discussion of each reconciling item:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Cash provided by operating activities was $310 million in 2018. As of December 31, 2018, we had total debt of $7.056 billion, Cash and cash equivalents of $146 million and a working capital deficit of $1.257 billion. Refer to Liquidity and Capital Resources for further information. 

 36

Business and Market Overview

The following section describes an overview of our product offerings and results of operations by business unit. For additional information on our businesses and their product offerings, see Item 1. Business of this Annual Report. 

Effective January 1, 2018, following organizational changes to align the structure of our business with our focus on active implantable devices, we revised our reportable segments, in accordance with FASB ASC Topic 280, Segment Reporting. The revision reflects a reclassification of our Neuromodulation business from our MedSurg segment to our newly created Rhythm and Neuro segment. We have revised prior year amounts to conform to the current year’s presentation (as denoted with an asterisk (*) throughout). There was no revision to operating segments or reporting units as a result of the organizational change. Refer to Note A – Significant Accounting Policies to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this Annual Report for additional information.

MedSurg

Endoscopy

Our Endoscopy business develops and manufactures devices to diagnose and treat a broad range of gastrointestinal (GI) and pulmonary conditions with innovative, less invasive technologies.

Our net sales of Endoscopy products of $1.762 billion represented approximately 18 percent of our consolidated net sales in 2018. Our Endoscopy net sales increased $143 million, or 8.8 percent, in 2018, as compared to 2017. This increase included operational net sales growth of 8.3 percent and the positive impact of 50 basis points from foreign currency fluctuations, as compared to 2017. This year-over-year increase was primarily driven by growth in our hemostasis franchise featuring our Resolution 360™ Clip, our biliary franchise with both our SpyGlass™ DS Direct Visualization System and AXIOS™ Stent and Electrocautery Enhanced Delivery System and our infection prevention products and pathology services. 

Urology and Pelvic Health

Our Urology and Pelvic Health business develops and manufactures devices to treat various urological and pelvic conditions for both male and female anatomies.

Our net sales of Urology and Pelvic Health products of $1.245 billion represented approximately 13 percent of our consolidated net sales in 2018. Urology and Pelvic Health net sales increased $122 million, or 10.8 percent, in 2018, as compared to 2017. This increase included operational net sales growth of 10.6 percent and the positive impact of 20 basis points from foreign currency fluctuations, as compared to 2017. This year-over-year increase was primarily attributable to growth in sales of our stone franchise, including our LithoVue™ Digital Flexible Ureteroscope, our men's health products and our benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH) product family, including the Rezūm™ System purchased as part of our NxThera acquisition and the SpaceOAR™ Hydrogel System purchased as part of our Augmenix acquisition. 

Rhythm and Neuro

Cardiac Rhythm Management

Our Cardiac Rhythm Management (CRM) business develops and manufactures a variety of implantable devices that monitor the heart and deliver electricity to treat cardiac abnormalities. 

Our net sales of CRM products of $1.951 billion represented approximately 20 percent of our consolidated net sales in 2018. Our net sales of CRM products increased $56 million, or 2.9 percent, in 2018, as compared to 2017. This increase included operational net sales growth of 2.1 percent and the positive impact of 80 basis points from foreign currency fluctuations, as compared to 2017. This year-over-year increase was driven by the global strength of our implantable cardioverter defibrillator (ICD), our implantable cardiac resynchronization therapy defibrillator (CRT-D) and our subcutaneous implantable cardiac defibrillator (S-ICD) products. Our current generation of ICD and CRT-D products were both favorably impacted by our U.S. magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) safe conditional labeling, which was approved by the FDA in September 2017 and launched in the fourth quarter of 2017. Our defibrillator growth was also driven by a combination of the ongoing global commercialization of our RESONATE™ family of ICD and CRT-D devices which includes our HeartLogic™ Heart Failure (HF) Diagnostic and the increasing market penetration of our S-ICDs. This year-over-year defibrillator growth was partially offset by declines in our pacemaker portfolio due to market share loss as a result of competitive product entrance. 

 37

Electrophysiology

Our Electrophysiology business develops and manufactures less-invasive medical technologies used in the diagnosis and treatment of rate and rhythm disorders of the heart.

Our net sales of Electrophysiology products of $311 million represented approximately three percent of our consolidated net sales in 2018. Our Electrophysiology net sales increased $33 million, or 12.1 percent, in 2018, as compared to 2017. This increase included operational net sales growth of 10.9 percent and the positive impact of 120 basis points from foreign currency fluctuations, as compared to 2017. This year-over-year increase was primarily driven by global expansion of our Rhythmia™ Mapping System products and capital equipment offerings, our expanded portfolio of navigation enabled open-irrigated catheters, including the Blazer IntellaNav MiFi™ Open-Irrigated catheter, and advanced diagnostic catheters, including the IntellaMap Orion™ Mapping Catheter. 

Neuromodulation

Our Neuromodulation business develops and manufactures devices to treat various neurological movement disorders and manage chronic pain.

Our net sales of Neuromodulation products of $779 million represented eight percent of our consolidated net sales in 2018. Neuromodulation net sales increased $144 million, or 22.7 percent, in 2018, as compared to 2017. This increase included operational net sales growth of 22.5 percent and the positive impact of 20 basis points from foreign currency fluctuations, as compared to 2017. This year-over-year increase was primarily driven by the successful launch of Spectra WaveWriter™ Spinal Cord Stimulator (SCS) Systems in the U.S. and the continued strong sales growth in our Vercise™ Deep Brain Stimulation (DBS) Systems. 

Cardiovascular

Interventional Cardiology

Our Interventional Cardiology business develops and manufactures technologies for diagnosing and treating coronary artery disease and other cardiovascular disorders including structural heart conditions.

Our net sales of Interventional Cardiology products of $2.590 billion represented approximately 26 percent of our consolidated net sales in 2018. Our Interventional Cardiology net sales increased $171 million, or 7.1 percent, in 2018, as compared to 2017. This increase included operational net sales growth of 6.6 percent and the positive impact of 50 basis points from foreign currency fluctuations, as compared to 2017. This year-over-year increase was primarily related to our structural heart therapies, including sales of our WATCHMAN™ Left Atrial Appendage Closure (LAAC) Device, our ACURATE™ Transcatheter Aortic Valve Replacement (TAVR) platform purchased as part of our Symetis acquisition, our Sentinel™ Cerebral Embolic Protection System purchased as part of our Claret acquisition and our complex percutaneous coronary interventions (PCI) product offerings, partially offset by a decline in sales of our drug-eluting coronary stent product offerings. 

Peripheral Interventions

Our Peripheral Interventions business develops and manufactures products to diagnose and treat peripheral arterial diseases, including a broad line of medical devices used in percutaneous transluminal angioplasty (PTA) and peripheral vascular diseases, as well as products to diagnose, treat and ease various forms of cancer.

Our net sales of Peripheral Interventions products of $1.187 billion represented approximately 12 percent of our consolidated net sales in 2018. Our Peripheral Interventions net sales increased $106 million, or 9.8 percent, in 2018, as compared to 2017. This increase included operational net sales growth of 9.2 percent and the positive impact of 60 basis points from foreign currency fluctuations, as compared to 2017. This year-over-year increase was primarily driven by strong performance in each region, particularly in Asia Pacific and U.S., and growth in our interventional oncology product solutions, drug-eluting technologies, including Ranger™ Drug-Coated Balloon and Eluvia™ Drug Eluting Vascular Stent System and core technologies to treat vascular diseases. 

 38

Emerging Markets

As part of our strategic imperatives to drive global expansion, described in Item 1. Business of this Annual Report, we are seeking to grow net sales and market share by expanding our global presence, including in Emerging Markets. We define Emerging Markets as including 20 countries that we believe have strong growth potential based on their economic conditions, healthcare sectors and our global capabilities. We have increased our investment in infrastructure in these countries in order to maximize opportunities. Our Emerging Markets net sales represented 11 percent of our consolidated net sales in 2018 and 10 percent in 2017. In 2018, our Emerging Markets net sales grew 18.0 percent on a reported basis including operational net sales growth of 21.4 percent and the negative impact of 340 basis points from foreign currency fluctuations, as compared to 2017.

 39

Results of Operations

Net Sales

The following table provides our net sales by business and the relative change in growth on a reported basis: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Refer to Executive Summary for further discussion of our net sales and a comparison of our 2018 and 2017 net sales.

In 2017, we generated net sales of $9.048 billion, as compared to $8.386 billion in 2016. This increase of $662 million, or 7.9 percent, included operational net sales growth of 7.8 percent and a positive impact of 10 basis points from foreign currency fluctuations, as compared to 2016. This increase was primarily due to increases in net sales from our Endoscopy business of $179 million, which included sales from our acquisition of EndoChoice Holdings, Inc. (EndoChoice) during the fourth quarter of 2016, from our Interventional Cardiology business of $138 million, primarily due to increased sales from our WATCHMAN™ LAAC Technology and from our acquisition of Symetis SA (Symetis) during the second quarter of 2017, and from our Urology and Pelvic Health business of $119 million.

Gross Profit

Our gross profit was $7.011 billion in 2018, $6.455 billion in 2017 and $5.962 billion in 2016. As a percentage of net sales, our gross profit increased to 71.4 percent in 2018, as compared to 71.3 percent in 2017 and 71.1 percent in 2016. The following is a reconciliation of our gross profit margins and a description of the drivers of the change from period to period:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

 40

The primary factors contributing to the increase in our gross profit margin for 2018 as compared to 2017 were the positive impacts of cost reductions resulting from our process improvement programs and restructuring programs and favorable period expense, partially offset by negative impacts from foreign currency fluctuations. The primary factors contributing to the increase in our gross profit margin for 2017 as compared to 2016 were the positive impacts of cost reductions resulting from our process improvement programs and restructuring program, partially offset by negative impacts from foreign currency fluctuations and unfavorable period expense. Our gross profit margin in 2017 included unfavorable period expenses due to the charges we recorded in the first quarter of 2017 related to the voluntary removal of Lotus Valve Devices from global commercial and clinical sites.

Operating Expenses

The following table provides a summary of certain of our operating expenses:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Selling, General and Administrative (SG&A) Expenses

In 2018, our SG&A expenses increased $275 million, or eight percent, as compared to 2017 and was 10 basis points lower as a percentage of net sales. This decrease in SG&A expenses as a percentage of net sales was primarily due to leverage from increased sales, as well as the benefit of our targeted initiatives focused on reducing SG&A expenses such as end-to-end business process streamlining and automation, including functional expansion of global shared service and robotic process utilization. In 2017, our SG&A expenses increased $195 million, or six percent, as compared to 2016 and were 60 basis points lower as a percentage of net sales. This decrease in SG&A expenses as a percentage of net sales was primarily driven by increased net sales, as well as the benefit of our targeted initiatives focused on reducing SG&A expenses.

Research and Development (R&D) Expenses

We remain committed to advancing medical technologies and investing in meaningful research and development projects across our businesses. In 2018, our R&D expenses increased $116 million, or 12 percent, as compared to 2017, and were 30 basis points higher as a percentage of net sales. In 2017, our R&D expenses increased $77 million, or eight percent, as compared to 2016, yet remained flat as a percentage of net sales. R&D expenses increased each year as a result of investments across our businesses in order to maintain a pipeline of new products that we believe will contribute to profitable sales growth. 

Royalty Expense

In 2018, our Royalty expense increased $2 million, or three percent, as compared to 2017 and was 10 basis points lower as a percentage of net sales. The increase in Royalty expense in 2018, as compared to 2017, relates primarily to increased sales partially offset by expired royalties in certain countries. 

In 2017, our Royalty expense decreased $11 million, or 14 percent, as compared to 2016 and was 10 basis points lower as a percentage of net sales. The decrease in Royalty expense in 2017 as compared to 2016 relates primarily to a renegotiated lower royalty rate structure on certain products.

 41

The following table provides a summary of certain of our other operating expenses, which are excluded by management for purposes of evaluating operating performance:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Amortization Expense

In 2018, our Amortization expense increased $33 million, or six percent, as compared to 2017. In 2017, our Amortization expense increased $20 million, or four percent, as compared to 2016. The increases in each period were primarily due to amortizable intangible assets acquired as part of our recent acquisitions including Symetis in the second quarter of 2017, nVision Medical Corporation (nVision) and NxThera in the second quarter of 2018 and Augmenix in the fourth quarter of 2018.

Intangible Asset Impairment Charges

In 2018, 2017 and 2016, our Intangible asset impairment charges were immaterial. Refer to Critical Accounting Estimates for a discussion of key assumptions used in our goodwill and intangible asset impairment testing and future events that could have a negative impact on the recoverability of our goodwill and amortizable intangible assets.

Contingent Consideration Expense (Benefit)

In 2018 and 2017, we recorded net benefits, and in 2016, we recorded net expenses related to the change in fair value of our contingent consideration liability. Refer to Note B – Acquisitions and Strategic Investments to our consolidated financial statements contained in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this Annual Report for additional details related to our contingent consideration arrangements.

Restructuring and Restructuring-related Activities

In 2018, 2017 and 2016, our restructuring and restructuring-related charges remained relatively flat for all periods.

In November 2018, the Board of Directors approved, and we committed to, a new global restructuring program (the 2019 Restructuring Plan). The 2019 Restructuring Plan is expected to result in total pre-tax charges of approximately $200 million to $300 million and reduce gross annual pre-tax operating expenses by approximately $100 million to $150 million by the end of 2022 as program benefits are realized. The 2016 Restructuring Plan is expected to result in total pre-tax charges of approximately $275 million to $325 million and is expected to reduce gross annual expenses by approximately $165 million to $175 million by the end of 2020 as program benefits are realized. A substantial portion of the savings from both programs are being reinvested in strategic growth initiatives. 

As of December 31, 2018, we have made cumulative cash payments of $197 million in association with our 2016 Restructuring Plan.

See Note G – Restructuring-related Activities to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this Annual Report for additional details on our restructuring plans.

Litigation-related Net Charges (Credits)

In 2018, 2017 and 2016, our litigation-related net charges were primarily in connection with transvaginal surgical mesh product liability cases and claims.

We continue to assess certain litigation and claims to determine the amounts, if any, that management believes will be paid as a result of such claims and litigation, and therefore, additional losses may be accrued and paid in the future, which could materially 

 42

adversely impact our operating results, cash flows and/or our ability to comply with our debt covenants. Refer to Note J – Commitments and Contingencies to our consolidated financial statements contained in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this Annual Report for additional discussion of our material legal proceedings.

Interest Expense

The following table provides a summary of our Interest expense and average borrowing rate:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Refer to Liquidity and Capital Resources in this Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Note D – Hedging Activities and Fair Value Measurements and Note E – Borrowings and Credit Arrangements to our consolidated financial statements contained in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this Annual Report for information regarding our debt obligations.

Other, net

The following are the components of Other, net:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

In 2018, we recorded gains of $184 million based on the difference between the book values and the fair values of our previously-held investments immediately prior to the acquisition dates, which aggregated to $251 million. We remeasured the fair value of each previously-held investment based on the implied enterprise value and allocation of purchase price consideration according to priority of equity interests. Gains and losses recorded on previously-held investments are excluded by management for purposes of evaluating operating performance.

Refer to Note B – Acquisitions and Strategic Investments to our consolidated financial statements contained in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this Annual Report for information regarding our strategic investments.

Tax Rate

The following table provides a summary of our reported tax rate:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)These receipts/charges are taxed at different rates than our effective tax rate.

The change in our reported tax rate for 2018, as compared to 2017 and 2016, relates primarily to the impact of certain receipts and charges that are taxed at different rates than our effective tax rate. These receipts and charges included intangible asset impairment charges, acquisition-related items, restructuring and restructuring-related items, litigation-related items, as well as certain discrete tax items. Included in the discrete tax items were the effective settlement of our transfer pricing dispute with the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) for the 2001 through 2010 tax years, the conclusion of the IRS examinations of our 2011 through 2013 tax years, and the final impact of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (TCJA), enacted on December 22, 2017.

 43

In 2017, these receipts and charges included intangible asset impairment charges, acquisition-related items, restructuring and restructuring-related items, litigation-related items and certain investment impairments. Our reported tax rate for 2017 was also affected by discrete items primarily related to the TCJA.

In 2016, these receipts and charges included intangible asset impairment charges, acquisition-related items, restructuring and restructuring-related items and litigation-related items. Our reported tax rate for 2016 was also affected by discrete items primarily related to the resolution of various uncertain tax positions through settlement or expiration of statute, offset by a charge related to changes in state apportionment.

During 2010 and 2011, we received Notices of Deficiency from the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) reflecting proposed audit adjustments for Guidant Corporation (Guidant) for its 2001 through 2006 tax years and our 2006 and 2007 tax years. The total incremental tax liability asserted by the IRS for the applicable periods was $1.162 billion plus interest. The primary issue in dispute for all years was the transfer pricing associated with the technology license agreements between domestic and foreign subsidiaries of Guidant. In addition, the IRS proposed adjustments in connection with the financial terms of our Transaction Agreement with Abbott Laboratories pertaining to the sale of Guidant's vascular intervention business to Abbott Laboratories in April 2006. During 2014, we received a Revenue Agent Report (RAR) from the IRS reflecting significant proposed audit adjustments to our 2008, 2009 and 2010 tax years based upon the same transfer pricing methodologies that the IRS applied to our 2001 through 2007 tax years. 

We contested in U.S. Tax Court the proposed adjustments from the IRS for Guidant for its 2001 through 2006 tax years and our 2006 and 2007 tax years related to its audit of our transfer pricing methodologies. During 2016, we entered a Stipulation of Settled Issues with the IRS intended to resolve all of the aforementioned transfer pricing issues, as well as issues related to our 2006 transaction with Abbott Laboratories. This stipulation was contingent upon the IRS Office of Appeals applying the same basis of settlement to all transfer pricing issues for the 2008 through 2010 tax years. 

In the second quarter of 2018, a decision was entered by the U.S. Tax Court resolving all disputes related to the transfer pricing issues for Guidant for its 2001 through 2006 tax years and our 2006 and 2007 tax years as well as the tax issues related to our 2006 transaction with Abbott Laboratories. Additionally, we resolved all issues with the IRS Office of Appeals for our 2008 through 2010 tax years, including the transfer pricing issue and other unrelated issues. The final settlement calculation included certain elections made in these relevant years and resulted in a final net tax payment of $303 million plus $307 million of estimated interest, which was remitted in the second quarter of 2018. Due to the final settlement of these disputes, we recorded a net tax benefit of $250 million in 2018. 

In the fourth quarter of 2018, we received a RAR from the IRS for our 2011 through 2013 tax years. The RAR reflected transfer pricing adjustments consistent with the basis of settlement for all transfer pricing issues agreed to in the Stipulation of Settled Issues. We remitted $93 million to the IRS in the fourth quarter of 2018 reflecting the net balance of tax and interest due for these years after consideration of amounts owed to us by the IRS. Due to the resolution of these tax years, we recorded a net tax benefit of $90 million.

See Note I - Income Taxes to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this Annual Report for additional details on our tax rate.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

Based on our current business plan, we believe our existing balance of Cash and cash equivalents, future cash generated from operations, access to capital markets and existing credit facilities will be sufficient to fund our operations, invest in our infrastructure, pay our legal-related liabilities, pay taxes due, fund possible mergers and/or acquisitions and service and repay our existing debt. Please refer to Contractual Obligations and Commitments below for additional details on our future payment obligations and commitments.

As of December 31, 2018, we had $146 million of Cash and cash equivalents on hand, comprised of $13 million invested in money market and government funds and $133 million in interest bearing and non-interest-bearing bank accounts. We invest excess cash on hand in short-term financial instruments that earn at market interest rates while mitigating principal risk through instrument and counterparty diversification, as well as what we believe to be prudent instrument selection. We limit our direct exposure to securities in any one industry or issuer. We also have access to our $2.750 billion commercial paper program, which is backed by our 2018 revolving credit facility entered into on December 19, 2018. As of December 31, 2018, we had $1.248 billion in commercial paper debt outstanding resulting in an additional $1.502 billion of available liquidity.

 44

For the purpose of funding the proposed BTG Acquisition, as described below, we have access to a bridge facility entered into on November 20, 2018 (Bridge Facility), which is comprised of a £3.115 billion debt bridge facility and a £200 million cash bridge facility for an  aggregate principal amount of £3.315 billion. Borrowings from the debt bridge facility mature in 364 days from the date of the first borrowing under the Bridge Facility, and borrowings from the cash bridge facility mature 90 days from the date of the first borrowing under the Bridge Facility. In addition, on December 19, 2018, we entered into a $1.000 billion two-year delayed draw term loan credit facility, maturing in two years from the date of the closing of the proposed BTG Acquisition (Two-Year Delayed Draw Term Loan) and a $1.000 billion three-year delayed draw term loan credit facility, maturing in three years from the date of the closing of the proposed BTG Acquisition (Three-Year Delayed Draw Term Loan). As of December 31, 2018, we had no amounts borrowed under the Bridge Facility, the Two-Year Delayed Draw Term Loan or the Three-Year Delayed Draw Term Loan. In December 2018, in connection with our new term loans and currency hedging activities, we reduced the debt bridge facility by an aggregate amount of £1.569 billion to a remaining available amount of £1.546 billion.

On December 19, 2018 and effective on December 20, 2018, we terminated our $400 million credit and security facility secured by our U.S. trade receivables. We had no amounts outstanding under this facility as of December 31, 2017.

For additional information on our credit facilities, refer to Note E – Borrowings and Credit Arrangements to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this Annual Report.

The following provides a summary and description of our net cash inflows (outflows):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Operating Activities

In 2018, cash from operating activities decreased $1.116 billion, or 78 percent, as compared to 2017. This decrease was primarily due to the IRS tax settlement in 2018.

In 2017, cash from operating activities increased $244 million, or 21 percent, as compared to 2016. This increase was primarily driven by the increase in operating profit for 2017 compared to 2016. 

2Adjusted free cash flow, which excludes certain items required by U.S. GAAP is not prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP and should not be considered in isolation from, or as a replacement for, the most directly comparable GAAP measure. Refer to Additional Information for a discussion of management’s use of non-GAAP financial measures. 

 45

Investing Activities

In 2018, cash used for investing activities included $1.448 billion of payments, net of cash acquired, for acquisitions including Augmenix, NxThera, Cryterion Medical, Inc., Claret and nVision, $316 million of payments for purchases of property, plant and equipment and $172 million of payments related to investments and acquisitions of certain technologies, including our $90 million investment in Millipede, Inc. in the first quarter of 2018.

In 2017, cash used for investing activities included $560 million of payments, net of cash acquired, for acquisitions including Symetis and Apama Medical Inc. (Apama), $319 million of payments for purchases of property, plant and equipment, including amounts to complete our manufacturing plant in Malaysia and $131 million of payments related to investments and acquisitions of certain technologies.

In 2016, cash used for investing activities included $408 million of payments net of cash acquired, for acquisitions including EndoChoice, $376 million in purchases of property, plant and equipment and $132 million of payments related to investments and acquisitions of certain technologies, partially offset by proceeds from the sale of one of two buildings located in Quincy, Massachusetts for $29 million. 

Financing Activities

Our cash flows from financing activities reflect issuances and repayments of debt, including our commercial paper program and cash used for new share settlement and stock issuances related to our equity incentive programs, as discussed in Note K - Stockholders' Equity to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this Annual Report. Additionally, our financing activities included $19 million of contingent payments in 2018, $33 million of payments in 2017 and $65 million of payments in 2016 associated with our previous acquisitions.

Our liquidity plans are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including those described in Item 1A. Risk Factors of this Annual Report, some of which are outside our control. Macroeconomic conditions, adverse litigation outcomes and other risks and uncertainties could limit our ability to successfully execute our business plans and adversely affect our liquidity plans.

Debt

The following table presents the current and long-term portions of our total debt:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The following table presents the portions of our total debt that are comprised of fixed and variable rate debt instruments, which are presented on an amortized cost basis:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

As of and through December 31, 2018, we were in compliance with all the required covenants related to our debt obligations. For additional details related to our debt obligations, including our debt covenant requirements, refer to Note E – Borrowings and Credit Arrangements to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this Annual Report.

 46

Equity

During 2018 we received $101 million in proceeds from stock issuances related to our stock option and employee stock purchase plans, as compared to $85 million in 2017 and $111 million 2016. Proceeds from the exercise of employee stock options and employee stock purchases vary from period to period based upon, among other factors, fluctuations in the trading price of our common stock and in the exercise and stock purchase patterns of employees.

We did not repurchase any shares of our common stock during 2018, 2017, or 2016. As of December 31, 2018, we had remaining approximately $535 million authorized under our 2013 share repurchase program. There were approximately 248 million shares in treasury as of December 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017.

Stock-based compensation expense related to our stock ownership plans was $140 million in 2018, $127 million in 2017 and $116 million in 2016. Stock-based compensation expense varies from period to period based upon, among other factors, the timing, number and fair value of awards granted during the period, forfeiture levels related to unvested awards and employee contributions to our employee stock purchase plan.

Contractual Obligations and Commitments

The following table provides a summary of certain information concerning our obligations and commitments to make future payments and is based on conditions in existence as of December 31, 2018:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Debt obligations are comprised of our senior notes, term loan and commercial paper outstanding as of December 31, 2018. This does not include unamortized debt issuance discounts, deferred financing costs and gain on fair value hedges or capital lease obligations. Refer to Note E – Borrowings and Credit Arrangements to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this Annual Report for additional information.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(3)On January 29, 2019, we announced the closing of our acquisition of Millipede, Inc. (Millipede) after exercising our option to acquire the remaining shares of Millipede in the fourth quarter of 2018 upon the recent successful completion of a first-in-human clinical study. The transaction price for the remaining stake consists of an upfront cash payment of $325 million, which was paid in January 2019 and included in the table above, and up to an additional $125 million payment upon achievement of a commercial milestone, which has not been achieved and is not included in the table above. Refer to Note B – Acquisitions and Strategic Investments to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this Annual Report for additional information.

The amounts in the table above with respect to lease obligations represent amounts pursuant to contractual arrangements for the lease of property, plant and equipment used in the normal course of business. Purchase obligations relate primarily to non-cancellable inventory commitments and capital expenditures entered in the normal course of business. Royalty obligations reported above represent minimum contractual obligations under our current royalty agreements. 

The table above does not include:

•Our long-term liability for legal matters that are probable and estimable of $217 million due to the timing of payment being uncertain. Refer to Note J – Commitments and Contingencies to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this Annual Report for more information,

 47

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•With certain of our acquisitions, we acquired IPR&D projects that require future funding to complete the projects. We estimate that the total remaining R&D cost to complete acquired IPR&D projects is between $55 million and $65 million. Net cash inflows from the projects currently in development are expected to commence in 2018 and will continue through 2031, following the respective launches of these technologies in the U.S., Europe and Japan. Certain of our acquisitions also involve the potential payment of contingent consideration, but the timing and amounts are uncertain. See Note B – Acquisitions and Strategic Investments to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this Annual Report for more information, and

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Legal Matters

For a discussion of our material legal proceedings see Note J – Commitments and Contingencies to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this Annual Report.

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates

Our financial results are affected by the selection and application of accounting policies and methods. We have adopted accounting policies to prepare our consolidated financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP. 

To prepare our consolidated financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP, management makes estimates and assumptions that may affect the reported amounts of our assets and liabilities, including our contingent liability, as of the date of our financial statements and the reported amounts of our revenues and expenses during the reporting periods. Our actual results may differ from these estimates. We consider estimates to be critical (i) if we are required to make assumptions about material matters that are uncertain at the time of estimation or (ii) if materially different estimates could have been made or it is reasonably likely that the accounting estimate will change from period to period. The following are areas considered to be critical and require management’s judgment: Revenue Recognition, Bad Debt Reserves, Inventory Provisions, Valuation of Intangible Assets and Contingent Consideration Liability, Goodwill Valuation, Legal and Product Liability Accruals and Income Taxes.

See Note A – Significant Accounting Policies to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this Annual Report for additional information related to our accounting policies and our consideration of these critical accounting areas. In addition, see Note B – Acquisitions and Strategic Investments and Note C - Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets for further discussion of the valuation of goodwill and intangible assets and contingent consideration, Note I - Income Taxes for further discussion of income tax related matters, Note J – Commitments and Contingencies for further discussion of legal and product liability matters and Note O – Revenue for further discussion of revenue recognition.

Revenue Recognition

Deferred Revenue

We record a contract liability, or deferred revenue, when we have an obligation to provide a product or service to the customer and payment is received or due in advance of our performance. When we sell a device with a future service obligation, we defer revenue on the unfulfilled performance obligation and recognize this revenue over the related service period. Many of our Cardiac Rhythm Management (CRM) product offerings combine the sale of a device with our LATITUDE™ Patient Management System, which represents a future service obligation. Generally, we do not have observable evidence of the standalone selling price related 

 48

to our future service obligations; therefore, we estimate the selling price using an expected cost plus a margin approach. We allocate the transaction price using the relative standalone selling price method. The use of alternative estimates could result in a different amount of revenue deferral.

Contract liabilities are classified within Other current liabilities and Other long-term liabilities on our accompanying consolidated balance sheets. Our contractual liabilities are primarily composed of deferred revenue related to the LATITUDE Patient Management System. Revenue is recognized over the average service period which is based on device and patient longevity.

Variable Consideration

We generally allow our customers to return defective, damaged and, in certain cases, expired products for credit. We base our estimate for sales returns upon historical trends and record the amount as a reduction to revenue when we sell the initial product. In addition, we may allow customers to return previously purchased products for next-generation product offerings. For these transactions, we defer recognition of revenue on the sale of the earlier generation product based upon an estimate of the amount of product to be returned when the next-generation products are shipped to the customer. Uncertain timing of next-generation product approvals, variability in product launch strategies, product recalls and variation in product utilization all affect our estimates related to sales returns and could cause actual returns to differ from these estimates.

We also offer sales rebates and discounts to certain customers. We treat sales rebates and discounts as a reduction of revenue and classify the corresponding liability as current. We estimate rebates for products where there is sufficient historical information available to predict the volume of expected future rebates. If we are unable to reasonably estimate the expected rebates, we record a liability for the maximum rebate percentage offered.

Post Implant Services

We provide non-contractual services to customers to ensure the safe and effective use of certain implanted devices. Since our modified retrospective adoption of FASB ASC Topic 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers on January 1, 2018, because the revenue related to the immaterial services is recognized before they are delivered, we forward accrue the costs to provide these services at the time the devices are sold. We record these costs to Selling, general and administrative expenses. We estimate the amount of time spent by our representatives performing these services and their compensation throughout the device life to determine the service cost. Changes to our business practice or the use of alternative estimates could result in a different amount of accrued cost. Refer to Note A – Significant Accounting Policies and Note O – Revenue to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this Annual Report for further information on our adoption of FASB ASC Topic 606 and our revenue recognition accounting policies.

Inventory Provisions

We base our provisions for excess, expired and obsolete inventory primarily on our estimates of forecasted net sales. A significant change in the timing or level of demand for our products as compared to forecasted amounts may result in recording additional provisions for excess, expired and obsolete inventory in the future. Further, the industry in which we participate is characterized by rapid product development and frequent new product introductions. Uncertain timing of next-generation product approvals, variability in product launch strategies, product recalls and variation in product utilization all affect our estimates related to excess, expired and obsolete inventory.

Valuation of Intangible Assets and Contingent Consideration Liability

We base the fair value of identifiable intangible assets acquired in a business combination, including IPR&D, on detailed valuations that use information and assumptions provided by management, which consider management’s best estimates of inputs and assumptions that a market participant would use. Further, for those arrangements that involve potential future contingent consideration, we record on the date of acquisition a liability equal to the fair value of the estimated additional consideration we may be obligated to make in the future. We re-measure this liability each reporting period and record changes in the fair value through a separate line item within our consolidated statements of operations. Increases or decreases in the fair value of the contingent consideration liability can result from changes in discount rates, periods, timing and amount of projected revenue or timing or likelihood of achieving regulatory, revenue or commercialization-based milestones. The use of alternative valuation assumptions, including estimated revenue projections, growth rates, cash flows, discount rates, useful life or probability of achieving clinical, regulatory or revenue-based milestones could result in different purchase price allocations and recognized amortization expense and contingent consideration expense or benefit in current and future periods.

 49

We review intangible assets subject to amortization quarterly to determine if any adverse conditions exist or a change in circumstances has occurred that would indicate impairment or adjustment to the remaining useful life. If we determine it is more likely than not that the asset is impaired based on our qualitative assessment of impairment indicators, we test the intangible asset for recoverability. If the carrying value of the intangible asset is determined not recoverable, we will write the carrying value down to fair value in the period identified. We calculate fair value of our intangible assets as the present value of estimated future cash flows we expect to generate from the asset using a risk-adjusted discount rate. The use of alternative assumptions, including estimated cash flows, discount rates and alternative estimated remaining useful lives could result in different calculations of impairment.

In addition, we test our indefinite-lived intangible assets at least annually for impairment and reassess their classification as indefinite-lived assets, or more frequently if change in circumstance or indicators exist. We assess qualitative factors to determine whether the existence of events and circumstances indicate that it is more likely than not that our indefinite-lived intangible assets are impaired. If we conclude that it is more likely than not that the asset is impaired, we then determine the fair value of the intangible asset and perform the quantitative impairment test by comparing the fair value with the carrying value in accordance with FASB ASC Topic 350, Intangibles - Goodwill and Other (FASB ASC Topic 350). If the carrying value exceeds the fair value of the indefinite-lived intangible asset, we write the carrying value down to fair value. The use of alternative valuation assumptions, including estimated revenue projections, growth rates, cash flows and discount rates could result in different fair value estimates. 

Goodwill Valuation

We allocate any excess purchase price over the fair value of the net tangible and identifiable intangible assets acquired in a business combination to goodwill. We test our goodwill balances during the second quarter of each year for impairment, or more frequently if indicators are present or changes in circumstances suggest that impairment may exist. We assess goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level, which is defined as an operating segment or one level below an operating segment, referred to as a component. For our 2018, 2017 and 2016 annual impairment assessment, we identified seven reporting units: Interventional Cardiology, Peripheral Interventions, Cardiac Rhythm Management, Electrophysiology, Endoscopy, Urology and Pelvic Health and Neuromodulation. Beginning in 2016, we aggregated the Cardiac Rhythm Management and Electrophysiology reporting units, components of the Rhythm Management operating segment, based on the criteria prescribed in FASB ASC Topic 350. These reporting units were aggregated due to a reorganization that commenced in 2015 that resulted in integrated leadership, shared resources and consolidation of certain sites in 2016.

Refer to Note A – Significant Accounting Policies to our consolidated financial statements contained in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this Annual Report for additional details related to our annual goodwill impairment assessments performed in 2018, 2017 and 2016.

Although we use consistent methodologies in developing the assumptions and estimates underlying the fair value calculations used in our impairment tests, these estimates are uncertain by nature and can vary from actual results. The use of alternative valuation assumptions, including estimated revenue projections, growth rates, cash flows and discount rates could result in different fair value estimates. 

Future events that could have a negative impact on the levels of excess fair value over carrying value of our reporting units include, but are not limited to, the following: 

•decreases in estimated market sizes or market growth rates due to greater-than-expected declines in procedural volumes, pricing pressures, reductions in reimbursement levels, product actions and/or competitive technology developments, 

•declines in our market share and penetration assumptions due to increased competition, an inability to develop or launch new and next-generation products and technology features in line with our commercialization strategies and market and/or regulatory conditions that may cause significant launch delays or product recalls, 

•decreases in our forecasted profitability due to an inability to implement successfully and achieve timely and sustainable cost improvement measures consistent with our expectations, 

•negative developments in intellectual property litigation that may impact our ability to market certain products or increase our costs to sell certain products, 

•the level of success of ongoing and future research and development efforts, including those related to recent acquisitions and increases in the research and development costs necessary to obtain regulatory approvals and launch new products, 

 50

•the level of success in managing the growth of acquired companies, achieving sustained profitability consistent with our expectations, establishing government and third-party payer reimbursement, supplying the market and increases in the costs and time necessary to integrate acquired businesses into our operations successfully, 

•changes in our reporting units or in the structure of our business as a result of future reorganizations, acquisitions or divestitures of assets or businesses and 

•increases in our market-participant risk-adjusted weighted average cost of capital (WACC) and increases in our market-participant tax rate and/or changes in tax laws or macroeconomic conditions.

Negative changes in one or more of these factors, among others, could result in future impairment charges.

Refer to Note C - Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets to our consolidated financial statements contained in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this Annual Report for additional details related to our annual goodwill balances.

Legal and Product Liability Accruals

In the normal course of business, we are involved in various legal and regulatory proceedings, including intellectual property, breach of contract, securities litigation and product liability suits. In some cases, the claimants seek damages, as well as other relief, which, if granted, could require significant expenditures or impact our ability to sell our products. We accrue anticipated costs of settlement, damages, losses for product liability claims and, under certain conditions, costs of defense, based on historical experience or to the extent specific losses are probable and estimable. Otherwise, we expense these costs as incurred. If the estimate of a probable loss is a range and no amount within the range is more likely, we accrue the minimum amount of the range. Litigation and product liability matters are inherently uncertain, and the outcomes of individual matters are difficult to predict and quantify. As such, significant judgment is required in determining our legal and product liability accruals. Our estimates related to our legal and product liability accruals may change as additional information becomes available to us, including information related to the nature or existence of claims against us, trial court or appellate proceedings, and mediation, arbitration or settlement proceedings.

Income Taxes

We establish reserves when we believe that certain positions are likely to be challenged despite our assertion that our tax return positions are fully supportable. The calculation of our tax liabilities involves significant judgment based on individual facts, circumstances and information available in addition to applying complex tax regulations in various jurisdictions across our global operations. Under U.S. GAAP, in order to recognize an uncertain tax benefit, the taxpayer must determine it is more likely than not the position will be sustained, and the measurement of the benefit is calculated as the largest amount that is more than 50 percent likely to be realized upon resolution of the benefit. Although we believe that we have adequately provided for liabilities resulting from tax assessments by taxing authorities, positions taken by these tax authorities could have a material impact on our effective tax rate, results of operations, financial position and/or cash flows.

As part of the Tax Cut and Jobs Act of 2017, we are subject to a territorial tax system in which we are required to make an accounting policy in providing for tax on Global Intangible Low Taxed Income (GILTI) earned by certain foreign subsidiaries. We have elected to treat the impact of GILTI as a period cost and will be reported as a part of continuing operations. 

New Accounting Pronouncements

See Note A – Significant Accounting Policies to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this Annual Report for additional information on standards implemented since December 31, 2017 and Note Q - New Accounting Pronouncements to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this Annual Report for additional information on standards to be implemented.

 51

Additional Information

Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures

To supplement our consolidated financial statements presented on a GAAP basis, we disclose certain non-GAAP financial measures, including adjusted net income (earnings) and adjusted net income (earnings) per share that exclude certain amounts, operational net sales growth that exclude the impact of foreign currency fluctuations and adjusted free cash flow that excludes certain amounts. These non-GAAP financial measures are not in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States and should not be considered in isolation from or as a replacement for the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures. Further, other companies may calculate these non-GAAP financial measures differently than we do, which may limit the usefulness of those measures for comparative purposes.

To calculate adjusted net income (earnings) and adjusted net income (earnings) per share we exclude certain charges (credits) from GAAP net income as detailed below. Amounts are presented after-tax using our effective tax rate, unless the amount is a significant unusual or infrequently occurring item in accordance with FASB ASC section 740-270-30, "General Methodology and Use of Estimated Annual Effective Tax Rate." The GAAP financial measure most directly comparable to adjusted net income is GAAP net income (loss) and the GAAP financial measure most directly comparable to adjusted net income per share is GAAP net income (loss) per share. 

To calculate operational net sales, which exclude the impact of foreign currency fluctuations, we convert actual net sales from local currency to U.S. dollars using constant foreign currency exchange rates in the current and prior periods. The GAAP financial measure most directly comparable to operational growth rate percentages is growth rate percentages using net sales on a GAAP basis. 

To calculate adjusted free cash flow, we exclude the cash component of certain charges (credits) that are also excluded from adjusted net income (earnings) as well as any cash tax benefits of such charges, as detailed below. In addition, we exclude tax settlements payments that relate to prior periods. The GAAP measure that is most directly comparable to adjusted free cash flow is free cash flow on a GAAP basis. Free cash flow on a GAAP basis is calculated by subtracting net purchases of property, plant and equipment from cash provided by operating activities.

Reconciliations of each of these non-GAAP financial measures to the corresponding GAAP financial measure are included in the relevant sections of this Annual Report.

Management uses these supplemental non-GAAP financial measures to evaluate performance period over period, to analyze the underlying trends in our business, to assess our performance relative to our competitors and to establish operational goals and forecasts that are used in allocating resources. In addition, management uses these non-GAAP financial measures to further its understanding of the performance of our operating segments. The adjustments excluded from our non-GAAP financial measures are consistent with those excluded from our operating segments’ measures of net sales and profit or loss. These adjustments are excluded from the segment measures reported to our chief operating decision maker that are used to make operating decisions and assess performance.

We believe that presenting adjusted net income, adjusted net income per share that exclude certain amounts, operational net sales growth that exclude the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, and adjusted free cash flow that excludes certain amounts, in addition to the corresponding GAAP financial measures, provides investors greater transparency to the information used by management for its operational decision-making and allows investors to see our results “through the eyes” of management. We further believe that providing this information assists our investors in understanding our operating performance and the methodology used by management to evaluate and measure such performance.

The following is an explanation of each of the adjustments that management excluded as part of these non-GAAP financial measures as well as reasons for excluding each of these individual items. In each case, management has excluded the item for purposes of calculating the relevant non-GAAP financial measure to facilitate an evaluation of our current operating performance and a comparison to our past operating performance:

Adjusted Net Income, Adjusted Net Income per Share and Adjusted Free Cash Flow

•Amortization expense - We record intangible assets at historical cost and amortize them over their estimated useful lives. Amortization expense is excluded from management's assessment of operating performance and is also excluded from our operating segments' measures of profit and loss used for making operating decisions and assessing performance. 

 52

•Intangible asset impairment charges - This amount represents write-downs of certain intangible asset balances during 2018, 2017 and 2016.We review intangible assets subject to amortization quarterly to determine if any adverse conditions exist or a change in circumstances has occurred that would indicate impairment and test our indefinite-lived intangible assets at least annually for impairment. If we determine the carrying value of the amortizable intangible asset is not recoverable or we conclude that it is more likely than not that the indefinite-live asset is impaired, we will write the carrying value down to fair value in the period identified. Impairment charges are excluded from management's assessment of operating performance and from our operating segments' measures of profit and loss used for making operating decisions and assessing performance.

•Acquisition-related net charges (credits) or payments- These adjustments may consist of (a) contingent consideration fair value adjustments; (b) gains on previously held investments; (c) due diligence, deal fees, inventory step-up amortization, integration and exit costs, other fees, and accelerated compensation expense; and (d) separation costs and gains primarily associated with the sale of a business or portion of a business. The contingent consideration adjustments represent accounting adjustments to state contingent consideration liabilities at their estimated fair value. These adjustments can be highly variable depending on the assessed likelihood and amount of future contingent consideration payments. Due diligence, deal fees, inventory step-up amortization, integration and exit costs include legal, tax, severance and other expenses associated with prior and potential future acquisitions and divestitures that can be highly variable and not representative of ongoing operations. Separation costs and gains/losses on the sale of a business unit would represent those costs associated with a divestiture and are not representative of ongoing operations. Acquisition-related net charges (credits) are excluded from management's assessment of operating performance and from our operating segments' measures of profit and loss used for making operating decisions and assessing performance.

•Restructuring and restructuring-related net charges (credits) or payments - These adjustments primarily represent compensation-related charges, fixed asset write-offs, contract cancellations, project management fees and other direct costs associated with our restructuring plans. These restructuring plans each consist of distinct initiatives that are fundamentally different from our ongoing, core cost reduction initiatives in terms of, among other things, the frequency with which each action is performed and the required planning, resourcing, cost and timing. Examples of such initiatives include the movement of business activities, facility consolidations and closures and the transfer of product lines between manufacturing facilities, which, due to the highly regulated nature of our industry, requires a significant investment in time and cost to create duplicate manufacturing lines, run product validations and seek regulatory approvals. Restructuring initiatives take place over a defined timeframe and have a distinct project timeline that begins subsequent to approval by our Board of Directors. In contrast to our ongoing cost reduction initiatives, restructuring initiatives typically result in duplicative cost and exit costs over this period of time, are one-time shut downs or transfers and are not considered part of our core, ongoing operations. These restructuring plans are incremental to the core activities that arise in the ordinary course of our business. Restructuring and restructuring-related net charges (credits) are excluded from management's assessment of operating performance and from our operating segments' measures of profit and loss used for making operating decisions and assessing performance.

•Litigation-related net charges (credits) or payments - These adjustments include certain significant product liability and other litigation-related charges and credits. We record these charges and credits, which we consider to be unusual or infrequent and significant, within the litigation-related charges line in our consolidated statements of operations; all other legal and product liability charges, credits and costs are recorded within selling general and administrative expenses. Litigation-related net charges (credits) are excluded from management's assessment of operating performance and from our operating segments' measures of profit and loss used for making operating decisions and assessing performance.

•Investment impairment charges - These amounts represent write-downs relating to our investment portfolio that are considered unusual or infrequent and significant. Each reporting period, we evaluate our investments to determine if there are any events or circumstances that are likely to have a significant adverse effect on the fair value of the investment. If we identify an impairment indicator, we will estimate the fair value of the investment and compare it to its carrying value and determine if the impairment is other-than-temporary. For other-than-temporary impairments, we recognize an impairment loss equal to the difference between an investment’s carrying value and its fair value. Certain investment impairment charges are excluded from management's assessment of operating performance and from our operating segments' measures of profit and loss used for making operating decisions and assessing performance.

•Discrete tax items - These items represent adjustments of certain tax positions including those which a) are related to the finalization of the enactment date impact of the TCJA, and, or b) were a benefit resulting from the finalization of the IRS Stipulation of Settled Issues consistent with the manner in which the tax reserves were originally booked. These adjustments are not indicative of expected ongoing operating results. Certain discrete tax items are excluded 

 53

from management's assessment of operating performance and from our operating segments' measures of profit and loss used for making operating decisions and assessing performance. 

Operational Net Sales Excluding the Impact of Foreign Currency Fluctuations

•The impact of foreign currency fluctuations is highly variable and difficult to predict. Accordingly, management may exclude the impact of foreign currency fluctuations for purposes of reviewing the net sales and growth rates to facilitate an evaluation of our current operating performance and a comparison to our past operating performance.

Rule 10b5-1 Trading Plans by Executive Officers

Periodically, certain of our executive officers adopt written stock trading plans in accordance with Rule 10b5-1 under the Exchange Act and our own Stock Trading Policy. A Rule 10b5-1 Trading Plan is a written document that pre-establishes the amount, prices and dates (or formulas for determining the amounts, prices and dates) of future purchases or sales of our stock, including shares issued upon exercise of stock options or vesting of deferred stock units. These plans are entered into at a time when the person is not in possession of material non-public information about our company. We disclose details regarding individual Rule 10b5-1 Trading Plans on the Investor Relations section of our website.

 54

Management’s Annual Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting

As the management of Boston Scientific Corporation, we are responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. We designed our internal control process to provide reasonable assurance to management and the Board of Directors regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.

We assessed the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2018. In making this assessment, we used the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission in Internal Control–Integrated Framework (2013 framework). Based on our assessment, we believe that, as of December 31, 2018, our internal control over financial reporting is effective at a reasonable assurance level based on these criteria.

Ernst & Young LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, has issued an audit report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. This report, in which they expressed an unqualified opinion, is included below.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

 55

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of Boston Scientific Corporation

Opinion on Internal Control over Financial Reporting

We have audited Boston Scientific Corporation’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2018, based on criteria established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013 framework) (the COSO criteria). In our opinion, Boston Scientific Corporation (the Company) maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2018, based on the COSO criteria.

We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB), the 2018 consolidated financial statements of the Company and our report dated February 19, 2019 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.

Basis for Opinion

The Company’s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting included in the accompanying Management’s Annual Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. We are a public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB. 

We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. 

Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.

Definition and Limitations of Internal Control over Financial Reporting

A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

/s/ Ernst & Young LLP

Boston, Massachusetts

February 19, 2019 

 56

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK