ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations is intended to help the reader understand our results of operations and financial condition. This discussion and analysis is provided as a supplement to, and should be read in conjunction with, our audited Consolidated Financial Statements and the accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Certain statements in this Item 7 of Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K constitute forward-looking statements. Various risks and uncertainties, including those discussed in "Forward-Looking Statements" and Item 1A, “Risk Factors,” may cause our actual results and cash generated from operations to differ materially from these forward-looking statements. Our Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and are presented in U.S. dollars. 

(In all accompanying tables, amounts of dollars expressed in millions, except per share amounts, unless otherwise noted)

Executive Summary

Celgene Corporation, together with its subsidiaries (collectively “we,” “our,” “us,” “Celgene” or the “Company”), is an integrated global biopharmaceutical company engaged primarily in the discovery, development and commercialization of innovative therapies for the treatment of cancer and inflammatory diseases through next-generation solutions in protein homeostasis, immuno-oncology, epigenetics, immunology and neuro-inflammation. Celgene Corporation was incorporated in the State of Delaware in 1986.

Merger Agreement with Bristol-Myers Squibb Company

On January 2, 2019 Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (Bristol-Myers Squibb) and Celgene entered into a definitive merger agreement under which Bristol-Myers Squibb will acquire Celgene in a cash and stock transaction with an equity value of approximately $74 billion, based on the closing price of Bristol-Myers Squibb shares of $52.43 on January 2, 2019. Under the terms of the agreement, Celgene shareholders will receive 1.0 Bristol-Myers Squibb share and $50.00 in cash for each share of Celgene. Celgene shareholders will also receive one tradeable Bristol-Myers Squibb CVR for each share of Celgene, which will entitle the holder to receive a payment for the achievement of future regulatory milestones. The Boards of Directors of both companies have approved the merger agreement. The definitive merger agreement includes restrictions on the conduct of our business prior to the completion of the merger or termination of the merger agreement, generally requiring us to conduct our business in the ordinary course consistent with past practice. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, we are subject to a variety of specified restrictions. Unless we obtain Bristol-Myers Squibb’s prior written consent (which consent may not be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed) and except (i) as required or expressly contemplated by the merger agreement, (ii) as required by applicable law or (iii) as set forth in the confidential disclosure schedule delivered by Celgene to Bristol-Myers Squibb, we may not, among other things, incur additional indebtedness, issue additional shares of our common stock outside of our equity incentive plans, repurchase our common stock, pay dividends, acquire assets, securities or property (subject to certain exceptions, including without limitation, acquisitions up to a specified individual amount and an aggregate limitation), dispose of businesses or assets, enter into material contracts or make certain additional capital expenditures. See Item 1A. "Risk Factors - While the merger is pending, we are subject to business uncertainties and contractual restrictions that could materially adversely affect our operating results, financial position and/or cash flows or result in a loss of employees, customers, collaborators or suppliers.”

36

Based on the closing price of Bristol-Myers Squibb stock of $52.43 on January 2, 2019, the cash and stock consideration to be received by Celgene shareholders at closing is valued at $102.43 per Celgene share and one Bristol-Myers Squibb CVR. Each Bristol-Myers Squibb CVR will entitle its holder to receive a one-time potential payment of $9.00 in cash upon U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approval of all three of ozanimod (by December 31, 2020), liso-cel (JCAR017) (by December 31, 2020) and bb2121 (by March 31, 2021), in each case for a specified indication. Upon completion of the merger, Bristol-Myers Squibb shareholders are expected to own approximately 69% of the company, and Celgene shareholders are expected to own approximately 31% based on shares outstanding for each of Bristol-Myers Squibb and Celgene.

The transaction is not subject to a financing condition. The cash portion will be funded through a combination of cash on hand and debt financing. Bristol-Myers Squibb has obtained fully committed debt financing from Morgan Stanley Senior Funding, Inc. and MUFG Bank, Ltd. 

The transaction is subject to approval by Bristol-Myers Squibb and Celgene shareholders and the satisfaction of customary closing conditions and regulatory approvals. Bristol-Myers Squibb and Celgene expect to complete the transaction in the third quarter of 2019. 

If the merger agreement is terminated under specified circumstances, Celgene may be required to pay Bristol-Myers Squibb a termination fee of $2.2 billion, and if the merger agreement is terminated under certain other circumstances, Bristol-Myers Squibb may be required to pay Celgene a termination fee of $2.2 billion. 

Our primary commercial stage products include REVLIMID®, POMALYST®/IMNOVID®, OTEZLA®, ABRAXANE®, and VIDAZA®.

We continue to invest substantially in research and development in support of multiple ongoing proprietary clinical development programs which support our existing products and pipeline of new product candidates. Our clinical trial activity includes trials across the disease areas of hematology, oncology, and inflammation and immunology. REVLIMID® is being evaluated in phase III trials covering a range of hematological malignancies that include lymphomas. In July 2018, the phase III trial (AUGMENTTM) for REVLIMID® in combination with rituximab (R2), for the treatment of relapsed and/or refractory follicular or marginal zone lymphoma achieved its primary endpoint. In December 2018, we submitted a U.S. supplemental New Drug Application (NDA) for REVLIMID® in combination with rituximab in relapsed and/or refractory indolent non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL) and in January 2019 we submitted an application with the European Medicines Agency (EMA) for approval in Europe. Also, within hematological malignancies, POMALYST® is in phase III and post-approval trials for relapsed and/or refractory multiple myeloma (RRMM). In solid tumors, ABRAXANE® is currently being investigated in pancreatic cancer, breast and non-small cell lung cancers. In inflammation and immunology in 2018, we submitted a U.S. supplemental NDA and Japan NDA for OTEZLA® in Behçet’s disease following positive results from the phase III trial (RELIEFTM). Patients with active Behçet’s disease showed statistically significant reductions in oral ulcers with OTEZLA® when compared to placebo. Also in 2018, the phase IIIb study (STYLETM) for OTEZLA® in patients with moderate to severe scalp psoriasis showed statistically significant improvement of the Scalp Physician’s Global Assessment (ScPGA) response compared with placebo. OTEZLA® is also being evaluated in a phase III trial in pediatric psoriasis (SPROUT®), while continuing to be studied in psoriatic arthritis and plaque psoriasis.

We also have a growing number of potential products in phase III trials or that have completed phase III across multiple diseases. In the inflammation and immunology therapeutic area, we completed two phase III trials (RADIANCETM and SUNBEAMTM) for ozanimod in relapsing multiple sclerosis (RMS). Both RADIANCETM and SUNBEAMTM achieved their primary endpoints in reducing the annualized relapse rate in patients with RMS. Enrollment is currently ongoing for the phase III TRUENORTHTM trial in ulcerative colitis (UC) and the phase III YELLOWSTONETM trial in Crohn’s Disease (CD). In hematology, we submitted a U.S. NDA for fedratinib for the treatment of patients with myelofibrosis in January 2019. In June and July 2018, Celgene and Acceleron Pharma, Inc. (Acceleron) announced that luspatercept achieved all primary and key secondary endpoints in the phase III MEDALISTTM and BELIEVETM trials in patients with low-to-intermediate risk myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) and transfusion-dependent beta-thalassemia, respectively. In collaboration with bluebird bio, the pivotal study (KarMMaTM) evaluating bb2121 in RRMM is ongoing and enrollment was completed in the fourth quarter. The clinical program evaluating bb2121 in earlier lines of multiple myeloma (MM) is also advancing. In the second quarter of 2018 we initiated the pivotal TRANSCEND WORLD trial evaluating liso-cel (lisocabtagene maraleucel) (JCAR017) in relapsed and/or refractory diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL). Phase III trials are also underway for CC-486 in MDS, acute myeloid leukemia (AML), and angioimmunoblastic T-Cell lymphoma (AITL). In solid tumors, we are supporting a phase III study of marizomib in newly diagnosed glioblastoma, sponsored by the European Organization for Research and the Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) in collaboration with the Canadian Cancer Trials Group (CCTG). In 2018, our partner BeiGene initiated phase III trials for tislelizumab (BGB-A317) in 1L hepatocellular carcinoma, 2L/3L hepatocellular carcinoma, and 2L/3L non-small cell lung cancer.

37

Beyond our phase III programs, we have access to a growing early-to-mid-stage pipeline of novel potential therapies to address significant unmet medical needs that consists of new product candidates and cell therapies developed in-house, licensed from other companies or able to be optioned from collaboration partners. We believe that continued use of our primary commercial stage products, participation in research and development collaboration arrangements, depth of our product pipeline, potential regulatory approvals of new products and new indications for existing products will provide the catalysts for future growth.

Recent Developments 

The following tables present significant developments in our pivotal and phase III clinical trials and regulatory approval requests that occurred during the three-month period ended December 31, 2018, as well as developments that are expected to occur if the future occurrence is material and reasonably certain:

Regulatory Approval Requests in Major Markets:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Pivotal and Phase III Trials:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Financial Update

The following table summarizes net product sales, total revenue and earnings for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 (dollar amounts in millions, except per share data):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Total net product sales for 2018 increased by approximately $2.3 billion, or 17.7%, to approximately $15.3 billion compared to the year ended December 31, 2017. The increase was comprised of net volume increases of approximately $2.0 billion, or 15.2%, and net price increases of $369 million, or 2.9%. The increase in volume was primarily driven by increased unit sales of REVLIMID®, OTEZLA® and POMALYST®/IMNOVID®. The price impact was primarily attributable to net price increases in the U.S., which were partially offset by net price decreases in international markets. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates including the impact of foreign exchange hedging activity unfavorably impacted Net product sales by $51 million, or 0.4%.

Total net product sales for 2017 increased by approximately $1.8 billion, or 16.0%, to approximately $13.0 billion compared to 2016. The increase was comprised of net volume increases of approximately $1.5 billion, or 13.6%, and net price increases of $369 million, or 3.3%. The increase in volume was primarily driven by increased unit sales of REVLIMID®, POMALYST®/IMNOVID® and OTEZLA®. The price impact was primarily attributable to price increases in the U.S., which were partially offset 

38

by price decreases in Europe. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates, including the impact of foreign exchange hedging activity, unfavorably impacted net product sales by $98 million, or 0.9%.

Total revenue increased by approximately $2.3 billion, or 17.5%, in 2018 compared to 2017 primarily due to the continued growth in sales of REVLIMID®, POMALYST®/IMNOVID® and OTEZLA® reflecting increases of approximately $1.7 billion, or 20.4%, in the United States and $579 million, or 12.4%, in international markets.

Total revenue increased by approximately $1.8 billion, or 15.8%, in 2017 compared to 2016 primarily due to the continued growth in sales of REVLIMID®, POMALYST®/IMNOVID® and OTEZLA® reflecting increases of approximately $1.3 billion, or 18.7%, in the United States and $460 million, or 10.9%, in international markets.

In addition to the increase in total revenue discussed above, notable items impacting net income and diluted earnings per share for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 are as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Includes share-based compensation expense related to the acquisition of Juno post-combination service period of $320 million and $208 million, which was recorded in Research and development and Selling, general and administrative, respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2018.

* References to Notes in this table are to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained elsewhere in this report.

39

Results of Operations - Fiscal Years Ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 

Net Product Sales and Other Revenue

Net product sales and other revenue for 2018, 2017 and 2016 were as follows:

REVLIMID® 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

REVLIMID® net sales increased by approximately $1.5 billion, or 18.3%, to approximately $9.7 billion for 2018 compared to 2017. Sales growth was primarily volume-driven due to global increases in treatment duration and market share. In the U.S., sales growth increased due to increases in both price and unit sales from market penetration and treatment duration of patients using REVLIMID®. International volume growth was partially offset by net price decreases. 

REVLIMID® net sales increased by approximately $1.2 billion, or 17.4%, to approximately $8.2 billion in 2017 compared to 2016, primarily due to increased sales in both U.S. and international markets. U.S. sales growth increased due to both price increases and, an increase in unit sales from market penetration and treatment duration of patients using REVLIMID®. In addition, unit sales increased across all international regions, primarily in Europe and Japan, driven by increased duration of use and market share gains. International volume growth was partially offset by net price decreases.

POMALYST®/IMNOVID® 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

POMALYST®/IMNOVID® net sales increased by $426 million, or 26.4%, to approximately $2.0 billion for 2018 compared to 2017, primarily due to increased sales in the U.S. market. In the U.S., sales growth increased due to both unit sales and price increases. Increases in market share and treatment duration contributed to the increase in U.S. unit sales. In addition, international unit sales increased, primarily due to sales growth in Europe as a result of increased treatment duration. International volume growth was partially offset by net price decreases.

POMALYST®/IMNOVID® net sales increased by $303 million, or 23.1%, to approximately $1.6 billion in 2017 compared to 2016, primarily due to increased sales in the U.S. and to a lesser extent international markets. In the U.S., sales growth increased primarily due to an increase in unit sales and price increases. In addition, unit sales increased across all international regions, primarily in Europe. Increases in market share and treatment duration contributed to the increases in U.S. and international regions. International volume growth was partially offset by net price decreases.

OTEZLA® 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

40

OTEZLA® net sales increased by $329 million, or 25.7%, to approximately $1.6 billion for 2018 compared to 2017, due to increased worldwide sales. In the U.S., sales growth increased primarily due to unit sales increases as a result of managed care contracts executed in 2017 and 2018, which contributed to higher gross-to-net charges. Volume increased in all international markets led by Japan, where it was launched in 2017. 

OTEZLA® net sales increased by $262 million, or 25.8% to approximately $1.3 billion in 2017 compared to 2016, primarily due to increased worldwide unit sales. Net sales in the U.S. were volume driven reflecting increased market share and expanding patient access. International volume growth was partially offset by net price decreases.

ABRAXANE® 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

ABRAXANE® net sales increased by $70 million, or 7.1%, to approximately $1.1 billion for 2018 compared to 2017, primarily due to unit sales and price increases in the U.S. market. International volume growth was partially offset by net price decreases.

ABRAXANE® net sales increased by $19 million, or 2.0% to $992 million in 2017 compared to 2016, primarily due to increases in unit sales in international markets. The increase was partially offset by decreased unit sales in the U.S. The decrease in U.S. unit sales reflects the continuing competition in breast cancer and lung cancer indications.

OTHER PRODUCT NET SALES

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

All other product net sales, which include IDHIFA®, VIDAZA®, generic azacitidine for injection, THALOMID®, and ISTODAX®, decreased by $31 million in 2018 compared to 2017, primarily due to decreases in net sales from VIDAZA®, THALOMID®, ISTODAX® and generic azacitidine for injection, partially offset by increased net sales from IDHIFA®, which launched in the third quarter of 2017.

All other product sales, decreased by $9 million in 2017 compared to 2016, primarily due to decreases in generic azacitidine for injection and THALOMID® net sales, which were partially offset by increases in net sales from the launch of IDHIFA® and VIDAZA® net sales.

Other Revenue: Other revenue decreased by $14 million to $16 million for 2018 compared to 2017. Beginning in 2018, we were no longer entitled to receive royalties from Novartis AG (Novartis) on sales of RITALIN® and FOCALIN XR®, which primarily contributed to the decrease in Other revenue. 

Other revenue decreased by $14 million to $30 million for 2017 compared to 2016. This decrease is primarily due to a reduction in royalty revenue from Novartis based upon its sales of both RITALIN® and FOCALIN XR®, both of which have been unfavorably impacted by generic competition in certain markets. 

41

Gross-to-Net Sales Accruals: We record gross-to-net sales accruals for government rebates, chargebacks, distributor service fees, other rebates and administrative fees, sales returns and allowances and sales discounts.

REVLIMID® and POMALYST® are distributed in the United States primarily through contracted pharmacies under the REVLIMID REMS® and POMALYST REMS® programs, respectively. These are proprietary risk-management distribution programs tailored specifically to provide for the safe and appropriate distribution and use of REVLIMID® and POMALYST®. Internationally, REVLIMID® and IMNOVID® are distributed under mandatory risk-management distribution programs tailored to meet local authorities’ specifications to provide for the product’s safe and appropriate distribution and use. These programs may vary by country and, depending upon the country and the design of the risk-management program, the product may be sold through hospitals or retail pharmacies. OTEZLA®, ABRAXANE® and VIDAZA® are distributed through the more traditional pharmaceutical industry supply chain and are not subject to the same risk-management distribution programs as REVLIMID® and POMALYST®/IMNOVID®. 

Government rebate accruals are based on estimated payments due to governmental agencies for purchases made by third parties under various governmental programs. U.S. Medicaid rebate accruals are generally based on historical payment data and estimates of future Medicaid beneficiary utilization applied to the Medicaid unit rebate formula established by the Center for Medicaid and Medicare Services. The Medicaid rebate percentage was increased and extended to Medicaid Managed Care Organizations in March 2010. The accrual of the rebates associated with Medicaid Managed Care Organizations is calculated based on estimated historical patient data related to Medicaid Managed Care Organizations. We also analyze actual billings received from the states to further support the accrual rates. Manufacturers of pharmaceutical products are responsible for 50% of the patient’s cost of branded prescription drugs related to the Medicare Part D Coverage Gap (70% beginning in 2019). In order to estimate the cost to us of this coverage gap responsibility, we analyze data for eligible Medicare Part D patients against data for eligible Medicare Part D patients treated with our products as well as the historical invoices. This expense is recognized throughout the year as costs are incurred. In certain international markets government-sponsored programs require rebates to be paid based on program specific rules and, accordingly, the rebate accruals are determined primarily on estimated eligible sales.

Rebates or administrative fees are offered to certain wholesale customers, group purchasing organizations and end-user customers, consistent with pharmaceutical industry practices. Settlement of rebates and fees may generally occur from one to 15 months from the date of sale. We record a provision for rebates at the time of sale based on contracted rates and historical redemption rates. Assumptions used to establish the provision include level of wholesaler inventories, contract sales volumes and average contract pricing. We regularly review the information related to these estimates and adjust the provision accordingly.

Chargeback accruals are based on the differentials between product acquisition prices paid by wholesalers and lower government contract pricing paid by eligible customers covered under federally qualified programs. Distributor service fee accruals are based on contractual fees to be paid to the wholesale distributor for services provided. TRICARE is a health care program of the U.S. Department of Defense Military Health System that provides civilian health benefits for military personnel, military retirees and their dependents. TRICARE rebate accruals are included in chargeback accruals and are based on estimated Department of Defense eligible sales multiplied by the TRICARE rebate formula.

Sales discount accruals are based on payment terms extended to customers.

We base our sales returns allowance on estimated on-hand retail/hospital inventories, measured end-customer demand as reported by third-party sources, actual returns history and other factors, such as the trend experience for lots where product is still being returned or inventory centralization and rationalization initiatives conducted by major pharmacy chains, as applicable. If the historical data we use to calculate these estimates do not properly reflect future returns, then a change in the allowance would be made in the period in which such a determination is made and revenues in that period could be materially affected. Under this methodology, we track actual returns by individual production lots. Returns on closed lots, that is, lots no longer eligible for return credits, are analyzed to determine historical returns experience. Returns on open lots, that is, lots still eligible for return credits, are monitored and compared with historical return trend rates. Any changes from the historical trend rates are considered in determining the current sales return allowance. As noted above, REVLIMID® and POMALYST®/IMNOVID® are distributed primarily through hospitals and contracted pharmacies, which are typically subject to tighter controls of inventory quantities within the supply channel and, thus, resulting in lower returns activity.

See Critical Accounting Estimates and Significant Accounting Policies below for further discussion of gross-to-net sales accruals.

42

Gross-to-net sales accruals and the balance in the related allowance accounts for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 were as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

A comparison of provisions for allowances for sales within each of the four categories noted above for 2018 and 2017 follows:

2018 compared to 2017: Government rebate provisions increased by $186 million for 2018 compared to 2017, due to a $124 million increase in international government rebates and a $62 million increase in the U.S. market. The increase in international government rebates was primarily driven by higher sales volumes and increased rebate rates. The increase in the U.S. market was primarily due to higher sales volumes and increased rebate rates, with $57 million due to an increase in Medicaid rebates (primarily in the managed care channel) and $5 million due to an increase in expense related to Medicare Part D Coverage Gap. In 2019, we expect the rebate provision for the Medicare Part D Coverage Gap to increase as a result of a planned increase in the portion manufacturers of pharmaceutical products are responsible for. 

Chargebacks and distributor service fees provisions increased by $567 million for 2018 compared to 2017. Chargebacks increased by $245 million and distributor service fees increased by $322 million. The increase in chargebacks was primarily due to higher sales volumes and a greater portion of sales qualifying for chargeback rebates, including a $7 million increase related to the TRICARE program driven by higher sales volumes. The distributor service fee increase was primarily attributable to increased sales volumes and new managed care contracts for OTEZLA®, which accounted for $268 million of the increase, as well as a $30 million increase in commercial copayment program expense and a $16 million increase in the distributor service fee expense, both of which also were attributable to higher sales volumes.

Discount provisions increased by $50 million for 2018 compared to 2017, primarily due to higher sales volumes. The increase was primarily comprised of an increase of $25 million related to REVLIMID® as well as increases related to OTEZLA® and POMALYST®.

Provisions for sales returns increased by $37 million in 2018 compared to 2017, as the current year period included a $32 million increase in the OTEZLA® returns reserve, primarily related to $30 million in the fourth quarter of 2018 due to an anticipated increase in returns resulting from the sales of shorter-dated inventory in early to mid 2018. In addition, the provision for ABRAXANE® returns increased by $5 million compared to 2017.

A comparison of provisions for allowances for sales within each of the four categories noted above for 2017 and 2016 follows:

2017 compared to 2016: Government rebate provisions increased by $202 million in 2017 compared to 2016, which was primarily due to a $122 million increase in the U.S. market and an $80 million increase in international government rebates. The increase 

43

in the U.S. market was primarily due to higher sales volumes and increased rebate rates, with $120 million due to an increase in Medicaid rebates (primarily in the managed care channel) and $2 million due to an increase in expense related to Medicare Part D Coverage Gap. The increase in international government rebates was primarily driven by higher sales volumes and increased rebate rates.

Chargebacks and distributor service fees provisions increased by $324 million in 2017 compared to 2016. Chargebacks increased by approximately $127 million and distributor service fees increased by approximately $197 million. The increase in chargebacks was primarily due to higher sales volumes and a greater portion of sales qualifying for chargeback rebates, including a $13 million increase related to the TRICARE program driven by higher sales volumes. The distributor service fee increase was primarily attributable to increased sales volumes and new managed care contracts effective January 1, 2017 for OTEZLA®, which accounted for $154 million of the increase, as well as a $22 million increase in commercial copayment program expense and a $14 million increase in the distributor service fee expense, both of which also were attributable to higher sales volumes.

Discount provisions increased by $40 million in 2017 compared to 2016, which was primarily due to a $37 million increase in the U.S. market and a $3 million increase in international discounts, both due to higher sales volumes. The U.S. market increase was comprised of an increase of $24 million related to REVLIMID® as well as increases related to OTEZLA® and POMALYST®.

Provisions for sales returns decreased by $3 million in 2017 compared to 2016, primarily due to a reduction in the ABRAXANE® returns reserve allowance. 

Cost of Goods Sold (excluding amortization of acquired intangible assets): Cost of goods sold and related percentages for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 were as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Cost of goods sold (excluding amortization of acquired intangible assets) increased by $126 million to $587 million in 2018 compared to 2017. The increase was primarily due to the higher level of net product sales of REVLIMID®, POMALYST® and OTEZLA®. As a percent of net product sales, cost of goods sold (excluding amortization of acquired intangible assets) increased to 3.8% for 2018 compared to 3.6% for 2017, primarily due to raw materials charges recorded during 2018.

Cost of goods sold (excluding amortization of acquired intangible assets) increased by $23 million to $461 million in 2017 compared to 2016. The increase was primarily due to the higher level of net product sales. As a percent of net product sales, cost of goods sold (excluding amortization of acquired intangible assets) decreased to 3.6% for 2017 compared to 3.9% for 2016, primarily due to REVLIMID®, POMALYST® and OTEZLA®, which have lower cost, making up a higher percentage of net product sales, while sales of ABRAXANE®, VIDAZA® and generic azacitidine for injection, which have higher cost, made up a lower percentage of net product sales.

Research and Development: Research and development costs are expensed as incurred and primarily include salary and benefit costs, third-party grants and fees paid to clinical research organizations, supplies, upfront and milestone payments resulting from collaboration arrangements and expenses for research and development asset acquisitions.

Research and development expenses and related percentages for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 were as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Research and development expenses decreased by $242 million to approximately $5.7 billion in 2018, compared to 2017. The decrease was primarily due to an IPR&D asset impairment charge in 2017 of approximately $1,620 million as well as other one-time charges of approximately $188 million related to estimated wind-down costs and certain development activities associated 

44

with the discontinuation of the GED-0301 clinical trials in CD. In 2018, we recorded an adjustment of $60 million related to the clinical trial and development activity wind-down costs associated with the discontinuation of the GED-0301 clinical trials in CD. The decrease was also attributable to a decrease of expenses related to collaboration agreements in 2018 of $201 million. These decreases were partially offset by higher research and development asset acquisition expense related to our purchase of Impact Biomedicines, Inc. (Impact) for approximately $1.1 billion in 2018 as compared to $325 million for two acquisitions in 2017. Additionally, these decreases were also offset by an increase of $967 million of incremental research and development expense related to the acquisition of Juno, including $320 million of share-based compensation expense. See Note 5, Note 3, and Note 18 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained elsewhere in this report for additional details related to the discontinuation of the GED-0301 clinical trials in CD, our acquisitions, and our collaboration arrangements, respectively. Our research and development expenses may fluctuate from period-to-period based on the volume and timing of closing asset acquisitions and collaboration arrangements and associated obligations pursuant to such arrangements. 

Research and development expenses increased by approximately $1.4 billion to approximately $5.9 billion in 2017, compared to 2016. The increase was primarily due to an IPR&D asset impairment charge of approximately $1,620 million as well as other one-time charges of approximately $188 million related to wind-down costs and certain development activities associated with the discontinuation of the GED-0301 clinical trials in CD. See Note 5 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained elsewhere in this report for additional details related to the discontinuation of the trials. In addition, there was an increase of $253 million in clinical trial and drug discovery and development activity. These increases were partially offset by a decrease of $568 million of research and development asset acquisition expenses. See Note 3 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained elsewhere in this report for additional details related to our acquisitions. Our research and development expenses may fluctuate from period-to-period based on the volume and timing of closing asset acquisitions and collaboration arrangements and associated obligations pursuant to such arrangements.

The following table provides a breakdown of research and development expenses:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

* References to Notes in this table are to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained elsewhere in this report.

We make significant investments in research and development in support of multiple ongoing proprietary clinical development programs which support both our existing products and pipeline of new product candidates. See Item 1. "Business" for a table summarizing the current stage of development of both our commercial stage products and new product candidates. See Note 3 and Note 18 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained elsewhere in this report for additional details related to certain of our acquisitions and collaboration arrangements, respectively.

We do not collect costs on a project basis or for any category of projects for the majority of costs involved in carrying out research projects. While we do perform cost calculations to facilitate our internal evaluation of individual projects, these calculations include significant estimations and allocations that are not relevant to, or included in, our external financial reporting mechanisms. As a consequence, we do not report research and development costs at the project level.

Selling, General and Administrative: Selling, general and administrative expenses primarily include salary and benefit costs for employees included in our sales, marketing, finance, legal and administrative organizations, costs related to the launch of new products or those approved for new indications, outside professional services, donations to independent non-profit patient assistance organizations in the United States and facilities costs.

45

Selling, general and administrative expenses and related percentages for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 were as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Selling, general and administrative expenses increased by $309 million to approximately $3.3 billion for 2018 compared to 2017. The increase is primarily due to incremental expense of $312 million related to the acquisition of Juno, including $208 million of share-based compensation expense. The increase was also due to an increase of approximately $160 million of marketing related expenses and an increase of $75 million in donations to independent non-profit patient assistance organizations in the U.S. These increases were partially offset by a decrease in litigation-related loss contingency accrual expense of $219 million primarily related to the previously disclosed resolution of the Brown Action, which was recorded in the second quarter of 2017. See Note 3 and Note 19 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained elsewhere in this report for additional details related to our acquisition of Juno and legal proceedings, respectively.

Selling, general and administrative expenses increased by $283 million to approximately $2.9 billion in 2017 compared to 2016. The increase was primarily due to higher litigation-related loss contingency accrual expenses incurred in 2017. During 2017, we recorded a litigation-related loss contingency accrual expense of $315 million related to the Brown Action, which represented our probable and reasonably estimable risk of loss. We reached a settlement agreement with respect to the Brown Action during the third quarter of 2017. During 2016, we recorded a $199 million litigation-related loss contingency accrual expense with respect to the lawsuit filed against us by Children's Medical Center Corporation (CMCC), which represented our probable and reasonably estimable risk of loss at that time. Subsequently, we reached a settlement agreement with CMCC during the first quarter of 2017. See Note 19 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained elsewhere in this report for additional information related to these legal matters. The increase was also due to an increase of $70 million in donations to independent non-profit patient assistance organizations in the U.S. and approximately a $40 million increase in selling and marketing activities. 

Amortization of Acquired Intangible Assets: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Amortization of intangible assets acquired as a result of business combinations is summarized below for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Amortization of acquired intangible assets increased by $139 million to $468 million in 2018 compared to 2017. Effective for the second quarter of 2018, we reduced the remaining estimated useful life of our ABRAXANE® intangible assets as a result of recent settlements of patent-related proceedings, which resulted in approximately $150 million of accelerated amortization. Amortization expense also increased by $70 million as a result of the technology platform asset acquired through our acquisition of Juno. These increases were partially offset by reductions in amortization expense as the Gloucester Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Gloucester) and Avila Therapeutics, Inc. (Avila) intangible assets were fully amortized in the first quarter of 2018 and the second quarter of 2017, respectively. See Note 19 and Note 3 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained elsewhere in this report for additional information regarding the recent settlements regarding patent litigation and our acquisition of Juno, respectively.

46

Amortization of acquired intangible assets decreased by $130 million to $329 million in 2017 compared to 2016. The decrease in amortization expense was primarily related to the prior year accelerated amortization expense and impairment charge to write down the technology platform asset obtained in the acquisition of Avila. 

Acquisition Related Charges (Gains) and Restructuring, net: Acquisition related charges (gains) and restructuring, net is summarized below for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Acquisition related charges (gains) and restructuring, net was a net charge of $112 million in 2018, compared to a net gain of approximately $1.4 billion in 2017. The net charge in 2018 primarily relates to $93 million of acquisition and restructuring costs associated with the acquisition of Juno. In addition, the net charge in 2018 includes a charge of $48 million related to a current period net change in fair value of legacy Juno success payment liabilities, partially offset by a gain due to the decrease in the fair value of our liability related to publicly traded Abraxis CVRs of $23 million that were issued as part of the acquisition of Abraxis BioScience, Inc. (Abraxis). The net gain in 2017 primarily related to a decrease in the fair value of our contingent liabilities associated with the acquisition of Nogra Pharma Limited (Nogra) due to the discontinuance of the GED-0301 trials in the fourth quarter of 2017. See Note 3 and Note 5 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained elsewhere in this report for additional details related to our acquisition of Juno and contingent consideration liabilities, respectively.

Acquisition related charges (gains) and restructuring, net was a net gain of approximately $1.4 billion in 2017, compared to a net charge of $38 million in 2016. The net gain in 2017 primarily relates to an approximate $1.3 billion net gain recorded in 2017 for the reduction of the Nogra contingent liability due to the discontinuation of the GED-0301 Trials. See Note 5 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained elsewhere in this report for details related to the change in fair value of the Nogra contingent consideration liability.

Interest and Investment Income, Net: Interest and investment income, net is summarized below for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Interest and investment income, net which includes the net income associated with our debt securities available-for-sale, decreased by $60 million to $45 million in 2018 compared to 2017 primarily due to lower investment balances as compared to the prior year.

Interest and investment income, net increased by $75 million to $105 million in 2017 compared to 2016 primarily due to higher investment balances and higher yields compared to the prior year. 

Interest (Expense): Interest (expense) is summarized below for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Interest expense increased by $219 million to $741 million in 2018 compared to 2017 primarily due to the interest expense associated with the issuance of $4.5 billion of senior notes during February of 2018 as well as the issuance of $3.5 billion of senior notes during the second half of 2017. For more information related to our debt issuances, see “Liquidity and Capital Resources” and Note 12 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained elsewhere in this report.

Interest expense increased by $22 million to $522 million in 2017 compared to 2016 primarily due to interest expense associated with the issuance of $500 million of senior notes in August 2017 and $3.0 billion of senior notes in November 2017. 

47

Other Income (Expense), Net: Other income (expense), net is summarized below for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

* References to Notes in this table are to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained elsewhere in this report.

Income Tax Provision: The income tax provision decreased by approximately $588 million to approximately $786 million for 2018 compared to 2017, primarily from the impact of applying the provisions of the 2017 Tax Act. The effective tax rate for 2018 was 16.3%, a decrease of 15.5 percentage points from our effective tax rate of 31.8% for 2017. The decrease in our effective tax rate was primarily due to a 30.3 percentage point decrease related to the one-time tax effects of the 2017 Tax Act and a decrease related to the reduction in the U.S. statutory tax rate from 35% to 21%, partially offset by U.S. tax on Global Intangible Low-Taxed Income (GILTI) (subject to taxation at an effective statutory tax rate of 10.5%), lower excess tax benefits from employee stock compensation deductions, non-deductible research expenses incurred in our acquisition of Impact, lower U.S. research and development and orphan drug tax credits, and a decrease in tax benefits of lower statutory tax rates on pre-tax income earned outside the U.S. 

Our effective tax rate is a function of the distribution of our pre-tax income earned inside and outside of the U.S. Our pre-tax income earned in the U.S. is taxed at a U.S. statutory tax rate of 21%. Our pre-tax income earned outside the U.S. is taxed both in the U.S. at an effective federal statutory tax rate of 10.5% and in the foreign jurisdictions where we have operations at lower effective tax rates. Our global pre-tax income is also subject to taxation in most U.S. states. Our future effective tax rate can be materially impacted by shifts in the distribution of our pre-tax income among the jurisdictions where we operate, the amount of research tax credits, the amount of foreign tax credits, the timing and amount of tax benefits from employee stock compensation, payments to collaboration partners, acquisitions, divestitures, changes in tax laws, audit settlements, and many other factors which are difficult to forecast.

The income tax provision increased by approximately $1.0 billion to approximately $1.4 billion for 2017 compared to 2016, primarily from the impact of applying the provisions of the 2017 Tax Act. The effective tax rate for 2017 was 31.8%, an increase of 16.1 percentage points from our effective tax rate of 15.7% for 2016. The increase in our effective tax rate was primarily due to a 29.4 percentage point increase related to the one-time tax effects of the 2017 Tax Act. This increase was partially offset by excess tax benefits from employee stock compensation deductions, higher U.S. research and development and orphan drug tax credits, and an increase in pre-tax earnings from jurisdictions with lower statutory tax rates, all of which were partially offset by a non-recurring prior year tax benefit related to a loss on our investment in Avila. The tax benefits recognized in 2017 for U.S. research and development and orphan drug tax credits were the result of a change in estimate upon completion of a comprehensive analysis. See Note 17 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained elsewhere in this report.

48

Liquidity and Capital Resources

The following table summarizes the components of our financial condition for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

1 Includes Cash and cash equivalents, Debt securities available-for-sale, Equity investments with readily determinable fair values, Accounts receivable, net of allowances, Inventory and Other current assets, less Short-term borrowings and current portion of long-term debt, Accounts payable, Accrued expenses and other current liabilities, and the current portion of Income taxes payable.

We rely primarily on positive cash flows from operating activities, proceeds from sales of debt securities available-for-sale and borrowings in the form of long-term notes payable and short-term commercial paper to provide for our liquidity requirements. We expect continued growth in our expenditures, particularly those related to research and development, clinical trials, commercialization of new products, international expansion and capital investments. However, we anticipate that existing cash and cash equivalent balances, debt securities available-for-sale, cash generated from operations and existing sources of and access to financing are adequate to fund our operating needs, capital expenditures, debt service requirements and pursue strategic business initiatives for the foreseeable future. The definitive merger agreement includes restrictions on the conduct of our business prior to the completion of the merger or termination of the merger agreement, generally requiring us to conduct our business in the ordinary course consistent with past practice. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, we are subject to a variety of specified restrictions. Unless we obtain Bristol-Myers Squibb’s prior written consent (which consent may not be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed) and except (i) as required or expressly contemplated by the merger agreement, (ii) as required by applicable law or (iii) as set forth in the confidential disclosure schedule delivered by Celgene to Bristol-Myers Squibb, we may not, among other things, incur additional indebtedness, issue additional shares of our common stock outside of our equity incentive plans, repurchase our common stock, pay dividends, acquire assets, securities or property (subject to certain exceptions, including without limitation, acquisitions up to a specified individual amount and an aggregate limitation), dispose of businesses or assets, enter into material contracts or make certain additional capital expenditures. See Item 1A. "Risk Factors - While the merger is pending, we are subject to business uncertainties and contractual restrictions that could materially adversely affect our operating results, financial position and/or cash flows or result in a loss of employees, customers, collaborators or suppliers.”

Many of our operations are conducted outside the United States and significant portions of our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments are held internationally. As of December 31, 2018, we held approximately $2.8 billion of these short-term funds in foreign tax jurisdictions. As a result of the 2017 Tax Act’s favorable U.S. tax treatment of repatriated foreign earnings as well as our capital contribution reserves outside the U.S., we expect to have access to our offshore earnings with minimal to no additional U.S. or foreign tax costs. Therefore, we no longer consider these funds permanently reinvested offshore. The amount of funds held in U.S. tax jurisdictions can fluctuate due to the timing of receipts and payments in the ordinary course of business, including intercompany transactions, as well as for other reasons, such as repurchases of our common stock, internal reorganizations, business-development activities, restrictions on distributions out of foreign tax jurisdictions and debt issuances. As part of our ongoing liquidity assessments, we regularly monitor the mix of domestic and international cash flows (both inflows and outflows). Under the 2017 Tax Act, a company’s post-1986 previously untaxed foreign earnings and profit (E&P) was mandatorily deemed to be repatriated and taxed, which is also referred to as the toll charge. We have elected to pay the toll charge in annual installments over eight years through 2025.

49

Share Repurchase Program: In February and May 2018, our Board of Directors approved increases of $5.0 billion and $3.0 billion to our authorized share repurchase program, respectively, bringing the total amount authorized since April 2009 to an aggregate of up to $28.5 billion for our common stock repurchase program of which we have approximately $2.8 billion remaining for future share repurchases as of December 31, 2018, after deducting $2.0 billion paid in May 2018 pursuant to an ASR agreement. During the year ended December 31, 2018, we used $6.1 billion of cash for purchases of our common stock measured on a settlement date basis including the $2.0 billion paid for the ASR for which we have received full delivery of shares. 

Components of Working Capital

Cash and Cash Equivalents, Debt Securities Available-for-Sale and Equity Investments with Readily Determinable Fair Values: From time to time, we invest our excess cash primarily in money market funds, repurchase agreements, time deposits, commercial paper, U.S. Treasury securities, U.S. government-sponsored agency securities, U.S. government-sponsored agency mortgage-backed securities (MBS), ultra-short income fund investments, global corporate debt securities and asset backed securities. All liquid investments with maturities of three months or less from the date of purchase are classified as cash equivalents and all investments with maturities of greater than three months from the date of purchase are classified as Debt securities available-for-sale. See Note 7 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained elsewhere in this report. The approximate $6.0 billion decrease in Cash and cash equivalents, Debt securities available-for-sale and Equity investments with readily determinable fair values as of December 31, 2018 compared to December 31, 2017 was primarily due to approximately $8.6 billion of payments for the acquisition of Juno, net of cash acquired, and approximately $6.1 billion of payments under our share repurchase program, partially offset by approximately $4.5 billion in proceeds from the February 2018 issuance of senior notes and approximately $5.2 billion of cash from operating activities.

Accounts Receivable, Net: Accounts receivable, net increased by $145 million to approximately $2.1 billion as of December 31, 2018 compared to December 31, 2017. Sales made outside the United States typically have payment terms that are greater than 60 days, thereby extending collection periods beyond those in the United States. We expect our accounts receivable balance to grow as our international sales continue to expand.

We continue to monitor economic conditions, including the volatility associated with international economies, the sovereign debt situation in certain European countries and associated impacts on the financial markets and our business. Our current business model in these markets is typically to sell our hematology and oncology products directly to principally government owned or controlled hospitals, which in turn directly deliver critical care to patients. Many of our products are used to treat life-threatening diseases and we believe this business model enables timely delivery and adequate supply of products. Many of the outstanding receivable balances are related to government-funded hospitals and we believe the receivable balances are ultimately collectible. Similarly, we believe that future sales to these customers will continue to be collectible.

Inventory: Inventory balances decreased by $83 million to $458 million at the end of 2018 compared to 2017 primarily due to raw materials charges recorded during 2018.

Other Current Assets: Other current assets increased by $113 million to $501 million at the end of 2018 compared to 2017 primarily due to increases of $53 million in the fair value of derivative instruments, $38 million in prepaid taxes and $36 million earned but unbilled revenue associated with contract assets (See Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained elsewhere in this report). These increases were partially offset by $14 million of net other decreases. 

Commercial Paper: We have a commercial paper program (Program) under which we issue unsecured commercial paper notes (Commercial Paper) on a private placement basis, the proceeds of which are used for general corporate purposes. As of December 31, 2018, we had available capacity to issue up to $2.0 billion of Commercial Paper and there were no borrowings under the Program. The maturities of the Commercial Paper may vary, but may not exceed 270 days from the date of issue. The Commercial Paper is sold under customary terms to a dealer or in the commercial paper market and is issued at a discount from par or, alternatively, is sold at par and bears varying interest rates on a fixed or floating basis. Borrowings under the Program, if any, are accounted for as short-term borrowings. 

Senior Unsecured Credit Facility: We maintain a senior unsecured revolving credit facility (Credit Facility) that provides revolving credit in the aggregate amount of $2.0 billion. During the second quarter of 2018, we amended our Credit Facility to extend the expiration date to April 25, 2023. Amounts may be borrowed in U.S. Dollars for general corporate purposes. The Credit Facility currently serves as backup liquidity for our Commercial Paper borrowings. As of December 31, 2018, there was no outstanding borrowing against the Credit Facility.

The Credit Facility and the Revolving Credit Agreement contain affirmative and negative covenants, including certain customary financial covenants. We were in compliance with all financial covenants as of December 31, 2018.

50

Accounts Payable, Accrued Expenses and Other Current Liabilities: Accounts payable, accrued expenses and other current liabilities increased by $577 million to approximately $3.4 billion at the end of 2018 compared to 2017. The increase was primarily due to increases of $293 million for sales adjustment accruals related to government rebates and chargebacks and distributor service fees, $113 million for accounts payable, $70 million related to success payment obligations assumed through our acquisition of Juno, $65 million for accrued interest expense, $62 million related to collaboration agreement accruals, $60 million related to the current portion of contingent consideration and success payment liabilities assumed through our acquisition of Juno, $39 million related to accrued legal expenses, $38 million for clinical trials and research and development expense accruals, and $33 million for compensation related accruals. These increases were partially offset by a decrease of $185 million associated with the payment/adjustment of clinical trial and development activity wind-down costs associated with the discontinuance of GED-0301 clinical trials in Crohn's disease which was settled.

Income Taxes Payable (Current and Non-Current): Income taxes payable decreased by $306 million to approximately $2.3 billion at the end of 2018 compared to 2017, primarily due to income tax payments of approximately $1.2 billion, which were partially offset by the current provision for income taxes of $754 million and an increase in income taxes payable related to acquisitions.

Senior Notes: We have an aggregate of $20.350 billion principal amount of senior notes outstanding with varying maturity dates from 2019 through 2048. See Note 12 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained elsewhere in this report for additional details.

Cash flows from operating, investing and financing activities for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 were as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Operating Activities: Net cash provided by operating activities decreased by $75 million to approximately $5.2 billion in 2018 compared to 2017. The decrease in net cash provided by operating activities was primarily driven by the approximate $1.1 billion initial payment made in 2018 for the acquisition of Impact compared to $325 million for two acquisitions in 2017 as well as an increase of $690 million in cash paid for income taxes. These decreases were partially offset by 2017 payments totaling $315 million for litigation-related loss contingency accruals related to the previously disclosed Brown Action and a decrease of $201 million in payments related to collaboration arrangements in 2018 as compared to 2017. See Note 3, Note 19 and Note 18 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained elsewhere in this report for additional details related to the Impact acquisition, legal proceedings and collaboration arrangements, respectively.

Net cash provided by operating activities increased by approximately $1.1 billion to approximately $5.2 billion in 2017 compared to 2016. The increase in net cash provided by operating activities was primarily attributable to an increase in net income of $941 million in 2017 compared to 2016. 

Investing Activities: Net cash used in investing activities increased by approximately $3.5 billion in 2018 compared to 2017. The increase in net cash used in investing activities was primarily due to approximately $8.6 billion of payments for the acquisition of Juno, net of cash acquired, partially offset by approximately $2.7 billion of net sales of debt securities available-for-sale in 2018 compared to approximately $2.3 billion of net purchases of debt securities available-for-sale in 2017. See Note 3 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained elsewhere in this report for additional details related to the Juno acquisition.

Net cash used in investing activities increased by approximately $1.9 billion in 2017 compared to 2016. The increase in net cash used in investing activities was primarily due to the approximately $2.3 billion of net purchases of debt securities available-for-sale during 2017 compared to $473 million of net purchases of debt securities available-for-sale during 2016.

Financing Activities: Net cash used in financing activities decreased by $44 million in 2018 compared to 2017. This decrease in net cash used in financing activities was primarily due to proceeds from the February 2018 debt issuance, which provided approximately $4.5 billion compared to proceeds from the August 2017 and November 2017 debt issuances partially offset by principal repayments in August 2017 and debt redemptions in December 2017 which provided approximately $1.6 billion. In 

51

February 2018, we issued $500 million principal amount of 2.875% senior notes due 2021, $1.000 billion principal amount of 3.250% senior notes due 2023, $1.500 billion principal amount of 3.900% senior notes due 2028 and $1.500 billion principal amount of 4.550% senior notes due 2048. See Note 12 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained elsewhere in this report for additional details. This increase was partially offset by approximately $6.1 billion of payments under our share repurchase program during 2018 compared to approximately $3.8 billion of payments under our share repurchase program during 2017. See Note 4 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained elsewhere in this report for additional details. 

Net cash used in financing activities decreased by $250 million in 2017 compared to 2016. The decrease in net cash used in financing activities was primarily attributable to proceeds from the August 2017 and November 2017 debt issuances partially offset by principal repayments in August 2017 and debt redemptions in December 2017. In August 2017, we issued an additional $500 million principal amount of 2.250% senior notes due 2021 and received net cash proceeds of approximately $496 million. In August 2017, we repaid the 1.900% senior notes with a principal amount of $500 million upon maturity. In November 2017, we issued an additional $3.0 billion principal amount of senior notes consisting of $750 million principal amount of 2.750% due 2023, $1.0 billion principal amount of 3.450% due 2027 and $1.250 billion principal amount of 4.350% due 2047 and received net cash proceeds of approximately $3.0 billion. In December 2017, we paid approximately $1.4 billion to redeem all of the outstanding $1.0 billion aggregate principal amount of 2.125% senior notes and $400 million aggregate principal amount of 2.300% senior notes, each matured in August 2018. See Note 12 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained elsewhere in this report for additional details. In addition to the debt activity, net cash used in financing activities decreased due to the approximately $3.8 billion of payments under our share repurchase program during 2017 compared to approximately $2.2 billion of payments under our share repurchase program during 2016.

Contractual Obligations

The following table sets forth our contractual obligations as of December 31, 2018:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Senior Notes: The senior note obligation amounts include future principal of $20.350 billion and interest payments for both current and non-current obligations as of December 31, 2018. See Note 12 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained elsewhere in this report for additional details.

Operating Leases: We lease office and research facilities under various operating lease agreements in the United States and various international markets as well as automobiles and certain equipment in these same markets. The non-cancelable lease terms for operating leases expire at various dates between 2019 and 2029 and include renewal options. In general, we are also required to reimburse the lessors for real estate taxes, insurance, utilities, maintenance and other operating costs associated with the leases. Effective January 1, 2019, these lease obligations will be discounted and presented on our Consolidated Balance Sheet as a right-of-use asset and lease liability for leases with a duration of greater than one year. See Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained elsewhere in this report for additional details related to this upcoming change in accounting standard. For more information on the major facilities that we occupy under lease arrangements refer to Part I, Item 2. "Properties" of this report.

Other Contract Commitments: Other contract commitments of $527 million as of December 31, 2018 primarily included $495 million in contractual obligations related to product supply contracts. The non-cancelable contract terms for product supply expire at various dates between 2019 and 2027 and include renewal options. In addition, we have committed to invest an aggregate $32 million in investment funds, which are callable at any time.

2017 Tax Act: Under the 2017 Tax Act, a company’s post-1986 previously untaxed foreign E&P was mandatorily deemed to be repatriated and taxed, which is also referred to as the toll charge. We have elected to pay the toll charge in installments over eight years, or through 2025. However, the toll charge liability is not discounted on our financial statements. As such, we have recorded approximately $1.2 billion as a non-current income tax liability, included in Income taxes payable on the Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2018. 

52

Collaboration Arrangements and Acquired Research and Development Assets: We have entered into certain research and development collaboration agreements and have acquired research and development assets or rights to products and technologies from third parties with the potential for future milestone and royalty payments upon the achievement of pre-established developmental, regulatory and/or commercial targets. Due to the nature of these arrangements, the future potential payments related to the attainment of specified development, regulatory approval and sales-based milestones over a period of several years are inherently uncertain, and accordingly, no amounts have been recorded for these future potential payments in our Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2018 and 2017 contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Potential milestone payments (not including potential royalty payments) total approximately $19.7 billion, including approximately $9.2 billion contingent on the achievement of various research, development and regulatory approval milestones and approximately $10.5 billion in sales-based milestones. These potential milestone payments relate to arrangements in which we have obtained rights, either through a license, co-development arrangement or asset acquisition, to certain programs. However, our obligation to fund these efforts is contingent upon continued involvement in the programs and/or the lack of any adverse events which could cause the discontinuance of the programs. For additional information regarding certain of these relationships, see Note 3 and Note 18 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained elsewhere in this report.

Uncertain Tax Positions: We are unable to predict the timing of tax settlements related to our obligations for uncertain tax positions as tax audits can involve complex issues and the resolution of those issues may span multiple years, particularly if subject to negotiation or litigation. Accordingly, we have not included obligations for uncertain tax positions in our table of contractual obligations (see Note 17 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained elsewhere in this report).

New Accounting Standards

For a discussion of new accounting standards please see Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained elsewhere in this report.

Critical Accounting Estimates and Significant Accounting Policies 

A critical accounting policy is one that is both important to the portrayal of our financial condition and results of operation and requires management's most difficult, subjective or complex judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain. While our significant accounting policies are more fully described in Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this report, we believe the following accounting estimates and policies to be critical:

Revenue Recognition: Revenue from the sale of products is recognized in a manner that depicts the transfer of those promised goods to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which we expect to be entitled in exchange for these goods or services. To achieve this core principle, we follow a five-step model that includes identifying the contract with a customer, identifying the performance obligations in the contract, determining the transaction price, allocating the transaction price to the performance obligations and recognizing revenue when, or as, we satisfy a performance obligation. In addition, we recognize revenue from other product sales and royalties based on licensees' sales of our products or products using our technologies. We do not consider royalty revenue to be a material source of our consolidated revenue.

Gross-to-Net Sales Accruals: We record gross-to-net sales accruals for government rebates, chargebacks, distributor service fees, other rebates and administrative fees, sales returns and allowances and sales discounts.

REVLIMID® and POMALYST® are distributed in the United States primarily through contracted pharmacies under the REVLIMID REMS® and POMALYST REMS®, respectively. These are proprietary risk-management distribution programs tailored specifically to provide for the safe and appropriate distribution and use of REVLIMID® and POMALYST®. Internationally, REVLIMID® and IMNOVID® are distributed under mandatory risk-management distribution programs tailored to meet local authorities’ specifications to provide for the product’s safe and appropriate distribution and use. These programs may vary by country and, depending upon the country and the design of the risk-management program, the product may be sold through hospitals or retail pharmacies. OTEZLA®, ABRAXANE® and VIDAZA® are distributed through the more traditional pharmaceutical industry supply chain and are not subject to the same risk-management distribution programs as REVLIMID® and POMALYST®/IMNOVID®. 

Government rebate accruals are based on estimated payments due to governmental agencies for purchases made by third parties under various governmental programs. U.S. Medicaid rebate accruals are generally based on historical payment data and estimates of future Medicaid beneficiary utilization applied to the Medicaid unit rebate formula established by the Center for Medicaid and Medicare Services. The Medicaid rebate percentage was increased and extended to Medicaid Managed Care Organizations in March 2010. The accrual of the rebates associated with Medicaid Managed Care Organizations is calculated based on estimated 

53

historical patient data related to Medicaid Managed Care Organizations. We also analyze actual billings received from the states to further support the accrual rates. Manufacturers of pharmaceutical products are responsible for 50% of the patient’s cost of branded prescription drugs related to the Medicare Part D Coverage Gap (70% beginning in 2019). In order to estimate the cost to us of this coverage gap responsibility, we analyze data for eligible Medicare Part D patients against data for eligible Medicare Part D patients treated with our products as well as the historical invoices. This expense is recognized throughout the year as costs are incurred. In certain international markets government-sponsored programs require rebates to be paid based on program specific rules and, accordingly, the rebate accruals are determined primarily on estimated eligible sales.

Rebates or administrative fees are offered to certain wholesale customers, group purchasing organizations and end-user customers, consistent with pharmaceutical industry practices. Settlement of rebates and fees may generally occur from one to 15 months from the date of sale. We record a provision for rebates at the time of sale based on contracted rates and historical redemption rates. Assumptions used to establish the provision include level of wholesaler inventories, contract sales volumes and average contract pricing. We regularly review the information related to these estimates and adjust the provision accordingly.

Chargeback accruals are based on the differentials between product acquisition prices paid by wholesalers and lower government contract pricing paid by eligible customers covered under federally qualified programs. Distributor service fee accruals are based on contractual fees to be paid to the wholesale distributor for services provided. TRICARE is a health care program of the U.S. Department of Defense Military Health System that provides civilian health benefits for military personnel, military retirees and their dependents. TRICARE rebate accruals are included in chargeback accruals and are based on estimated Department of Defense eligible sales multiplied by the TRICARE rebate formula.

Sales discount accruals are based on payment terms extended to customers.

We base our sales returns allowance on estimated on-hand retail/hospital inventories, measured end-customer demand as reported by third-party sources, actual returns history and other factors, such as the trend experience for lots where product is still being returned or inventory centralization and rationalization initiatives conducted by major pharmacy chains, as applicable. If the historical data we use to calculate these estimates do not properly reflect future returns, then a change in the allowance would be made in the period in which such a determination is made and revenues in that period could be materially affected. Under this methodology, we track actual returns by individual production lots. Returns on closed lots, that is, lots no longer eligible for return credits, are analyzed to determine historical returns experience. Returns on open lots, that is, lots still eligible for return credits, are monitored and compared with historical return trend rates. Any changes from the historical trend rates are considered in determining the current sales return allowance. As noted above, REVLIMID® and POMALYST®/IMNOVID® are distributed primarily through hospitals and contracted pharmacies, which are typically subject to tighter controls of inventory quantities within the supply channel and, thus, resulting in lower returns activity.

Allowance for Doubtful Accounts: We estimate an allowance for doubtful accounts primarily based on historical payment patterns, aging of receivable balances and general economic conditions, including publicly available information on the credit worthiness of countries themselves and provinces or areas within such countries where they are the ultimate customers.

Income Taxes: We utilize the asset and liability method of accounting for income taxes. Under this method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on the difference between the financial statement carrying amounts and tax bases of assets and liabilities using enacted tax rates in effect for years in which the temporary differences are expected to reverse. We provide a valuation allowance when it is more likely than not that some portion or all of a deferred tax asset will not be realized.

We account for interest and penalties related to uncertain tax positions as part of our provision for income taxes. These unrecognized tax benefits relate primarily to issues common among multinational corporations in our industry. We apply a variety of methodologies in making these estimates which include studies performed by independent economists, advice from industry and subject matter experts, evaluation of public actions taken by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service and other taxing authorities, as well as our own industry experience. We provide estimates for unrecognized tax benefits. If our estimates are not representative of actual outcomes, our results of operations could be materially impacted.

We periodically evaluate the likelihood of the realization of deferred tax assets, and reduce the carrying amount of these deferred tax assets by a valuation allowance to the extent we believe a portion will not be realized. We consider many factors when assessing the likelihood of future realization of deferred tax assets, including our recent cumulative earnings experience by taxing jurisdiction, expectations of future taxable income, carryforward periods available to us for tax reporting purposes, various income tax strategies and other relevant factors. Significant judgment is required in making this assessment and, to the extent future expectations change, we would have to assess the recoverability of our deferred tax assets at that time. As of December 31, 2018, it was more likely than not that we would realize our deferred tax assets, net of valuation allowances.

54

We recognize the tax on GILTI as a period expense in the period the tax is incurred. Under this policy, we have not provided deferred taxes on temporary differences that upon their reversal will affect the amount of income subject to GILTI in the period.

Share-Based Compensation: We utilize share-based compensation in the form of stock options, restricted stock units, or RSUs, and performance-based restricted stock units, or PSUs. Compensation expense is recognized in the Consolidated Statements of Income based on the estimated fair value of the awards at grant date. Compensation expense recognized reflects an estimate of the number of awards expected to vest after taking into consideration an estimate of award forfeitures based on actual experience and is recognized on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period, which is generally the vesting period required to obtain full vesting. Management expectations related to the achievement of performance goals associated with PSU grants is assessed regularly and that assessment is used to determine whether PSU grants are expected to vest. If performance-based milestones related to PSU grants are not met or not expected to be met, any compensation expense recognized to date associated with grants that are not expected to vest will be reversed.

Other-Than-Temporary Impairments of Debt Securities Available-For-Sale: A decline in the market value of any debt security available-for-sale below its cost that is deemed to be other-than-temporary results in a reduction in carrying amount to fair value. The impairment is charged to operations and a new cost basis for the security established. The determination of whether a debt security available-for-sale is other-than-temporarily impaired requires significant judgment and requires consideration of available quantitative and qualitative evidence in evaluating the potential impairment. Factors evaluated to determine whether the investment is other-than-temporarily impaired include: significant deterioration in the issuer's earnings performance, credit rating, asset quality, business prospects of the issuer, adverse changes in the general market conditions in which the issuer operates, length of time that the fair value has been below our cost, our expected future cash flows from the security, our intent not to sell, an evaluation as to whether it is more likely than not that we will not have to sell before recovery of our cost basis, and issues that raise concerns about the issuer's ability to continue as a going concern. Assumptions associated with these factors are subject to future market and economic conditions, which could differ from our assessment.

Derivatives and Hedging Activities: All derivative instruments are recognized on the balance sheet at their fair value. Changes in the fair value of derivative instruments are recorded each period in current earnings or Other comprehensive income (loss) (OCI), depending on whether a derivative instrument is designated as part of a hedging transaction and, if it is, the type of hedging transaction. For a derivative to qualify as a hedge at inception and throughout the hedged period, we formally document the nature and relationships between the hedging instruments and hedged item. We assess, both at inception and on an on-going basis, whether derivative instruments are highly effective in offsetting the changes in the fair value or cash flows of hedged items. If we determine that a forecasted transaction is no longer probable of occurring, we discontinue hedge accounting and any related unrealized gain or loss on the derivative instrument is recognized in Other income (expense), net in our Consolidated Statements of Income. We use derivative instruments, including those not designated as part of a hedging transaction, to manage our exposure to movements in foreign exchange, our stock price and interest rates. The use of these derivative instruments modifies the exposure of these risks with the intent to reduce our risk or cost.

Prior to the adoption of Accounting Standards Update No. 2017-12, "Derivatives and Hedging" (ASU 2017-12), we were required to separately measure and reflect the amount by which the hedging instrument did not offset the changes in the fair value or cash flows of hedged items, which was referred to as the ineffective amount. We assessed hedge effectiveness on a quarterly basis and recorded the gain or loss related to the ineffective portion of derivative instruments, if any, in Other income (expense), net in the Consolidated Statements of Income. Pursuant to the provisions of ASU 2017-12, we are no longer required to separately measure and recognize hedge ineffectiveness. Upon adoption of ASU 2017-12, we no longer recognize hedge ineffectiveness in our Consolidated Statements of Income, but we instead recognize the entire change in the fair value of:

•cash flow hedges included in the assessment of hedge effectiveness in OCI. The amounts recorded in OCI will subsequently be reclassified to earnings in the same line item in the Consolidated Statements of Income as impacted by the hedged item when the hedged item affects earnings; and

•fair value hedges included in the assessment of hedge effectiveness in the same line item in the Consolidated Statements of Income that is used to present the earnings effect of the hedged item.

Prior to the adoption of ASU 2017-12, we excluded option premiums and forward points (excluded components) from our assessment of hedge effectiveness for our foreign exchange cash flow hedges. We recognized all changes in fair value of the excluded components in Other income (expense), net in the Consolidated Statements of Income. The amendments in ASU 2017-12 continue to allow those components to be excluded from the assessment of hedge effectiveness, which we have elected to continue to apply. Pursuant to the provisions of ASU 2017-12, we no longer recognize changes in the fair value of the excluded components in Other income (expense), net, but we instead recognize the initial value of the excluded component on a straight-line basis over 

55

the life of the derivative instrument, within the same line item in the Consolidated Statements of Income that is used to present the earnings effect of the hedged item. 

Beginning on April 1, 2018, all new cash flow hedging relationships are accounted for using the forward method. As a result, the entire fair value of the hedging instrument is recorded in OCI as no amounts are excluded from the assessment of hedge effectiveness. In addition, the initial value of the excluded component is recognized in OCI and not in the Consolidated Statements of Income.

Investments in Other Entities: We hold a portfolio of investments in equity securities and certain investment funds that are accounted for under either the equity method, as equity investments with readily determinable fair values, or as equity investments without readily determinable fair values. Investments in companies or certain investment funds over which we have significant influence but not a controlling interest are accounted for using the equity method, with our share of earnings or losses reported in Other income (expense), net in the Consolidated Statements of Income. Our equity investments with readily determinable fair values are primarily equity investments in the publicly traded common stock of companies, including common stock of companies with whom we have entered into collaboration agreements. Prior to Accounting Standards Update No. 2016-01, “Financial Instruments-Overall: Recognition and Measurement of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities” (ASU 2016-01), which we adopted on January 1, 2018, unrealized gains and losses on these investments, which were deemed to be temporary, were reported as a separate component of stockholder's equity, net of tax. Realized gains and losses as well as other-than-temporary impairment charges related to these investments were included in Other income (expense), net in the Consolidated Statements of Income. Following the adoption of ASU 2016-01, these investments are measured at fair value with changes in fair value recognized in Other income (expense), net in the Consolidated Statements of Income and are no longer subject to impairment. Also prior to the adoption of ASU 2016-01, equity investments without readily determinable fair values were recorded at cost minus other-than-temporary impairment, with other-than-temporary impairment charges included in Other income (expense), net in the Consolidated Statements of Income. Following the adoption of ASU 2016-01, these investments are measured at cost adjusted for changes in observable prices minus impairment or at net asset value (NAV), as a practical expedient, if available, with changes in measurement recognized in Other income (expense), net in the Consolidated Statements of Income. Investments in equity investments without readily determinable fair values of companies that become publicly traded and are not classified as equity method investments are accounted for as equity investments with readily determinable fair values prospectively from the date of such companies' initial public offering. Our equity method investments and equity investments without readily determinable fair values are included in Other non-current assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheets.

All equity method investments and investments without a readily determinable fair value are reviewed on a regular basis for possible impairment. If an equity method investment's fair value is determined to be less than its net carrying value and the decline is determined to be other-than-temporary, the investment is written down to its fair value. Investments without a readily determinable fair value that do not qualify for the practical expedient to estimate fair value using NAV per share are written down to fair value if a qualitative assessment indicates that the investment is impaired and the fair value of the investment is less than its carrying value. Such evaluation is judgmental and dependent on specific facts and circumstances. Factors considered in determining whether an other-than-temporary decline in value or impairment has occurred include: market value or exit price of the investment based on either market-quoted prices or future rounds of financing by the investee; length of time that the market value was below its cost basis; financial condition and business prospects of the investee; our intent and ability to retain the investment for a sufficient period of time to allow for recovery in market value of the investment; a bona fide offer to purchase, an offer by the investee to sell, or a completed auction process for the same or similar security for an amount less than the carrying amount of the investment; issues that raise concerns about the investee's ability to continue as a going concern; and any other information that we may be aware of related to the investment.

Accounting for Long-Term Incentive Plans: We have established a Long-Term Incentive Plan, or LTIP, designed to provide key officers and executives with performance-based incentive opportunities contingent upon achievement of pre-established corporate performance objectives covering a three-year period. As of December 31, 2018, we had recorded liabilities for three separate three-year performance cycles running concurrently and ending December 31, 2018, 2019 and 2020. Performance measures for each of the performance cycles are based on the following components: 37.5% on non-GAAP earnings per share (as defined in the LTIP); 37.5% on total non-GAAP revenue (as defined in the LTIP); and 25% on relative total shareholder return, which is a measurement of our stock price performance during the applicable three-year period compared with a group of other companies in the biopharmaceutical industry.

Threshold, target and maximum cash payout levels are calculated as a percentage between 0% to 200% of each participant’s base salary at the time the LTIP was approved by the Compensation Committee. Such awards are payable in cash or common stock or a mixture of cash and common stock, which will be determined by the Compensation Committee at the time of award delivery. Share-based payout levels are calculated using the cash-based threshold, target and maximum levels, divided by the average closing price of Celgene stock for the 30 trading days prior to the commencement of each performance cycle. Therefore, final share-based award values are reflective of the stock price at the end of the measurement period. The Compensation Committee may determine 

56

that payments made in common stock are restricted from trading for a period of time. We accrue the long-term incentive liability over each three-year cycle. Prior to the end of a three-year cycle, the accrual is based on an estimate of our level of achievement during the cycle. Upon a change in control, participants will be entitled to an immediate payment equal to their target award or, if higher, an award based on actual performance through the date of the change in control.

Accruals recorded for the LTIP entail making certain assumptions concerning future non-GAAP earnings per share, non-GAAP revenues and relative total shareholder return, as defined; the actual results of which could be materially different than the assumptions used. Accruals for the LTIP are reviewed on a regular basis and revised accordingly so that the liability recorded reflects updated estimates of future payouts. In estimating the accruals, management considers actual results to date for the performance period, expected results for the remainder of the performance period, operating trends, product development, pricing and competition.

Valuation of Goodwill, Acquired Intangible Assets, Other Assets and IPR&D: We have recorded goodwill, acquired intangible assets and IPR&D through acquisitions accounted for as business combinations. When identifiable intangible assets, including IPR&D and technology platforms are acquired, we determine the fair values of these assets as of the acquisition date. Discounted cash flow models are typically used in these valuations if quoted market prices are not available, and the models require the use of significant estimates and assumptions including but not limited to:

•projecting regulatory approvals;

•estimating future cash flows from product sales resulting from completed products and in-process projects or estimating future cash flows expected to be collected; and

•developing appropriate discount rates and probability rates.

Goodwill represents the excess of purchase price over fair value of net assets acquired in a business combination accounted for by the acquisition method of accounting and is not amortized, but is subject to impairment testing. We test our goodwill for impairment at least annually or when a triggering event occurs that could indicate a potential impairment by assessing qualitative factors or performing a quantitative analysis in determining whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of net assets are below their carrying amounts. 

Intangible assets with definite useful lives are amortized to their estimated residual values over their estimated useful lives and reviewed for impairment if certain events occur. Intangible assets related to IPR&D product rights are treated as indefinite-lived intangible assets and not amortized until the product is approved for sale by regulatory authorities in specified markets. At that time, we will determine the useful life of the asset, reclassify the asset out of IPR&D and begin amortization. Impairment testing is also performed at least annually or when a triggering event occurs that could indicate a potential impairment. Such test entails completing an updated discounted cash flow model to estimate the fair value of the IPR&D asset. If required, the impairment test for intangible assets with definite useful lives is completed by comparing an updated non-discounted cash flow model to the book value of the intangible asset. 

Valuation of Contingent Consideration Resulting from a Business Combination: We record contingent consideration resulting from a business combination at its fair value on the acquisition date, and for each subsequent reporting period revalue these obligations and record increases or decreases in their fair value as an adjustment to operating earnings in the Consolidated Statements of Income. Changes to contingent consideration obligations can result from movements in publicly traded share prices of Abraxis CVRs, adjustments to discount rates and periods, updates in the assumed achievement or timing of any development milestones or changes in the probability of certain clinical events and changes in the assumed probability associated with regulatory approval. The assumptions related to determining the value of a contingent consideration include a significant amount of judgment and any changes in the assumptions could have a material impact on the amount of contingent consideration expense recorded in any given period. Our contingent consideration liabilities were recorded in the acquisitions of Gloucester, Abraxis, Avila, Nogra, and Quanticel Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Quanticel). In addition, in connection with our acquisition of Juno in the first quarter of 2018, we assumed Juno's contingent consideration and success payment liabilities. The fair values of the Gloucester, Avila, Nogra, Quanticel, and Juno contingent consideration liabilities are based on the discount rate, probability and estimated timing of cash milestone payments to the former shareholders of each business. The fair value of the Abraxis contingent consideration liability is based on the quoted market price of the publicly traded Abraxis CVRs. Success payment obligations assumed through our acquisition of Juno are also recorded at their estimated fair value and are revalued quarterly with changes in fair value recognized in Acquisition related charges (gains) and restructuring, net in the Consolidated Statements of Income. 

57

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK