PART I

ITEM 1. BUSINESS

Celgene Corporation, together with its subsidiaries (collectively “we,” “our,” “us,” “Celgene” or the “Company”), is an integrated global biopharmaceutical company engaged primarily in the discovery, development and commercialization of innovative therapies for the treatment of cancer and inflammatory diseases through next-generation solutions in protein homeostasis, immuno-oncology, epigenetics, immunology and neuro-inflammation. Celgene Corporation was incorporated in the State of Delaware in 1986.

On January 2, 2019, we entered into a definitive merger agreement with Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (Bristol-Myers Squibb) under which Bristol-Myers Squibb will acquire Celgene in a cash and stock transaction with an equity value of approximately $74 billion, based on the closing price of Bristol-Myers Squibb shares of $52.43 on January 2, 2019, subject to the terms and conditions set forth therein. The transaction is subject to approval by Bristol-Myers Squibb and Celgene shareholders and the satisfaction of customary closing conditions and regulatory approvals. Bristol-Myers Squibb and Celgene expect to complete the transaction in the third quarter of 2019. See Part I, Item 1A, “Risk Factors,” Part II, Item 7, “Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” and Note 22 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this report for additional information regarding the transaction.

Our primary commercial stage products include REVLIMID®, POMALYST®/IMNOVID®, OTEZLA®, ABRAXANE®, and VIDAZA®. 

We continue to invest substantially in research and development in support of multiple ongoing proprietary clinical development programs which support our existing products and pipeline of new product candidates. Our clinical trial activity includes trials across the disease areas of hematology, oncology, and inflammation and immunology. REVLIMID® is being evaluated in phase III trials covering a range of hematological malignancies that include lymphomas. In July 2018, the phase III trial (AUGMENTTM) for REVLIMID® in combination with rituximab (R2), for the treatment of relapsed and/or refractory follicular or marginal zone lymphoma achieved its primary endpoint. In December 2018, we submitted a U.S. supplemental New Drug Application (NDA) for REVLIMID® in combination with rituximab in relapsed and/or refractory indolent non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL) and in January 2019 we submitted an application with the European Medicines Agency (EMA) for approval in Europe. Also, within hematological malignancies, POMALYST® is in phase III and post-approval trials for relapsed and/or refractory multiple myeloma (RRMM). In solid tumors, ABRAXANE® is currently being investigated in pancreatic cancer, breast and non-small cell lung cancers. In inflammation and immunology in 2018, we submitted a U.S. supplemental NDA and Japan NDA for OTEZLA® in Behçet’s disease following positive results from the phase III trial (RELIEFTM). Patients with active Behçet’s disease showed statistically significant reductions in oral ulcers with OTEZLA® when compared to placebo. Also in 2018, the phase IIIb study (STYLETM) for OTEZLA® in patients with moderate to severe scalp psoriasis showed statistically significant improvement of the Scalp Physician’s Global Assessment (ScPGA) response compared with placebo. OTEZLA® is also being evaluated in a phase III trial in pediatric psoriasis (SPROUT®), while continuing to be studied in psoriatic arthritis and plaque psoriasis.

We also have a growing number of potential products in phase III trials or that have completed phase III across multiple diseases. In the inflammation and immunology therapeutic area, we completed two phase III trials (RADIANCETM and SUNBEAMTM) for ozanimod in relapsing multiple sclerosis (RMS). Both RADIANCETM and SUNBEAMTM achieved their primary endpoints in reducing the annualized relapse rate in patients with RMS. Enrollment is currently ongoing for the phase III TRUENORTHTM trial in ulcerative colitis (UC) and the phase III YELLOWSTONETM trial in Crohn’s Disease (CD). In hematology, we submitted a U.S. NDA for fedratinib for the treatment of patients with myelofibrosis in January 2019. In June and July 2018, Celgene and Acceleron Pharma, Inc. (Acceleron) announced that luspatercept achieved all primary and key secondary endpoints in the phase III MEDALISTTM and BELIEVETM trials in patients with low-to-intermediate risk myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) and transfusion-dependent beta-thalassemia, respectively. In collaboration with bluebird bio, the pivotal study (KarMMaTM) evaluating bb2121 in RRMM is ongoing and enrollment was completed in the fourth quarter. The clinical program evaluating bb2121 in earlier lines of multiple myeloma (MM) is also advancing. In the second quarter of 2018 we initiated the pivotal TRANSCEND WORLD trial evaluating liso-cel (lisocabtagene maraleucel) (JCAR017) in relapsed and/or refractory diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL). Phase III trials are also underway for CC-486 in MDS, acute myeloid leukemia (AML), and angioimmunoblastic T-Cell lymphoma (AITL). In solid tumors, we are supporting a phase III study of marizomib in newly diagnosed glioblastoma, sponsored by the European Organization for Research and the Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) in collaboration with the Canadian Cancer Trials Group (CCTG). In 2018, our partner BeiGene, Ltd. (BeiGene) initiated phase III trials for tislelizumab (BGB-A317) in 1L hepatocellular carcinoma, 2L/3L hepatocellular carcinoma, and 2L/3L non-small cell lung cancer.

Beyond our phase III programs, we have access to a growing early-to-mid-stage pipeline of novel potential therapies to address significant unmet medical needs that consists of new product candidates and cell therapies developed in-house, licensed from 

1

other companies or able to be optioned from collaboration partners. We believe that continued use of our primary commercial stage products, participation in research and development collaboration arrangements, depth of our product pipeline, potential regulatory approvals of new products and new indications for existing products will provide the catalysts for future growth.

Our primary commercial stage products are approved to treat the diseases described below for the major markets of the United States, the European Union and Japan. Approvals in other international markets are indicated in the aggregate for the disease indication that most closely represents the majority of the other international approvals.

REVLIMID® (lenalidomide): REVLIMID® is an oral immunomodulatory drug approved in the United States and many international markets for the following uses:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

2

POMALYST®/IMNOVID® (pomalidomide)1: POMALYST®/IMNOVID® is a proprietary, distinct, small molecule that is administered orally and modulates the immune system and other biologically important targets. POMALYST®/IMNOVID® is approved for the following uses:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

1 We received regulatory approval for pomalidomide under the trade name POMALYST® in the United States and Japan and under the trade name IMNOVID® in the European Union.

OTEZLA® (apremilast): OTEZLA® is an oral small-molecule inhibitor of phosphodiesterase 4 (PDE4) specific for cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP). PDE4 inhibition results in increased intracellular cAMP levels. OTEZLA® is approved for the following uses:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

3

ABRAXANE® (paclitaxel albumin-bound particles for injectable suspension): ABRAXANE® is a solvent-free chemotherapy product which was developed using our proprietary nab® technology platform. This protein-bound chemotherapy agent combines paclitaxel with albumin. ABRAXANE® is approved for the following uses:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

VIDAZA® (azacitidine for injection): VIDAZA® is a pyrimidine nucleoside analog that has been shown to reverse the effects of DNA hypermethylation and promote subsequent gene re-expression. The U.S. regulatory exclusivity for VIDAZA® expired in May 2011. After the launch of a generic version of VIDAZA® in the United States by a competitor in September 2013, we experienced a significant reduction in our U.S. sales of VIDAZA®. In 2013, we contracted with Sandoz AG (Sandoz) to sell a generic version of VIDAZA® in the United States, which we supply, and we recognize net product sales from our sales to Sandoz. Regulatory exclusivity for VIDAZA® is expected to continue in Europe through 2019. VIDAZA® is approved in the United States and many international markets for the following uses:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

REVLIMID® and POMALYST® are distributed in the United States primarily through contracted pharmacies under the REVLIMID® Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy (REMS) and POMALYST REMS® programs, respectively. These are proprietary risk-management distribution programs tailored specifically to provide for the safe and appropriate distribution and use of REVLIMID® and POMALYST®. Internationally, REVLIMID® and IMNOVID® are distributed under mandatory risk-management distribution programs tailored to meet local authorities’ specifications to provide for the product’s safe and appropriate distribution and use. These programs may vary by country and, depending upon the country and the design of the risk-management 

4

program, the product may be sold through hospitals or retail pharmacies. OTEZLA®, ABRAXANE® and VIDAZA® are distributed through the more traditional pharmaceutical industry supply chain and are not subject to the same risk-management distribution programs as REVLIMID® and POMALYST®/IMNOVID®. 

PRECLINICAL AND CLINICAL-STAGE PIPELINE

Our preclinical and clinical-stage pipeline of new product candidates includes small molecules, biologics and cell therapies. These product candidates are at various stages of preclinical and clinical development. Below we describe our significant clinical programs for new indications for our existing products, as well as new product candidates.

Immune-Inflammatory Diseases: OTEZLA® (apremilast) a novel PDE4 inhibitor, was submitted for approval to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and the Japanese Pharmaceuticals and Medical Devices Agency (PMDA) for the treatment of oral ulcers associated with Behçet’s disease, and is being studied in phase III trials for pediatric psoriasis and mild to moderate plaque psoriasis, phase IIIb trials in scalp psoriasis and moderate to severe genital psoriasis and continues to be studied in phase IV trials in psoriatic arthritis and plaque psoriasis. Differentiated oral therapies are advancing through mid- to late-stage trials in inflammatory diseases, including ozanimod, a potential best-in-class S1P receptor modulator in phase III trials in UC and CD. Other potential oral therapies include iberdomide (CC-220), a CELMoD® in development for systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) and CC-90001, a JNK inhibitor in development for idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis. Additionally, we are evaluating RPC4046, a monoclonal antibody against IL-13 in eosinophilic esophagitis.

A phase Ib trial in psoriasis patients is underway with CC-90006, an injectable PD-1 agonist antibody for autoimmune disorders. In Inflammation and Immunology, phase I trials were initiated evaluating CC-92252 an IL-2 mutein Fc protein and CC-99677 an MK2 inhibitor.

Myeloid Diseases: In collaboration with Acceleron, we are developing luspatercept for patients with myeloid diseases. In June and July 2018, Celgene and Acceleron announced that luspatercept achieved all primary and key secondary endpoints in the phase III MEDALISTTM and BELIEVETM trials in patients with low-to-intermediate risk MDS and transfusion-dependent beta-thalassemia, respectively. In addition, the phase III COMMANDS™ front-line trial evaluating luspatercept in erythropoiesis-stimulating agent (ESA)-naïve, very low, low or intermediate risk MDS patients initiated in the third quarter. The phase II BEYONDTM trial in non-transfusion dependent beta-thalassemia and the phase II trial in myelofibrosis are currently enrolling.

Epigenetics: The current insights into molecular regulation of genetic information (Epigenetics) have the potential to transform human diseases. We currently market three epigenetic modifiers, VIDAZA®, ISTODAX® and IDHIFA®. We have two phase III trials of CC-486 (oral 5-azacitidine) currently enrolling to evaluate its efficacy in the treatment of MDS and AML. We are currently evaluating ivosidenib or IDHIFA® combined with standard induction chemotherapy (7+3 regimen) in patients with newly diagnosed AML with an isocitrate dehydrogenase (IDH)-1 or IDH-2 mutation from a phase I trial. 

A phase I trial of a lysine-specific histone demethylase inhibitor (LSD1i, CC-90011) is under way in solid tumors. Additionally, two bromodomain and extra-terminal motif (BET) inhibitors CC-90010, and FT-1101 in collaboration with FORMA Therapeutics, Inc. (FORMA), are in phase I dose escalation trials under investigation in NHL, solid tumors and acute leukemia indications.

Protein Homeostasis: We are currently developing novel CELMoD® compounds to address unmet needs in myeloma, AML, lymphoma and lupus. These assets have been developed based on our scientific understanding of Cereblon-mediated protein homeostasis and are differentiated from previous compounds (such as thalidomide, lenalidomide and pomalidomide) based on their enhanced speed and efficiency of degrading critical substrate proteins using Cereblon as a tool to achieve this degradation. Iberdomide (CC-220) is a CELMoD® compound currently being evaluated in a phase I/II trial in patients with RRMM and a phase II trial in patients with SLE. CC-90009, whose activity is related to the depletion of the novel substrate GSPT1 is currently in phase I in patients with relapsed or refractory AML. CC-92480 is a novel CELMoD® with a differentiated preclinical profile, currently being investigated in a phase I trial in patients with RRMM. In addition, an Investigational New Drug (IND) application and a Clinical Trial Application (CTA) were submitted in December 2018 for a novel CELMoD® in development for NHL. 

Immuno-Oncology: bb2121, a B-cell maturation antigen (BCMA) chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cell therapy, is being developed in collaboration with bluebird bio. The pivotal KarMMaTM study in RRMM is currently ongoing. Also in collaboration with bluebird bio, bb21217, a second anti-BCMA CAR T cell therapy, is currently in phase I development in RRMM. JCARH125, a BCMA CAR T cell therapy, being developed by Juno Therapeutics, a Celgene Company, is in a phase I trial (EVOLVE) in patients with RRMM. Liso-cel (JCAR017), an anti-CD19 CAR T cell therapy is being developed in patients with NHL, including the ongoing pivotal TRANSCEND trial in 3L DLBCL and the TRANSFORM trial in patients with 2L transplant-eligible DLBCL. In addition, the pivotal phase II portion of the phase I/II trial (TRANSCEND CLL-004) in patients with relapsed or refractory chronic lymphocytic leukemia initiated in January 2019. 

5

In addition to the BCMA-targeted CAR T cell therapies in development, our BCMA campaign in MM includes CC-93269, a T cell engager currently in a phase I trial in RRMM and an antibody drug conjugate (ADC) in collaboration with Sutro Biopharma. 

Our anti-CD47 antibody targeting macrophage activity, CC-90002, is currently in phase I trials being evaluated for the treatment of NHL and we are initiating a phase I study in solid tumors with CC-95251, a monoclonal antibody directed against SIRPα in the macrophage activity pathway.

A number of additional programs from our collaboration partners are in phase I clinical testing in multiple solid tumor indications, including JTX-2011, an ICOS-agonist, (Jounce Therapeutics, Inc), AG-270, a MAT2a inhibitor (Agios), GEM-333, a bispecific antibody directed against CD33 (GEMoaB), Etigilmab (OncoMed), an anti-TIGIT antibody and MSC-1, a leukemia factor inhibitor (Northern Biologics). TRPH-222 (Triphase), a CD-22 ADC, is also being investigated in a phase I study in NHL. 

PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT

We devote significant resources to research and development programs in an effort to discover and develop potential future product candidates. The product candidates in our pipeline are at various stages of preclinical and clinical development. The path to regulatory approval ordinarily includes three phases of clinical trials in which we collect data to support an application to regulatory authorities to allow us to market a product for treatment of a specified disease. There are many difficulties and uncertainties inherent in research and development of new products, resulting in a high rate of failure. To bring a drug from the discovery phase to regulatory approval, and ultimately to market, takes many years and significant cost. Failure can occur at any point in the process, including after the product is approved, based on post-marketing events or developments. New product candidates that appear promising in development may fail to reach the market or may have only limited commercial success because of efficacy or safety concerns, inability to obtain necessary regulatory approvals, limited scope of approved uses, reimbursement challenges, difficulty or excessive costs of manufacture, alternative therapies or infringement of the patents or intellectual property rights of others. Uncertainties in the FDA approval process and the approval processes in other countries can result in delays in product launches and lost market opportunities. Consequently, it is very difficult to predict which products will ultimately be submitted for approval, which will obtain approval and which will be commercially viable and generate profits. Successful results in preclinical or clinical studies may not be an accurate predictor of the ultimate safety or effectiveness of a drug or product candidate.

Phase I Clinical Trials

Phase I clinical trials begin when regulatory agencies allow initiation of clinical investigation of a new drug or product candidate and usually involve up to 80 healthy volunteers or subjects. These trials study a drug's safety profile and may include a preliminary determination of a drug or product candidate's safe dosage range. The phase I clinical trial also determines how a drug is absorbed, distributed, metabolized and excreted by the body, and therefore the potential duration of its action. Phase I clinical trials generally take from one to three years to complete.

Phase II Clinical Trials

Phase II clinical trials are conducted on a limited number of subjects with the targeted disease. An initial evaluation of the drug's effectiveness on subjects is performed and additional information on the drug's safety and dosage range is obtained. Phase II clinical trials normally include up to several hundred subjects and may take as many as two to three years to complete.

Phase III Clinical Trials

Phase III clinical trials are typically controlled multi-center trials that involve a larger target patient population that normally consists of several hundred to several thousand subjects to ensure that study results are statistically significant. During phase III clinical trials, physicians monitor subjects to determine efficacy and to gather further information on safety. These trials are generally global in nature and are designed to generate the clinical data necessary to submit an application for marketing approval to regulatory agencies. Phase III clinical trial testing varies by disease state, but can often last from two to seven years.

Regulatory Review

If a product candidate successfully completes clinical trials and trial data is submitted to governmental regulators, such as the FDA in the United States or the European Commission (EC) in the European Union (EU), the time to final marketing approval can vary from six months (for a U.S. filing that is designated for priority review by the FDA) to several years, depending on a number of variables, such as the disease state, the strength and complexity of the data presented, the novelty of the target or compound, risk-management approval and whether multiple rounds of review are required for the regulatory agency to evaluate the submission. There is no guarantee that a potential treatment will receive marketing approval, or that decisions on marketing approvals or treatment indications will be consistent across geographic areas.

6

The current stage of development of our commercial stage products and new product candidates in various areas of research are outlined in the following table: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

7

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

8

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

1 "Regulatory submission" indicates US and/or EU submission unless another country or region is indicated under Area of Research.  

2 Initial regulatory submission in Q4 2017; received Refusal to File from FDA in Q1 2018. Anticipating regulatory resubmission in Q1 2019.

3 In collaboration with bluebird bio, Inc.

4 In collaboration with Acceleron Pharma, Inc.

5 Regulatory approval based on pivotal phase II data.

6 Trial conducted by licensee partner, Taiho Pharmaceuticals Co. Ltd.

PATENTS AND PROPRIETARY TECHNOLOGY 

We consider intellectual property protection to be critical to our operations. For many of our products, in addition to compound (e.g., drug substance) and composition (e.g., drug product) patents, we hold polymorph, formulation, methods of treatment or use, delivery mechanism and methods of manufacture patents, as well as manufacturing trade secrets, that may extend exclusivity beyond the expiration of the compound patent or composition patent.

9

Key patent expirations and exclusivities:

The following table shows the expected expiration dates in the United States and Europe of the last-to-expire period of exclusivity (primary patent or regulatory approval) related to our primary marketed drug products. In some instances, there are later-expiring patents relating to particular forms or compositions, methods of manufacturing, or use of the drug in the treatment of particular diseases or conditions. However, such additional patents may not protect our drug products from generic competition after the expiration of the primary patent.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

_____________________

1 The patents covering these drugs include patents listed in the U.S. Orange Book. 

2 In December 2015, we announced the settlement of litigations with Natco Pharma Ltd. (Natco) and its partners and affiliates, relating to certain patents for REVLIMID®. As part of the settlement, we agreed to provide Natco with a volume-limited license to sell generic lenalidomide in the U.S. commencing in March 2022. Natco’s ability to market generic lenalidomide in the U.S. will be contingent on its obtaining approval of an Abbreviated New Drug Application (ANDA). See Note 19 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained elsewhere in this report.

3  In June 2018, we announced the settlement of litigations with Accord Healthcare Ltd. (Accord) relating to patents for REVLIMID®. As part of the settlement, we granted Accord the ability to market a generic lenalidomide product for certain conditions prior to expiry of Celgene’s patent and supplementary protection certificate (SPC) rights in the U.K. beginning on January 18, 2022, and in various other European countries where Celgene’s SPC is in force beginning on February 18, 2022. In addition, subject of ongoing European Patent Office (EPO) opposition proceedings. See Note 19 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained elsewhere in this report.

4 Based on ten years regulatory exclusivity.

5 In January 2018, we entered into a settlement with Actavis LLC to terminate patent litigation and Inter Partes Review (IPR) challenges between the parties relating to certain patents for ABRAXANE®. As part of the settlement, we have agreed to provide Actavis with a license to certain patents required to manufacture and sell a generic paclitaxel protein-bound particles for injectable suspension product in the United States beginning on March 31, 2022. See Note 19 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained elsewhere in this report.

6 Subject of ongoing SPC appeal proceedings in the UK and the Court of Justice for the European Union that may result in patent extension until 2022. See Note 19 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained elsewhere in this report for more information.

7 We contracted with Sandoz to sell azacitidine for injection, which they launched after the introduction of a generic version of VIDAZA® in the United States by a competitor in September 2013.

The term of individual patents and patent applications will depend upon the legal term of the patents in the countries in which they are obtained. In the United States, the patent term is 20 years from the date of filing of the patent application although term extensions are available. We may obtain patents for certain products many years before marketing approval is obtained for those products. Because of the limited life of patents, which ordinarily commences prior to the commercial sale of the related product, the commercial value of the patent may be limited. However, we may be able to obtain patent term extensions upon marketing approval. For example, SPCs on some of our products have been granted in a number of European countries, compensating in part for delays in obtaining marketing approval. Also, under the Hatch-Waxman Act, the term of a patent that covers an FDA-approved drug may also be eligible for patent term extension (for up to five years, but not beyond a total of 14 years from the date of product approval) as compensation for patent term lost during the FDA regulatory review process. When possible, depending upon the length of clinical trials and other factors involved in the filing of a NDA with the FDA, we expect to apply for patent term extensions for patents covering our drug products and their use in treating various diseases.

10

In most cases, our drugs are also covered in foreign countries by patents and patent applications that correspond to certain of those listed in the U.S. Orange Book. For example, patents related to the active pharmaceutical ingredient, uses and pharmaceutical compositions for most of our drugs have been granted in Europe. Although certain of the patents granted by the regulatory authorities of the European Union may expire at specific dates, patents granted in certain European countries, such as Spain, France, Italy, Germany and the United Kingdom, will extend beyond such European Union patent expiration date due to the SPCs granted in these countries for many of our drugs. The table above may also reflect patents in Europe that relate to certain polymorphic forms of the active pharmaceutical ingredient of our drugs.

Patent term extensions have been granted in other markets for certain of our patents related to REVLIMID®. Patent term extensions for certain of our patents related to lenalidomide have been granted in Europe, Australia, Japan and Russia. Further, patent term extensions for certain of our patents related to ABRAXANE® have been secured and/or are actively being sought in Europe, Australia, Japan, Russia and Korea. We are also considering alternative exclusivity strategies, mostly through international treaties, in a variety of countries throughout Latin America.

The existence of issued patents does not guarantee our right to practice the patented technology or commercialize the patented product. Third parties may have or obtain rights to patents which could be used to prevent or attempt to prevent us from commercializing the patented product candidates. Patents relating to pharmaceutical, biopharmaceutical and biotechnology products, compounds and processes, such as those that cover our existing compounds, products and processes and those that we will likely file in the future, do not always provide complete or adequate protection. Future litigation or re-examination proceedings (including oppositions and invalidity proceedings such as interparty reviews) regarding the enforcement or validity of our existing patents or any future patents could invalidate such patents or substantially reduce their protection.

Our patents are subject to challenge by generic drug companies and others for a variety of reasons. For more information regarding challenges to certain of our patents, see Item 1A. "Risk Factors” and Note 19 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained elsewhere in this report. 

Trade secret strategies and intellectual property rights in our brand names, logos and trademarks are also important to our business. We maintain both registered and common law trademarks. Common law trademark protection typically continues where and for as long as the mark is used. Registered trademarks continue in each country for as long as the trademark is registered.

GOVERNMENTAL REGULATION

General: Regulation by governmental authorities in the United States and other countries is a significant factor in the manufacture and marketing of pharmaceuticals and in our ongoing research and development activities. Our therapeutic products require regulatory approval by governmental agencies. Human therapeutic products are subject to rigorous preclinical testing and clinical trials and other pre-marketing and post-marketing approval requirements of the FDA and regulatory authorities in other countries. In the United States, various federal and, in some cases, state statutes and regulations also govern, or impact the manufacturing, testing for safety and effectiveness, labeling, storage, record-keeping and marketing of, such products. The lengthy process of seeking required approvals and the continuing need for compliance with applicable statutes and regulations, require the expenditure of substantial resources. Regulatory approval, if and when obtained, may be limited in scope, which may significantly limit the uses for which a product may be promoted. Further, approved drugs, as well as their manufacturers, are subject to ongoing post-marketing review, inspection and discovery of previously unknown problems with such products or the manufacturing or quality control procedures used in their production, which may result in restrictions on their manufacture, sale or use or in their withdrawal from the market. Any failure or delay by us, our suppliers of manufactured drug product, collaborators or licensees, in obtaining regulatory approvals could adversely affect the marketing of our products and our ability to receive product revenue, license revenue or profit sharing payments. For more information, see Item 1A. “Risk Factors.”

Clinical Development: Before a product may be administered to human subjects, it must undergo preclinical testing. Preclinical tests include laboratory evaluation of a product candidate's chemistry and biological activities and animal studies to assess potential safety and efficacy. The results of these studies must be submitted to the FDA as part of an IND application which must be reviewed by the FDA primarily for safety considerations before clinical trials in humans can begin.

Typically, clinical trials in humans involve a three-phase process as previously described under “- Product Development.”

In some cases, further studies beyond the three-phase clinical trial process described above are required as a condition for an NDA or biologics license application (BLA) approval. The FDA requires monitoring of all aspects of clinical trials and reports of all adverse events must be made to the FDA. The FDA may also require the conduct of pediatric studies for the drug and indication either before or after submission of an NDA.

11

FDA Review and Approval: The results of the preclinical testing and clinical trials are submitted to the FDA as part of an NDA or BLA for evaluation to determine if there is substantial evidence that the product is sufficiently safe and effective to warrant approval. In responding to an NDA or BLA, the FDA may grant marketing approval, deny approval, or request additional information, including data from new clinical trials. Modifications to an approved drug or biologic, including new indication or changes to labeling or manufacturing processes or facilities, may require the submission and approval of a supplemental NDA or BLA before modifications can be implemented, which may require that we develop additional data or conduct additional preclinical and clinical trials.

Expedited Programs for Serious Conditions: The FDA has developed four distinct approaches to make new drugs available as rapidly as possible in cases where there is no available treatment or there are advantages over existing treatments.

The FDA may grant “accelerated approval” to products that have been studied for their safety and effectiveness in treating serious or life-threatening illnesses and that provide meaningful therapeutic benefit to patients over existing treatments. For accelerated approval, the product must have an effect on a surrogate endpoint or an intermediate clinical endpoint that is considered reasonably likely to predict the clinical benefit of a drug, such as an effect on irreversible morbidity and mortality. When approval is based on surrogate endpoints or clinical endpoints other than survival or morbidity, the sponsor will be required to conduct additional post-approval clinical studies to verify and describe clinical benefit. These studies are known as "confirmatory trials." Approval of a drug may be withdrawn or the labeled indication of the drug changed if these trials fail to verify clinical benefit or do not demonstrate sufficient clinical benefit to justify the risks associated with the drug.

The FDA may grant “fast track” status to products that treat serious diseases or conditions and demonstrate the potential to address an unmet medical need. Fast track is a process designed to facilitate the development and expedite the review of such products by providing, among other things, more frequent meetings with the FDA to discuss the product's development plan, more frequent written correspondence from the FDA about trial design, eligibility for accelerated approval if relevant criteria are met, and rolling review, which allows submission of individually completed sections of an NDA or BLA for FDA review before the entire submission is completed. Fast track status does not ensure that a product will be developed more quickly or receive FDA approval.

“Breakthrough Therapy” designation is a process designed to expedite the development and review of drugs that are intended to treat a serious condition and preliminary clinical evidence indicates that the drug may demonstrate substantial improvement over available therapy on a clinically significant endpoint. For drugs and biologics that have been designated as Breakthrough Therapies, robust FDA-sponsor interaction and communication can help to identify the most efficient and expeditious path for clinical development while minimizing the number of patients placed in ineffective control regimens.

The FDA may grant “priority review” status to products that, if approved, would provide significant improvement in the safety or effectiveness of the treatment, diagnosis, or prevention of serious conditions. Priority review is intended to reduce the time it takes for the FDA to review an NDA or BLA, with the goal to take action on the application within six months, compared to ten months for a standard review.

Orphan Drug Act: Under the United States Orphan Drug Act, a sponsor may request that the FDA designate a drug intended to treat a “rare disease or condition” as an “orphan drug.” A “rare disease or condition” is one which affects less than 200,000 people in the United States, or which affects more than 200,000 people, but for which the cost of developing and making available the product is not expected to be recovered from sales of the product in the United States. Upon the approval of the first NDA or BLA for a drug designated as an orphan drug for a specified indication, the sponsor of that NDA or BLA is entitled to seven years of exclusive marketing rights in the United States unless the sponsor cannot assure the availability of sufficient quantities to meet the needs of persons with the disease. However, orphan drug status is particular to the approved indication and does not prevent another company from seeking approval of an off-patent drug that has other labeled indications that are not under orphan or other exclusivities. Orphan drugs may also be eligible for federal income tax credits for costs associated with the drugs' development. In order to increase the development and marketing of drugs for rare disorders, regulatory bodies outside the United States have enacted regulations similar to the Orphan Drug Act.

Review and Approval Outside of the United States: Approval procedures must be undertaken in virtually every other country comprising the market for our products. The approval procedure and the time required for approval vary from country to country and may involve additional testing. In certain countries such as the EU countries, Switzerland, Canada and Australia, regulatory requirements and approval processes are similar to those in the United States, where approval decisions by regulators are based on the regulators’ review of the results of clinical trials performed for specific indications. Other countries may have a less comprehensive review process in terms of data requirements and may rely on prior marketing approval from a foreign regulatory authority in other countries such as the United States or the EU.

12

Manufacturing Quality Control: Among the conditions for NDA or BLA approval is the requirement that the prospective manufacturer’s quality control and manufacturing procedures continually conform with the FDA’s current Good Manufacturing Practice (cGMP) regulations (which are regulations established by the FDA governing the manufacture, processing, packing, storage and testing of drugs and biologics intended for human use). In complying with cGMP, manufacturers must devote substantial time, money and effort in the areas of production, quality control and quality assurance to maintain compliance. Material changes in manufacturing equipment, location or process, may result in additional regulatory review and approval. The FDA, the EC and other regulatory agencies conduct periodic visits to inspect equipment, facilities, and processes following the initial approval of a product. If a manufacturing facility is not in substantial compliance with the applicable regulations and requirements imposed when the product was approved, regulatory enforcement action may be taken, which may include a warning letter or an injunction against shipment of products from the facility and/or recall of products previously shipped.

Post-approval Review and Enforcement: Regulatory authorities closely review and regulate the marketing and promotion of drug and biologic products. In most countries, regulatory approval is granted for a specified indication and is required before marketing or promoting a product for that indication. Regulatory authorities may take enforcement action against a company for promoting and/or reimbursement of unapproved uses of a product or for other violations of advertising and labeling laws and regulations.

When an NDA or BLA is approved, the NDA or BLA holder must, among other things, (a) employ a system for obtaining reports of adverse events and side effects associated with the drug and make appropriate submissions to the FDA and (b) timely advise the FDA if any approved product fails to adhere to specifications established by the NDA or BLA. If the FDA concludes that a drug previously shown to be effective can be safely used only if distribution or use is restricted, the FDA will require post-marketing restrictions as necessary to assure safe use. The sponsor may be required to establish systems to assure use of the product under safe conditions. The FDA may require the drug sponsor to implement programs similar to our REMS programs to ensure that benefits of a drug outweigh risks and that safety protocols are adhered to.

In addition, a sponsor of a drug product has an ongoing obligation to update product labels with new information and to report to regulatory authorities concerning assessment of serious risks associated with the drug. Following assessment of these reports, regulatory authorities can require product label updates to reflect new safety data or warnings. If the FDA or other regulatory authorities become aware of new safety information, they can also require us to conduct studies or clinical trials to assess the potential for a serious risk or to update the product label. The FDA and other regulatory authorities can also impose marketing restrictions, including the suspension of marketing or complete withdrawal of a product from the market.

The FDA may issue publicly available warning letters and non-compliance letters, which may require corrective actions, including modification of advertising or other corrective communications to consumers or healthcare professionals. 

Failure to comply with applicable FDA or other regulatory agency requirements can result in enforcement actions, such as license revocation or suspension; orders for retention, recall, seizure or destruction of product; cessation of manufacturing; injunctions; inspection warrants; search warrants; civil penalties, including fines based on disgorgement; restitution; and criminal prosecution.

Other Regulations: We are also subject to various federal and state laws, as well as foreign laws, pertaining to healthcare “fraud and abuse,” including anti-kickback laws and false claims laws. Anti-kickback laws make it illegal to solicit, offer, receive or pay any remuneration in exchange for or to induce the referral of business, including the purchase or prescription of a particular drug that is reimbursed by a state or federal program. False claims laws generally prohibit knowingly and willingly presenting, or causing to be presented for payment to third-party payers (including Medicare and Medicaid) any claims for reimbursed drugs or services that are false or fraudulent, claims for items or services not provided as claimed or claims for medically unnecessary items or services. Our activities related to the sale and marketing of our products may be subject to scrutiny under these laws. Violations of fraud and abuse laws may be punishable by criminal and/or civil sanctions, including fines and civil monetary penalties, as well as the possibility of exclusion from federal healthcare programs (including Medicare and Medicaid).

We are also subject to regulation under the Occupational Safety and Health Act, the Toxic Substances Control Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act and other federal, state and local laws, rules and regulations. Our research and development activities may involve the controlled use of hazardous materials, chemicals, biological materials and various radioactive compounds. We believe our procedures comply with the standards prescribed by federal, state or local laws, rules and regulations; however, the risk of injury or accidental contamination cannot be completely eliminated. 

Additionally, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) prohibits U.S. corporations and their representatives from offering, promising, authorizing or making payments or providing anything of value to any foreign government official, government staff member, political party or political candidate, with corrupt intent for the purpose of obtaining or retaining an improper business advantage. The scope of the FCPA includes interactions with certain healthcare professionals in many countries. Other countries have enacted similar anti-corruption laws and regulations to which our activities are subject.

13

COMPETITION

Our current products and products under development face competition from other innovative drugs and, in some cases, generic drugs. The relative speed with which we develop new products, complete clinical trials, obtain regulatory approvals, receive pricing and reimbursement approvals, and finalize manufacturing and distribution arrangements, and market our products are critical factors in gaining a competitive advantage. Competition among approved products depends, among other things, on product efficacy, safety, convenience, reliability, availability, price, third-party reimbursement, sales and promotional activities, product liability issues and patent and non-patent exclusivity. For additional information, see Item 1A. "Risk Factors.”

SIGNIFICANT ALLIANCES

We have entered into a variety of alliances in the ordinary course of our business. Although we do not consider any individual alliance to be material, a brief description of certain of the more notable alliances are identified in Note 18 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained elsewhere in this report.

MANUFACTURING 

We own and operate a manufacturing facility in Zofingen, Switzerland which produces the active pharmaceutical ingredient (API) for OTEZLA®, REVLIMID® and THALOMID®. In addition, we contract with several third-party organizations to provide back-up API manufacturing services for certain products. 

We have contracted with several third-party API and drug product manufacturing and packaging service providers, to provide primary and/or back-up sources for ABRAXANE®, POMALYST®/IMNOVID®, IDHIFA®, ISTODAX® and VIDAZA® (azacitidine for injection). 

Manufacturing for REVLIMID®, POMALYST®/IMNOVID®, THALOMID® and OTEZLA® which consists of bulk production, packaging, warehousing and distribution, is performed at our facilities in Boudry, Switzerland and Couvet, Switzerland. Manufacturing for ABRAXANE®, which consists of bulk production, packaging, warehousing and distribution, is performed at our facility in Phoenix, Arizona, U.S. In addition, we have contracted with several third-party drug product manufacturing and packaging organizations to provide back-up sources for these products. 

We have established primary and back-up manufacturing sites for late-phase development programs. For luspatercept, we have contracted third-party manufacturing organizations to supply drug substance and drug product manufacturing and packaging services. We are leveraging a combination of Celgene-owned and third-party manufacturing organizations for fedratinib, CC-486 and ozanimod. We have invested in our own manufacturing network, including facilities in Bothell, Washington and Summit, New Jersey, as well as contracted with third-party organizations, for cellular therapy product candidates, including bb2121 and liso-cel (JCAR017). 

All of our owned manufacturing facilities and third-party organizations that manufacture Celgene products are approved by the regulatory authorities for the geographies that they serve.

SALES AND COMMERCIALIZATION

We promote our brands globally through our hematology, oncology, and inflammation and immunology commercial organizations which support our currently marketed brands and prepare for the launches of new products, as well as new indications for existing products. For OTEZLA®, we also provide information about the appropriate use of our products to consumers in the U.S. through direct-to-consumer print and television advertising. We have a team of dedicated market access professionals to help physicians and payers understand the value our products deliver. Given our goal to ensure that patients who might benefit from our therapies have the opportunity to do so and given the complex reimbursement environment in the United States, we offer the services of Celgene Patient Support® and Otezla SupportPlus® to serve as dedicated, central points of contact for patients and healthcare professionals who use or prescribe our products. Celgene Patient Support® and Otezla SupportPlus® are free services that help patients and healthcare professionals navigate the challenges of reimbursement by providing information regarding insurance coverage, prior authorization requirements, appeals processes and financial assistance programs.

In most countries, we promote our products through our own sales organizations. In some regions, particularly in some countries in Latin America, we partner with third-party distributors. Generally, we distribute our products through commonly used channels in local markets. However, certain of our products, including REVLIMID® and POMALYST®/IMNOVID®, are distributed under mandatory risk-management distribution programs (such as REMS) tailored to meet local authorities' specifications to provide for their safe and appropriate distribution and use.

14

EMPLOYEES

As of December 31, 2018, we had 8,852 full-time employees, of whom 3,990 were engaged primarily in research and development activities, 2,497 were engaged primarily in sales and commercialization activities, 742 were engaged primarily in manufacturing, and the remaining 1,623 were engaged primarily in management and general and administrative activities. The number of full-time employees in our international operations has grown from 3,091 at the end of 2017 to 3,212 at the end of 2018. We also employ a number of part-time employees and maintain consulting arrangements with a number of researchers at various universities and other research institutions around the world.

SEASONALITY

Our worldwide product sales do not reflect any significant degree of seasonality in end-user demand. Several other factors, including government rebates, distributor buying patterns and government tender timing impact the dollar value of product sales recorded in any particular quarter. In the United States, manufacturers of pharmaceutical products are responsible for 50 percent of the patient’s cost of branded prescription drugs related to the Medicare Part D Coverage Gap (70 percent beginning in 2019). We fulfill this obligation by providing rebates to the government, resulting in a reduction in the dollar value of U.S. net product sales in the quarter in which the rebates are provided. Historically, these rebates are higher during the first quarter primarily due to the larger volume of patient deductibles at the beginning of a calendar year. In addition, in the U.S., the timing of net product sales may be affected by fluctuations in wholesaler inventory levels. Outside of the U.S., the timing of governmental tenders for product may also impact net product sales in a particular quarter.

AVAILABLE INFORMATION

Our Current Reports on Form 8-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Annual Reports on Form 10-K are electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), and all such reports and amendments to such reports have been and will be made available, free of charge, through our website (http://www.celgene.com) as soon as reasonably practicable after submission to the SEC. Such reports will remain available on our website for at least 12 months. The contents of our website or any other website are not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

The SEC maintains an Internet site (http://www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC.

DISCLOSURE PURSUANT TO SECTION 219 OF THE IRAN THREAT REDUCTION AND SYRIA HUMAN RIGHTS ACT OF 2012

Section 219 of the Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act of 2012 (ITRSHRA) added Section 13(r) to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, which requires, among other things, disclosure by an issuer, in its annual or quarterly reports, as applicable, whether it or any of its affiliates knowingly conducted, without specific authority from a U.S. federal department or agency, any transaction or dealing with the Government of Iran, which includes, without limitation, any person or entity owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by the Government of Iran or any of its political subdivisions, agencies or instrumentalities. Neither Celgene nor, to its knowledge, any of its affiliates engaged in activities during 2018 that are required to be disclosed pursuant to ITRSHRA.

FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

Certain statements contained or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are considered forward-looking statements (within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended) concerning our business, results of operations, economic performance and/or financial condition, based on management's current expectations, plans, estimates, assumptions and projections. Forward-looking statements are included, for example, in the discussions about:

•the proposed transaction with Bristol-Myers Squibb;

•strategy;

•new product discovery and development;

•current or pending clinical trials;

•our products' ability to demonstrate efficacy or an acceptable safety profile;

•actions by the FDA and other regulatory authorities;

•product manufacturing, including our arrangements with third-party suppliers;

•product introduction and sales;

15

•royalties and contract revenues;

•expenses and net income;

•credit and foreign exchange risk management;

•liquidity;

•asset and liability risk management;

•the outcome of litigation and other proceedings;

•intellectual property rights and protections;

•economic factors;

•competition; and

•operational and legal risks.

Any statements contained in this report that are not statements of historical fact may be deemed forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements generally are identified by the words "expects," "anticipates," "believes," "intends," "estimates," "aims," "plans," "may," "could," "will," "will continue," "seeks," "should," "predict," "potential," "outlook," "guidance," "target," "forecast," "probable," "possible" or the negative of such terms and similar expressions. Forward-looking statements are subject to change and may be affected by risks and uncertainties, most of which are difficult to predict and are generally beyond our control. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement in light of new information or future events, although we intend to continue to meet our ongoing disclosure obligations under the U.S. securities laws and other applicable laws.

We caution you that a number of important factors could cause actual results or outcomes to differ materially from those expressed in, or implied by, the forward-looking statements, and therefore you should not place too much reliance on them. These factors include, among others, those described herein, under "Risk Factors" and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in our other public reports filed with the SEC. It is not possible to predict or identify all such factors, and therefore the factors that are noted are not intended to be a complete discussion of all potential risks or uncertainties that may affect forward-looking statements. If these or other risks and uncertainties materialize, or if the assumptions underlying any of the forward-looking statements prove incorrect, our actual performance and future actions may be materially different from those expressed in, or implied by, such forward-looking statements. We can offer no assurance that our estimates or expectations will prove accurate or that we will be able to achieve our strategic and operational goals.

ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS