PART I.

Item 1. Business.

Overview

Cerner Corporation started doing business as a Missouri corporation in 1980 and was merged into a Delaware corporation in 1986. Unless the context otherwise requires, references in this report to "Cerner," the "Company," "we," "us" or "our" mean Cerner Corporation and its subsidiaries.

Our corporate world headquarters is located in a Company-owned office park in North Kansas City, Missouri, with our principal place of business located at 2800 Rockcreek Parkway, North Kansas City, Missouri 64117. Our telephone number is 816.221.1024. Our Web site, which we use to communicate important business information, can be accessed at: www.cerner.com. We make our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to those reports available free of charge on or through this Web site as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). We do not intend for information contained in our website to be part of this annual report on Form 10-K.

Cerner is a leading supplier of health care information technology ("HCIT") solutions and tech-enabled services. Our mission is to relentlessly seek breakthrough innovation that will shape health care of tomorrow. We offer a wide range of intelligent solutions and tech-enabled services that support the clinical, financial and operational needs of organizations of all sizes. We have systems in more than 27,500 facilities worldwide, including hospitals, physician practices, laboratories, ambulatory centers, behavioral health centers, cardiac facilities, radiology clinics, surgery centers, extended care facilities, retail pharmacies, and employer sites.

Cerner® solutions are offered on the unified Cerner Millennium® architecture and on the HealtheIntent® cloud-based platform. Cerner Millennium is a person-centric computing framework, which includes integrated clinical, financial and management information systems. This architecture allows providers to securely access an individual's electronic health record ("EHR") at the point of care, and it organizes and proactively delivers information to meet the specific needs of physicians, nurses, laboratory technicians, pharmacists, front- and back-office professionals and consumers. Our HealtheIntent platform is a cloud-based platform designed to scale at a population level while facilitating health and care at a person and provider level. On the HealtheIntent platform, we offer solutions that aggregate, transform and reconcile data across the continuum of care, enabling key stakeholders to manage the health of populations, improve outcomes and lower costs. Cerner also has an EHR agnostic platform, CareAware®, that facilitates connectivity of health care devices to EHRs, allowing for more efficient and effective care.

On February 2, 2015, Cerner acquired the Health Services business from Siemens AG, which offered a portfolio of enterprise-level clinical and financial health care information technology solutions, as well as departmental, connectivity, population health, and care coordination solutions globally.

We offer a broad range of tech-enabled services, including implementation and training, remote hosting, operational management services, revenue cycle services, support and maintenance, health care data analysis, clinical process optimization, transaction processing, employer health centers, employee wellness programs and third-party administrator services for employer-based health plans.

In addition to software and services, we offer a wide range of complementary hardware and devices, both directly from Cerner and as a reseller for third parties.

1
The following table presents consolidated revenues by our business models and by segment, as a percentage of total revenues:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Health Care and Health Care IT Industry

Health care expenditures continue to consume an increasing portion of most economies. In the U.S., health care spending increased 3.9 percent to $3.5 trillion in 2017, and now represents 17.9 percent of the U.S.' Gross Domestic Product ("GDP"). An aging population and high levels of chronic conditions are contributing to expectations that health care expenditures will continue growing faster than the economy. The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services ("CMS") estimates annual U.S. health care spending will grow at an average rate of 5.5 percent through 2026 and reach $5.7 trillion, or 19.7 percent of GDP by 2026. We believe this trajectory is unsustainable and that health care IT can play an important role in facilitating a shift from a high-cost health care system that incents volume to a proactive system that incents health, quality and efficiency.

For this change to occur, we believe traditional fee-for-service ("FFS") reimbursement models must continue to shift to value-based approaches that are more aligned with quality, outcomes, and efficiency. The shift away from traditional FFS is evident in growth of lives covered under Accountable Care Organizations ("ACOs"). ACOs are groups of hospitals and providers that focus on providing coordinated, high quality care to Medicare, Medicaid, or commercially insured populations and then share in savings created by lowering the cost of care. According to Leavitt Partners, lives covered under ACOs grew from approximately 5 million in 2011 to more than 32 million in 2018.

In addition to the increasing number of lives covered under ACOs, the structure of ACOs is evolving to where providers are expected to assume more risk. Currently, most ACO contracts are upside only, which means providers can receive bonuses for good performance, but they assume no downside for underperformance. In 2018, CMS released a rule called "Pathways to Success" that accelerates the timeframe during which providers need to move to ACOs that include both upside bonuses and downside penalties. We believe this shift is important as assumption of risk by providers creates a strong incentive for them to improve care coordination and deliver high quality care at a lower cost.

Another step towards a value-based model occurred with the passage of The Medicare Access and CHIP Reauthorization Act ("MACRA"), which enacts significant reforms to the payment programs under the Medicare Physician Fee Schedule and consolidated three current value-based programs into one.

While each of the different approaches to aligning reimbursement with value will continue to evolve, we believe the trend away from traditional FFS will continue. We believe this growth in government and private models aligning payment with value, quality and outcomes will drive major changes in the way health care is provided in the next decade, and we expect a much greater focus on patient engagement, wellness and prevention. As health care providers become accountable for proactively managing the health of the populations they serve, we expect them to need ongoing investment in sophisticated information technology solutions that will enable them to predict when intervention is needed so they can improve outcomes and lower the cost of providing care.

2
The increasingly complex and more clinical outcomes-based reimbursement environment is also contributing to a heightened demand for revenue cycle solutions and services and a desire for these solutions and services to be closely aligned with clinical solutions. We believe this trend is positive for Cerner because our Cerner Millennium revenue cycle solutions and services are integrated with our clinical solutions, creating a clinically driven revenue cycle solution that has had significant adoption in recent years.

Over the past several years, we have also seen a shift in the U.S. marketplace towards a preference for a single platform across inpatient and ambulatory settings. The number of physicians employed by hospitals has increased as hospitals have acquired physician groups, and health systems are recognizing the benefit of having a single patient record at the hospital and the physician office. We are benefiting from this trend due to our unified Cerner Millennium platform, which spans multiple venues, and ongoing enhancements we have made to our physician solutions.

While health care providers are showing a preference for a single platform across multiple venues, there is also an increased push for interoperability across disparate systems to address the reality that no patient's record will only have information from a single health care IT system. We believe health information should be shareable and accessible among primary care physicians, specialists, and hospital physicians.

As a result, Cerner has led or been a key participant in nearly every major industry effort to advance interoperability and system openness. One example is Cerner's role as a founding member of the CommonWell Health Alliance, an open, not-for-profit industry consortium that brought health care IT firms together for the purpose of enabling safe nationwide interoperability. The vision of CommonWell is for a patient to be able to visit a new doctor, give their consent, and, within moments, have his or her lifetime record available from all the prior places he or she has visited.

In 2018, CommonWell announced general availability of its connection to CareQuality, another national interoperability framework. This connection allows CommonWell and CareQuality enabled health care providers to connect and bilaterally exchange health data to improve care coordination and delivery. This is a significant milestone on the path to achieving true nationwide interoperability and making health data available to individuals and providers regardless of where care occurs.

Outside the United States, we believe Cerner's growth opportunities are good, as most countries are also dealing with health care expenditures growing faster than their economies, which is leading to a focus on controlling costs while also improving quality of care.

Cerner Vision and Growth Strategy

For nearly four decades, Cerner has focused on creating innovation at the intersection of health care and information technology. Together with our clients, we are creating a future where the health care system works to improve the well-being of individuals and communities. Our vision has always guided our large investments in research and development ("R&D"), which have created strong levels of organic growth throughout our history. Our proven ability to innovate has led to what we believe to be industry-leading architectures and an unmatched breadth and depth of solutions and services. The strength of our solutions and services has contributed to our growth. We believe we are positioned to continue growing in coming years as regulatory requirements and industry shifts continue to pressure health care providers to improve quality while lowering costs, which we believe will require having more sophisticated information technology than many of our competitors provide.

A key area of growth for Cerner in recent years has been in the U.S. Federal government sector. As part of the Leidos Partnership for Defense Health, Cerner has played a key role in the U.S. Department of Defense's ("DoD") EHR rollout, which achieved completion of its fourth pilot site in 2018. Broader deployment has kicked off with implementations beginning at four additional sites in the second half of 2018. Also, Cerner was selected in 2018 by the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs ("VA") to replace their existing EHR system with one based on the EHR being deployed across the DoD health system. With the VA managing one of the largest health systems in the world, this opportunity is expected to contribute to Cerner's growth for several years. In addition, we believe there is potential for this project to have broad industry impact. At the core of this project, Cerner aims to enable seamless care through a single system that links both veteran and military populations, totaling more than 18 million people, while also delivering national interoperability to the commercial market. This will allow patient data to be shared between VA, DoD, and community providers through a secure system.

In addition to growing our client base, we believe we have an opportunity to grow revenues by expanding our solution footprint with existing clients. For example, less than half of our Cerner Millennium EHR clients have implemented Cerner revenue cycle solutions. This penetration has been growing in recent years and we expect it to continue because of the preference for having EHR and revenue cycle systems provided on the same platform. There is also opportunity to expand penetration 

3
of other solutions, such as women's health, anesthesiology, imaging, clinical process optimization, critical care, health care devices, device connectivity, emergency department and surgery.

We also have an opportunity to grow by expanding our services that are targeted at capturing a larger percentage of our clients' existing IT spending. These services leverage our proven operational capabilities and the success of our CernerWorksSM managed services business, where we have demonstrated the ability to improve our clients' service levels at a cost that is at or below amounts they were previously spending. One of these services is Cerner ITWorksSM, a suite of solutions and services that improves the ability of hospital IT departments to meet their organization's needs while also creating a closer alignment between Cerner and our clients. A second example is Cerner RevWorksSM, which includes solutions and services to help health care organizations improve their revenue cycle functions.

Another area in which we continue to have success is our CommunityWorksSM offering, which leverages a shared instance of the Cerner Millennium platform across multiple clients, allowing us to offer low-cost, high-value solutions and services to smaller community hospitals and critical access hospitals. We believe there continues to be a good opportunity to grow in the small hospital market given many of the existing suppliers in this market have struggled to keep up with ongoing regulatory requirements and marketplace expectations.

We also expect to drive growth over the course of the next decade through initiatives outside the core HCIT market. For example, we offer clinic, pharmacy, wellness and third-party administration services directly to employers. In 2019, we're expanding our onsite services to include a multi-employer tenant clinic model, serving employers who would not normally be able to support their own onsite clinic. These offerings have been shaped by what we have learned from changes we have implemented at Cerner. We have removed our third-party administrator and become self-administered, launched an on-site clinic and pharmacy, incorporated biometric measurements for our associate population, realigned the economic incentives for associates in our health plan, and implemented a data-driven wellness management program. These changes have had a positive impact on the health of our associates while also keeping our health care costs below industry averages.

As discussed below, another significant opportunity for future growth, and a large area of investment for Cerner, is leveraging the vast amounts of data being created as the health care industry is digitized and using this data to help providers and employers manage the health of populations.

Population Health

Population Health Management involves a shift from solely automating health systems to managing a person's health. Getting there requires complete and accurate patient data and meaningfully using that data to engage individuals, exchange information between providers and ultimately drive better outcomes at a lower cost. We believe this shift will shape the future of health care and enable a system driven by accountability, transparency and value.

Cerner's approach to population health is to enable organizations to:

•KNOW what is happening and predict what will happen within their population through solutions for data exchange, longitudinal record, enterprise data warehouse, analytics and quality and regulatory reporting;

•ENGAGE providers and patients in health and care delivery through personal health portals and solutions for care management, home care, long-term care, and retail pharmacy; and

•MANAGE health and improve care with capacity and workforce management, clinical research, predictive modeling, health registries, and contract and network management.

These solutions are enabled by Cerner's HealtheIntent platform, which is a multi-purpose, programmable platform designed to scale at a population level while facilitating health and care at a person and provider level. This cloud-based platform enables organizations to aggregate, transform and reconcile data across the continuum of care, and helps improve outcomes and lower costs.

HealtheIntent is scalable, secure and can be accessed anywhere, anytime. It is able to receive data from any clinical or revenue cycle system and also incorporate other data, such as pharmacy, claims, patient satisfaction, socioeconomic, genomic and dozens of open data sources. HealtheIntent collects the data from these disparate sources in near real-time, providing clarity to millions of data points in an actionable and programmable workflow. It enables organizations to identify, score and predict the risks of individual patients, allowing them to match the right care programs to the right individuals. The EHR-agnostic nature of our HealtheIntent platform allows us to offer our solutions to the entire marketplace, not just existing Cerner clients.

4
We have created a series of solutions on the HealtheIntent platform, including the following solutions:

•Longitudinal Record - provides clinicians and the patient a view of their consolidated clinical record, gathered and normalized from multiple sources.

•Registries and Scorecards - identifies and automatically segments patients by disease, guides interventions according to clinical best practice, provides visibility to quality measures for provider's population, produces client-defined performance scorecards, and tracks their health and their interventions according to clinical best practice.

•Enterprise and Population Health Analytics - allows the integrated data to be analyzed for the purpose of population health management and research.

•Provider Performance Management - creates visibility for providers on their performance against key clinical and operation metrics and can be aligned with payment models that incentivize high quality and efficient care.

•Patient/Member Engagement - an enhanced patient portal complemented by engagement services to help health care organizations create more meaningful interactions and engagement with the members they serve, and provides the ability to target individuals at risk of becoming chronically ill.

•Community Care Management - provides a person-centric approach of proactive surveillance, coordination and facilitation of health services across the care continuum to achieve optimal health status, quality and costs.

•Population Health Programs - leverages evidence-based guidelines and the contextual information within HealtheIntent to provide identification, prediction and management of a condition at the population, provider and person level and facilitates a personalized plan of care for each member.

•Contract and Network Management - for managing provider networks, modeling to inform payer negotiations, determining appropriate business models, and managing contract performance in near real-time.

In less than five years since the first HealtheIntent solution went live at our alpha client, more than 155 clients have purchased HealtheIntent solutions. The broad addressable market for population health solutions is reflected in the diversity of these clients, which include health systems, physician groups, employers, health plans, state governments, and accountable care organizations. The initial adoption by a large number of clients is encouraging and positions us for larger contributions to revenue from HealtheIntent solutions as these initial clients and others transition away from FFS models to value-based and at-risk models that require population health solutions and services. The data variety and scalability of the HealtheIntent platform has also grown quickly, as reflected in its over 1,025 data connections, including over 60 EHR systems and 140 claims and payer systems, and records for more than 218 million people.

In 2018, we announced a collaboration with Lumeris Healthcare Outcomes, LLC ("Lumeris") that we believe will strengthen our ability to help health systems succeed in a value-based care market. Lumeris is a company with a consistently highly rated Medicare Advantage plan, a proven methodology to help leading health systems advance value-based care strategies, and the subject matter expertise required to support those efforts. Cerner and Lumeris are launching an EHR-agnostic offering called Maestro AdvantageTM that is designed to help health systems set up and manage Medicare Advantage Plans and provider-sponsored health plans. As part of the collaboration, Lumeris is adopting HealtheIntent as the platform for its clinical methodology and advanced analytics. With this relationship, we gain a partner with a 4.5-Star Medicare Advantage plan to build out the end-to-end capabilities required to run a provider-sponsored health plan within HealtheIntent. We also gain an opportunity to be a larger participant in the economics of the provider-sponsored health plan market by being able to offer additional services as part of the Maestro Advantage offering, such as care management and provider engagement, along with the solutions on the HealtheIntent platform. 

In summary, we believe our comprehensive approach to population health is differentiated in the marketplace. We expect population health to be a large contributor to our long-term growth as health care continues to evolve towards a model that incents keeping people healthy.

Software Development

We commit significant resources to developing new health information system solutions and services. As of the end of 2018, approximately 7,300 associates were engaged in research and development activities. Total expenditures for the development and enhancement of our software solutions were $747 million, $706 million and $705 million during the 2018, 2017 and 2016 fiscal years, respectively. These figures include both capitalized and non-capitalized portions and exclude amounts amortized for financial reporting purposes.

As discussed above, continued investment in R&D remains a core element of our strategy. This will include ongoing enhancement of our core solutions and development of new solutions and services.

5
Intellectual Property

We have a broad portfolio of intellectual property rights to protect the proprietary interests in our solutions, services, devices and brands. Our solutions constitute works of authorship protected by copyrights in the U.S. and globally. We own valuable trade secrets embodied in, or related to, our solutions, services and devices and protect these rights through a number of technical and legal measures. We have registered or applied to register certain trademarks and service marks in a number of countries with particular emphasis on the Cerner branding elements. We continue to develop our patent portfolio and own more than 440 issued patents with hundreds of patent applications pending. We do not consider any of our businesses to be dependent upon any one patent, copyright, trademark, or trade secret, or any family or families of the same.

Our solutions, devices and services incorporate or rely on intellectual property rights licensed from third parties, including software subject to open source software licenses. Certain technologies licensed to Cerner are also important for internal use in running our business and supporting our clients. Although replacing any existing licenses could be inconvenient, based on our experiences, existing contractual relationships, and the incentives of our technology suppliers, we believe that Cerner will continue to obtain these technologies or suitable alternatives for commercially reasonable prices on commercially reasonable terms or under open source software licenses acceptable to Cerner.

Managing Cybersecurity Risks

Our business operations, including the provision of the solutions and services described above, involve the compilation, hosting and transmission of confidential information, including patient health information. We have included security features in our solutions and services that are intended to protect the privacy and integrity of this information, but our solutions and services may be vulnerable to security breaches, viruses, programming errors and other similar disruptive problems. Cerner maintains documented information privacy, security and risk management programs with clearly defined roles, responsibilities, policies, and procedures which are designed to secure the information maintained on Cerner's platforms.

In addition, all of our associates are required to complete annual cybersecurity education and training, which includes identifying suspicious emails, Internet threats, telecommunication threats and ransomware. Cerner regularly reviews and modifies its security program to reflect changing technology, regulatory environment, laws, risk, industry and security practices and other business needs. We believe our policies and procedures are adequate to ensure that relevant information about cybersecurity risks and incidents is appropriately reported and disclosed.

Sales and Marketing

The markets for Cerner HCIT solutions, health care devices and services include integrated delivery networks, physician groups and networks, managed care organizations, hospitals, medical centers, free-standing reference laboratories, home health agencies, blood banks, imaging centers, pharmacies, pharmaceutical manufacturers, employers, governments and public health organizations. The majority of our sales are clinical and revenue cycle solutions and services to hospitals and health systems, but our solutions and services are highly scalable and sold to organizations ranging from physician practices, to community hospitals, to complex integrated delivery networks, to local, regional and national government agencies. Sales to large health systems typically take approximately nine to 18 months, while the sales cycle is often shorter when selling to smaller hospitals and physician practices.

Our executive marketing management is located at our world headquarters in Kansas City, Missouri, while our client representatives are deployed across the United States and globally. In addition to the United States, through our subsidiaries, we have sales associates and/or offices giving us a presence in more than 35 countries.

We support our sales force with technical personnel who perform demonstrations of Cerner solutions and services and assist clients in determining the proper hardware and software configurations. Our primary direct marketing strategy is to generate sales contacts from our existing client base and through presentations at industry seminars and tradeshows. We market our ambulatory solutions, offered on a subscription basis, directly to the physician practice market using lead generation activities and through existing acute care clients that are looking to extend Cerner solutions to affiliated physicians. We attend a number of major tradeshows each year and sponsor executive user conferences, which feature industry experts who address the HCIT needs of large health care organizations.

Client Services

Substantially all of Cerner's clients that buy software solutions also enter into software support agreements with us for maintenance and support of their Cerner systems. In addition to immediate software support in the event of problems, these agreements allow clients to access new releases of the Cerner solutions covered by support agreements. Each client has 24-hour access to the applicable client support teams, including those located at our world headquarters in North Kansas 

6
City, Missouri, our Continuous Campus in Kansas City, Kansas, our campus in Malvern, Pennsylvania, and our global support organizations in Germany, England and Ireland.

Most clients who buy hardware through Cerner also enter into hardware maintenance agreements with us. These arrangements normally provide for a fixed monthly fee for specified services. In the majority of cases, we utilize subcontractors to meet our hardware maintenance obligations. We also offer a set of managed services that include remote hosting, operational management services and disaster recovery.

Backlog

Backlog, which reflects contracted revenue that has not yet been recognized as revenue, was $15.25 billion as of December 29, 2018, of which we expect to recognize approximately 29% as revenue over the next 12 months. In the first quarter of 2018, we adopted new revenue recognition guidance as further discussed in Note (2) of the notes to consolidated financial statements. In connection with the adoption of such guidance, we modified our calculation of backlog as previously determined under Regulation S-K to represent the aggregate amount of transaction price allocated to performance obligations that are unsatisfied (or partially satisfied) to conform to the new revenue recognition guidance. Backlog amounts disclosed prior to the adoption of the new revenue recognition guidance have not been adjusted, and are not comparable to, the current period presentation.

We believe that backlog may not necessarily be a comprehensive indicator of future revenue as certain of our arrangements may be canceled (or conversely renewed) at our clients' option, thus contract consideration related to such cancellable periods has been excluded from our calculation of backlog. However, historically our experience has been that such cancellation provisions are rarely exercised. We expect to recognize approximately $525 million of revenue over the next 12 months under currently executed contracts related to such cancellable periods, which is not included in our calculation of backlog.

Competition

The market for HCIT solutions, devices and services is intensely competitive, rapidly evolving and subject to rapid technological change. We offer a suite of intelligent solutions and services that support the clinical, financial and operational needs of organizations of all sizes. The principle markets in which we compete include, without limitation, health care software solutions, HCIT services, ambulatory, health care device and technology resale, health care revenue cycle and transaction services, value-based care technologies, analytics systems, care management solutions, population health management, and post-acute care. Our principal existing competitors, including their affiliates, in these markets include, but are not limited to:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

In addition, we expect that major software information systems companies, large information technology consulting service providers and system integrators, start-up companies, managed care companies, healthcare insurance companies, accountable care organizations and others specializing in the health care industry may offer competitive software solutions, devices or services. The pace of change in the HCIT market is rapid and there are frequent new software solutions, devices or services introductions, enhancements and evolving industry standards and requirements. We believe that the principal competitive factors in our markets include the breadth and quality of solution and service offerings, the stability of the solution provider, the features and capabilities of the information systems and devices, the ongoing support for the systems and devices and the potential for enhancements and future compatible software solutions and devices. We believe that we compete favorably with our competitors on the basis of these factors and that we are the leader- or among the leaders- in each of our main offerings. Our brand recognition and reputation for innovative technology and service delivery, combined with our breadth of solution and services offerings, global distribution channels and client relationships position us as a strong competitor going forward.

Number of Employees (Associates)

At the end of 2018, we employed approximately 29,200 associates worldwide. 

7
Executive Officers of the Registrant

The following table sets forth the names, ages, positions and certain other information regarding the Company's executive officers as of January 28, 2019. Officers are elected annually and serve at the discretion of the Board of Directors.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Brent Shafer was appointed Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board of Directors effective February 1, 2018. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Shafer served as Chief Executive Officer of Philips North America, a health technology company and the North American division of Koninklijke Philips N.V. ("Philips") since February 2014. In that position, Mr. Shafer led an organization of 17,000 employees and oversaw a health technology portfolio that included a broad range of solutions and services covering patient monitoring, imaging, clinical informatics, sleep and respiratory care as well as a group of market-leading consumer-oriented brands. For 12 years, Mr. Shafer played a key role in helping Philips develop and strengthen its health care focus, increase its profitability and grow its market share. Prior to his most recent position, Mr. Shafer served as Chief Executive Officer of the global Philips' Home Healthcare Solutions business, a home healthcare services provider with 6,000 employees, from May 2010 until May 2014, as Chief Executive Officer of the North America region for Royal Philips Electronics from January 2009 until May 2010, and as president and Chief Executive Officer of the Healthcare Sales and Service business for Philips North America from May 2005 until May 2010. Prior to joining Philips, Mr. Shafer served in various senior leadership positions with other companies, including Hill-Rom Company Inc., GE Medical Systems, and Hewlett-Packard.

Marc G. Naughton joined the Company in November 1992 as Manager of Taxes. In November 1995 he was named Chief Financial Officer and in February 1996 he was promoted to Vice President. He was promoted to Senior Vice President in March 2002 and promoted to Executive Vice President in March 2010.

Michael R. Nill joined the Company in November 1996. Since that time he has held several positions in the Technology, Intellectual Property and CernerWorks Client Hosting Organizations. He was promoted to Vice President in January 2000, promoted to Senior Vice President in April 2006 and promoted to Executive Vice President and named Chief Engineering Officer in February 2009. Mr. Nill was appointed Chief Operating Officer in May 2011.

John Peterzalek joined the Company in 2003 as President, Cerner South East and has held a variety of business and client leadership roles since that time, including Senior Vice President, East Region, a title which he held from 2007 to 2014 when he was named Senior Vice President, Client Relationships. He was promoted to Executive Vice President, Client Relationships in April 2017 and Executive Vice President, Worldwide Client Relationships in October 2017. He held the title of Executive Vice President, Worldwide Client Relationships until September 2018 when he was named Executive Vice President and Chief Client Officer. As Chief Client Officer, Mr. Peterzalek focuses on driving value, innovation and results to Cerner's clients globally and leads the corporate direction for revenue generation, solution strategy, business development, and marketing.

Randy D. Sims joined the Company in March 1997 as Vice President and Chief Legal Officer, was promoted to Senior Vice President in March 2011, and Executive Vice President in April 2018. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Sims worked at Farmland Industries, Inc. for three years where he last served as Associate General Counsel. Prior to Farmland, Mr. Sims was in-house legal counsel at The Marley Company for seven years, holding the position of Assistant General Counsel when he left to join Farmland.

Jeffrey A. Townsend joined the Company in June 1985. Since that time he has held several positions in the Intellectual Property Organization and was promoted to Vice President in February 1997. He was appointed Chief Engineering Officer 

8
in March 1998, promoted to Senior Vice President in March 2001, named Chief of Staff in July 2003 and promoted to Executive Vice President in March 2005.

Donald Trigg serves as Executive Vice President, Strategic Growth. He originally joined the Company in 2002 as Vice President, Corporate Positioning. He has held multiple roles during his time at the Company, including Chief Marketing Officer from 2003 to 2007, General Manager for the Kansas City region from 2006-2007, Managing Director for the United Kingdom and Ireland from 2008-2010 and Senior Vice President and President, Cerner Health Ventures from 2012-2018. From 2010-2012, Mr. Trigg served as Chief Revenue Officer at CodeRyte, Inc prior to its acquisition by 3M's healthcare division. Mr. Trigg also spent more than a decade serving in the public policy space as a senior advisor for the 2000 Bush for President campaign in Austin, TX, the Director of Policy at the U.S. Department of Commerce and in a series of senior policy roles in the U.S. House and U.S. Senate.

Julia M. Wilson first joined the Company in July 1990. Since that time, she has held several positions in the Functional Group Organization. She was promoted to Vice President and Chief People Officer in August 2003, to Senior Vice President in March 2007 and to Executive Vice President in March 2013.

Item 1A. Risk Factors.