ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

Market Risk 

Our primary market risk is exposure to natural gas prices. Realized prices are mainly driven by spot market prices for North American natural gas production, which can be volatile and unpredictable.

51
Derivative Instruments and Risk Management Activities

Our risk management strategy is designed to reduce the risk of commodity price volatility for our production in the natural gas markets through the use of financial commodity derivatives. A committee that consists of members of senior management oversees our risk management activities. Our financial commodity derivatives generally cover a portion of our production and provide only partial price protection by limiting the benefit to us of increases in prices, while protecting us in the event of price declines. Further, if any of our counterparties defaulted, this protection might be limited as we might not receive the full benefit of our financial commodity derivatives. Please read the discussion below as well as Note 6 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a more detailed discussion of our derivative instruments.

Periodically, we enter into financial commodity derivatives, including collar, swap and basis swap agreements, to protect against exposure to commodity price declines related to our natural gas production. Our credit agreement restricts our ability to enter into financial commodity derivatives other than to hedge or mitigate risks to which we have actual or projected exposure or as permitted under our risk management policies and not subjecting us to material speculative risks. All of our financial derivatives are used for risk management purposes and are not held for trading purposes. Under the collar agreements, if the index price rises above the ceiling price, we pay the counterparty. If the index price falls below the floor price, the counterparty pays us. Under the swap agreements, we receive a fixed price on a notional quantity of natural gas or crude oil in exchange for paying a variable price based on a market-based index, such as the NYMEX gas and crude oil futures.

As of December 31, 2018, we had the following outstanding financial commodity derivatives:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

In early 2019, we entered into the following financial commodity derivative contracts:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The amounts set forth in the tables above represent our total unrealized derivative position at December 31, 2018 and exclude the impact of non-performance risk. Non-performance risk is considered in the fair value of our derivative instruments that are recorded in our Consolidated Financial Statements and is primarily evaluated by reviewing credit default swap spreads for the various financial institutions in which we have derivative transactions, while our non-performance risk is evaluated using a market credit spread provided by one of our banks.

A significant portion of our expected natural gas production for 2019 and beyond is currently unhedged and directly exposed to the volatility in natural gas market prices, whether favorable or unfavorable. 

During 2018, natural gas basis swaps covered 44.6 Bcf, or six percent of natural gas production at an average price of $2.76 per Mcf. Natural gas swaps covered 97.6 Bcf, or 13 percent, of natural gas production at a weighted-average price of $2.95 per Mcf. Crude oil collars with floor prices of $55.00 per Bbl and ceiling prices ranging from $63.35 to $63.80 per Bbl covered 0.2 Mmbbl, or 33 percent, of crude oil production at a weighted-average price of $63.62 per Bbl. 

In January 2018, as a result of the sale of our Eagle Ford Shale assets, we terminated all of our outstanding crude oil financial derivatives for $0.3 million. 

52
We are exposed to market risk on financial commodity derivative instruments to the extent of changes in market prices of natural gas. However, the market risk exposure on these derivative contracts is generally offset by the gain or loss recognized upon the ultimate sale of the commodity. Although notional contract amounts are used to express the volume of natural gas agreements, the amounts that can be subject to credit risk in the event of non-performance by third parties are substantially smaller. Our counterparties are primarily commercial banks and financial service institutions that management believes present minimal credit risk and our derivative contracts are with multiple counterparties to minimize our exposure to any individual counterparty. We perform both quantitative and qualitative assessments of these counterparties based on their credit ratings and credit default swap rates where applicable. We have not incurred any losses related to non-performance risk of our counterparties and we do not anticipate any material impact on our financial results due to non-performance by third parties. However, we cannot be certain that we will not experience such losses in the future. 

The preceding paragraphs contain forward-looking information concerning future production and projected gains and losses, which may be impacted both by production and by changes in the future commodity prices. See “Forward-Looking Information” for further details.

Fair Value of Other Financial Instruments

The estimated fair value of other financial instruments is the amount at which the instrument could be exchanged currently between willing parties. The carrying amount reported in the Consolidated Balance Sheet for cash and cash equivalents approximates fair value due to the short-term maturities of these instruments. 

We use available market data and valuation methodologies to estimate the fair value of debt. The fair value of debt is the estimated amount we would have to pay a third party to assume the debt, including a credit spread for the difference between the issue rate and the period end market rate. The credit spread is our default or repayment risk. The credit spread (premium or discount) is determined by comparing our senior notes and revolving credit facility to new issuances (secured and unsecured) and secondary trades of similar size and credit statistics for both public and private debt. The fair value of all senior notes and the revolving credit facility is based on interest rates currently available to us. 

The carrying amount and fair value of debt is as follows: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

53
ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA