ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

The following discussion contains forward-looking statements, including, without limitation, our expectations and statements regarding our outlook and future revenues, expenses, results of operations, liquidity, plans, strategies and management objectives and any assumptions underlying any of the foregoing. Our actual results may differ significantly from those projected in the forward-looking statements. Our forward-looking statements and factors that might cause future actual results to differ materially from our recent results or those projected in the forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, those discussed in the section titled “Forward-Looking Information” and “Risk Factors” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Except as required by law, we assume no obligation to update the forward-looking statements or our risk factors for any reason.

Overview

We are a global leader in customer relationship management ("CRM") technology that enables companies to improve their relationships and interactions with customers. We introduced our first CRM solution in 2000, and we have since expanded our service offerings with new editions, features and platform capabilities. Our core mission is to empower our customers of every size and industry to connect with their customers in new ways through existing and emerging technologies including cloud, mobile, social, Internet of Things ("IoT") and artificial intelligence ("AI") technologies. 

Our Customer Success Platform - including sales force automation, customer service and support, marketing automation, digital commerce, community management, industry-specific solutions, analytics, integration solutions, application development, IoT integration, collaborative productivity tools, our AppExchange, which is our enterprise cloud marketplace, and our professional cloud services - provides the tools customers need to succeed in a digital world. Key elements of our strategy include:

•cross sell and upsell; 

•extend existing service offerings;

•reduce customer attrition; 

•expand and strengthen the partner ecosystem;

•expand internationally;

•target vertical industries;

•expand into new horizontal markets;

•extend go-to-market capabilities;

•ensure strong customer adoption; and

•encourage the development of third-party applications on our cloud computing platform.

We are also committed to a sustainable, low-carbon future, advancing equality and diversity, and fostering employee success. We try to integrate social good into everything we do. All of these goals align with our long-term growth strategy and financial and operational priorities.

We believe the factors that will influence our ability to achieve our objectives include: our prospective customers’ willingness to migrate to enterprise cloud computing services; our ability to maintain a balanced portfolio of products and customers; the availability, performance and security of our service; our ability to continue to release, and gain customer acceptance of, new and improved features; our ability to successfully integrate acquired businesses and technologies; successful customer adoption and utilization of our service; our ability to continue to meet new and evolving privacy laws and regulations, acceptance of our service in markets where we have few customers; the emergence of additional competitors in our market and improved product offerings by existing and new competitors; the location of new data centers that we operate as well as the new locations of services provided by third-party cloud computing platform providers; third-party developers’ willingness to develop applications on our platforms; our ability to attract new personnel and retain and motivate current personnel; and general economic conditions which could affect our customers’ ability and willingness to purchase our services, delay the customers’ purchasing decision or affect attrition rates. 

To address these factors, we will need to, among other things, continue to add substantial numbers of paying subscriptions, upgrade our customers to fully featured versions or arrangements such as an Enterprise License Agreement, provide high quality technical support to our customers, encourage the development of third-party applications on our platforms, realize the benefits from our strategic partnerships and continue to focus on retaining customers at the time of renewal. Our plans to invest for future growth include the continuation of the expansion of our data center capacity, whether internally or through the use of third parties, the hiring of additional personnel, particularly in direct sales, other customer-related areas and research and development, the expansion of domestic and international selling and marketing activities, 

35
specifically in our top markets, the continued development of our brands, the addition of distribution channels, the upgrade of our service offerings, the continued development of services including Community Cloud and Industry Clouds, the integration of new and acquired technologies such as Commerce Cloud, artificial intelligence technologies and Salesforce Quip, the expansion of our Marketing Cloud, Salesforce Platform core service offerings, Integration Cloud through our May 2018 MuleSoft, Inc. ("MuleSoft") acquisition and the additions to our global infrastructure to support our growth.

We also regularly evaluate acquisitions or investment opportunities in complementary businesses, joint ventures, services and technologies and intellectual property rights in an effort to expand our service offerings. We expect to continue to make such investments and acquisitions in the future and we plan to reinvest a significant portion of our incremental revenue in future periods to grow our business and continue our leadership role in the cloud computing industry. As part of our growth strategy, we are delivering innovative solutions in new categories, including analytics, e-commerce, artificial intelligence, IoT and collaborative productivity tools. We drive innovation organically and to a lesser extent through acquisitions, such as our acquisition of MuleSoft and in August 2018 our acquisition of Datorama, Inc. ("Datorama"). We have a disciplined and thoughtful acquisition process where we routinely survey the industry landscape across a wide range of companies. As a result of our aggressive growth plans and integration of our previously acquired businesses, we have incurred significant expenses from equity awards and amortization of purchased intangibles, which have reduced our operating income. We remain focused on improving operating margins. 

Our typical subscription contract term is 12 to 36 months, although terms range from one to 60 months, so during any fiscal reporting period only a subset of active subscription contracts is eligible for renewal. We calculate our attrition rate as of the end of each month. Our attrition rate, including the Marketing Cloud service offering but excluding our Commerce Cloud service offering and integration service offering, was less than ten percent as of January 31, 2019. While it is difficult to predict, we expect our attrition rate to remain consistent as we continue to expand our enterprise business and invest in customer success and related programs.

We expect marketing and sales costs, which were 46 percent, 44 percent and 45 percent of total revenues for fiscal 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively, to continue to represent a substantial portion of total revenues in the future as we seek to grow our customer base, sell more products to existing customers, and continue to build greater brand awareness.

During the year, we acquired MuleSoft, an industry-leading integration platform, to provide our customers the ability to integrate data across platforms. The financial results of MuleSoft are included in our consolidated financial statements from the date of acquisition. The total purchase price for MuleSoft was approximately $6.4 billion.

Also in fiscal 2019, we acquired Datorama, which provides a platform for enterprises, agencies and publishers to integrate data across marketing channels and data sources. The financial results of Datorama are included in our consolidated financial statements from the date of acquisition. The total purchase price for Datorama was approximately $766 million.

Fiscal Year

Our fiscal year ends on January 31. References to fiscal 2019, for example, refer to the fiscal year ending January 31, 2019.

Adoption of New Accounting Standards

We have adjusted our consolidated financial statements from amounts previously reported due to the adoption of Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") 2014-09, "Revenue from Contracts with Customers ("Topic 606")", which relates to revenue recognition and the capitalization of costs to acquire a revenue contract. The information presented reflects the adjusted amounts as compared to those previously reported. In addition, we have prospectively adopted Accounting Standards Update No. 2016-01, "Financial Instrument-Overall (Subtopic 825-10)" ("ASU 2016-01") and Accounting Standards Update No. 2016-16, "Income Taxes (Topic 740): Intra-Entity Transfers of Assets Other Than Inventory" ("ASU 2016-16"). See Note 1, “Summary of Business and Significant Accounting Policies” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, which is incorporated herein by reference.

Operating Segments

We operate as one operating segment. Operating segments are defined as components of an enterprise for which separate financial information is evaluated regularly by our chief operating decision makers, Marc Benioff, who is the co-chief executive officer and the chairman of the board, and Keith Block, who is the co-chief executive officer, in deciding how to allocate resources and assess performance. Over the past few years, we have completed a number of acquisitions, including the acquisitions of MuleSoft and Datorama in fiscal 2019. These acquisitions have allowed us to expand our offerings, presence and reach in various market segments of the enterprise cloud computing market. While we have offerings in multiple enterprise cloud computing market segments, including as a result of our acquisitions, our business operates in one operating segment because most of our offerings operate on a single customer success platform and are deployed in an identical way, and our chief operating decision makers evaluate our financial information and resources and assess the performance of these resources on a 

36
consolidated basis. Since we operate as one operating segment, all required financial segment information can be found in the consolidated financial statements.

In August 2018, we moved to a co-chief executive officer model with the promotion of our vice chairman and chief operating officer, Keith Block. We determined that both co-chief executive officers also serve as chief operating decision makers for the purposes of segment reporting. Despite the change in the chief operating decision maker, we determined no change to segment reporting was necessary as there was no change in the components for which separate financial information is regularly evaluated. 

Sources of Revenues

We derive our revenues from two sources: (1) subscription revenues, which are comprised of subscription fees from customers accessing our enterprise cloud computing services (collectively, "Cloud Services"), software licenses, and from customers paying for additional support beyond the standard support that is included in the basic subscription fees; and (2) related professional services such as process mapping, project management, implementation services and other revenue. “Other revenue” consists primarily of training fees. Subscription and support revenues accounted for approximately 93 percent of our total revenues for fiscal 2019. Subscription revenues are driven primarily by the number of paying subscribers, varying service types, and the price of our service and renewals. We define a “customer” as a separate and distinct buying entity (e.g., a company, a distinct business unit of a large corporation, a partnership, etc.) that has entered into a contract to access our enterprise cloud computing services.

Subscription and support revenues for Cloud Services are recognized ratably over the contract terms beginning on the commencement dates of each contract. Subscription revenues for software licenses are generally recognized upfront when the software is made available to the customer. The typical subscription and support term is 12 to 36 months, although terms range from one to 60 months. Our subscription and support contracts are non-cancelable, though customers typically have the right to terminate their contracts for cause if we materially fail to perform. 

We generally invoice our customers in advance, in annual installments, and typical payment terms provide that our customers pay us within 30 days of invoice. Amounts that have been invoiced are recorded in accounts receivable and in unearned revenue, or in revenue depending on whether transfer of control to customers has occurred. In general, we collect our billings in advance of the subscription service period.

Professional services and other revenues consist of fees associated with consulting and implementation services and training. Our consulting and implementation engagements are billed on a time and materials, fixed fee or subscription basis. We also offer a number of training classes on implementing, using and administering our service that are billed on a per person, per class basis. Our typical professional services payment terms provide that our customers pay us within 30 days of invoice.

In determining whether professional services can be accounted for separately from subscription and support revenues, we consider a number of factors, which are described in Note 1 "Summary of Business and Significant Accounting Policies" of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, which is incorporated herein by reference.

Revenue by Cloud Service Offering

The information below is provided on a supplemental basis to give additional insight into the revenue performance of our individual core service offerings. All of the cloud offerings that we offer to customers are grouped into four major cloud service offerings. Subscription and support revenues consisted of the following (in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Subscription and support revenues from the Community Cloud, Quip and our Industry Offerings were not significant in fiscal 2019. Quip revenue is included with Salesforce Platform and Other in the table above. Our Industry Offerings and Community Cloud revenue are included in either Sales Cloud, Service Cloud or Salesforce Platform and Other depending on the primary service offering purchased. Revenue from our acquisition of MuleSoft in May 2018 is included in Salesforce Platform and Other.

37
As required under U.S. GAAP, we recorded unearned revenue related to acquired contracts from MuleSoft at fair value on the date of acquisition. As a result, we did not recognize certain revenues related to these acquired contracts that MuleSoft would have otherwise recorded as an independent entity. Of the $2.9 billion subscription and support revenue for Salesforce Platform and Other for fiscal 2019, approximately $360 million was attributed to MuleSoft.

In situations where a customer purchases multiple cloud offerings, such as through an Enterprise License Agreement, we allocate the contract value to each core service offering based on the customer’s estimated product demand plan, the service that was provided at the inception of the contract, and standalone selling price ("SSP") of those products. We do not update these allocations based on actual product usage during the term of the contract. We have allocated approximately 17 percent, 15 percent, 13 percent of our total subscription and support revenues for fiscal 2019 , 2018 and 2017, respectively, based on customers’ estimated product demand plans and these allocated amounts are included in the table above.

Additionally, some of our service offerings have similar features and functions. For example, customers may use the Sales Cloud, the Service Cloud or the Salesforce Platform to record account and contact information, which are similar features across these core service offerings. Depending on a customer’s actual and projected business requirements, more than one core service offering may satisfy the customer’s current and future needs. We record revenue based on the individual products ordered by a customer, not according to the customer’s business requirements and usage. In addition, as we introduce new features and functions within each offering and refine our allocation methodology for changes in our business, we do not expect it to be practical to adjust historical revenue results by service offering for comparability. Accordingly, comparisons of revenue performance by core service offering over time may not be meaningful.

Our Sales Cloud service offering is our most widely distributed service offering and has historically been the largest contributor of subscription and support revenues. As a result, Sales Cloud has the most international exposure and foreign exchange rate exposure relative to the other cloud service offerings. Conversely, revenue for Marketing and Commerce Cloud is primarily derived from the Americas with little impact from foreign exchange rate movement.

The revenue growth rates of each of our core service offerings fluctuate from quarter to quarter and over time. While we are a market leader in each core offering, we manage the total balanced product portfolio to deliver solutions to our customers. Accordingly, the revenue result for each cloud service offering is not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected for any subsequent quarter.

Seasonal Nature of Unearned Revenue, Accounts Receivable and Operating Cash Flow

Unearned revenue primarily consists of billings to customers for our subscription service. Over 90 percent of the value of our billings to customers is for our subscription and support service. We generally invoice our customers in annual cycles. We typically issue renewal invoices in advance of the renewal service period, and depending on timing, the initial invoice for the subscription and services contract and the subsequent renewal invoice may occur in different quarters. This may result in an increase in unearned revenue and accounts receivable. There is a disproportionate weighting toward annual billings in the fourth quarter, primarily as a result of large enterprise account buying patterns. Our fourth quarter has historically been our strongest quarter for new business and renewals. The year on year compounding effect of this seasonality in both billing patterns and overall new and renewal business causes the value of invoices that we generate in the fourth quarter for both new business and renewals to increase as a proportion of our total annual billings. Accordingly, because of this billing activity, our first quarter is typically our largest collections and operating cash flow quarter. 

The sequential quarterly changes in accounts receivable and the related unearned revenue and operating cash flow during the first quarter of our fiscal year are not necessarily indicative of the billing activity that occurs for the following quarters as displayed below (in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

38
The unearned revenue balance on our consolidated balance sheets does not represent the total contract value of annual or multi-year, non-cancelable subscription agreements. Transaction price allocated to the remaining performance obligations ("Remaining Performance Obligation") represents contracted revenue that has not yet been recognized, which includes unearned revenue and unbilled amounts that will be recognized as revenue in future periods. Remaining performance obligation is not necessarily indicative of future revenue growth and is influenced by several factors, including seasonality, the timing of renewals, average contract terms and foreign currency exchange rates. Unbilled portions of the remaining performance obligation denominated in foreign currencies are revalued each period based on the period end exchange rates. For multi-year subscription agreements billed annually, the associated unbilled balance and corresponding remaining performance obligation is typically high at the beginning of the contract period, zero just prior to renewal, and increases if the agreement is renewed. Low remaining performance obligations attributable to a particular subscription agreement are often associated with an impending renewal and may not be an indicator of the likelihood of renewal or future revenue from such customer. 

Remaining performance obligation, formerly referred to as remaining transaction price, consisted of the following (in billions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

*Includes $500 million of remaining performance obligation related to fiscal 2019 acquisitions, including contracts executed subsequent to acquisition. 

Cost of Revenues and Operating Expenses

Cost of Revenues

Cost of subscription and support revenues primarily consists of expenses related to delivering our service and providing support, the costs of data center capacity, depreciation or operating lease expense associated with computer equipment and software, allocated overhead, amortization expense associated with capitalized software related to our services and acquired developed technologies and certain fees paid to various third parties for the use of their technology, services and data. We allocate overhead such as IT infrastructure, rent, and occupancy charges based on headcount. Employee benefit costs and taxes are allocated based upon a percentage of total compensation expense. As such, general overhead expenses are reflected in each cost of revenue and operating expense category. Cost of professional services and other revenues consists primarily of employee-related costs associated with these services, including stock-based expenses, the cost of subcontractors, certain third-party fees and allocated overhead. The cost of providing professional services is higher as a percentage of the related revenue than for our enterprise cloud computing subscription service due to the direct labor costs and costs of subcontractors.

We intend to continue to invest additional resources in our enterprise cloud computing services. For example, we have invested in additional database software and hardware and we plan to increase the capacity that we are able to offer globally through data centers and third-party infrastructure providers. In addition, we intend to continue to invest additional resources in enhancing our cyber security measures. As we acquire new businesses and technologies, the amortization expense associated with the purchase of acquired developed technology will be included in cost of revenues. Additionally, as we enter into new contracts with third parties for the use of their technology, services or data, or as our sales volume grows, the fees paid to use such technology or services may increase. Finally, we expect the cost of professional services to be approximately in line with revenues from professional services as we believe this investment in professional services facilitates the adoption of our service offerings. The timing of these additional expenses will affect our cost of revenues, both in terms of absolute dollars and as a percentage of revenues, in the affected periods.

Research and Development

Research and development expenses consist primarily of salaries and related expenses, including stock-based expenses, the costs of our development and test data center and allocated overhead. We continue to focus our research and development efforts on adding new features and services, integrating acquired technologies, increasing the functionality and security and enhancing the ease of use of our enterprise cloud computing services. Our proprietary, scalable and secure multi-tenant architecture enables us to provide our customers with a service based on a single version of our application. As a result, we do not have to maintain multiple versions, which enables us to have relatively lower research and development expenses as compared to traditional enterprise software companies.

39
We expect that in the future, research and development expenses will increase in absolute dollars and may increase as a percentage of total revenues as we invest in adding employees and building the necessary system infrastructure required to support the development of new, and improve existing, technologies and the integration of acquired businesses, technologies and all of our service offerings.

Marketing and Sales 

Marketing and sales expenses are our largest cost and consist primarily of salaries and related expenses, including stock-based expenses, for our sales and marketing staff, including commissions, as well as payments to partners, marketing programs and allocated overhead. Marketing programs consist of advertising, events, corporate communications, brand building and product marketing activities.

We plan to continue to invest in marketing and sales by expanding our domestic and international selling and marketing activities, building brand awareness, attracting new customers, and sponsoring additional marketing events. The timing of these marketing events, such as our annual and largest event, Dreamforce, will affect our marketing costs in a particular quarter. In addition, as we acquire new businesses and technologies, a component of the amortization expense associated with this activity will be included in marketing and sales. We expect that in the future, marketing and sales expenses will increase in absolute dollars and continue to be our largest cost. We expect marketing and sales expenses, excluding sales personnel expenses, to grow in line with or at a slower rate than revenues and sales personnel expenses. These may increase as a percentage of total revenues as we invest in additional sales personnel to focus on adding new customers and increasing penetration within our existing customer base.

General and Administrative 

General and administrative expenses consist of salaries and related expenses, including stock-based expenses, for finance and accounting, legal, internal audit, human resources and management information systems personnel, legal costs, security costs, professional fees, other corporate expenses such as transaction costs for acquisitions and allocated overhead. We expect that in the future, general and administrative expenses will increase in absolute dollars as we invest in our infrastructure and we incur additional employee related costs, professional fees and insurance costs related to the growth of our business and international expansion. We expect general and administrative costs as a percentage of total revenues to either remain flat or decrease for the next several quarters. However, the timing of additional expenses in a particular quarter, both in terms of absolute dollars and as a percentage of revenues, will affect our general and administrative expenses. 

Stock-Based Expenses 

Our cost of revenues and operating expenses include stock-based expenses related to equity plans for employees and non-employee directors. We recognize our stock-based compensation as an expense in the statements of operations based on their fair values and vesting periods. These charges have been significant in the past and we expect that they will increase as our stock price increases, as we acquire more companies, as we hire more employees and seek to retain existing employees.

Amortization of Purchased Intangible Assets Acquired Through Business Combinations

Our cost of revenues, operating expenses and other expenses include amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets, such as the amortization of the cost associated with an acquired company’s developed technology, trade names and trademarks, and customer relationships. We expect this expense to fluctuate as we acquire more businesses and intangible assets become fully amortized. 

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates

Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, costs and expenses, and related disclosures. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates and assumptions. Our actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions.

We believe that of our significant accounting policies, which are described in Note 1 “Summary of Business and Significant Accounting Policies” to our consolidated financial statements, the following accounting policies and specific estimates involve a greater degree of judgment and complexity.

Revenue Recognition - Contracts with Multiple Performance Obligations. We enter into contracts with our customers that may include promises to transfer multiple Cloud Services, software licenses, premium support and professional services. A performance obligation is a promise in a contract with a customer to transfer products or services that are distinct. Determining whether products and services are distinct performance obligations that should be accounted for separately or combined as one unit of accounting may require significant judgment.

40
Cloud Services and software licenses are distinct as such offerings are often sold separately. In determining whether professional services are distinct, we consider the following factors for each professional services agreement: availability of the services from other vendors, the nature of the professional services, the timing of when the professional services contract was signed in comparison to the subscription start date and the contractual dependence of the service on the customer’s satisfaction with the professional services work. To date, we have concluded that all of the professional services included in contracts with multiple performance obligations are distinct.

We allocate the transaction price to each performance obligation on a relative standalone selling price ("SSP") basis. The SSP is the price at which we would sell a promised product or service separately to a customer. Judgment is required to determine the SSP for each distinct performance obligation. We determine SSP by considering our overall pricing objectives and market conditions. Significant pricing practices taken into consideration include our discounting practices, the size and volume of our transactions, the customer demographic, the geographic area where services are sold, price lists, our go-to-market strategy, historical sales and contract prices. As our go-to-market strategies evolve, we may modify our pricing practices in the future, which could result in changes to SSP.

In certain cases, we are able to establish SSP based on observable prices of products or services sold separately in comparable circumstances to similar customers. We use a single amount to estimate SSP when it has observable prices. If SSP is not directly observable, for example when pricing is highly variable, we use a range of SSP. We determine the SSP range using information that may include market conditions or other observable inputs. We typically have more than one SSP for individual products and services due to the stratification of those products and services by customer size and geography.

Costs Capitalized to Obtain Revenue Contracts. Costs capitalized related to new revenue contracts are amortized on a straight-line basis over four years, which, although longer than the typical initial contract period, reflects the average period of benefit, including expected contract renewals. Significant judgment is required in arriving at this average period of benefit. Therefore, we evaluate both qualitative and quantitative factors which include the estimated life cycles of our offerings and our customer attrition. 

Business Combinations. Accounting for business combinations requires us to make significant estimates and assumptions, especially at the acquisition date with respect to tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed and pre-acquisition contingencies. We use our best estimates and assumptions to accurately assign fair value to the tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the acquisition date as well as the useful lives of those acquired intangible assets.

Examples of critical estimates in valuing certain of the intangible assets and goodwill we have acquired include but are not limited to:

•future expected cash flows from subscription and support contracts, professional services contracts, other customer contracts and acquired developed technologies and patents;

•the acquired company’s trade name and existing customer relationships, as well as assumptions about the period of time the acquired trade name will continue to be used in our offerings;

•uncertain tax positions and tax related valuation allowances assumed; and

•discount rates.

Unanticipated events and circumstances may occur that may affect the accuracy or validity of such assumptions, estimates or actual results.

Income Taxes. Valuation allowances are established when necessary to reduce deferred tax assets to the amounts that are more likely than not expected to be realized based on the weighting of positive and negative evidence. Future realization of deferred tax assets ultimately depends on the existence of sufficient taxable income of the appropriate character, for example, ordinary income or capital gain, within the carryback or carryforward periods available under the applicable tax law. We regularly review the deferred tax assets for recoverability based on historical taxable income, projected future taxable income, the expected timing of the reversals of existing temporary differences and tax planning strategies. Our judgment regarding future profitability may change due to many factors, including future market conditions and the ability to successfully execute our business plans and tax planning strategies. Should there be a change in the ability to recover deferred tax assets, our income tax provision would increase or decrease in the period in which the assessment is changed.

Our tax positions are subject to income tax audits by multiple tax jurisdictions throughout the world. We recognize the tax benefit of an uncertain tax position only if it is more likely than not that the position is sustainable upon examination by the taxing authority, based on the technical merits. The tax benefit recognized is measured as the largest amount of benefit which is greater than 50 percent likely to be realized upon settlement with the taxing authority. We recognize interest accrued and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits in our income tax provision.

Strategic Investments. Accounting for strategic investments in privately held debt and equity securities in which we do not have a controlling interest or significant influence requires us to make significant estimates and assumptions. Privately held 

41
equity securities without a readily determinable fair value are recorded at cost and adjusted for observable price changes in a same or similar security from the same issuer and impairments.

Privately held debt and equity securities are valued using significant unobservable inputs or data in an inactive market and the valuation requires our judgment due to the absence of market prices and inherent lack of liquidity. The carrying value is adjusted for our privately held equity securities if there are observable price changes in a same or similar security from the same issuer or if there are identified events or changes in circumstances that may indicate impairment, as discussed below. The determination of whether an orderly transaction is for a same or similar investment requires significant management judgment including the nature of rights and obligations of the investments, the extent to which differences in those rights and obligations would affect the fair values of those investments, and the impact of any differences based on the stage of operational development of the investee.

We assess our privately held debt and equity securities strategic investment portfolio quarterly for impairment. Our impairment analysis encompasses an assessment of the severity and duration of the impairment and qualitative and quantitative analysis of other key factors including the investee’s financial metrics, the investee’s products and technologies meeting or exceeding predefined milestones, market acceptance of the product or technology, other competitive products or technology in the market, general market conditions, management and governance structure of the investee, the investee’s liquidity, debt ratios and the rate at which the investee is using its cash. If the investment is considered to be impaired, we record the investment at fair value by recognizing an impairment through the consolidated statement of operations and establishing a new carrying value for the investment.

42
Results of Operations

The following tables set forth selected data for each of the periods indicated (in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Amounts related to amortization of intangible assets acquired through business combinations, as follows (in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(2) Amounts related to stock-based expenses, as follows (in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(3) Amount includes a benefit related to the partial release of the valuation allowance of $612 million, $2 million and $226 million for fiscal 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively. The fiscal 2019 benefit was partially offset by an increase in unrecognized tax benefits. 

*Prior period information has been adjusted for the adoption of Topic 606.

43
The following table sets forth selected balance sheet and other metrics data for each of the periods indicated (in millions, other than remaining performance obligation, which is presented in billions): 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Remaining performance obligation represents contracted revenue that has not yet been recognized, which includes unearned revenue and unbilled amounts that will be recognized as revenue in future periods. 

Fiscal Year Ended January 31, 2019 and 2018

Revenues.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The increase in subscription and support revenues was primarily caused by volume-driven increases from new business, which includes new customers, upgrades and additional subscriptions from existing customers. Our acquisition of MuleSoft in May 2018 contributed $431 million to total revenues in fiscal 2019. The increase was also driven by approximately $227 million of revenue recognized at a point in time, which includes the portion of software subscriptions allocated to the on-premise software element.

We continue to invest in a variety of customer programs and initiatives which, along with increasing enterprise adoption, have helped keep our attrition rate consistent as compared to the prior year. Consistent attrition rates play a role in our ability to maintain growth in our subscription and support revenues. Changes in the net price per user per month have not been a significant driver of revenue growth for the periods presented. The increase in professional services and other revenues was due primarily to the higher demand for services from an increased number of customers.

Revenues by geography were as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Revenues by geography are determined based on the region of the Salesforce contracting entity, which may be different than the region of the customer. Americas revenue attributed to the United States was approximately 96 percent during fiscal year 2019 and 2018.

Revenues in Europe and Asia Pacific accounted for $3.8 billion, or 29 percent of total revenues, for fiscal 2019, compared to $2.9 billion, or 28 percent of total revenues, during the same period a year ago, an increase of $0.9 billion, or 31 percent. The increase in revenues outside of the Americas was the result of the increasing acceptance of our services, our focus on marketing our services internationally and investment in additional international resources. Revenues outside of the Americas increased on a total dollar basis by $39 million in fiscal 2019 compared to fiscal 2018 due to foreign currency fluctuations primarily as a result of the strengthening British Pound Sterling.

44
Cost of Revenues.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The increase in cost of revenues was primarily due to an increase of $156 million in employee-related costs, an increase of $31 million in stock-based expenses, an increase of $326 million in service delivery costs, primarily due to our efforts to increase data center capacity, an increase of amortization of purchased intangible assets of $49 million and an increase of $26 million in allocated overhead. We have increased our headcount by 16 percent since January 31, 2018 to meet the higher demand for services from our customers, of which a component was also due to the acquisition of MuleSoft in May 2018. We intend to continue to invest additional resources in our enterprise cloud computing services and data center capacity to allow us to scale with our customers and continuously evolve our security measures. We also plan to add employees in our professional services group to facilitate the adoption of our services. The timing of these expenses will affect our cost of revenues, both in terms of absolute dollars and as a percentage of revenues, in future periods.

The cost of professional services and other revenues was $847 million during fiscal 2019 resulting in positive gross margin of $22 million. The cost of professional services and other revenues was $740 million during fiscal 2018 resulting in positive gross margins of $34 million. We expect the cost of professional services to be approximately in line with revenues from professional services in future fiscal quarters. We believe that this investment in professional services facilitates the adoption of our service offerings.

Operating Expenses.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The increase in research and development expenses was primarily due to an increase of approximately $216 million in employee-related costs, an increase of $47 million in stock-based expenses, an increase in our development and test data center costs and allocated overhead. We increased our research and development headcount by 19 percent since January 31, 2018 in order to improve and extend our service offerings, develop new technologies, and integrate acquired companies, including our acquisition of MuleSoft in May 2018. Additionally, a component of our increased headcount was also due to the acquisition of MuleSoft. We expect that research and development expenses will increase in absolute dollars and may increase as a percentage of revenues in future periods as we continue to invest in additional employees and technology to support the development of new, and improve existing, technologies and the integration of acquired technologies. 

The increase in marketing and sales expenses was primarily due to an increase of $797 million in employee-related costs and amortization of deferred commissions, an increase of $174 million in stock-based expenses, an increase in amortization of purchased intangible assets of $111 million, and allocated overhead. Our marketing and sales headcount increased by 25 percent since January 31, 2018, of which a component was due to the acquisition of MuleSoft in May 2018. The increase in headcount was primarily attributable to hiring additional sales personnel to focus on adding new customers and increasing penetration within our existing customer base. We expect that marketing and sales expenses will increase in absolute dollars and may increase as a percentage of revenues in future periods as we continue to hire additional sales personnel. 

The increase in general and administrative expenses was primarily due to an increase in employee-related costs. Our general and administrative headcount increased by 27 percent since January 31, 2018 as we added personnel to support our growth as well as an increase due to the acquisition of MuleSoft in May 2018.

45
Other income and expense.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The increase in investment income was due to higher interest income across our portfolio, which is primarily a result of increasing interest rates.

Interest expense consists of interest on our debt, capital leases, and financing obligation related to 350 Mission. The increase in interest expense was primarily driven by interest expense on the 2023 Senior Notes and 2028 Senior Notes of approximately $71 million. We expect interest expense to increase in future years as the 2023 Senior Notes and 2028 Senior Notes will be outstanding for a full year as compared to a partial year in fiscal 2019. 

Gains on strategic investments, net consists primarily of mark-to-market adjustments related to our publicly held equity securities, observable price adjustments related to our privately held equity securities and other adjustments. The prospective adoption of ASU 2016-01 resulted in unrealized gains in our equity securities of approximately $446 million during fiscal 2019, excluding gains on sales of equity securities. These gains were primarily driven by mark-to-market adjustments to our publicly traded securities of $345 million during fiscal 2019.

Other income (expense) primarily consists of non-operating transactions such as gains and losses from foreign exchange rate fluctuations and real estate transactions. 

Benefit from (provision for) income taxes.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

We recorded a tax benefit of $127 million on a pretax income of $983 million for fiscal 2019. The tax benefit recorded was primarily related to the release of our valuation allowance related to federal and state deferred tax assets, which was partially offset with the increase in unrecognized tax benefits. In addition, we recorded current tax expense for profitable jurisdictions outside of the United States.

In fiscal 2018, we recorded a tax provision of $60 million on a pretax income of $420 million. The tax provision recorded was primarily related to income taxes in profitable jurisdictions outside of the United States.

Fiscal Years Ended January 31, 2018 and 2017 

Revenues.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The increase in subscription and support revenues during fiscal 2018 was primarily caused by volume-driven increases from new business, which included new customers, upgrades and additional subscriptions from existing customers. Additionally, fiscal 2018 benefited from a full year of revenue from Demandware, which we acquired in July 2016. This was offset by a reduction in subscription revenues of approximately $20 million as a result of one less day in fiscal 2018 compared to fiscal 2017. We continue to invest in a variety of customer programs and initiatives which, along with increasing enterprise adoption, have helped keep our attrition rate consistent as compared to the prior year. Consistent attrition rates play a role in our ability to maintain growth in our subscription and support revenues. Changes in the net price per user per month have not been a significant driver of revenue growth for the periods presented. The increase in professional services and other revenues was due primarily to the higher demand for services from an increased number of customers.

46
Revenues by geography were as follows (in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Revenues by geography are determined based on the region of the Salesforce contracting entity, which may be different than the region of the customer. Americas revenue attributed to the United States was approximately 96 percent during fiscal 2018 and 2017.

Revenues in Europe and Asia Pacific accounted for $2.9 billion, or 28 percent of total revenues, for fiscal 2018, compared to $2.2 billion, or 26 percent of total revenues, during fiscal 2017, an increase of $0.7 billion, or 34 percent. The increase in revenues outside of the Americas was the result of the increasing acceptance of our services, our focus on marketing our services internationally and investment in additional international resources. Revenues outside of the Americas increased on a total dollar basis by $96 million in fiscal 2018 compared to fiscal 2017 due to foreign currency fluctuations primarily as a result of the strengthening British Pound Sterling.

Cost of Revenues. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The increase in cost of revenues was primarily due to an increase of $192 million in employee-related costs, an increase of $23 million in stock-based expenses, an increase of $197 million in service delivery costs, primarily due to our efforts to increase data center capacity, an increase of amortization of purchased intangible assets of $38 million and an increase of $23 million in allocated overhead. We increased our headcount by 11 percent during fiscal 2018 to meet the higher demand for services from our customers and as a result of our fiscal 2017 acquisitions. 

The cost of professional services and other revenues was $740 million during fiscal 2018 resulting in positive gross margin of $34 million. The cost of professional services and other revenues was $617 million during fiscal 2017 resulting in positive gross margins of $21 million.

Operating Expenses. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The increase in research and development expenses was primarily due to an increase of approximately $212 million in employee-related costs, an increase of $72 million in stock-based expenses, an increase in our development and test data center costs and allocated overhead. We increased our research and development headcount by 11 percent during fiscal 2018 in order to improve and extend our service offerings, develop new technologies and integrate previously acquired companies, including our fiscal 2017 acquisitions. 

The change in marketing and sales expenses was primarily due to an increase of $637 million in employee-related costs and amortization of deferred commissions, an increase of $80 million in stock-based expenses, an increase in amortization of purchased intangible assets of $23 million and allocated overhead. Our marketing and sales headcount increased by 22 percent 

47
during fiscal 2018. The increase in headcount was primarily attributable to hiring additional sales personnel to focus on adding new customers and increasing penetration within our existing customer base. 

The increase in general and administrative expenses was primarily due to an increase in employee-related costs. Our general and administrative headcount increased by 16 percent during fiscal 2018 as we added personnel to support our growth.

Other income and expense.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The increase in investment income was due to higher interest income across our portfolio.

Interest expense consists of interest on our convertible senior notes, capital leases, financing obligation related to 350 Mission, the loan assumed on 50 Fremont, revolving credit facility and the $500 million term loan that was entered into in connection with our acquisition of Demandware.

Gains on strategic investments, net represents strategic investments' fair market value adjustments and gains recognized related to strategic investments when we acquire an entity in which we previously held a strategic investment. The difference between the fair value of the shares as of the date of the acquisition and the carrying value of the strategic investment is recorded as a gain or loss. The change in gains on strategic investments, net was primarily due to $14 million of gains resulting from our acquisition of companies in which we held strategic investments in fiscal 2017.

Other income (expense) primarily consists of non-operating transactions such as gains and losses from foreign exchange rate fluctuations and real estate transactions.

Benefit from (provision for) income taxes.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

We recognized a tax provision of $60 million on a pretax income of $420 million for fiscal 2018. The tax provision recorded was primarily related to income taxes in profitable jurisdictions outside of the United States. 

In fiscal 2017, we recorded a tax benefit of $144 million on a pretax income of $179 million for fiscal 2017. The most significant component of this tax amount was the discrete tax benefit of $210 million from a partial release of the valuation allowance in connection with the acquisition of Demandware. The net deferred tax liability from the acquisition of Demandware provided a source of additional income to support the realizability of our pre-existing deferred tax assets and, as a result, we released a portion of our valuation allowance. The tax benefit associated with the release of the valuation allowance was partially offset by income taxes in profitable jurisdictions outside of the United States.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

At January 31, 2019, our principal sources of liquidity were cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities totaling $4.3 billion and accounts receivable of $4.9 billion. Our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities are comprised primarily of corporate notes and obligations, U.S. treasury securities, asset backed securities, foreign government obligations, mortgage backed obligations, time deposits, money market mutual funds and municipal securities. 

As of January 31, 2019, our remaining performance obligation was $25.7 billion. Our remaining performance obligation represents contracted revenue that has not yet been recognized and includes unearned revenue, which has been invoiced and is recorded on the balance sheet, and unbilled amounts that are not recorded on the balance sheet, that will be recognized as revenue in future periods. 

We believe our existing cash, cash equivalents, marketable securities, cash provided by operating activities and, if necessary, our borrowing capacity under our Credit Facility and unbilled amounts related to contracted non-cancelable subscription agreements, which is not reflected on the balance sheet, will be sufficient to meet our working capital, capital expenditure and debt repayment needs over the next 12 months. 

48
In the future, we may enter into arrangements to acquire or invest in complementary businesses, services and technologies, and intellectual property rights. To facilitate these acquisitions or investments, we may seek additional equity or debt financing, which may not be available on terms favorable to us or at all, which may affect our ability to complete subsequent acquisitions or investments.

Cash Flows

For fiscal 2019, 2018 and 2017, our cash flows were as follows (in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Cash provided by operating activities has historically been affected by the amount of net income adjusted for non-cash expense items such as depreciation and amortization; amortization of purchased intangibles from business combinations; the expense associated with stock-based awards; net gains on strategic investments; the timing of employee related costs including commissions and bonus payments; the timing of payments against accounts payable, accrued expenses and other current liabilities; the timing of our semi-annual interest payments related to our senior notes; the timing of collections from our customers, which is our largest source of operating cash flows; the timing of business combination activity and the related integration and transaction costs; and changes in working capital accounts. Net cash provided by operating activities was also impacted by payments made during fiscal 2019 for the transaction fees related to the acquisition of MuleSoft.

Our working capital accounts consist of accounts receivable, costs capitalized to obtain revenue contracts, prepaid assets and other current assets. Claims against working capital include accounts payable, accrued expenses, unearned revenue, and other current liabilities and payments related to our debt obligations. Our working capital may be impacted by factors in future periods such as billings to customers for subscriptions and support services, and the subsequent collection of those billings, certain amounts and timing of which are seasonal. Our working capital in some quarters may be impacted by adverse foreign currency exchange rate movements and this impact may increase as our working capital balances increase in our foreign subsidiaries. Our billings are also influenced by new business linearity within the quarters and across the quarters.

As described above in “Seasonal Nature of Unearned Revenue, Accounts Receivable and Operating Cash Flow,” our fourth quarter has historically been our strongest quarter for new business and renewals and, correspondingly, the first quarter has historically been the strongest for cash collections. The year on year compounding effect of this seasonality in both billing patterns and overall business causes both the value of invoices that we generate in the fourth quarter and cash collections in the first quarter to increase as a proportion of our total annual billings.

We generally invoice our customers for our subscription and services contracts in advance in annual installments. We typically issue renewal invoices in advance of the renewal service period, and depending on timing, the initial invoice for the subscription and services contract and the subsequent renewal invoice may occur in different quarters. Such invoice amounts are initially reflected in accounts receivable and unearned revenue, which is reflected on the balance sheets, and as the next billing cycle approaches, the corresponding unearned revenue decreases to zero. The operating cash flow benefit of increased billing activity generally occurs in the subsequent quarter when we collect from our customers. As such, our first quarter is our largest collections and operating cash flow quarter.

The net cash used in investing activities during fiscal 2019 primarily related to the acquisitions of MuleSoft, Datorama and CloudCraze, net of cash acquired for a total of $5.1 billion. Net cash used in investing activities also included purchases of marketable securities of $1.1 billion, purchases of strategic investments of $362 million and new office build outs and capital investments of $595 million, offset by sales of marketable securities of $1.4 billion. The net cash used in investing activities during fiscal 2018 primarily related to purchases of marketable securities of $2.0 billion, new office build-outs and capital investments of $534 million, which were offset by the cash inflows for the period from sales and maturities of marketable securities of $636 million. The net cash used in investing activities during fiscal 2017 primarily related to business combinations with the largest being the acquisition of Demandware in July 2016 and purchases of marketable securities, which were offset by the cash inflows for the period from sales and maturities of marketable securities.

Net cash provided by financing activities during fiscal 2019 consisted primarily of $3.0 billion from proceeds from issuance of debt which were used in the acquisition of MuleSoft, and $704 million from proceeds from equity plans, offset by $1.5 billion of repayments of debt including principal payments on the maturity of the 0.25% Senior Notes and the early repayment and termination of the 2019 Term Loan. Net cash provided by financing activities during fiscal 2018 consisted primarily of $650 million from proceeds from equity plans offset by $323 million in repayments of debt. Net cash provided by 

49
financing activities during fiscal 2017 consisted primarily of proceeds from issuance of debt, which were used to partially fund acquisitions, offset by repayments of debt.

Debt

The carrying values of our borrowings were as follows (in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

As of January 31, 2019, we have senior unsecured debt outstanding due in 2021, 2023 and 2028 with a total carrying value of $3.0 billion. In addition, we have senior secured notes outstanding related to our loan on 50 Fremont due in 2023 with a total carrying value of $196 million. We were in compliance with all debt covenants as of January 31, 2019.

We maintain a revolving loan credit agreement that provides for $1.0 billion unsecured financing ("Credit Facility") that matures in April 2023. We may use the proceeds of future borrowings under the Credit Facility for refinancing other indebtedness, working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes, including permitted acquisitions. There were no outstanding borrowings under the Credit Facility as of January 31, 2019. 

As of January 31, 2019, we have a total of $92 million in letters of credit outstanding in favor of certain landlords for office space. To date, no amounts have been drawn against the letters of credit, which renew annually and expire at various dates through December 2030.

We do not have any special purpose entities, and other than operating leases for office space and computer equipment, we do not engage in off-balance sheet financing arrangements.

Contractual Obligations

Our principal commitments consist of obligations under leases for office space, co-location data center facilities and our development and test data center, as well as leases for computer equipment, software, furniture and fixtures, excluding all secured and unsecured debt. At January 31, 2019, the future non-cancelable minimum payments under these commitments were as follows (in millions):

50
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The majority of our operating lease agreements provide us with the option to renew. Our future operating lease obligations would change if we exercised these options and if we entered into additional operating lease agreements as we expand our operations.

The financing obligation - leased facility above represents the total obligation for our lease of approximately 445,000 rentable square feet of office space at 350 Mission St. ("350 Mission") in San Francisco, California. As of January 31, 2019, $215 million of the total obligation noted above was recorded to Financing obligation - leased facility, of which the current portion is included in “Accrued expenses and other liabilities” and the noncurrent portion is included in “Other noncurrent liabilities” on the consolidated balance sheets.

The lease obligation - buildings to be constructed above represents the total obligation for two separate agreements for office facilities we entered into during fiscal 2019. The first agreement is for approximately 324,000 rentable square feet of office space in a building to be constructed as part of our urban campus in San Francisco, California. We expect to begin occupying the space in fiscal 2024 and the total non-cancelable minimum payments under this agreement are approximately $480 million over 16 years. Construction has not commenced on the building and is dependent on the developer obtaining approvals from the City and County of San Francisco. The second agreement is for approximately 603,000 rentable square feet of office space in a building to be constructed in Chicago, Illinois. We expect to begin occupying the space in fiscal 2022 and the total non-cancelable minimum payments under this agreement are approximately $475 million over 17 years. As of January 31, 2019 construction has not commenced on either of these buildings and the timing of completion of construction is unknown. Due to this uncertainty, the entire commitment for these two obligations is reflected as payments due in more than five years in the table above. 

We have entered into various contractual commitments with infrastructure service providers for a total commitment of $2.0 billion, which are reflected in the table above under "contractual commitments." As of January 31, 2019, the total remaining commitment is approximately $1.8 billion and $264 million is due in the next fiscal year. 

Purchase orders are not included in the table above. Our purchase orders represent authorizations to purchase rather than binding agreements. The contractual commitment amounts in the table above are associated with agreements that are enforceable and legally binding and that specify all significant terms, including: fixed or minimum services to be used; fixed, minimum or variable price provisions; and the approximate timing of the transaction. Obligations under contracts that we can cancel without a significant penalty are not included in the table above.

During fiscal 2019 and in future fiscal years, we have made and expect to continue to make additional investments in our infrastructure to scale our operations, increase productivity and enhance our security measures. We plan to upgrade or replace various internal systems to scale with our overall growth. Additionally, we expect capital expenditures to be higher in absolute dollars and remain consistent as a percentage of total revenues in future periods as a result of continued office build-outs, other leasehold improvements and data center investments.

Utilization of tax carryforwards and credits

As we continue our trend in profitability, we expect to utilize our net operating loss carryforward and various tax credits to reduce our cash tax payments. For example, our Federal net operating loss carryforwards are $2.1 billion as of January 31, 

51
2019 as compared to $2.7 billion as of January 31, 2018. We expect our cash tax payments for the next 12 months, primarily from profitable jurisdictions outside of the U.S, to be consistent with those paid in prior years. 

New Accounting Pronouncements 

See Note 1 “Summary of Business and Significant Accounting Policies” to the consolidated financial statements for our discussion about new accounting pronouncements adopted and those pending. 

Environmental, Social and Governance

We believe the business of business is improving the state of the world for all of our stakeholders, including our stockholders, customers, partners, employees, community, environment and society. We are committed to creating a sustainable, low-carbon future by delivering a carbon neutral cloud, operating as a net-zero greenhouse gas emissions company and by working to achieve our goal of 100 percent renewable energy for our global operations by fiscal 2022. We also believe consistent, comparable and reliable disclosures around climate-related risks and opportunities are important. To this end, we are working to align with the recommendations of the Financial Stability Board's ("FSB") Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures ("TCFD") and of the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board ("SASB"). In addition, we have spearheaded human capital management initiatives to drive equality in four key areas: equal rights, equal pay, equal education and equal opportunity. We also pioneered and have inspired other companies to adopt our 1-1-1 integrated philanthropy model, which leverages one percent of a company’s equity, employee time and product to help improve communities around the world. We publish an annual stakeholder impact report on our website detailing our overall strategy relating to environmental, social and governance (“ESG”) programs as well as our efforts in these areas.

Below are some of the key highlights of our ongoing ESG efforts:

•In fiscal 2019, we remained a net-zero greenhouse gas emissions company, continued delivering a carbon neutral cloud for all customers and procured electricity from renewable energy resources equivalent to 55 percent of what we used globally. To support our commitment to renewable energy, we have signed four virtual power purchase agreements (“VPPAs”). This includes two agreements which were signed in fiscal 2019: our largest VPPA to date with a new wind energy project in Illinois that is expected to be operational in fiscal year 2020, and our first-ever renewable energy aggregation deal with a new solar energy project in North Carolina which is expected to be operational in fiscal 2021. In addition, the three buildings at our corporate headquarters in San Francisco sourced 100 percent renewable energy in fiscal 2019.

•We are active in and support organizations that move the United States and the world toward a more sustainable, low-carbon future. In fiscal 2019, we partnered with Mission 2020 to establish the Step Up Declaration, a new alliance committed to harnessing the power of emerging technologies to help reduce emissions across all economic sectors. As part of the declaration we committed to expand our carbon offset program to include business travel and employee commuting, and to continue to expand our sustainable real estate commitments. We also committed to setting our own science-based targets, including working with our suppliers to set their own climate targets. In addition, we were a founding member of the Business Renewables Center, signed the Corporate Renewable Energy Buyers’ Principles, helped to launch the Corporate Colocation and Cloud Buyers’ Principles, disclosed our annual carbon emissions to the Carbon Disclosure Project and signed on to initiatives such as We Mean Business and the American Business Act on Climate.

•As part of our ongoing work to promote equality, we review the salaries and bonuses of our global workforce on an annual basis to ensure everyone is paid equally for equal work and close any unexplained gaps. To date, we have spent $8.7 million to ensure equal pay for equal work. We also review differences in pay for not only gender, but also race and ethnicity in the United States.

•Our employees are engaged in and actively support our commitment to equality and enhancing our Ohana culture. We support ten employee-led and founded “Ohana Groups,” which provide a community for underrepresented groups and their allies, offer professional development and mentoring opportunities, and empower employees to be responsive equality leaders in their community. This has resulted in nearly half of our employees engaging in Ohana Groups in fiscal 2019.

•Together with the Salesforce Foundation, a 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization, and Salesforce.org, a nonprofit social enterprise, which are not included in our consolidated financial statements, to date we have given approximately $260 million to charitable organizations, logged more than 3.8 million employee volunteer hours around the world and provided more than 40,000 nonprofit and higher education organizations with the use of our service offerings for free or at a discount.

•We have significantly increased the diversity of our Board over the past five years, including with respect to gender and race.

52
We leverage a number of communications channels and strategic content to better serve and engage our many stakeholders. Our sustainability website, www.salesforce.com/company/sustainability, provides information regarding our environmental and other sustainability efforts, including our annual impact reports and our environmental policy. At our equality portal, www.salesforce.com/company/equality, our stakeholders can gain insights on our approach to equality, see our company profile by gender, and review our most recent Employer Information Report, which provides a snapshot in time of our U.S. demographics based on categories prescribed by the federal government. In addition, stakeholders can learn about equality through one of our many free Trailheads. Our annual proxy statement, available on the Investor Relations website, www.investor.salesforce.com, or www.sec.gov, provides additional details on our corporate governance practices, including our board composition.

ITEM 7A.QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK