Part II

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

The company’s global operations are exposed to financial market risks relating to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices, and interest rates. The company has established a variety of programs including the use of derivative instruments and other financial instruments to manage the exposure to financial market risks as to minimize volatility of financial results. In the ordinary course of business, the company enters into derivative instruments to hedge its exposure to foreign currency, interest rate and commodity price risks under established procedures and controls. For additional information on these derivatives and related exposures, see Note 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Decisions regarding whether or not to hedge a given commitment are made on a case-by-case basis, taking into consideration the amount and duration of the exposure, market volatility and economic trends. Foreign currency exchange contracts are also used, from time to time, to manage near-term foreign currency cash requirements.

Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risks 

The company has significant international operations resulting in a large number of currency transactions that result from international sales, purchases, investments and borrowings. The primary currencies for which the company has an exchange rate exposure are the European euro ("EUR"), Chinese yuan, Brazilian real, and Japanese yen. The company uses forward exchange contracts to offset its net exposures, by currency, related to the foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities of its operations. In addition to the contracts disclosed in Note 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, from time to time, the company will enter into foreign currency exchange contracts to establish with certainty the U.S. dollar ("USD") amount of future firm commitments denominated in a foreign currency. 

The following table illustrates the fair values of outstanding foreign currency contracts at December 31, 2018 and 2017, and the effect on fair values of a hypothetical adverse change in the foreign exchange rates that existed at December 31, 2018 and 2017. The sensitivities for foreign currency contracts are based on a 10 percent adverse change in foreign exchange rates.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Since the company's risk management programs are highly effective, the potential loss in value for each risk management portfolio described above would be largely offset by changes in the value of the underlying exposure.

Concentration of Credit Risk 

The company maintains cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities, derivatives and certain other financial instruments with various financial institutions. These financial institutions are generally highly rated and geographically dispersed and the company has a policy to limit the dollar amount of credit exposure with any one institution.

As part of the company's financial risk management processes, it continuously evaluates the relative credit standing of all of the financial institutions that service Historical DuPont and monitors actual exposures versus established limits. The company has not sustained credit losses from instruments held at financial institutions.

The company's sales are not materially dependent on any single customer. As of December 31, 2018, no one individual customer balance represented more than five percent of the company's total outstanding receivables balance. Credit risk associated with its receivables balance is representative of the geographic, industry and customer diversity associated with the company's global product lines.

The company also maintains strong credit controls in evaluating and granting customer credit. As a result, it may require that customers provide some type of financial guarantee in certain circumstances. Length of terms for customer credit varies by industry and region.

45

Part II

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA