ITEM 7A.QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

We are subject to interest rate risk on our long-term debt. We monitor our exposure to changes in interest rates and utilize both fixed and variable rate debt. For fixed rate debt, changes in interest rates generally affect the fair value of the debt instrument, but not our earnings or cash flows. Conversely, for variable rate debt, changes in interest rates generally do not impact the fair value of the debt instrument, but may affect our future earnings and cash flows. Except in very limited circumstances, we do not have an obligation to prepay fixed-rate debt prior to maturity and, as a result, interest rate risk and changes in fair value would not have a significant impact on our cash flows related to our fixed-rate debt until such time as we are required to refinance, repurchase or repay such debt.

We are exposed to interest rate risk associated with our mortgage loan origination services. We manage interest rate risk through the use of forward sales of mortgage-backed securities (MBS), which are referred to as “hedging instruments” in the following discussion. We do not enter into or hold derivatives for trading or speculative purposes.

Interest rate lock commitments (IRLCs) are extended to borrowers who have applied for loan funding and who meet defined credit and underwriting criteria. Typically, the IRLCs have a duration of less than six months. Some IRLCs are committed immediately to a specific purchaser through the use of best-efforts whole loan delivery commitments, while other IRLCs are funded prior to being committed to third-party purchasers. The hedging instruments related to IRLCs are classified and accounted for as derivative instruments in an economic hedge, with gains and losses recognized in revenues in the consolidated statements of operations. Hedging instruments related to funded, uncommitted loans are accounted for at fair value, with changes recognized in revenues in the consolidated statements of operations, along with changes in the fair value of the funded, uncommitted loans. The fair value change related to the hedging instruments generally offsets the fair value change in the uncommitted loans. The net fair value change, which for the years ended September 30, 2019 and 2018 was not significant, is recognized in current earnings. At September 30, 2019, hedging instruments used to mitigate interest rate risk related to uncommitted mortgage loans held for sale and uncommitted IRLCs totaled a notional amount of $1.3 billion. Uncommitted IRLCs totaled a notional amount of approximately $702.7 million and uncommitted mortgage loans held for sale totaled a notional amount of approximately $663.8 million at September 30, 2019.

From time to time, we enter into forward sales of MBS as part of a program to offer below market interest rate financing to our homebuyers in certain markets. At September 30, 2019, we had MBS totaling $111.4 million that did not yet have IRLCs or closed loans created or assigned and recorded a liability of $0.5 million for the fair value of such MBS position. 

The following table sets forth principal cash flows by scheduled maturity, effective weighted average interest rates and estimated fair value of our debt obligations as of September 30, 2019. Because the mortgage repurchase facility is effectively secured by certain mortgage loans held for sale that are typically sold within 60 days, its outstanding balance is included in the most current period presented. The interest rate for our variable rate debt represents the weighted average interest rate in effect at September 30, 2019.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

55

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of D.R. Horton, Inc.

Opinion on the Financial Statements

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheet of D.R. Horton, Inc. and subsidiaries (the Company) as of September 30, 2019, and the related consolidated statements of operations, total equity, and cash flows for the year then ended, and the related notes (collectively referred to as the “consolidated financial statements”). In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company at September 30, 2019, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for the year then ended, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.

We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB), the Company's internal control over financial reporting as of September 30, 2019, based on criteria established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013 framework) and our report dated November 25, 2019 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.

Basis for Opinion

These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’s financial statements based on our audit. We are a public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.

We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement, whether due to error or fraud. Our audit included performing procedures to assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to error or fraud, and performing procedures that respond to those risks. Such procedures included examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. Our audit also included evaluating the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.

Critical Audit Matter

The critical audit matter communicated below is a matter arising from the current period audit of the financial statements that was communicated or required to be communicated to the audit committee and that: (1) relates to accounts or disclosures that are material to the financial statements and (2) involved our especially challenging, subjective or complex judgments. The communication of the critical audit matter does not alter in any way our opinion on the consolidated financial statements, taken as a whole, and we are not, by communicating the critical audit matter below, providing a separate opinion on the critical audit matter or on the account or disclosure to which it relates.

56

Estimation of reserves for construction defect matters

Description of the Matter

At September 30, 2019, the Company’s reserve for legal claims related to construction defect matters was $432.8 million. As explained in Note K to the consolidated financial statements, the Company has established reserves for construction defect matters based on the estimated costs of pending legal claims and the estimated costs of anticipated future legal claims related to previously closed homes, and this liability is included within the accrued expenses and other liabilities account in the consolidated balance sheet. This reserve estimate is subject to a high degree of variability and ongoing revision as the circumstances of individual pending claims and historical data and trends change. Management applies judgment in determining the key assumptions used in calculating the reserve for construction defect matters. 

Auditing the reserve for construction defect matters is complex and especially challenging due to the judgmental nature of the key assumptions related to projections of the frequency of future claims and the costs to resolve claims in consideration of historical claims information. These assumptions are developed by management, are subjective in nature and have a significant effect on the determined amount of the reserve for construction defect matters. Further, the estimated reserve balance is sensitive to changes in these key assumptions.

How We Addressed the Matter in Our Audit

We obtained an understanding, evaluated the design and tested the operating effectiveness of controls over the Company’s process for estimating the reserve for construction defect matters. We tested the Company’s controls that address the risk of material misstatement related to the measurement and valuation of the reserve for construction defect matters, including the key assumptions related to the projections of the frequency and costs of future claims, and the completeness and accuracy of data used in the model developed by management. 

To test the reserve for construction defect matters, our audit procedures included, among others, evaluating the methodology used, the key assumptions and the underlying data used by the Company in developing the reserve estimate. As management utilizes historical trends of frequency of claims incurred and the average cost to resolve claims relative to the types of products and markets where the Company operates in measuring the reserve estimate, we evaluated management’s methodology for determining the frequency and cost of future claims assumptions by comparing these key assumptions to trends observed in historical Company claims data and other available information. In addition, we involved an actuarial specialist to assist with our procedures. Our specialist developed a range of values for the reserve estimate based on independently selected assumptions, which we compared to management’s recorded amount to evaluate management’s estimate. We also performed sensitivity analyses to determine the effect of changes in assumptions, where appropriate. Finally, we reconciled historical data included in the model and performed recalculations to evaluate the completeness and accuracy of the underlying data used by management to determine the estimate.

/s/ Ernst & Young LLP

We have served as the Company’s auditor since 2018.

Fort Worth, Texas

November 25, 2019

57

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of D.R. Horton, Inc.

Opinion on Internal Control over Financial Reporting

We have audited D.R Horton, Inc. and subsidiaries’ internal control over financial reporting as of September 30, 2019, based on criteria established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013 framework) (the COSO criteria). In our opinion, D.R. Horton, Inc. and subsidiaries (the Company) maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of September 30, 2019, based on the COSO criteria.

We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB), the consolidated balance sheet of the Company as of September 30, 2019, the related consolidated statements of operations, total equity, and cash flows for the year then ended, and the related notes and our report dated November 25, 2019 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.

Basis for Opinion

The Company’s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting included in the accompanying Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. We are a public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.

We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects.

Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.

Definition and Limitations of Internal Control Over Financial Reporting

A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

/s/ Ernst & Young LLP

Fort Worth, Texas

November 25, 2019

58

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of D.R. Horton, Inc.

Opinion on the Financial Statements

We have audited the consolidated balance sheet of D.R. Horton, Inc. and its subsidiaries (the “Company”) as of September 30, 2018, and the related consolidated statements of operations, total equity, and cash flows for each of the two years in the period ended September 30, 2018, including the related notes (collectively referred to as the “consolidated financial statements”). In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company as of September 30, 2018, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the two years in the period ended September 30, 2018 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.

Basis for Opinion

These consolidated financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’s consolidated financial statements based on our audits. We are a public accounting firm registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB) and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.

We conducted our audits of these consolidated financial statements in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements are free of material misstatement, whether due to error or fraud.

Our audits included performing procedures to assess the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether due to error or fraud, and performing procedures that respond to those risks. Such procedures included examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated financial statements. Our audits also included evaluating the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the consolidated financial statements. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

Fort Worth, Texas

November 16, 2018

We served as the Company’s auditor from 2008 to 2018.

59

ITEM 8.FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA