ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

ABOUT DOW

Dow combines science and technology to develop innovative solutions that are essential to human progress. Dow has one of the strongest and broadest toolkits in the industry, with robust technology, asset integration, scale and competitive capabilities that enable it to address complex global issues. Dow’s market-driven, industry-leading portfolio of advanced materials, industrial intermediates and plastics deliver a broad range of differentiated technology-based products and solutions to customers in 175 countries in high-growth markets such as packaging, infrastructure and consumer care. The Company's products are manufactured at 164 sites in 35 countries across the globe. In 2018, Dow had annual sales of approximately $60 billion.

In 2018, 36 percent of the Company’s sales were to customers in U.S. & Canada; 30 percent were in Europe, Middle East and Africa ("EMEA"); while the remaining 34 percent were to customers in Asia Pacific and Latin America. 

In 2018, the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries did not operate in countries subject to U.S. economic sanctions and export controls as imposed by the U.S. State Department or in countries designated by the U.S. State Department as state sponsors of terrorism, including Iran, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea (North Korea), Sudan and Syria. The Company has policies and procedures in place designed to ensure that it and its consolidated subsidiaries remain in compliance with applicable U.S. laws and regulations. 

Except as otherwise indicated by the context, the term "Union Carbide" means Union Carbide Corporation, a wholly owned subsidiary of Dow, and "Dow Silicones" means Dow Silicones Corporation (formerly known as Dow Corning Corporation, which changed its name effective as of February 1, 2018), a wholly owned subsidiary of Dow.

OVERVIEW

Effective August 31, 2017, pursuant to the merger of equals transaction contemplated by the Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of December 11, 2015, as amended on March 31, 2017, Dow and E. I. du Pont de Nemours and Company ("DuPont") each merged with subsidiaries of DowDuPont Inc. ("DowDuPont") and, as a result, Dow and DuPont became subsidiaries of DowDuPont (the "Merger"). Following the Merger, Dow and DuPont intend to pursue, subject to certain customary conditions, including, among others, the effectiveness of registration statements filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") and approval by the board of directors of DowDuPont, the separation of the combined company's agriculture, materials science and specialty products businesses through one or more tax-efficient transactions ("Intended Business Separations"). See Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the Merger.

Effective with the Merger, Dow’s business activities are components of its parent company’s business operations. Dow’s business activities, including the assessment of performance and allocation of resources, ultimately are reviewed and managed by DowDuPont. Information used by the chief operating decision maker of Dow relates to the Company in its entirety. Accordingly, there are no separate reportable business segments for the Company under Accounting Standards Codification Topic 280 “Segment Reporting” and the Company’s business results are reported in this Form 10-K as a single operating segment.

As a result of the Merger, DowDuPont owns all of the common stock of Dow. Pursuant to General Instruction I(1)(a) and (b) of Form 10-K “Omission of Information by Certain Wholly-Owned Subsidiaries,” the Company is filing this Form 10-K with a reduced disclosure format. 

17
Intended Business Separations

In furtherance of the Intended Business Separations, Dow and DuPont are engaged in a series of internal reorganization and realignment steps (the “Internal Reorganization”) to realign their businesses into three subgroups: agriculture, materials science and specialty products. DowDuPont has also formed two wholly owned subsidiaries: Dow Holdings Inc. (“DHI”), to serve as a holding company for its materials science business, and Corteva, Inc. (“Corteva”), to serve as a holding company for its agriculture business. Following the separation and distribution of DHI, which is targeted to occur by April 1, 2019, DowDuPont, as the remaining company, which is referred to herein as “New DuPont,” will continue to hold the agriculture and specialty products businesses. New DuPont is then targeted to complete the separation and distribution of Corteva on June 1, 2019, resulting in New DuPont holding the specialty products businesses of DowDuPont. Following the distributions, DowDuPont will be known as DuPont.

As part of the Internal Reorganization, 1) the assets and liabilities of the materials science business will be transferred or conveyed to legal entities that then will be aligned under DHI, 2) the assets and liabilities of the agriculture business will be transferred or conveyed to legal entities that then will be aligned under Corteva, and 3) the assets and liabilities of the specialty products business will be transferred or conveyed to legal entities that then will be aligned with New DuPont. Following the Internal Reorganization, DowDuPont expects to distribute DHI and Corteva through separate, pro rata U.S. federal tax-free spin-offs in which DowDuPont stockholders, at such time, would receive shares of common stock of DHI and of Corteva. 

Additional information is included in the Form 10 registration statements for the separation of DowDuPont's materials science business (filed as Dow Holdings Inc.) filed with the SEC on September 7, 2018, as amended on October 19, 2018 and November 19, 2018, and the agriculture business (filed as Corteva, Inc.) filed with the SEC on October 18, 2018, as amended on December 19, 2018.

Impact From Recently Enacted Tariffs

Certain countries where the Company’s products are manufactured, distributed or sold have recently enacted tariffs on certain products. The Company has analyzed the direct impact from the enacted tariffs and does not expect them to have a material impact on results of operations in 2019. The Company is taking actions to mitigate the impact by leveraging its global asset base to adjust its product and raw material flows.

PRINCIPAL PRODUCT GROUPS

The Company's principal product groups aligned with the materials science business include: Coatings & Performance Monomers, Consumer Solutions, Hydrocarbons & Energy, Industrial Solutions, Packaging and Specialty Plastics, Polyurethanes & CAV and Corporate. The principal product groups aligned with the agriculture business include: Crop Protection and Seed; and those aligned with the specialty products business include: Electronics & Imaging, Industrial Biosciences, Nutrition & Health, Safety & Construction and Transportation & Advanced Polymers.

18
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Net Sales

The following table summarizes sales variances by geographic region from the prior year:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Net sales for 2018 were $60.3 billion, up 9 percent from $55.5 billion in 2017, driven by higher sales volume, reflecting additional capacity from U.S. Gulf Coast growth projects and increased supply from Sadara Chemical Company ("Sadara"), increased local price and the favorable impact of currency. Sales increased in all geographic regions with double-digit gains in Asia Pacific (up 17 percent) and EMEA (up 11 percent). Volume increased 5 percent as increases in Polyurethanes & CAV, Packaging and Specialty Plastics, Industrial Solutions, Hydrocarbons & Energy, Electronics & Imaging, Nutrition & Health and Safety & Construction more than offset declines in Seed, Consumer Solutions, Coatings & Performance Monomers, Industrial Biosciences and Transportation & Advanced Polymers. Volume was flat in Crop Protection. Volume increased in all geographic regions, including a double-digit increase in Asia Pacific (up 15 percent). Local price increased 4 percent, primarily in response to higher feedstock and raw material costs and pricing initiatives. Local price increased in all geographic regions and across all principal product groups, except Packaging and Specialty Plastics and Electronics & Imaging which were flat, with the most notable increases in Consumer Solutions, Polyurethanes & CAV, Hydrocarbons & Energy, Coatings & Performance Monomers and Industrial Solutions. Portfolio & Other decreased sales 1 percent, reflecting the divestiture of the global Ethylene Acrylic Acid copolymers and ionomers business ("EAA Business"), a portion of Dow AgroSciences' corn seed business in Brazil ("DAS Divested Ag Business") and the divestiture of SKC Haas Display Films group of companies. Currency increased sales by 1 percent, driven primarily by EMEA (up 4 percent). 

Net sales for 2017 were $55.5 billion, up 15 percent from $48.2 billion in 2016, primarily reflecting increased local price, higher sales volume and the addition of the Dow Silicones business. Sales increased in all geographic regions with double-digit increases in EMEA (up 20 percent), Asia Pacific (up 18 percent) and U.S. & Canada (up 15 percent). Local price increased 6 percent, with increases in all geographic regions, including a double-digit increase in EMEA (up 10 percent), driven by broad-based pricing actions as well as higher feedstock and raw material prices. Local price increased across most principal product groups with the most notable increases in Hydrocarbons & Energy, Polyurethanes & CAV, Coatings & Performance Monomers, Packaging and Specialty Plastics, Industrial Solutions and Consumer Solutions. Local price was flat in Safety & Construction and Transportation & Advanced Polymers and declined in Crop Protection, Electronics & Imaging and Industrial Biosciences. Volume increased 5 percent, with increases across all principal product groups, except Seed, with notable increases reported in Hydrocarbons & Energy, Polyurethanes & CAV, Packaging and Specialty Plastics, Electronics & Imaging and Industrial Solutions. Volume was flat in Crop Protection. Volume increased in all geographic regions, except Latin America (down 1 percent). Portfolio & Other increased 

19
sales 4 percent, primarily reflecting the addition of the Dow Silicones business, partially offset by divestitures, including the SKC Haas Display Films group of companies, the EAA Business and the DAS Divested Ag Business.

Cost of Sales

Cost of sales ("COS") was $47.7 billion in 2018, up $4.1 billion from $43.6 billion in 2017. COS increased in 2018 primarily due to increased sales volume, which reflected additional capacity from U.S. Gulf Coast growth projects and increased supply from Sadara, higher feedstock and other raw material costs and increased planned maintenance turnaround costs which more than offset lower commissioning expenses related to U.S. Gulf Coast growth projects and cost synergies. COS as a percentage of sales was 79.1 percent in 2018 compared with 78.6 percent in 2017.

COS was $43.6 billion in 2017, up $5.9 billion from $37.7 billion in 2016, primarily due to increased sales volume, higher feedstock, energy and other raw material costs, higher commissioning expenses related to U.S. Gulf Coast growth projects, and the addition of the Dow Silicones business. COS as a percentage of sales was 78.6 percent in 2017 compared with 78.2 percent in 2016. See Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the Dow Silicones ownership restructure.

Personnel Count

The Company permanently employed approximately 54,000 people at December 31, 2018 and 2017, down from approximately 56,000 people at December 31, 2016, primarily due to the Company's restructuring programs.

Research and Development Expenses

Research and development (“R&D”) expenses were $1,536 million in 2018, compared with $1,648 million in 2017 and $1,593 million in 2016. In 2018, R&D expenses decreased primarily due to cost synergies and lower performance-based compensation costs. In 2017, R&D expenses increased primarily due to the addition of the Dow Silicones business.

Selling, General and Administrative Expenses

Selling, general and administrative (“SG&A”) expenses were $2,846 million in 2018, compared with $2,920 million in 2017 and $2,953 million in 2016. In 2018, SG&A expenses decreased primarily due to cost synergies and lower performance-based compensation costs. In 2017, SG&A expenses decreased as cost reduction initiatives and reduced litigation expenses, as a result of the favorable impact from the recovery of costs related to the Nova Chemicals Corporation ("Nova") patent infringement award, more than offset higher spending from the addition of the Dow Silicones business. See Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the Nova award.

Amortization of Intangibles

Amortization of intangibles was $622 million in 2018, essentially flat compared with $624 million in 2017. Amortization of intangibles in 2017 increased from $544 million in 2016, primarily due to the addition of the Dow Silicones business. See Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on intangible assets.

Restructuring, Goodwill Impairment and Asset Related Charges - Net 

DowDuPont Agriculture Division Restructuring Program

During the fourth quarter of 2018 and in connection with the ongoing integration activities, DowDuPont approved restructuring actions to simplify and optimize certain organizational structures within the Agriculture division in preparation for its intended separation as a standalone company ("Agriculture Division Program"). As a result of these actions, the Company expects to record total pretax restructuring charges of $31 million, comprised of $28 million of severance and related benefit costs and $3 million of asset write-downs and write-offs. For the year ended December 31, 2018, the Company recorded pretax restructuring charges of $25 million, consisting of severance and related benefit costs of $24 million and asset write-downs and write-offs of $1 million. The Company expects actions related to the Agriculture Division Program to be substantially complete by mid 2019.

DowDuPont Cost Synergy Program

In September and November 2017, DowDuPont approved post-merger restructuring actions under the DowDuPont Cost Synergy Program (the "Synergy Program") which is designed to integrate and optimize the organization following the Merger and in preparation for the Intended Business Separations. The Company expects to record total pretax restructuring charges of approximately $1.3 billion, which included initial estimates of approximately $525 million to $575 million of severance and related benefit costs; $400 million to $440 million of asset write-downs and write-offs, and $290 million to $310 million of costs associated with exit and disposal activities.

As a result of the Synergy Program, the Company recorded pretax restructuring charges of $687 million in 2017, consisting of severance and related benefit costs of $357 million, asset write-downs and write-offs of $287 million and costs associated with exit and disposal activities of $43 million. For the year ended December 31, 2018, the Company recorded pretax restructuring charges of $551 million, consisting of severance and related benefit costs of $204 million, asset write-downs and write-offs of 

20
$226 million and costs associated with exit and disposal activities of $121 million. The Company expects to record additional restructuring charges during 2019 and substantially complete the Synergy Program by the end of 2019.

2016 Restructuring

On June 27, 2016, Dow's Board of Directors approved a restructuring plan that incorporated actions related to the ownership restructure of Dow Silicones. These actions, aligned with Dow’s value growth and synergy targets, resulted in a global workforce reduction of approximately 2,500 positions, with most of these positions resulting from synergies related to the ownership restructure of Dow Silicones. As a result of these actions, the Company recorded pretax restructuring charges of $449 million in the second quarter of 2016, consisting of severance and related benefit costs of $268 million, asset write-downs and write-offs of $153 million and costs associated with exit and disposal activities of $28 million. 

In 2017, the Company recorded a favorable adjustment to the 2016 restructuring charge related to costs associated with exit and disposal activities of $7 million. 

In 2018, the Company recorded a favorable adjustment to the 2016 restructuring charge related to severance and related benefit costs of $8 million and an unfavorable adjustment to costs associated with exit and disposal activities of $14 million. The 2016 restructuring activities were substantially complete at June 30, 2018, with remaining liabilities for severance and related benefit costs and costs associated with exit and disposal activities to be settled over time. See Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for details on the Company's restructuring activities.

Goodwill Impairment

Upon completion of the goodwill impairment testing in the fourth quarter of 2017, the Company determined the fair value of the Coatings & Performance Monomers reporting unit was lower than its carrying amount. As a result, the Company recorded an impairment charge of $1,491 million in the fourth quarter of 2017. There were no impairment charges in 2016 or 2018. See Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the impairment charge. 

Asset Related Charges

2018 Charges

In 2018, the Company recognized an additional pretax impairment charge of $34 million related primarily to capital additions made to the biopolymers manufacturing facility in Santa Vitoria, Minas Gerais, Brazil, which was impaired in 2017.

2017 Charges

In 2017, the Company recognized a $622 million pretax impairment charge related to a biopolymers manufacturing facility in Santa Vitoria, Minas Gerais, Brazil. The Company determined it would not pursue an expansion of the facility’s ethanol mill into downstream derivative products, primarily as a result of cheaper ethane-based production as well as the Company’s new assets coming online on the U.S. Gulf Coast which can be used to meet growing market demands in Brazil. As a result of this decision, cash flow analysis indicated the carrying amount of the impacted assets was not recoverable. 

The Company also recognized other pretax impairment charges of $317 million in the fourth quarter of 2017, including charges related to manufacturing assets of $230 million, an equity method investment of $81 million and other assets of $6 million. 

2016 Charges 

In 2016, the Company recognized a $143 million pretax impairment charge related to its equity interest in AgroFresh Solutions, Inc. (“AFSI”) due to a decline in the market value of AFSI. See Notes 7, 12, 22 and 23 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on asset related charges.

Integration and Separation Costs

Integration and separation costs, which reflect costs related to the Merger and the ownership restructure of Dow Silicones (through May 31, 2018), as well as post-Merger integration and Intended Business Separation activities, were $1,044 million in 2018, $786 million in 2017 and $349 million in 2016. In 2018, integration and separation costs ramped up as a result of post-merger integration and Intended Business Separation activities.

Asbestos-Related Charge

In 2016, the Company and Union Carbide, a wholly owned subsidiary, elected to change the method of accounting for asbestos-related defense and processing costs from expensing as incurred to estimating and accruing a liability. As a result of this accounting policy change, the Company recorded a pretax charge of $1,009 million for asbestos-related defense costs through the terminal year of 2049. The Company also recorded a pretax charge of $104 million to increase the asbestos-related liability for pending and future claims through the terminal year of 2049. There was no adjustment to the asbestos-related liability for pending and 

21
future claims and defense and processing costs in 2017 or 2018. See Notes 1 and 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on asbestos-related matters.

Equity in Earnings of Nonconsolidated Affiliates

Dow’s share of the earnings of nonconsolidated affiliates in 2018 was $950 million, compared with $762 million in 2017 and $442 million in 2016. In 2018, equity earnings increased as higher earnings from the Kuwait joint ventures, lower equity losses from Sadara and higher earnings from the HSC Group, which included settlements with a customer related to long-term polysilicon sales agreements, were partially offset by lower equity earnings from the Thai joint ventures.

In 2017, equity earnings increased as lower equity losses from Sadara and higher equity earnings from the Kuwait joint ventures and the HSC Group, which included settlements with a customer related to long-term polysilicon sales agreements, were partially offset by the impact of the Dow Silicones ownership restructure and lower equity earnings from the Thai joint ventures. 

Sundry Income (Expense) - Net

Sundry income (expense) – net includes a variety of income and expense items such as foreign currency exchange gains and losses, interest income, dividends from investments, gains and losses on sales of investments and assets, non-operating pension and other postretirement benefit plan credits or costs, and certain litigation matters. Sundry income (expense) - net for 2018 was income of $181 million, compared with income of $195 million in 2017 and income of $1,486 million in 2016.

In 2018, sundry income (expense) - net included non-operating pension and other postretirement benefit plan credits, interest income and gains on sales of assets and investments which more than offset foreign currency exchange losses, a loss of $54 million on the early extinguishment of debt and a loss of $47 million for post-closing adjustments related to the Dow Silicones ownership restructure. See Notes 8 and 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.

In 2017, sundry income (expense) - net included a $635 million gain on the divestiture of the DAS Divested Ag Business, a $227 million gain on the divestiture of the EAA Business, a $137 million gain related to the Nova patent infringement matter, interest income and gains on sales of assets and investments. These gains more than offset $682 million of non-operating pension and other postretirement benefit costs, primarily related to a settlement charge for a U.S. non-qualified pension plan, a $469 million loss related to the Bayer CropScience arbitration matter and foreign currency exchange losses. See Notes 1, 2, 6, 8, 16 and 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.

In 2016, sundry income (expense) - net included a $2,445 million gain related to the Dow Silicones ownership restructure, a $27 million favorable adjustment related to a decrease in Dow Silicone's implant liability, interest income and gains on sales of assets and investments. These gains more than offset a $1,235 million loss related to the Company's settlement of the urethane matters class action lawsuit and the opt-out cases litigation, $41 million of costs associated with transactions and productivity actions, $26 million of charges for post-closing adjustments related to divestitures and foreign currency exchange losses. See Notes 5, 8 and 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.

Interest Expense and Amortization of Debt Discount

Interest expense and amortization of debt discount was $1,118 million in 2018, up from $976 million in 2017, primarily reflecting the effect of lower capitalized interest as a result of decreased capital spending. Interest expense and amortization of debt discount in 2017 was up from $858 million in 2016, primarily reflecting the effect of the long-term debt assumed in the Dow Silicones ownership restructure. See Liquidity and Capital Resources in Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Notes 11 and 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information related to debt financing activity.

Provision for Income Taxes

The Company's effective tax rate fluctuates based on, among other factors, where income is earned, the level of income relative to tax attributes and the level of equity earnings, since most earnings from the Company's equity method investments are taxed at the joint venture level. The underlying factors affecting the Company's overall tax rate are summarized in Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

On December 22, 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (“The Act”) was enacted. The Act reduces the U.S. federal corporate income tax rate from 35 percent to 21 percent, requires companies to pay a one-time transition tax on earnings of certain foreign subsidiaries that were previously deferred, creates new provisions related to foreign sourced earnings, eliminates the domestic manufacturing deduction and moves to a hybrid territorial system. At December 31, 2017, the Company had not completed its accounting for the tax effects of The Act; however, the Company made a reasonable estimate of the effects on its existing deferred tax balances and the one-time transition tax. In accordance with Staff Accounting Bulletin 118 ("SAB 118"), income tax effects of The Act were 

22
refined upon obtaining, preparing, and analyzing additional information during the measurement period. At December 31, 2018, the Company had completed its accounting for the tax effects of The Act. 

The provision for income taxes was $1,285 million in 2018, compared with $2,204 million in 2017 and $9 million in 2016. The effective tax rate for 2018 was favorably impacted by the reduced U.S. federal corporate income tax rate as a result of The Act and benefits related to the issuance of stock-based compensation and unfavorably impacted by non-deductible restructuring costs and increases in statutory income in Latin America and Canada due to local currency devaluations. These factors resulted in an effective tax rate of 21.7 percent in 2018.

The tax rate for 2017 was unfavorably impacted by the enactment of The Act, the impairment of goodwill for which there was no corresponding tax deduction, charges related to tax attributes in the United States and Germany as a result of the Merger and certain non-deductible costs associated with the Merger. The tax rate was favorably impacted by the geographic mix of earnings, and the adoption of Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") 2016-09, "Compensation - Stock Compensation (Topic 718): Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting," which resulted in the recognition of excess tax benefits related to the issuance of stock-based compensation in the provision for income taxes. These factors resulted in an effective tax rate of 78.7 percent for 2017.

The tax rate for 2016 was favorably impacted by the non-taxable gain on the Dow Silicones ownership restructure and a tax benefit on the reassessment of a deferred tax liability related to the basis difference in the Company’s investment in Dow Silicones. The tax rate was also favorably impacted by the geographic mix of earnings, the availability of foreign tax credits, the deductibility of the urethane matters class action lawsuit and opt-out cases settlements, and the asbestos-related charge. A reduction in equity earnings and non-deductible costs associated with transactions and productivity actions unfavorably impacted the tax rate. These factors resulted in an effective tax rate of 0.2 percent for 2016.

Net Income Attributable to Noncontrolling Interests

Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests was $134 million in 2018, $129 million in 2017 and $86 million in 2016. Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests increased in 2018 compared with 2017, primarily due to the sale of the Company's ownership interests in the SKC Haas Display Films group of companies. Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests increased in 2017 compared with 2016, primarily due to higher earnings from Dow Silicones' consolidated joint ventures and improved results from a cogeneration facility in Brazil. See Notes 18 and 23 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. 

Preferred Stock Dividends

On December 30, 2016, the Company converted all outstanding shares of its Cumulative Convertible Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series A ("Preferred Stock") into shares of the Company's common stock. As a result of this conversion, no shares of Preferred Stock are issued or outstanding. On January 6, 2017, the Company filed an amendment to its Restated Certificate of Incorporation by way of a certificate of elimination with the Secretary of State of Delaware eliminating this series of preferred stock. Preferred Stock dividends of $340 million were recognized in 2016. See Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.

Net Income Available for the Common Stockholder

Net income available for the common stockholder was $4,499 million in 2018, compared with $466 million in 2017 and $3,978 million in 2016. Effective with the Merger, Dow no longer has publicly traded common stock. Dow's common shares are owned solely by its parent company, DowDuPont.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

The Company had cash and cash equivalents of $2,669 million at December 31, 2018 and $6,188 million at December 31, 2017, of which $1,963 million at December 31, 2018 and $4,318 million at December 31, 2017, was held by subsidiaries in foreign countries, including United States territories. The decrease in cash and cash equivalents held by subsidiaries in foreign countries is due to repatriation activities. For each of its foreign subsidiaries, the Company makes an assertion regarding the amount of earnings intended for permanent reinvestment, with the balance available to be repatriated to the United States. 

The Company has completed its evaluation of the impact of The Act on its permanent reinvestment assertion. The Act required companies to pay a one-time transition tax on earnings of foreign subsidiaries, a majority of which were previously considered permanently reinvested by the Company. A tax liability was accrued for the estimated U.S. federal tax on all unrepatriated earnings at December 31, 2017, with further refinement during the 2018 measurement period, in accordance with The Act. The cumulative effect at December 31, 2018, was a charge of $780 million to "Provision for income taxes" in the consolidated statements of income, of which the full amount was covered by tax attributes (see Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further details of The Act). The cash held by foreign subsidiaries for permanent reinvestment is generally used to finance the subsidiaries' 

23
operational activities and future foreign investments. The Company has the ability to repatriate additional funds to the U.S., which could result in an adjustment to the tax liability for foreign withholding taxes, foreign and/or U.S. state income taxes and the impact of foreign currency movements. At December 31, 2018, management believed that sufficient liquidity was available in the United States. The Company has and expects to continue repatriating certain funds from its non-U.S. subsidiaries that are not needed to finance local operations or separation activities; however, these particular repatriation activities have not and are not expected to result in a significant incremental tax liability to the Company.

The Company’s cash flows from operating, investing and financing activities, as reflected in the consolidated statements of cash flows, are summarized in the following table:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Cash Flows from Operating Activities

Cash provided by operating activities increased in 2018 compared with 2017, primarily due to the change in the Company's accounts receivable securitization facilities discussed on the following page, a decrease in cash used for working capital requirements and higher cash earnings, which were partially offset by the absence of certain cash receipts in 2017. Cash used for operating activities increased in 2017 compared with 2016, primarily due to an increase in cash used for working capital requirements, higher pension contributions resulting from a change in control provision in a non-qualified U.S. pension plan, higher integration and separation costs and a cash payment related to the Bayer CropScience arbitration matter, partially offset by a cash receipt related to the Nova patent infringement award and advanced payments from customers for long-term ethylene supply agreements.

Cash Flows from Investing Activities

Cash used for investing activities in 2018 was primarily for capital expenditures and purchases of investments, which were partially offset by proceeds from sales and maturities of investments and proceeds from interests in trade accounts receivable conduits. Cash provided by investing activities in 2017 was primarily from proceeds from interests in trade accounts receivable conduits, proceeds from sales and maturities of investments and proceeds from divestitures, including the divestitures of the DAS Divested Ag Business and the EAA Business, which were partially offset by capital expenditures, purchases of investments and investments in and loans to nonconsolidated affiliates, primarily with Sadara. Cash provided by investing activities in 2016 was primarily from proceeds from interests in trade accounts receivable conduits and net cash acquired in the Dow Silicones ownership restructure, which were partially offset by capital expenditures and investments in and loans to nonconsolidated affiliates, primarily with Sadara.

In 2018, the Company entered into a shareholder loan reduction agreement with Sadara and converted $312 million of the remaining loan and accrued interest balance into equity. The Company's note receivable from Sadara was zero at December 31, 2018. In addition, in the fourth quarter of 2018, the Company waived $70 million of accounts receivable with Sadara, which was converted into equity. In 2017, the Company loaned $735 million to Sadara and converted $718 million into equity, and had a note receivable from Sadara of $275 million at December 31, 2017. The Company expects to loan up to $500 million to Sadara in 2019. See Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.

24
The Company's capital expenditures, including capital expenditures of consolidated variable interest entities, were $2,538 million in 2018, $3,144 million in 2017 and $3,804 million in 2016. The Company expects capital spending in 2019 to be approximately $2.5 billion, below depreciation and amortization expense and inclusive of capital spending for targeted cost synergy and business separation projects.

Capital spending in 2018, 2017 and 2016 included spending related to certain U.S. Gulf Coast investment projects including: a world-scale ethylene production facility and an ELITE™ Enhanced Polyethylene production facility, both of which commenced operations in 2017; a NORDEL™ Metallocene EPDM production facility, a Low Density Polyethylene ("LDPE") production facility, a High Melt Index ("HMI") AFFINITY™ polymer production facility and debottlenecking of an existing bi-modal gas phase polyethylene production facility, all of which commenced operations in 2018. 

Cash Flows from Financing Activities

Cash used for financing activities in 2018 included dividends paid to DowDuPont and payments of long-term debt, which were partially offset by proceeds from issuance of long-term debt. Cash used for financing activities in 2017 included dividends paid to stockholders through the close of the Merger, a dividend paid to DowDuPont in the fourth quarter of 2017, and payments of long-term debt. Cash used for financing activities in 2016 included dividends paid to stockholders (including the accelerated payment of the fourth quarter preferred dividend), repurchases of common stock and payments of long-term debt. See Notes 15 and 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information related to the issuance and retirement of debt and the Company's share repurchases and dividends.

Reclassification of Prior Year Amounts Related to Accounts Receivable Securitization

In connection with the review and implementation of ASU 2016-15 and additional interpretive guidance from the SEC related to the required method for calculating the cash received from beneficial interests in trade accounts receivable conduits, the Company changed the prior year presentation and amount of proceeds from interests in trade accounts receivable conduits. Changes related to the calculation and presentation of proceeds from interests in trade accounts receivable conduits resulted in a reclassification from cash used for operating activities to cash provided by investing activities of $9,462 million in 2017 and $8,551 million in 2016. In the fourth quarter of 2017, the Company suspended further sales of trade accounts receivable through these facilities and began reducing outstanding balances through collections of trade accounts receivable previously sold to such conduits. In September and October 2018, the North American and European facilities, respectively, were amended and the terms of the agreements changed from off-balance sheet arrangements to secured borrowing arrangements.

The following table reconciles cash flows from operating activities to a non-GAAP measure regarding cash flows from operating activities excluding the impact of ASU 2016-15 and related interpretive guidance for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016. Management believes this non-GAAP financial measure is relevant and meaningful as it presents cash flows from operating activities inclusive of all trade accounts receivable collection activity, which the Company utilizes in support of its operating activities.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

25
Liquidity & Financial Flexibility 

The Company’s primary source of incremental liquidity is cash flows from operating activities. The generation of cash from operations and the Company's ability to access debt markets is expected to meet the Company’s cash requirements for working capital, capital expenditures, debt maturities, contributions to pension plans, dividend distributions to its parent company and other needs. In addition to cash from operating activities, the Company’s current liquidity sources also include U.S. and Euromarket commercial paper, committed credit facilities and other debt markets. Additional details on sources of liquidity are as follows:

Commercial Paper

Dow issues promissory notes under its U.S. and Euromarket commercial paper programs. The Company had $10 million of commercial paper outstanding at December 31, 2018 ($231 million at December 31, 2017). The Company maintains access to the commercial paper market at competitive rates. Amounts outstanding under the Company's commercial paper programs during the period may be greater, or less than, the amount reported at the end of the period. Subsequent to December 31, 2018, the Company issued approximately $1.6 billion of commercial paper.

Committed Credit Facilities

In the event Dow has short-term liquidity needs and is unable to issue commercial paper for any reason, Dow has the ability to access liquidity through its committed and available credit facilities. At December 31, 2018, the Company had total committed credit facilities of $12.1 billion and available credit facilities of $7.6 billion. See Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on committed and available credit facilities.

Uncommitted Credit Facilities and Outstanding Letters of Credit

The Company had uncommitted credit facilities in the form of unused bank credit lines of approximately $3,480 million at December 31, 2018. These lines can be used to support short-term liquidity needs and general purposes, including letters of credit. Outstanding letters of credit were $439 million at December 31, 2018 ($433 million at December 31, 2017). These letters of credit support commitments made in the ordinary course of business.

Debt

As Dow continues to maintain its strong balance sheet and financial flexibility, management is focused on net debt (a non-GAAP financial measure), as Dow believes this is the best representation of the Company’s financial leverage at this point in time. As shown in the following table, net debt is equal to total gross debt minus "Cash and cash equivalents" and "Marketable securities." At December 31, 2018, net debt as a percent of total capitalization increased to 38.0 percent, compared with 35.4 percent at December 31, 2017, primarily due to a decrease in cash and cash equivalents, which more than offset a decrease in gross debt.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

In the fourth quarter of 2018, the Company issued $2.0 billion of senior unsecured notes in an offering under Rule 144A of the Securities Act of 1933, which included $500 million due 2025; $600 million due 2028 and $900 million due 2048. See Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the interest related to these notes. In addition, the Company tendered and redeemed $2.1 billion of notes issued with maturity in 2019. In addition, DHI, the intended parent of the Company after the Intended Business Separations, is obligated, should it issue a guarantee in respect of outstanding or committed indebtedness under Dow’s Five Year Competitive Advance and Revolving Credit Facility Agreement (“Revolving Credit Agreement”), dated October 30, 2018, (as described below), to enter into a supplemental indenture with the Company and the trustee under the existing base indenture governing certain notes issued by the Company under which it will guarantee all outstanding debt securities and all amounts due under the existing base indenture. 

26
Dow’s public debt instruments and primary, private credit agreements contain, among other provisions, certain customary restrictive covenant and default provisions. The Company’s most significant debt covenant with regard to its financial position is the obligation to maintain the ratio of the Company’s consolidated indebtedness to consolidated capitalization at no greater than 0.65 to 1.00 at any time the aggregate outstanding amount of loans under the Revolving Credit Agreement equals or exceeds $500 million. The ratio of the Company’s consolidated indebtedness to consolidated capitalization as defined in the Revolving Credit Agreement was 0.41 to 1.00 at December 31, 2018. Management believes the Company was in compliance with all of its covenants and default provisions at December 31, 2018. See Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information related to the Company’s notes payable and long-term debt activity and information on Dow’s covenants and default provisions.

On October 30, 2018, Dow terminated and replaced its $5.0 billion Revolving Credit Agreement, under substantially similar terms and conditions. The new Revolving Credit Agreement has a maturity date in October 2023. The Revolving Credit Agreement includes an event of default which would be triggered in the event DHI incurs or guarantees third party indebtedness for borrowed money in excess of $250 million or engages in any material business activity or directly owns any material assets, in each case, subject to certain conditions and exceptions. DHI may, at its option, cure the event of default by delivering an unconditional and irrevocable guaranty to the administrative agent within thirty days of the event or events giving rise to such event of default.

Management expects that the Company will continue to have sufficient liquidity and financial flexibility to meet all of its business obligations.

Credit Ratings

At January 31, 2019, the Company's credit ratings were as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Downgrades in the Company’s credit ratings will increase borrowing costs on certain indentures and could impact the Company’s ability to access debt capital markets.

Dividends

Effective with the Merger, Dow no longer has publicly traded common stock. Dow's common shares are owned solely by its parent company, DowDuPont. The Company has committed to fund a portion of DowDuPont's share repurchases, dividends paid to common stockholders and governance expenses. Funding is accomplished through intercompany loans. On a quarterly basis, the Company’s Board of Directors review and determine a dividend distribution to DowDuPont to settle the intercompany loans. The dividend distribution considers the level of the Company’s earnings and cash flows and the outstanding intercompany loan balances. For the year ended December 31, 2018, the Company declared and paid dividends to DowDuPont of $3,711 million ($1,056 million for the year ended December 31, 2017). See Note 24 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. 

Pre-Merger dividends paid to common stockholders are as follows: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

1.Dividends paid to preferred shareholders in 2016 includes payment of the fourth quarter 2016 declared dividend.

Share Repurchase Program

Effective with the Merger, Dow no longer has publicly traded common stock and therefore has no ongoing share repurchase program.

27
Pension Plans 

The Company has defined benefit pension plans in the United States and a number of other countries. In 2018, 2017 and 2016, the Company contributed $1,656 million, $1,676 million and $629 million to its pension plans, respectively, including contributions to fund benefit payments for its non-qualified pension plans. In the third quarter of 2018, the Company made a $1,100 million discretionary contribution to its principal U.S. pension plan, which is included in the 2018 contribution amount above. The discretionary contribution was primarily based on the Company's funding policy, which permits contributions to defined benefit pension plans when economics encourage funding, and reflected considerations relating to tax deductibility and capital structure. 

The provisions of a U.S. non-qualified pension plan require the payment of plan obligations to certain participants upon a change in control of the Company, which occurred at the time of the Merger. Certain participants could elect to receive a lump-sum payment or direct the Company to purchase an annuity on their behalf using the after-tax proceeds of the lump sum. In the fourth quarter of 2017, the Company paid $940 million to plan participants and $230 million to an insurance company for the purchase of annuities, which were included in "Pension contributions" in the consolidated statements of cash flows. The Company also paid $205 million for income and payroll taxes for participants electing the annuity option. The Company recorded a settlement charge of $687 million associated with the payout in the fourth quarter of 2017. 

Dow expects to contribute approximately $240 million to its pension plans in 2019. See Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information concerning the Company’s pension plans.

Restructuring

The activities related to the DowDuPont Agriculture Division Program and the Synergy Program are expected to result in additional cash expenditures of approximately $480 million to $510 million, primarily through the end of 2019, consisting of severance and related benefit costs and costs associated with exit and disposal activities, including environmental remediation (see Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements). The Company expects to incur additional costs in the future related to its restructuring activities. Future costs are expected to include demolition costs related to closed facilities and restructuring plan implementation costs; these costs will be recognized as incurred. The Company also expects to incur additional employee-related costs, including involuntary termination benefits, related to its other optimization activities. These costs cannot be reasonably estimated at this time.

Integration and Separation Costs

Integration and separation costs, which reflect costs related to the Merger, post-Merger integration and Intended Business Separation activities and costs related to the ownership restructure of Dow Silicones, were $1,044 million in 2018, $786 million in 2017 and $349 million in 2016. Integration and separation costs related to post-Merger integration and Intended Business Separation activities are expected to continue to be significant in 2019.

Contractual Obligations

The following table summarizes the Company’s contractual obligations, commercial commitments and expected cash requirements for interest at December 31, 2018. Additional information related to these obligations can be found in Notes 15, 16, and 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

2.Cash requirements for interest on long-term debt was calculated using current interest rates at December 31, 2018, and includes $4,915 million of various floating rate notes.

3.Includes outstanding purchase orders and other commitments greater than $1 million obtained through a survey conducted within the Company.

4.Includes liabilities related to asbestos litigation, environmental remediation, legal settlements and other noncurrent liabilities. The table excludes uncertain tax positions due to uncertainties in the timing of the effective settlement of tax positions with the respective taxing authorities and deferred tax liabilities as it is impractical to determine whether there will be a cash impact related to these liabilities. The table also excludes deferred revenue as it does not represent future cash requirements arising from contractual payment obligations.

28
The Company expects to meet its contractual obligations through its normal sources of liquidity and believes it has the financial resources to satisfy these contractual obligations.

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

Off-balance sheet arrangements are obligations the Company has with nonconsolidated entities related to transactions, agreements or other contractual arrangements. The Company holds variable interests in joint ventures accounted for under the equity method of accounting. The Company is not the primary beneficiary of these joint ventures and therefore is not required to consolidate these entities (see Note 23 to the Consolidated Financial Statements). In addition, see Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding the transfer of financial assets.

Guarantees arise during the ordinary course of business from relationships with customers and nonconsolidated affiliates when the Company undertakes an obligation to guarantee the performance of others if specific triggering events occur. The Company had outstanding guarantees at December 31, 2018 of $5,408 million, compared with $5,663 million at December 31, 2017. Additional information related to guarantees can be found in the “Guarantees” section of Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Fair Value Measurements 

See Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information related to fair value measurements of pension and other postretirement benefit plan assets; see Note 21 for information related to other-than-temporary impairments; and, see Note 22 for additional information concerning fair value measurements.

OTHER MATTERS

Recent Accounting Guidance

See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a summary of recent accounting guidance.

Critical Accounting Estimates

The preparation of financial statements and related disclosures in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“U.S. GAAP”) requires management to make judgments, assumptions and estimates that affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements describes the significant accounting policies and methods used in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements. Following are the Company’s accounting policies impacted by judgments, assumptions and estimates:

Litigation 

The Company is subject to legal proceedings and claims arising out of the normal course of business including product liability, patent infringement, employment matters, governmental tax and regulation disputes, contract and commercial litigation and other actions. The Company routinely assesses the legal and factual circumstances of each matter, the likelihood of any adverse outcomes to these matters, as well as ranges of probable losses. A determination of the amount of the reserves required, if any, for these contingencies is made after thoughtful analysis of each known claim. Dow has an active risk management program consisting of numerous insurance policies secured from many carriers covering various timeframes. These policies may provide coverage that could be utilized to minimize the financial impact, if any, of certain contingencies. The required reserves may change in the future due to new developments in each matter. For further discussion, see Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Asbestos-Related Matters of Union Carbide Corporation

Union Carbide is and has been involved in a large number of asbestos-related suits filed primarily in state courts during the past four decades. These suits principally allege personal injury resulting from exposure to asbestos-containing products and frequently seek both actual and punitive damages. The alleged claims primarily relate to products that Union Carbide sold in the past, alleged exposure to asbestos-containing products located on Union Carbide’s premises, and Union Carbide’s responsibility for asbestos suits filed against a former Union Carbide subsidiary, Amchem Products, Inc. Each year, Ankura Consulting Group, LLC ("Ankura") performs a review for Union Carbide based upon historical asbestos claims, resolution and historical defense spending. Union Carbide compares current asbestos claim, resolution and defense spending activity to the results of the most recent Ankura study at each balance sheet date to determine whether the asbestos-related liability continues to be appropriate.

In 2016, the Company elected to change its method of accounting for Union Carbide's asbestos-related defense and processing costs from expensing as incurred to estimating and accruing a liability. In addition to performing their annual review of pending and future asbestos claim resolution activity, Ankura also performed a review of Union Carbide's asbestos-related defense and processing costs to determine a reasonable estimate of future defense and processing costs to be included in the asbestos-related liability, through the terminal year of 2049.

29
For additional information, see Part I, Item 3. Legal Proceedings; Asbestos-Related Matters of Union Carbide Corporation in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations; and Notes 1 and 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Environmental Matters 

The Company determines the costs of environmental remediation of its facilities and formerly owned facilities based on evaluations of current law and existing technologies. Inherent uncertainties exist in such evaluations primarily due to unknown environmental conditions, changing governmental regulations and legal standards regarding liability, and emerging remediation technologies. The recorded liabilities are adjusted periodically as remediation efforts progress, or as additional technical or legal information becomes available. At December 31, 2018, the Company had accrued obligations of $820 million for probable environmental remediation and restoration costs, including $156 million for the remediation of Superfund sites. This is management’s best estimate of the costs for remediation and restoration with respect to environmental matters for which the Company has accrued liabilities, although it is reasonably possible that the ultimate cost with respect to these particular matters could range up to approximately two times that amount. For further discussion, see Environmental Matters in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Notes 1 and 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Goodwill 

The Company performs goodwill impairment testing at the reporting unit level. Reporting units are the level at which discrete financial information is available and reviewed by business management on a regular basis. The Company tests goodwill for impairment annually (in the fourth quarter), or more frequently when events or changes in circumstances indicate it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit has declined below its carrying value. Goodwill is evaluated for impairment using qualitative and/or quantitative testing procedures. At December 31, 2018, the Company has defined 12 reporting units; goodwill is carried by all of these reporting units. 

The Company has the option to first perform qualitative testing to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value. Qualitative factors assessed at the Company level include, but are not limited to, GDP growth rates, long-term hydrocarbon and energy prices, equity and credit market activity, discount rates, foreign exchange rates and overall financial performance. Qualitative factors assessed at the reporting unit level include, but are not limited to, changes in industry and market structure, competitive environments, planned capacity and new product launches, cost factors such as raw material prices, and financial performance of the reporting unit. If the Company chooses not to complete a qualitative assessment for a given reporting unit or if the initial assessment indicates that it is more likely than not that the estimated fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value, additional quantitative testing is required.

Quantitative testing requires the fair value of the reporting unit to be compared with its carrying value. If the reporting unit's carrying value exceeds its fair value, an impairment charge is recognized for the difference. The Company utilizes a discounted cash flow methodology to calculate the fair value of its reporting units. This valuation technique has been selected by management as the most meaningful valuation method due to the limited number of market comparables for the Company's reporting units. However, where market comparables are available, the Company includes EBIT/EBITDA multiples as part of the reporting unit valuation analysis. The discounted cash flow valuations are completed using the following key assumptions: projected revenue growth rates or compounded annual growth rates, discount rates, tax rates, terminal values, currency exchange rates, and forecasted long-term hydrocarbon and energy prices, by geographic area and by year, which include the Company's key feedstocks as well as natural gas and crude oil (due to its correlation to naphtha). Currency exchange rates and long-term hydrocarbon and energy prices are established for the Company as a whole and applied consistently to all reporting units, while revenue growth rates, discount rates and tax rates are established by reporting unit to account for differences in business fundamentals and industry risk.

2018 Goodwill Impairment Testing 

In 2018, there were no events or changes in circumstances identified that warranted interim goodwill impairment testing. In the fourth quarter of 2018, quantitative testing was performed on two reporting units and a qualitative assessment was performed for the remaining reporting units. For the quantitative testing, the fair values exceeded carrying values for both reporting units. Fair values exceeded carrying value in all scenarios where sensitivity analysis was performed, and the differences between fair value and carrying value of each reporting unit were determined to be reasonable. For the qualitative assessments, management considered the factors at both the Company level and the reporting unit level. Based on the qualitative assessment, management concluded it is not more likely than not that the fair value of the reporting unit is less than the carrying value of the reporting unit. 

30
Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits

The amounts recognized in the consolidated financial statements related to pension and other postretirement benefits are determined from actuarial valuations. Inherent in these valuations are assumptions including expected return on plan assets, discount rates at which the liabilities could have been settled at December 31, 2018, rate of increase in future compensation levels, mortality rates and health care cost trend rates. These assumptions are updated annually and are disclosed in Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. In accordance with U.S. GAAP, actual results that differ from the assumptions are accumulated and amortized over future periods and, therefore, affect expense recognized and obligations recorded in future periods. The U.S. pension plans represent 71 percent of the Company’s pension plan assets and 69 percent of the pension obligations. 

The Company uses the spot rate approach to determine the discount rate utilized to measure the service cost and interest cost components of net periodic pension and other postretirement benefit costs for the U.S. and other selected countries. Under the spot rate approach, the Company calculates service costs and interest costs by applying individual spot rates from the Willis Towers Watson RATE:Link yield curve (based on high-quality corporate bond yields) for each selected country to the separate expected cash flow components of service cost and interest cost; service cost and interest cost for all other plans (including all plans prior to adoption) are determined on the basis of the single equivalent discount rates derived in determining those plan obligations.

The following information relates to the U.S. plans only; a similar approach is used for the Company’s non-U.S. plans.

The Company determines the expected long-term rate of return on assets by performing a detailed analysis of historical and expected returns based on the strategic asset allocation approved by the Company's Investment Committee and the underlying return fundamentals of each asset class. The Company’s historical experience with the pension fund asset performance is also considered. The expected return of each asset class is derived from a forecasted future return confirmed by historical experience. The expected long-term rate of return is an assumption and not what is expected to be earned in any one particular year. The weighted-average long-term rate of return assumption used for determining net periodic pension expense for 2018 was 7.92 percent. The weighted-average assumption to be used for determining 2019 net periodic pension expense is 7.94 percent. Future actual pension expense will depend on future investment performance, changes in future discount rates and various other factors related to the population of participants in the Company’s pension plans.

The discount rates utilized to measure the pension and other postretirement obligations of the U.S. qualified plans are based on the yield on high-quality corporate fixed income investments at the measurement date. Future expected actuarially determined cash flows for Dow’s U.S. plans are individually discounted at the spot rates under the Willis Towers Watson U.S. RATE:Link 60-90 corporate yield curve (based on 60th to 90th percentile high-quality corporate bond yields) to arrive at the plan’s obligations as of the measurement date. The weighted average discount rate utilized to measure pension obligations increased to 4.39 percent at December 31, 2018, from 3.66 percent at December 31, 2017.

At December 31, 2018, the U.S. qualified plans were underfunded on a projected benefit obligation basis by $4,066 million. The underfunded amount decreased $1,297 million compared with December 31, 2017. The decrease in the underfunded amount in 2018 was primarily due to the impact of higher discount rates and discretionary plan contributions made in 2018. The Company contributed $1,285 million to the U.S. qualified plans in 2018.

The assumption for the long-term rate of increase in compensation levels for the U.S. qualified plans was 4.25 percent. The Company uses a generational mortality table to determine the duration of its pension and other postretirement obligations.

The following discussion relates to the Company’s significant pension plans.

The Company bases the determination of pension expense on a market-related valuation of plan assets that reduces year-to-year volatility. This market-related valuation recognizes investment gains or losses over a five-year period from the year in which they occur. Investment gains or losses for this purpose represent the difference between the expected return calculated using the market-related value of plan assets and the actual return based on the market value of plan assets. Since the market-related value of plan assets recognizes gains or losses over a five-year period, the future value of plan assets will be impacted when previously deferred gains or losses are recorded. Over the life of the plans, both gains and losses have been recognized and amortized. At December 31, 2018, net losses of $1,505 million remain to be recognized in the calculation of the market-related value of plan assets. These net losses will result in increases in future pension expense as they are recognized in the market-related value of assets. 

31
The net decrease in the market-related value of assets due to the recognition of prior losses is presented in the following table: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The Company expects pension expense to decrease in 2019 by approximately $130 million. The decrease in pension expense is primarily due to the impact of higher discount rates and the full year impact of the significant 2018 contributions to the Company's U.S. pension plans.

A 25 basis point increase or decrease in the long-term return on assets assumption would change the Company’s total pension expense for 2019 by $58 million. A 25 basis point increase in the discount rate assumption would lower the Company's total pension expense for 2019 by $52 million. A 25 basis point decrease in the discount rate assumption would increase the Company's total pension expense for 2019 by $62 million. A 25 basis point change in the long-term return and discount rate assumptions would have an immaterial impact on the other postretirement benefit expense for 2019.

Income Taxes

Deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on temporary differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities, applying enacted tax rates expected to be in effect for the year in which the differences are expected to reverse. Based on the evaluation of available evidence, both positive and negative, the Company recognizes future tax benefits, such as net operating loss carryforwards and tax credit carryforwards, to the extent that realizing these benefits is considered to be more likely than not.

At December 31, 2018, the Company had a net deferred tax asset balance of $1,367 million, after valuation allowances of $1,320 million.

In evaluating the ability to realize the deferred tax assets, the Company relies on, in order of increasing subjectivity, taxable income in prior carryback years, the future reversals of existing taxable temporary differences, tax planning strategies and forecasted taxable income using historical and projected future operating results.

At December 31, 2018, the Company had deferred tax assets for tax loss and tax credit carryforwards of $2,244 million, $300 million of which is subject to expiration in the years 2019 through 2023. In order to realize these deferred tax assets for tax loss and tax credit carryforwards, the Company needs taxable income of approximately $28,758 million across multiple jurisdictions. The taxable income needed to realize the deferred tax assets for tax loss and tax credit carryforwards that are subject to expiration between 2019 through 2023 is approximately $4,458 million.

The Company recognizes the financial statement effects of an uncertain income tax position when it is more likely than not, based on technical merits, that the position will be sustained upon examination. At December 31, 2018, the Company had uncertain tax positions for both domestic and foreign issues of $313 million.

The Company accrues for non-income tax contingencies when it is probable that a liability to a taxing authority has been incurred and the amount of the contingency can be reasonably estimated. At December 31, 2018, the Company had a non-income tax contingency reserve for both domestic and foreign issues of $91 million.

On December 22, 2017, The Act was enacted, making significant changes to the U.S. tax law (see Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information). At December 31, 2017, the Company had not completed its accounting for the tax effects of The Act; however, the Company made a reasonable estimate of the effects on its existing deferred tax balances and the one-time transition tax. In accordance with SAB 118, income tax effects of The Act were refined upon obtaining, preparing, and analyzing additional information during the measurement period. At December 31, 2018, the Company had completed its accounting for the tax effects of The Act. 

32
Environmental Matters

Environmental Policies 

Dow is committed to world-class environmental, health and safety (“EH&S”) performance, as demonstrated by industry-leading performance, a long-standing commitment to RESPONSIBLE CARE®, and a strong commitment to achieve the Company’s 2025 Sustainability Goals – goals that set the standard for sustainability in the chemical industry by focusing on improvements in Dow’s local corporate citizenship and product stewardship, and by actively pursuing methods to reduce the Company’s environmental impact.

To meet the Company’s public commitments, as well as the stringent laws and government regulations related to environmental protection and remediation to which its global operations are subject, Dow has well-defined policies, requirements and management systems. Dow’s EH&S Management System (“EMS”) defines the “who, what, when and how” needed for the businesses to achieve the Company’s policies, requirements, performance objectives, leadership expectations and public commitments. To ensure effective utilization, the EMS is integrated into a company-wide management system for EH&S, Operations, Quality and Human Resources.

It is Dow’s policy to adhere to a waste management hierarchy that minimizes the impact of wastes and emissions on the environment. First, Dow works to eliminate or minimize the generation of waste and emissions at the source through research, process design, plant operations and maintenance. Second, Dow finds ways to reuse and recycle materials. Finally, unusable or non-recyclable hazardous waste is treated before disposal to eliminate or reduce the hazardous nature and volume of the waste. Treatment may include destruction by chemical, physical, biological or thermal means. Disposal of waste materials in landfills is considered only after all other options have been thoroughly evaluated. Dow has specific requirements for waste that is transferred to non-Dow facilities, including the periodic auditing of these facilities.

Dow believes third-party verification and transparent public reporting are cornerstones of world-class EH&S performance and building public trust. Numerous Dow sites in Europe, Latin America, Asia Pacific and U.S. & Canada have received third-party verification of Dow’s compliance with RESPONSIBLE CARE® and with outside specifications such as ISO-14001. Dow continues to be a global champion of RESPONSIBLE CARE® and has worked to broaden the application and impact of RESPONSIBLE CARE® around the world through engagement with suppliers, customers and joint venture partners.

Dow’s EH&S policies helped the Company achieve improvements in many aspects of EH&S performance in 2018. Dow’s process safety performance was excellent in 2018 and improvements were made in injury/illness rates. Safety remains a priority for the entire Company. Further improvement in these areas, as well as environmental compliance, remains a top management priority, with initiatives underway to further improve performance and compliance in 2019 as Dow continues to implement the Company's 2025 Sustainability Goals.

Detailed information on Dow’s performance regarding environmental matters and goals can be found online on Dow’s Science & Sustainability webpage at www.dow.com. The Company's website and its content are not deemed incorporated by reference into this report.

Chemical Security 

Public and political attention continues to be placed on the protection of critical infrastructure, including the chemical industry, from security threats. Terrorist attacks, natural disasters and cyber incidents have increased concern about the security and safety of chemical production and distribution. Many, including Dow and the American Chemistry Council, have called for uniform risk-based and performance-based national standards for securing the U.S. chemical industry. The Maritime Transportation Security Act of 2002 and its regulations further set forth risk-based and performance-based standards that must be met at U.S. Coast Guard-regulated facilities. U.S. Chemical Plant Security legislation was passed in 2006 and the Department of Homeland Security is now implementing the regulations known as the Chemical Facility Anti-Terrorism Standards. The Company is complying with the requirements of the Rail Transportation Security Rule issued by the U.S. Transportation Security Administration. Dow continues to support uniform risk-based national standards for securing the chemical industry.

The focus on security, emergency planning, preparedness and response is not new to Dow. A comprehensive, multi-level security plan for the Company has been maintained since 1988. This plan, which has been activated in response to significant world and national events since then, is reviewed on an annual basis. Dow continues to improve its security plans, placing emphasis on the safety of Dow communities and people by being prepared to meet risks at any level and to address both internal and external identifiable risks. The security plan includes regular vulnerability assessments, security audits, mitigation efforts and physical security upgrades designed to reduce vulnerability. Dow’s security plans also are developed to avert interruptions of normal business operations that could materially and adversely affect the Company’s results of operations, liquidity and financial condition.

33
Dow played a key role in the development and implementation of the American Chemistry Council’s RESPONSIBLE CARE® Security Code ("Security Code"), which requires that all aspects of security – including facility, transportation and cyberspace – be assessed and gaps addressed. Through the Company’s global implementation of the Security Code, Dow has permanently heightened the level of security – not just in the United States, but worldwide. Dow employs several hundred employees and contractors in its Emergency Services and Security department worldwide.

Through the implementation of the Security Code, including voluntary security enhancements and upgrades made since 2002, Dow is well-positioned to comply with U.S. chemical facility regulations and other regulatory security frameworks. Dow is currently participating with the American Chemistry Council to review and update the Security Code.

Dow continues to work collaboratively across the supply chain on RESPONSIBLE CARE®, Supply Chain Design, Emergency Preparedness, Shipment Visibility and transportation of hazardous materials. Dow is cooperating with public and private entities to lead the implementation of advanced tank car design, and track and trace technologies. Further, Dow’s Distribution Risk Review process that has been in place for decades was expanded to address potential threats in all modes of transportation across the Company’s supply chain. To reduce vulnerabilities, Dow maintains security measures that meet or exceed regulatory and industry security standards in all areas in which the Company operates.

Dow's initiatives relative to chemical security, emergency preparedness and response, Community Awareness and Emergency Responses and crisis management are implemented consistently at all Dow sites on a global basis. Dow participates with chemical associations globally and participates as an active member of the U.S. delegation to the G7 Global Partnership Sub-Working Group on Chemical Security.

Climate Change 

Climate change matters for Dow are likely to be driven by changes in regulations, public policy and physical climate parameters.

Regulatory Matters

Regulatory matters include cap and trade schemes; increased greenhouse gas (“GHG”) limits; and taxes on GHG emissions, fuel and energy. The potential implications of each of these matters are all very similar, including increased cost of purchased energy, additional capital costs for installation or modification of GHG emitting equipment, and additional costs associated directly with GHG emissions (such as cap and trade systems or carbon taxes), which are primarily related to energy use. It is difficult to estimate the potential impact of these regulatory matters on energy prices.

Reducing Dow's overall energy usage and GHG emissions through new and unfolding projects will decrease the potential impact of these regulatory matters. Dow also has a dedicated commercial group to handle energy contracts and purchases, including managing emissions trading. The Company has not experienced any material impact related to regulated GHG emissions. The Company continues to evaluate and monitor this area for future developments.

Physical Climate Parameters

Many scientific academies throughout the world have concluded that it is very likely that human activities are contributing to global warming. At this point, it is difficult to predict and assess the probability and opportunity of a global warming trend on Dow specifically. Preparedness plans are developed that detail actions needed in the event of severe weather. These measures have historically been in place and these activities and associated costs are driven by normal operational preparedness. Dow continues to study the long-term implications of changing climate parameters on water availability, plant siting issues, and impacts and opportunities for products.

Dow’s Energy business and Public Affairs and Sustainability functions are tasked with developing and implementing a comprehensive strategy that addresses the potential challenges of energy security and GHG emissions on the Company. The Company continues to elevate its internal focus and external positions - to focus on the root causes of GHG emissions - including the unsustainable use of energy. Dow's energy plan provides the roadmap: 

•Conserve - aggressively pursue energy efficiency and conservation

•Optimize - increase and diversify energy resources

•Accelerate - develop cost-effective, clean, renewable and alternative energy sources 

•Transition - to a sustainable energy future 

Through corporate energy efficiency programs and focused GHG management efforts, the Company has and is continuing to reduce its GHG emissions footprint. The Company’s manufacturing intensity, measured in Btu per pound of product, has improved by more than 40 percent since 1990. As part of the Company's 2025 Sustainability Goals, Dow will maintain GHG emissions below 2006 levels on an absolute basis for all GHGs. 

34
Dow intends to implement the recommendations of the Financial Stability Board Task Force on Climate-Related Disclosures ("Task Force") over the next two to four years, which is aligned with the recommendations of the Task Force.

Environmental Remediation

Dow accrues the costs of remediation of its facilities and formerly owned facilities based on current law and regulatory requirements. The nature of such remediation can include management of soil and groundwater contamination. The accounting policies adopted to properly reflect the monetary impacts of environmental matters are discussed in Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. To assess the impact on the financial statements, environmental experts review currently available facts to evaluate the probability and scope of potential liabilities. Inherent uncertainties exist in such evaluations primarily due to unknown environmental conditions, changing governmental regulations and legal standards regarding liability, and the ability to apply remediation technologies. These liabilities are adjusted periodically as remediation efforts progress or as additional technical or legal information becomes available. Dow had an accrued liability of $664 million at December 31, 2018, related to the remediation of current or former Dow-owned sites. At December 31, 2017, the liability related to remediation was $726 million.

In addition to current and former Dow-owned sites, under the federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act ("CERCLA") and equivalent state laws (hereafter referred to collectively as "Superfund Law"), Dow is liable for remediation of other hazardous waste sites where Dow allegedly disposed of, or arranged for the treatment or disposal of, hazardous substances. Because Superfund Law imposes joint and several liability upon each party at a site, Dow has evaluated its potential liability in light of the number of other companies that also have been named potentially responsible parties (“PRPs”) at each site, the estimated apportionment of costs among all PRPs, and the financial ability and commitment of each to pay its expected share. The Company’s remaining liability for the remediation of Superfund sites was $156 million at December 31, 2018 ($152 million at December 31, 2017). The Company has not recorded any third-party recovery related to these sites as a receivable.

Information regarding environmental sites is provided below:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

2.Superfund sites are sites, including sites not owned by Dow, where remediation obligations are imposed by Superfund Law.

Additional information is provided below for the Company’s Midland, Michigan, manufacturing site and Midland off-site locations (collectively, the "Midland sites"), as well as a Superfund site in Wood-Ridge, New Jersey, the locations for which the Company has the largest potential environmental liabilities.

In the early days of operations at the Midland manufacturing site, wastes were usually disposed of on-site, resulting in soil and groundwater contamination, which has been contained and managed on-site under a series of Resource Conservation and Recovery Act permits and regulatory agreements. The Hazardous Waste Operating License for the Midland manufacturing site, issued in 2003, and renewed and replaced in September 2015, also included provisions for the Company to conduct an investigation to determine the nature and extent of off-site contamination from historic Midland manufacturing site operations. In January 2010, the Company, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency ("EPA") and the State of Michigan ("State") entered into an Administrative Order on Consent that requires the Company to conduct a remedial investigation, a feasibility study and a remedial design for the Tittabawassee River, the Saginaw River and the Saginaw Bay, and pay the oversight costs of the EPA and the State under the authority of CERCLA. See Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. At December 31, 2018, the Company had an accrual of $134 million ($131 million at December 31, 2017) for environmental remediation and investigation associated with the Midland sites. In 2018, the Company spent $26 million ($24 million in 2017) for environmental remediation at the Midland sites.

Rohm and Haas, a wholly owned subsidiary of Dow, is a PRP at the Wood-Ridge, New Jersey Ventron/Velsicol Superfund Site, and the adjacent Berry’s Creek Study Area ("BCSA") (collectively, the "Wood-Ridge sites"). Rohm and Haas is a successor in interest to a company that owned and operated a mercury processing facility, where wastewater and waste handling resulted in contamination of soils and adjacent creek sediments. The Berry’s Creek Study Area PRP group completed a multi-stage Remedial Investigation ("RI") pursuant to an Administrative Order on Consent with U.S. EPA Region 2 to identify contamination in surface water, sediment and biota related to numerous contaminated sites in the Berry's Creek watershed, and submitted the report to the 

35
EPA in June 2016. That same month, the EPA concluded that an "iterative or adaptive approach" was appropriate for cleaning up the BCSA. Thus, each phase of remediation will be followed by a period of monitoring to assess its effectiveness and determine if there is a need for more work. The Feasibility Study ("FS") for the first phase of work was submitted in the third quarter of 2018. The EPA selected the interim remedy and issued an interim Record of Decision ("ROD"). The PRP group is negotiating agreements among the PRP's to fund design of the selected remedy and with the EPA to design the selected remedy. Although there is currently much uncertainty as to what will ultimately be required to remediate the BCSA and Rohm and Haas's share of these costs has yet to be determined, the range of activities that are required in the interim ROD is known in general terms. Based on the interim remedy selected by the EPA, the overall remediation accrual for the Wood-Ridge sites was increased by $21 million in the fourth quarter of 2018. At December 31, 2018, the Company had an accrual of $106 million ($88 million at December 31, 2017) for environmental remediation at the Wood-Ridge sites. In 2018, the Company spent $6 million ($7 million in 2017) on environmental remediation at the Wood-Ridge sites.

In the fourth quarter of 2016, the Company recorded a pretax charge of $295 million for environmental remediation at a number of historical locations, including the Midland manufacturing site/off-site matters and the Wood-Ridge sites, primarily resulting from the culmination of negotiations with regulators and/or final agency approval. This charge was included in "Cost of sales" in the consolidated statements of income. In total, the Company’s accrued liability for probable environmental remediation and restoration costs was $820 million at December 31, 2018, compared with $878 million at December 31, 2017. This is management’s best estimate of the costs for remediation and restoration with respect to environmental matters for which the Company has accrued liabilities, although it is reasonably possible that the ultimate cost with respect to these particular matters could range up to approximately two times that amount. Consequently, it is reasonably possible that environmental remediation and restoration costs in excess of amounts accrued could have a material impact on the Company’s results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. It is the opinion of the Company’s management, however, that the possibility is remote that costs in excess of the range disclosed will have a material impact on the Company’s results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.

The amounts charged to income on a pretax basis related to environmental remediation totaled $174 million in 2018, $171 million in 2017 and $504 million in 2016. The amounts charged to income on a pretax basis related to operating the Company’s current pollution abatement facilities, excluding internal recharges, totaled $772 million in 2018, $640 million in 2017 and $623 million in 2016. Capital expenditures for environmental protection were $76 million in 2018, $79 million in 2017 and $66 million in 2016. 

Asbestos-Related Matters of Union Carbide Corporation

Union Carbide is and has been involved in a large number of asbestos-related suits filed primarily in state courts during the past four decades. These suits principally allege personal injury resulting from exposure to asbestos-containing products and frequently seek both actual and punitive damages. The alleged claims primarily relate to products that Union Carbide sold in the past, alleged exposure to asbestos-containing products located on Union Carbide’s premises, and Union Carbide’s responsibility for asbestos suits filed against a former Union Carbide subsidiary, Amchem. In many cases, plaintiffs are unable to demonstrate that they have suffered any compensable loss as a result of such exposure, or that injuries incurred in fact resulted from exposure to Union Carbide’s products.

The table below provides information regarding asbestos-related claims pending against Union Carbide and Amchem based on criteria developed by Union Carbide and its external consultants.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Plaintiffs’ lawyers often sue numerous defendants in individual lawsuits or on behalf of numerous claimants. As a result, the damages alleged are not expressly identified as to Union Carbide, Amchem or any other particular defendant, even when specific damages are alleged with respect to a specific disease or injury. In fact, there are no asbestos personal injury cases in which only Union Carbide and/or Amchem are the sole named defendants. For these reasons and based upon Union Carbide’s litigation and settlement experience, Union Carbide does not consider the damages alleged against Union Carbide and Amchem to be a meaningful factor in its determination of any potential asbestos-related liability.

36
For additional information see Part I, Item 3. Legal Proceedings and Asbestos-Related Matters and Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK