PART I 

ITEM 1. BUSINESS

THE COMPANY

The Dow Chemical Company was incorporated in 1947 under Delaware law and is the successor to a Michigan corporation, of the same name, organized in 1897. The Company's principal executive offices are located at 2211 H.H. Dow Way, Midland, Michigan 48674. Throughout this Annual Report on Form 10-K, except as otherwise indicated by the context, the terms “Company” or “Dow” as used herein mean The Dow Chemical Company and its consolidated subsidiaries. 

Merger with DuPont

Effective August 31, 2017, pursuant to the merger of equals transaction contemplated by the Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of December 11, 2015, as amended on March 31, 2017, Dow and E. I. du Pont de Nemours and Company ("DuPont") each merged with subsidiaries of DowDuPont Inc. ("DowDuPont") and, as a result, Dow and DuPont became subsidiaries of DowDuPont (the "Merger"). Following the Merger, Dow and DuPont intend to pursue, subject to certain customary conditions, including, among others, the effectiveness of registration statements filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") and approval by the board of directors of DowDuPont, the separation of the combined company's agriculture, materials science and specialty products businesses through one or more tax-efficient transactions ("Intended Business Separations").

Effective with the Merger, Dow’s business activities are components of its parent company’s business operations. Dow’s business activities, including the assessment of performance and allocation of resources, ultimately are reviewed and managed by DowDuPont. Information used by the chief operating decision maker of Dow relates to the Company in its entirety. Accordingly, there are no separate reportable business segments for the Company under Accounting Standards Codification Topic 280 “Segment Reporting” and the Company’s business results are reported in this Form 10-K as a single operating segment. 

As a result of the Merger, DowDuPont owns all of the common stock of Dow. Pursuant to General Instruction I(1)(a) and (b) of Form 10-K “Omission of Information by Certain Wholly-Owned Subsidiaries,” the Company is filing this Form 10-K with a reduced disclosure format. See Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the Merger.

Intended Business Separations

In furtherance of the Intended Business Separations, Dow and DuPont are engaged in a series of internal reorganization and realignment steps (the “Internal Reorganization”) to realign their businesses into three subgroups: agriculture, materials science and specialty products. DowDuPont has also formed two wholly owned subsidiaries: Dow Holdings Inc. (“DHI”), to serve as a holding company for its materials science business, and Corteva, Inc. (“Corteva”), to serve as a holding company for its agriculture business. Following the separation and distribution of DHI, which is targeted to occur by April 1, 2019, DowDuPont, as the remaining company, which is referred to herein as “New DuPont,” will continue to hold the agriculture and specialty products businesses. New DuPont is then targeted to complete the separation and distribution of Corteva on June 1, 2019, resulting in New DuPont holding the specialty products businesses of DowDuPont. Following the distributions, DowDuPont will be known as DuPont.

As part of the Internal Reorganization, 1) the assets and liabilities of the materials science business will be transferred or conveyed to legal entities that then will be aligned under DHI, 2) the assets and liabilities of the agriculture business will be transferred or conveyed to legal entities that then will be aligned under Corteva, and 3) the assets and liabilities of the specialty products business will be transferred or conveyed to legal entities that then will be aligned with New DuPont. Following the Internal Reorganization, DowDuPont expects to distribute DHI and Corteva through separate, pro rata U.S. federal tax-free spin-offs in which DowDuPont stockholders, at such time, would receive shares of common stock of DHI and of Corteva.

Additional information is included in the Form 10 registration statements for the separation of DowDuPont's materials science business (filed as Dow Holdings Inc.) filed with the SEC on September 7, 2018, as amended on October 19, 2018 and November 19, 2018, and the agriculture business (filed as Corteva, Inc.) filed with the SEC on October 18, 2018, as amended on December 19, 2018.

Available Information

The Company's annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, are available free of charge at www.dow-dupont.com/investors, as soon as reasonably practicable after the reports are electronically filed or furnished 

5
with the SEC. The SEC maintains a website that contains these reports as well as proxy statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically. The SEC's website is at www.sec.gov. The DowDuPont website and its content is not deemed incorporated by reference into this report.

Principal Product Groups

Dow combines science and technology to develop innovative solutions that are essential to human progress. Dow has one of the strongest and broadest toolkits in the industry, with robust technology, asset integration, scale and competitive capabilities that enable it to address complex global issues. Dow’s market-driven, industry-leading portfolio of advanced materials, industrial intermediates and plastics deliver a broad range of differentiated technology-based products and solutions to customers in 175 countries in high-growth markets such as packaging, infrastructure and consumer care. The Company's products are manufactured at 164 sites in 35 countries across the globe. In 2018, Dow had annual sales of approximately $60 billion. The following is a description of the Company’s principal product groups: 

Principal Product Groups Aligned with the Materials Science Business

Coatings & Performance Monomers 

Coatings & Performance Monomers makes critical ingredients and additives that help advance the performance of paints and coatings. The product grouping offers innovative and sustainable products to accelerate paint and coatings performance across diverse market segments, including architectural paints and coatings, as well as industrial coatings applications used in maintenance and protective industries, wood, metal packaging, traffic markings, thermal paper and leather. These products enhance coatings by improving hiding and coverage characteristics, enhancing durability against nature and the elements, reducing volatile organic compounds (“VOC”) content, reducing maintenance and improving ease of application. Coatings & Performance Monomers also manufactures critical building blocks based on acrylics needed for the production of coatings, textiles, and home and personal care products.

Consumer Solutions

Consumer Solutions uses innovative, versatile silicone-based technology to provide ingredients and solutions to customers in high performance building, consumer goods, elastomeric applications and the pressure sensitive adhesives industry that help them meet modern consumer preferences in attributes such as texture, feel, scent, durability and consistency; provides a wide array of silicone-based products and solutions that enable Dow’s customers to increase the appeal of their products, extend shelf life, improve performance of products under a wider range of conditions and provide a more sustainable offering; provides standalone silicone materials that are used as intermediates in a wide range of applications including adhesion promoters, coupling agents, crosslinking agents, dispersing agents and surface modifiers; and collaborates closely with global and regional brand owners to deliver innovative solutions for creating new and unrivaled consumer benefits and experiences in cleaning, laundry and skin and hair care applications, among others.

Hydrocarbons & Energy 

Hydrocarbons & Energy is the largest global producer of ethylene, an internal feedstock, and a leading producer of propylene and aromatics products that are used to manufacture materials that consumers use every day. It also produces and procures the power and feedstocks used by the Company's manufacturing sites. 

Industrial Solutions 

Industrial Solutions is the world’s largest producer of purified ethylene oxide. It provides a broad portfolio of solutions that address world needs by enabling and improving the manufacture of consumer and industrial goods and services, including products and innovations that minimize friction and heat in mechanical processes, manage the oil and water interface, deliver ingredients for maximum effectiveness, facilitate dissolvability, enable product identification and provide the foundational building blocks for the development of chemical technologies. Industrial Solutions supports manufacturers associated with a large variety of end-markets, notably better crop protection offerings in agriculture, coatings, detergents and cleaners, solvents for electronics processing, inks and textiles.

Packaging and Specialty Plastics 

Packaging and Specialty Plastics serves growing, high-value sectors using world-class technology, broad existing product lines and a rich product pipeline that creates competitive advantages for the entire packaging value chain. Dow is also a leader in polyolefin elastomers and ethylene propylene diene monomer ("EPDM") rubber serving automotive, consumer, wire and cable and construction markets. Market growth is expected to be driven by major shifts in population demographics; improving socioeconomic status in emerging geographies; consumer and brand owner demand for increased functionality; global efforts to reduce food waste; growth in telecommunications networks; global development of electrical transmission and distribution infrastructure; and renewable energy applications.

6
Polyurethanes & CAV 

Polyurethanes & Chlor-Alkali & Vinyl ("CAV") is the world’s largest producer of propylene oxide, propylene glycol and polyether polyols, and a leading producer of aromatic isocyanates and fully formulated polyurethane systems for rigid, semi-rigid and flexible foams, and coatings, adhesives, sealants, elastomers and composites that serve energy efficiency, consumer comfort, industrial and enhanced mobility market sectors. Polyurethanes & CAV provides cost advantaged chlorine and caustic soda supply and markets caustic soda, a valuable co-product of the chlor-alkali manufacturing process, and ethylene dichloride and vinyl chloride monomer. The product grouping also provides cellulose ethers, redispersible latex powders, silicones and acrylic emulsions used as key building blocks for differentiated building and construction materials across many market segments and applications ranging from roofing and flooring to gypsum-, cement-, concrete- or dispersion-based building materials.

Corporate

Corporate includes certain enterprise and governance activities (including insurance operations, environmental operations, etc.); non-business aligned joint ventures; gains and losses on sales of financial assets; non-business aligned litigation expenses; discontinued or non-aligned businesses; and foreign exchange gains (losses).

Principal Product Groups Aligned with the Agriculture Business

Crop Protection 

Crop Protection serves the global production agriculture industry with crop protection products for field crops such as wheat, corn, soybean and rice, and specialty crops such as trees, fruits and vegetables. Principal crop protection products are weed control, disease control and insect control offerings for foliar or soil application or as a seed treatment.

Seed

Seed provides seed/plant biotechnology products and technologies to improve the productivity and profitability of its customers. Seed develops, produces and markets canola, cereals, corn, cotton, rice, soybean and sunflower seeds.

Principal Product Groups Aligned with the Specialty Products Business

Electronics & Imaging

Electronics & Imaging is a leading global supplier of differentiated materials and systems for a broad range of consumer electronics including mobile devices, television monitors, personal computers and electronics used in a variety of industries. Dow offers a broad portfolio of semiconductor and advanced packaging materials including chemical mechanical planarization ("CMP") pads and slurries, photoresists and advanced coatings for lithography, metallization solutions for back-end-of-line advanced chip packaging, and silicones for light emitting diode ("LED") packaging and semiconductor applications. This product line also includes innovative metallization processes for metal finishing, decorative and industrial applications and cutting-edge materials for the manufacturing of rigid and flexible displays for liquid crystal displays and quantum dot applications. 

Industrial Biosciences 

Industrial Biosciences is an innovator that works with customers to improve the performance, productivity and sustainability of their products and processes through advanced microbial control technologies such as advanced diagnostics and biosensors, ozone delivery technology and biological microbial control.

Nutrition & Health 

Nutrition & Health uses cellulosics and other technologies to improve the functionality and delivery of food and the safety and performance of pharmaceutical products.

Safety & Construction

Safety & Construction unites market-driven science with the strength of highly regarded brands such as STYROFOAM™ brand insulation products, GREAT STUFF™ insulating foam sealants and adhesives, and DOW FILMTEC™ reverse osmosis and nanofiltration elements to deliver products to a broad array of markets including industrial, building and construction, consumer and water processing. Safety & Construction is a leader in the construction space, delivering insulation, air sealing and weatherization systems to improve energy efficiency, reduce energy costs and provide more sustainable buildings. Safety & Construction is also a leading provider of purification and separation technologies including reverse osmosis membranes and ion exchange resins to help customers with a broad array of separation and purification needs such as reusing waste water streams and making more potable drinking water. 

Transportation & Advanced Polymers

Transportation & Advanced Polymers provides high-performance adhesives, lubricants and fluids to engineers and designers in the transportation, electronics and consumer end-markets. Key products include MOLYKOTE® lubricants, DOW 

7
CORNING® silicone solutions for healthcare, MULTIBASE™ TPSiV™ silicones for thermoplastics and BETASEAL™, BETAMATE™ and BETAFORCE™ structural and elastic adhesives. 

Current and Future Investments

In 2017, the Company announced the startup of its new integrated world-scale ethylene production facility and its new ELITE™ Enhanced Polyethylene production facility, both located in Freeport, Texas. In 2018, the Company also started up its new Low Density Polyethylene ("LDPE") production facility and its new NORDEL™ Metallocene EPDM production facility, both located in Plaquemine, Louisiana. These key milestones enable Dow to capture benefits from increasing supplies of U.S. shale gas to deliver differentiated downstream solutions in its core market verticals. The Company also completed debottlenecking of an existing bi-modal gas phase polyethylene production facility in St. Charles, Louisiana, and started up a new High Melt Index ("HMI") AFFINITY™ polymer production facility, in Freeport, Texas, in the fourth quarter of 2018.

Additionally, the Company has announced investments over the next five years that are expected to enhance Dow’s competitiveness following the Intended Business Separations. These include:

•Expansion of the capacity of the Company’s new ethylene production facility, bringing the facility’s total ethylene capacity to 2,000 kilotonnes per annum (“KTA”) and making it the largest ethylene facility in the world.

•Incremental debottleneck projects across its global asset network that will deliver approximately 350 KTA of additional polyethylene, the majority of which will be in North America.

•Construction of a 600 KTA polyethylene unit on the U.S. Gulf Coast based on Dow’s proprietary solution process technology, to meet consumer-driven demand in specialty packaging, health and hygiene, and industrial and consumer packaging applications.

•Construction of a 450 KTA polyolefins facility in Europe to maximize the value of the Company’s ethylene integration in the region and serve growing demand for high-performance pressure pipes and fittings, as well as caps and closures applications.

•A new catalyst production business for key catalysts licensed by Univation Technologies, LLC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Dow.

•Low capital intensity, high return investments in the Company's silicones franchise, including: a series of incremental siloxane debottleneck and efficiency improvement projects around the world; a new hydroxyl functional siloxane polymer plant in the U.S.; and a new specialty resin plant in China.

PRINCIPAL PRODUCT GROUP AND GEOGRAPHIC REGION RESULTS

See Note 25 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding sales by principal product group as well as sales and long-lived assets by geographic region.

RAW MATERIALS

The Company operates in an integrated manufacturing environment. Basic raw materials are processed through many stages to produce a number of products that are sold as finished goods at various points in those processes. The major raw material stream that feeds the production of the Company’s finished goods is hydrocarbon-based raw materials. The Company purchases hydrocarbon raw materials including ethane, propane, butane, naphtha and condensate as feedstocks. These raw materials are used in the production of both saleable products and energy. The Company also purchases certain monomers, primarily ethylene and propylene, to supplement internal production. The Company purchases natural gas, primarily to generate electricity, and purchases electric power to supplement internal generation. The Company also produces a portion of its electricity needs in Louisiana and Texas; Alberta, Canada; the Netherlands; and Germany.

Key raw materials purchased for use in the manufacturing process include: acetone, benzene, butane, condensate, electric power, ethane, hexene, methanol, methyl methacrylate, naphtha, natural gas, propane, pygas, silica, styrene and wood pulp. Key raw materials that are produced internally and procured from external sources for internal consumption include aniline, aqueous hydrochloric acid, butyl acrylate, chlorine, ethylene, octene, propylene and silicon metal. Hydrogen peroxide is produced internally and procured through a consolidated variable interest entity and a joint venture. The Company had adequate supplies of raw materials in 2018, and expects to continue to have adequate supplies of raw materials in 2019.

8
PATENTS, LICENSES AND TRADEMARKS

The Company continually applies for and obtains U.S. and foreign patents and has a substantial number of pending patent applications throughout the world. At December 31, 2018, the Company owned approximately 6,500 active U.S. patents and 32,200 active foreign patents as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Dow’s primary purpose in obtaining patents is to protect the results of its research for use in operations and licensing. Dow is party to a substantial number of patent licenses and other technology agreements. Dow also has a substantial number of trademarks and trademark registrations in the United States and in other countries, including the “Dow in Diamond” trademark. Although the Company considers that its patents, licenses and trademarks in the aggregate constitute a valuable asset, it does not regard its business as being materially dependent on any single or group of related patents, licenses or trademarks.

PRINCIPAL PARTLY OWNED COMPANIES

Dow’s principal nonconsolidated affiliates at December 31, 2018, including direct or indirect ownership interest for each, are listed below: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

1.DC HSC Holdings LLC holds an 80.5 percent indirect ownership interest in Hemlock Semiconductor Operations LLC.

2.The Company's effective ownership of Map Ta Phut Olefins Company Limited is 32.77 percent, of which the Company directly owns 20.27 percent and indirectly owns 12.5 percent through its equity interest in Siam Polyethylene Company Limited.

3.Dow is responsible for marketing the majority of Sadara products outside of the Middle East zone through the Company's established sales channels. Under this arrangement, the Company purchases and sells Sadara products for a marketing fee.

See Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding nonconsolidated affiliates.

9
PROTECTION OF THE ENVIRONMENT

Matters pertaining to the environment are discussed in Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors; Part II, Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations; and Notes 1 and 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. In addition, detailed information on Dow's performance regarding environmental matters and goals can be found online on Dow's Science & Sustainability webpage at www.dow.com. The Company's website and its content are not deemed incorporated by reference into this report.

EMPLOYEES

At December 31, 2018, the Company permanently employed approximately 54,000 people on a full-time basis. 

OTHER ACTIVITIES

Dow engages in the property and casualty insurance and reinsurance business primarily through its Liana Limited subsidiaries.

ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS