Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk  

The primary objective of the following information is to provide forward-looking quantitative and qualitative information about our potential exposure to market risks. The term “market risk” refers to our risk of loss arising from adverse changes in oil, bitumen, gas and NGL prices, interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. The following disclosures are not meant to be precise indicators of expected future losses but rather indicators of reasonably possible losses. This forward-looking information provides indicators of how we view and manage our ongoing market risk exposures. All of our market risk sensitive instruments were entered into for purposes other than speculative trading. 

Commodity Price Risk 

Our major market risk exposure is the pricing applicable to our oil, bitumen, gas and NGL production. Realized pricing is primarily driven by the prevailing worldwide price for crude oil and spot market prices applicable to our U.S. and Canadian gas and NGL production. Pricing for oil and gas production has been volatile and unpredictable as discussed in “Item 1A. Risk Factors” of this report. Consequently, we systematically hedge a portion of our production through various financial transactions. The key terms to our oil and gas derivative financial instruments as of December 31, 2018 are presented in Note 3 in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this report. 

The fair values of our commodity derivatives are largely determined by estimates of the forward curves of the relevant price indices. At December 31, 2018, a 10% change in the forward curves associated with our commodity derivative instruments would have changed our net asset positions by approximately $270 million. 

Interest Rate Risk 

At December 31, 2018, we had total debt of $5.9 billion. All of our debt is based on fixed interest rates averaging 5.4%. 

As of December 31, 2018, we had one open interest rate swap position that is presented in Note 3 in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this report. The fair value of our interest rate swap is largely determined by estimates of the forward curves of the three month LIBOR rate. A 10% change in these forward curves would not have materially impacted our balance sheet or liquidity at December 31, 2018. 

Foreign Currency Risk 

Our net assets, net earnings and cash flows from our Canadian subsidiaries are based on the U.S. dollar equivalent of such amounts measured in the Canadian dollar functional currency. Assets and liabilities of the Canadian subsidiaries are translated to U.S. dollars using the applicable exchange rate as of the end of a reporting period. Revenues, expenses and cash flow are translated using an average exchange rate during the reporting period. A 10% unfavorable change in the Canadian-to-U.S. dollar exchange rate would not have materially impacted our December 31, 2018 balance sheet. 

Devon engages in intercompany loan activity between subsidiaries with different functional currencies. The value of these foreign currency denominated intercompany loans increases or decreases from the remeasurement into the subsidiaries’ functional currency. Based on the amount of the intercompany loans as of December 31, 2018, a 10% change in the foreign currency exchange rates would not have materially impacted our balance sheet. 

49 

Table of Contents 

Index to Financial Statements 

Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data