Item 7: Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

OVERVIEW

The following overview is a high-level discussion of our operating results, as well as some of the trends and drivers that affect our business. Management believes that an understanding of these trends and drivers provides important context for our results for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2019, as well as our future prospects. This summary is not intended to be exhaustive, nor is it intended to be a substitute for the detailed discussion and analysis provided elsewhere in this Form 10-K, including in the “Business” section and the “Risk Factors” above, the remainder of this “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (“MD&A”)”, and the Consolidated Financial Statements and related Notes.

About Electronic Arts

We are a global leader in digital interactive entertainment, with a mission to inspire the world to play. We develop, market, publish and deliver games and services that can be played and watched on a variety of platforms, including game consoles, PCs, mobile phones and tablets. In our games and services, we use brands that we either wholly own (such as Battlefield, The Sims, Apex Legends, Anthem, Need for Speed and Plants v. Zombies) or license from others (such as FIFA, Madden NFL and Star Wars). We develop and publish games and services across diverse genres, such as sports, first-person shooter, action, role-playing and simulation, and offer our games and services through diverse business models and distribution channels, such as retail, download, subscription and free-to-play. We believe that the breadth and depth of our portfolio and our flexibility in business models and distribution channels provide us with strategic advantages.

Financial Results

Our key financial results for our fiscal year ended March 31, 2019 were as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•Gross margin was 73.3 percent, down 2 percentage points year-over-year. Under the Old Revenue Standard, gross margin would have been 76.6 percent, up 1 percentage point year-over-year.

•Operating expenses were $2,632 million, up 8 percent year-over-year. 

•Operating income was $996 million, down 31 percent year-over-year. Under the Old Revenue Standard, operating income would have been $1,077 million, down 25 percent year-over-year.

•Net income was $1,019 million, down 2 percent year-over-year. Under the Old Revenue Standard, net income would have been $1,086 million, up 4 percent year-over-year.

•Diluted earnings per share was $3.33, consistent year-over-year. Under the Old Revenue Standard, diluted earnings per share would have been $3.55, up 6 percent year-over-year.

•Operating cash flow was $1,547 million, down 9 percent year-over-year. 

•Total cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments were $5,445 million. [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

From time to time, we make comparisons of current periods to prior periods with reference to constant currency. For the fiscal year ended March 31, 2019, foreign currency exchange rates did not have a material impact on our net revenue and operating expenses.

24

Trends in Our Business

Digital Business. Players increasingly purchase our games as digital downloads, as opposed to purchasing physical discs, and engage with the live services that we provide on an ongoing basis. Our live services provide additional depth and engagement opportunities for our players and include in-game purchases, extra content, subscriptions, and esports. Our net revenue attributable to live services comprised 45 percent of our total net revenue during fiscal year 2019 and we expect that live services net revenue will continue to be material to our business. Our most popular live service is the Ultimate Team mode associated with our sports franchises. Ultimate Team allows players to collect current and former professional players in order to build and compete as a personalized team. Net revenue from Ultimate Team represented approximately 28 percent of our total net revenue during fiscal year 2019, a substantial portion of which was derived from FIFA Ultimate Team. Our digital transformation also is creating opportunities in platforms, content models and the way in which players engage with our games and services. For example, we have leveraged brands and assets from franchises historically associated traditional gaming, such as FIFA, Madden NFL, The Sims, SimCity, and Star Wars, to create free-to-play games that are monetized through live services provided with the game. We also offer subscription services, such as EA Access, Origin Access and Origin Access Premier, as we look to build deeper relationships with our players and offer increased choice and flexibility for our players to try new games.

The portion of our revenue attributable to our digital business has significantly increased from 59 percent in fiscal year 2017 to 67 percent in fiscal year 2018 and 75 percent during fiscal year 2019. We expect this portion of our business to continue to increase during fiscal year 2020 relative to packaged goods revenue as we continue to focus on developing and monetizing products and services that can be delivered digitally.

Technological Infrastructure. As our digital business has grown, our games and services increasingly depend on the reliability, availability and security of our technological infrastructure. We are investing and expect to continue to invest in technology, hardware and software to support our games and services, including with respect to security protections. Our industry is prone to, and our systems and networks are subject to, cyber-attacks, computer viruses, worms, phishing attacks, malicious software programs, and other information security incidents that seek to exploit, disable, damage, disrupt or gain access to our networks, our products and services, supporting technological infrastructure, intellectual property and other assets. We expect these threats to our systems and networks to continue.

Rapidly Changing Industry. We operate in a dynamic industry that regularly experiences periods of rapid, fundamental change. In order to remain successful, we are required to anticipate, sometimes years in advance, the ways in which our products and services will compete in the market. We adapt our business by investing in creative and technical talent and new technologies, evolving our business strategies and distribution methods and developing new and engaging products and services. In fiscal 2019, we launched two new intellectual properties (Anthem and Apex Legends), brought Apex Legends to market as our first free-to-play console product, added frontline titles to our Origin Access Premier subscription service, and invested in more ways to reach our players now and in the future, such as cloud gaming and esports. We expect to continue to invest in our business to remain competitive, including investments in, among other things, technology to connect our players to each other and to the games they love and the infrastructure to power our games and services. We are adopting consistent, cross-company methodologies to better understand our players’ needs and continue to invest in technology that enables us to deliver content that will resonate with players, and provide more choice in the way that players connect with their games, with each other, and with new types of content, including esports broadcasts. This connection also allows us to market and deliver content and services for popular franchises like FIFA, Battlefield and Star Wars to our players more efficiently. 

Free-to-Play Games. The global adoption of mobile devices and a business model for those devices that allows consumers to try new games with no up-front cost, and that are monetized through the live service associated with the game, has led to significant growth in the mobile gaming industry. We expect the mobile gaming industry to continue to grow during our 2020 fiscal year. Likewise, the consumer acceptance of free-to-play, live service-based, online PC games has broadened our consumer base, and this free-to-play, live service business model is beginning to gain consumer acceptance with respect to console games. We expect revenue generated from mobile, PC and console free-to-play games to remain an important part of our business.

Concentration of Sales Among the Most Popular Games. In all major segments of our industry, we see a large portion of games sales concentrated on the most popular titles. Similarly, a significant portion of our revenue historically has been derived from games based on a few popular franchises, several of which we have released on an annual or bi-annual basis. In particular, we have historically derived a significant portion of our net revenue from our largest and most popular game, FIFA, the annualized version of which is consistently one of the best-selling games in the marketplace.

25

Recurring Revenue Sources. Our business model includes revenue that we deem recurring in nature, such as revenue from our annualized sports franchises (e.g., FIFA, Madden NFL), our console, PC and mobile catalog titles (i.e., titles that did not launch in the current fiscal year), the associated live services and our subscriptions business. We have been able to forecast the revenue from these areas of our business with greater relative confidence than for new games, services and business models. As we continue to incorporate new business models and modalities of play into our games, our goal is to continue to look for opportunities to expand the recurring portion of our business.

Net Bookings. In order to improve transparency into our business, we disclose an operating performance metric, net bookings. Net bookings is defined as the net amount of products and services sold digitally or sold-in physically in the period. Net bookings is calculated by adding total net revenue to the change in deferred net revenue for online-enabled games and, for periods after the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018, mobile platform fees.

The following is a calculation of our total net bookings for the periods presented:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Net bookings were $4,944 million for fiscal 2019 driven by sales related to FIFA Ultimate Team, FIFA 19, Madden NFL 19, The Sims 4 and Battlefield V. Net bookings decreased $236 million or 5 percent as compared to fiscal 2018 due primarily to a decrease in Star Wars Battlefront II, Need for Speed Payback and Mass Effect: Andromeda, partially offset by Battlefield V, Anthem and Apex Legends. Digital net bookings were $3,722 million for fiscal 2019 driven by sales of FIFA Ultimate Team, The Sims 4 and Madden NFL 19, an increase of $184 million or 5 percent as compared to fiscal 2018. The increase in digital net bookings was driven by growth in live services which grew $211 million or 10 percent year-over-year, primarily due to growth in bookings associated with FIFA Ultimate Team and bookings from Apex Legends; and full game downloads which grew $56 million or 8 percent year-over-year, due to continued growth in digital downloads of our games. In particular, Battlefield V, Anthem and the FIFA franchise were downloaded at a greater rate than comparable titles in previous fiscal years. These increases were offset by a decrease of $83 million or 13 percent in our mobile business primarily due to declines from aging titles across our portfolio.

 Recent Developments

Internal Transfer of Intellectual Property Rights. Subsequent to the fiscal year ended March 31, 2019, we completed an intra-entity sale of some of our intellectual property rights to our Swiss subsidiary, where our international business is headquartered. This transaction will result in the recognition of a deferred tax asset, which we estimate at approximately $2.3 billion, subject to a realizability analysis. For more information, please see Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Note 11 — Income Taxes. 

26

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES

Our Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (“U.S. GAAP”). The preparation of these Consolidated Financial Statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, contingent assets and liabilities, and revenue and expenses during the reporting periods. The policies discussed below are considered by management to be critical because they are not only important to the portrayal of our financial condition and results of operations, but also because application and interpretation of these policies requires both management judgment and estimates of matters that are inherently uncertain and unknown. As a result, actual results may differ materially from our estimates.

For a complete discussion of our critical accounting policies and estimates with respect to revenue recognition for revenue transactions occurring prior to April 1, 2018, which were accounted for under ASC 605, Revenue Recognition (the “Old Revenue Standard” or “ASC 605”), refer to Part II, Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” under the subheading Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for our fiscal year ended March 31, 2018, filed with the SEC on May 23, 2018. With respect to revenue transactions occurring on April 1, 2018 and onward, our revenue recognition accounting policy is set forth below and follows ASC 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (the “New Revenue Standard” or “ASC 606”). 

Revenue Recognition

We derive revenue principally from sales of our games, and related extra-content and services that can be played by customers on a variety of platforms which include game consoles, PCs, mobile phones and tablets. Our product and service offerings include, but are not limited to, the following:

•full games with both online and offline functionality (“Games with Services”), which generally includes (1) the initial game delivered digitally or via physical disc at the time of sale and typically provide access to offline core game content (“software license”); (2) updates on a when-and-if-available basis, such as software patches or updates, and/or additional free content to be delivered in the future (“future update rights”); and (3) a hosted connection for online playability (“online hosting”);

•full games with online-only functionality which require an Internet connection to access all gameplay and functionality (“Online-Hosted Service Games”);

•extra content related to Games with Services and Online-Hosted Service Games which provides access to additional in-game content;

•subscriptions, such as Origin Access, Origin Access Premier and EA Access, that generally offers access to a selection of full games, in-game content, online services and other benefits typically for a recurring monthly or annual fee; and

•licensing our games to third parties to distribute and host our games.

Effective April 1, 2018, we evaluate revenue recognition based on the criteria set forth in ASC 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers. 

We evaluate and recognize revenue by:

•identifying the contract(s) with the customer;

•identifying the performance obligations in the contract;

•determining the transaction price;

•allocating the transaction price to performance obligations in the contract; and

•recognizing revenue as each performance obligation is satisfied through the transfer of a promised good or service to a customer (i.e., “transfer of control”).

Certain of our full game and/or extra content are sold to resellers with a contingency that the full game and/or extra content cannot be resold prior to a specific date (“Street Date Contingency”). We recognize revenue for transactions that have a Street 

27

Date Contingency when the Street Date Contingency is removed and the full game and/or extra content can be resold by the reseller. For digital full game and/or extra content downloads sold to customers, we recognize revenue when the full game and/or extra content is made available for download to the customer.

Online-Enabled Games

Games with Services. Our sales of Games with Services are evaluated to determine whether the software license, future update rights and the online hosting are distinct and separable. Sales of Games with Services are generally determined to have three distinct performance obligations: software license, future update rights, and the online hosting.

Since we do not sell the performance obligations on a stand-alone basis, we consider market conditions and other observable inputs to estimate the stand-alone selling price for each performance obligation. We recognize revenue from these arrangements upon transfer of control for each performance obligation. For the portion of the transaction price allocated to the software license, revenue is recognized when control of the license has been transferred to the customer. For the portion of the transaction price allocated to the future update rights and the online hosting, revenue is recognized as the services are provided.

Online-Hosted Service Games. Sales of our Online-Hosted Service Games are determined to have one distinct performance obligation: the online hosting. We recognize revenue from these arrangements as the service is provided.

Extra Content. Revenue received from sales of downloadable content are derived primarily from the sale of virtual currencies and digital in-game content to our customers to enhance their gameplay experience. Sales of extra content are accounted for in a manner consistent with the treatment for our Games with Services and Online-Hosted Service Games as discussed above, depending upon whether or not the extra content has offline functionality.

Subscriptions

Revenue from subscriptions is recognized over the subscription term as the service is provided.

Licensing Revenue

In certain countries, we utilize third-party licensees to distribute and host our games in accordance with license agreements, for which the licensees typically pay us a fixed minimum guarantee and/or sales-based royalties. These arrangements typically include multiple performance obligations, such as a time-based license of software and future update rights. We recognize as revenue a portion of the minimum guarantee when we transfer control of the license of software (generally upon commercial launch) and the remaining portion ratably over the contractual term in which we provide the licensee with future update rights. Any sales-based royalties are generally recognized as the related sales occur by the licensee.

Revenue Classification

We classify our revenue as either product revenue or service and other revenue. Generally, performance obligations that are recognized upfront upon transfer of control are classified as product revenue, while performance obligations that are recognized over the Estimated Offering Period or subscription period as the services are provided are classified as service revenue.

Product revenue. Our product revenue includes revenue allocated to the software license performance obligation. Product revenue also includes revenue from the licensing of software to third-parties.

Service and other revenue. Our service revenue includes revenue allocated to the future update rights and the online hosting performance obligations. This also includes revenue allocated to the future update rights from the licensing of software to third-parties, software that offers an online-only service such as our Ultimate Team game mode, and subscription services.

Significant Judgments around Revenue Arrangements

Identifying performance obligations. Performance obligations promised in a contract are identified based on the goods and services that will be transferred to the customer that are both capable of being distinct, (i.e., the customer can benefit from the goods or services either on its own or together with other resources that are readily available), and are distinct in the context of the contract (i.e., it is separately identifiable from other goods or services in the contract). To the extent a contract includes multiple promises, we must apply judgment to determine whether those promises are separate and distinct performance obligations. If these criteria are not met, the promises are accounted for as a combined performance obligation.

28

Determining the transaction price. The transaction price is determined based on the consideration that we will be entitled to receive in exchange for transferring our goods and services to the customer. Determining the transaction price often requires significant judgment, based on an assessment of contractual terms and business practices. It further includes review of variable consideration such as discounts, sales returns, price protection, and rebates, which is estimated at the time of the transaction. See below for additional information regarding our sales returns and price protection reserves. In addition, the transaction price does not include an estimate of the variable consideration related to sales-based royalties. Sales-based royalties are recognized as the sales occur.

Allocating the transaction price. Allocating the transaction price requires that we determine an estimate of the relative stand-alone selling price for each distinct performance obligation. Determining the relative stand-alone selling price is inherently subjective, especially in situations where we do not sell the performance obligation on a stand-alone basis (which occurs in the majority of our transactions). In those situations, we determine the relative stand-alone selling price based on various observable inputs using all information that is reasonably available. Examples of observable inputs and information include: historical internal pricing data, cost plus margin analyses, third-party external pricing of similar or same products and services such as software licenses and maintenance support within the enterprise software industry. The results of our analysis resulted in a specific percentage of the transaction price being allocated to each performance obligation.

Determining the Estimated Offering Period. The offering period is the period in which we offer to provide the future update rights and/or online hosting for the game and related extra content sold. Because the offering period is not an explicitly defined period, we must make an estimate of the offering period for the service related performance obligations (i.e., future update rights and online hosting). Determining the Estimated Offering Period is inherently subjective and is subject to regular revision. Generally, we consider the average period of time customers are online when estimating the offering period. We also consider the estimated period of time between the date a game unit is sold to a reseller and the date the reseller sells the game unit to the customer (i.e., time in channel). Based on these two factors, we then consider the method of distribution. For example, games sold at retail would have a composite offering period equal to the online gameplay period plus time in channel as opposed to digitally-distributed software licenses which are delivered immediately via digital download and therefore, the offering period is estimated to be only the online gameplay period.

Additionally, we consider results from prior analyses, known and expected online gameplay trends, as well as disclosed service periods for competitors’ games in determining the Estimated Offering Period for future sales. We believe this provides a reasonable depiction of the transfer of future update rights and online hosting to our customers, as it is the best representation of the time period during which our games are played. We recognize revenue for future update rights and online hosting performance obligations ratably on a straight-line basis over this period as there is a consistent pattern of delivery for these performance obligations. These performance obligations are generally recognized over an estimated nine-month period beginning in the month after shipment for software licenses sold through retail and an estimated six-month period for digitally-distributed software licenses beginning in the month of sale.

Deferred Net Revenue

Because the majority of our sales transactions include future update rights and online hosting performance obligations, which are subject to a recognition period of generally six to nine months, our deferred net revenue balance is material. This balance increases from period to period by the revenue being deferred for current sales with these service obligations and is reduced by the recognition of revenue from prior sales that were deferred. Generally, revenue is recognized as the services are provided. 

29

Principal Agent Considerations

We evaluate sales to end customers of our full games and related content via third-party storefronts, including digital storefronts such as Microsoft’s Xbox Store, Sony’s PlayStation Store, Apple App Store, and Google Play Store, in order to determine whether or not we are acting as the principal in the sale to the end customer, which we consider in determining if revenue should be reported gross or net of fees retained by the third-party storefront. An entity is the principal if it controls a good or service before it is transferred to the end customer. Key indicators that we evaluate in determining gross versus net treatment include but are not limited to the following:

•the underlying contract terms and conditions between the various parties to the transaction;

•which party is primarily responsible for fulfilling the promise to provide the specified good or service to the end customer;

•which party has inventory risk before the specified good or service has been transferred to the end customer; and

•which party has discretion in establishing the price for the specified good or service. 

Based on an evaluation of the above indicators, except as discussed below, we have determined that generally the third party is considered the principal to end customers for the sale of our full games and related content. We therefore report revenue related to these arrangements net of the fees retained by the storefront. However, for sales arrangements via Apple App Store and Google Play Store, EA is considered the principal to the end customer and thus, we report revenue on a gross basis and mobile platform fees are reported within cost of revenue.

Payment Terms

Substantially all of our transactions have payment terms, whether customary or on an extended basis, of less than one year; therefore, we generally do not adjust the transaction price for the effects of any potential financing components that may exist.

Sales and Value-Added Taxes

Revenue is recorded net of taxes assessed by governmental authorities that are imposed at the time of the specific revenue-producing transaction between us and our customer, such as sales and value-added taxes.

Sales Returns and Price Protection Reserves

Sales returns and price protection are considered variable consideration under ASC 606. We reduce revenue for estimated future returns and price protection which may occur with our distributors and retailers (“channel partners”). Price protection represents our practice to provide our channel partners with a credit allowance to lower their wholesale price on a particular game unit that they have not resold to customers. The amount of the price protection for permanent markdowns is the difference between the old wholesale price and the new reduced wholesale price. Credits are also given for short-term promotions that temporarily reduce the wholesale price. In certain countries we also have a practice for allowing channel partners to return older products in the channel in exchange for a credit allowance.

When evaluating the adequacy of sales returns and price protection reserves, we analyze the following: historical credit allowances, current sell-through of our channel partners’ inventory of our products, current trends in retail and the video game industry, changes in customer demand, acceptance of our products, and other related factors. In addition, we monitor the volume of sales to our channel partners and their inventories, as substantial overstocking in the distribution channel could result in high returns or higher price protection in subsequent periods.

In the future, actual returns and price protections may materially exceed our estimates as unsold products in the distribution channels are exposed to rapid changes in customer preferences, market conditions or technological obsolescence due to new platforms, product updates or competing products. While we believe we can make reliable estimates regarding these matters, these estimates are inherently subjective. Accordingly, if our estimates change, our returns and price protection reserves would change and would impact the transaction price and thus, the total net revenue and related balance sheet accounts that we report.

Fair Value Estimates

Business Combinations.  We must estimate the fair value of assets acquired, liabilities and contingencies assumed, acquired in-process technology, and contingent consideration issued in a business combination. Our assessment of the estimated fair value 

30

of each of these can have a material effect on our reported results as intangible assets are amortized over various estimated useful lives. Furthermore, the estimated fair value assigned to an acquired asset or liability has a direct impact on the amount we recognize as goodwill, which is an asset that is not amortized. Determining the fair value of assets acquired requires an assessment of the highest and best use or the expected price to sell the asset and the related expected future cash flows. Determining the fair value of acquired in-process technology also requires an assessment of our expectations related to the use of that technology. Determining the fair value of an assumed liability requires an assessment of the expected cost to transfer the liability. Determining the fair value of contingent consideration requires an assessment of the probability-weighted expected future cash flows over the period in which the obligation is expected to be settled, and applying a discount rate that appropriately captures the risk associated with the obligation. The significant unobservable inputs used in the fair value measurement of the contingent consideration payable are forecasted earnings. Significant changes in forecasted earnings would result in significantly higher or lower fair value measurement. This fair value assessment is also required in periods subsequent to a business combination. Such estimates are inherently difficult and subjective and can have a material impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements.

Income Taxes

We recognize deferred tax assets and liabilities for both (1) the expected impact of differences between the financial statement amount and the tax basis of assets and liabilities and (2) the expected future tax benefit to be derived from tax losses and tax credit carryforwards. We record a valuation allowance against deferred tax assets when it is considered more likely than not that all or a portion of our deferred tax assets will not be realized. In making this determination, we are required to give significant weight to evidence that can be objectively verified. It is generally difficult to conclude that a valuation allowance is not needed when there is significant negative evidence, such as cumulative losses in recent years. Forecasts of future taxable income are considered to be less objective than past results. Therefore, cumulative losses weigh heavily in the overall assessment.

In addition to considering forecasts of future taxable income, we are also required to evaluate and quantify other possible sources of taxable income in order to assess the realization of our deferred tax assets, namely the reversal of existing deferred tax liabilities, the carryback of losses and credits as allowed under current tax law, and the implementation of tax planning strategies. Evaluating and quantifying these amounts involves significant judgments. Each source of income must be evaluated based on all positive and negative evidence; this evaluation involves assumptions about future activity. Certain taxable temporary differences that are not expected to reverse during the carry forward periods permitted by tax law cannot be considered as a source of future taxable income that may be available to realize the benefit of deferred tax assets.

On December 22, 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the “U.S. Tax Act”) was enacted which significantly revised the U.S. corporate income tax system by, among other things, lowering the U.S. corporate income tax rates to 21 percent, generally implementing a territorial tax system, and imposing a one-time transition tax on the deemed repatriation of undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries (the “Transition Tax”). We have concluded the accounting under the U.S. Tax Act within the time period set forth in SAB 118, the SEC guidance that allowed for a measurement period of up to one year after the enactment date of the U.S. Tax Act to finalize the recording of the related tax impacts, including the impacts of the Transition Tax, the remeasurement of U.S. deferred tax assets and liabilities as a result of the reduction of the U.S. corporate tax rate, and the accounting policy election related to U.S. taxes on foreign earnings. We recorded tax expense of $235 million related to the U.S. Tax Act for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018, $192 million of which relates to the Transition Tax. During the fiscal year ended March 31, 2019, we made no material adjustments to our provisional amounts recognized due to the U.S. Tax Act during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018. 

The U.S. Tax Act creates new U.S. taxes on foreign earnings. An accounting policy election is available to either recognize the deferred tax impacts of the U.S. taxes on foreign earnings or to account for them as a period cost. We have elected to account for the impacts of these new taxes as a period cost.

Prior to the U.S. Tax Act, a substantial majority of undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries were considered to be indefinitely reinvested. As a result of the U.S. Tax Act, substantially all previously unremitted earnings for which no U.S. deferred tax liability had been accrued have now been subject to U.S. tax. Any future earnings of our foreign subsidiaries are generally available for repatriation without a material incremental U.S. tax cost.

As part of the process of preparing our Consolidated Financial Statements, we are required to estimate our income taxes in each jurisdiction in which we operate prior to the completion and filing of tax returns for such periods. This process requires estimating both our geographic mix of income and our uncertain tax positions in each jurisdiction where we operate. These estimates involve complex issues and require us to make judgments about the likely application of the tax law to our situation, 

31

as well as with respect to other matters, such as anticipating the positions that we will take on tax returns prior to our preparing the returns and the outcomes of disputes with tax authorities. The ultimate resolution of these issues may take extended periods of time due to examinations by tax authorities and statutes of limitations. In addition, changes in our business, including acquisitions, changes in our international corporate structure, changes in the geographic location of business functions or assets, changes in the geographic mix and amount of income, as well as changes in our agreements with tax authorities, valuation allowances, applicable accounting rules, applicable tax laws and regulations, rulings and interpretations thereof, developments in tax audit and other matters, and variations in the estimated and actual level of annual pre-tax income can affect the overall effective tax rate.

IMPACT OF RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING STANDARDS

The information under the subheading “Impact of Recently Issued Accounting Standards” in Note 1 — Description of Business and Basis of Presentation to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this Form 10-K is incorporated by reference into this Item 7.

32

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Our fiscal year is reported on a 52- or 53-week period that ends on the Saturday nearest March 31. Our results of operations for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017 contained 52 weeks each and ended on March 30, 2019, March 31, 2018 and April 1, 2017, respectively. For simplicity of disclosure, all fiscal periods are referred to as ending on a calendar month end.

Net Revenue

Net revenue consists of sales generated from (1) full games sold as digital downloads or as packaged goods and designed for play on game consoles and PCs, (2) full games for mobile phones and tablets, (3) live services associated with these games, such as extra-content (4) subscriptions that generally offer access to a selection of full games, in-game content, online services and other benefits, and (5) licensing our games to third parties to distribute and host our games.

We provide two different measures of our Net Revenue: (1) Net Revenue by Product revenue and Service and other revenue, and (2) Net Revenue by Composition, which is primarily based on method of distribution. Management places a greater emphasis and focus on assessing our business through a review of the Net Revenue by Composition (Digital, and Packaged goods and other) than by Net Revenue by Product revenue and Service and other revenue.

Comparison of Fiscal Year 2019 to Fiscal Year 2018

On April 1, 2018, we adopted the New Revenue Standard, which significantly changes the way in which we recognize revenue, including the way in which we present mobile platform fees. We elected to apply the New Revenue Standard using the modified retrospective method. Because of that election, revenue for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018 has not been restated and is reported under the accounting standards in effect for that period. In order to facilitate year-over-year comparisons, in the Net Revenue and Cost of Revenue tables below, we have quantified the amount of the year-over-year change attributable to (1) the adoption of the New Revenue Standard, (2) the change in the way in which we present mobile platform fees and (3) our operations. The amount attributable to our operations is equivalent to the difference between current and prior period net revenues under the Old Revenue Standard. For more information on the adoption of the New Revenue Standard, including information related to the change in how we report mobile revenue, please see Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Note 1 under the heading “Recently Adopted Accounting Standards”.

Net Revenue

Net revenue from our operations for fiscal year 2019 decreased $307 million, as compared to fiscal year 2018. This decrease was driven by a $742 million decrease in revenue primarily from the Battlefield franchise and Mass Effect: Andromeda. This decrease was partially offset by a $435 million increase in revenue primarily from the FIFA and The Sims franchises.

Net Revenue by Product Revenue and Service and Other Revenue

Our Net Revenue by Product revenue and Service and other revenue for fiscal years 2019 and 2018 was as follows (in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Product Revenue

Product net revenue from our operations for fiscal year 2019 decreased $382 million, as compared to fiscal year 2018. This decrease was driven by a $635 million decrease primarily from Battlefield I and Mass Effect: Andromeda. This decrease was partially offset by a $253 million increase primarily from The Sims 4 and Need for Speed Payback and the UFC franchise.

33

Service and Other Revenue

Service and other net revenue from our operations for fiscal year 2019 increased $75 million, as compared to fiscal year 2018. This increase was driven by a $281 million increase primarily from FIFA Ultimate Team and Apex Legends. This increase was partially offset by a $206 million decrease primarily from the Star Wars and Battlefield franchises and Need for Speed 2015, SimCity Mobile and Mass Effect: Andromeda.

Supplemental Net Revenue by Composition

As we continue to evolve our business and more of our products are delivered to consumers digitally, we place a significant emphasis and focus on assessing our business performance through a review of net revenue by composition.

Our net revenue by composition for fiscal years 2019 and 2018 was as follows (in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Digital Net Revenue

Digital net revenue includes full-game downloads, live services, and mobile revenue. Full game download includes revenue from digital sales of full games on console and PC. Live services include revenue from sales of extra content for console, PC, browser games, game software licensed to our third-party publishing partners who distribute our games digitally, subscriptions, and advertising. Mobile includes revenue from the sale of full games and extra content on mobile phones and tablets.

Digital net revenue from our operations for fiscal year 2019 decreased $3 million, as compared to fiscal year 2018. This decrease was due to a $76 million decrease in full-game download revenue primarily driven by Battlefield 1 and a $51 million decrease in mobile revenue primarily driven by Madden Mobile and SimCity Mobile, partially offset by a $124 million increase in live services revenue primarily driven by our Ultimate Team game mode. 

Packaged Goods and Other Net Revenue

Packaged goods net revenue includes revenue from software that is distributed physically. This includes (1) net revenue from game software distributed physically through traditional channels such as brick and mortar retailers, and (2) our software licensing revenue from third parties (for example, makers of console platforms, personal computers or computer accessories) who include certain of our products for sale with their products (for example, OEM bundles). Other net revenue includes our non-software licensing revenue.

Packaged goods and other net revenue from our operations for fiscal year 2019 decreased $304 million, as compared to fiscal year 2018. This decrease was driven by a $448 million decrease primarily from Battlefield 1 and Mass Effect: Andromeda, partially offset by a $144 million increase primarily from Star Wars Battlefront II, UFC 3 and The Sims 4.

34

Cost of Revenue 

Cost of revenue for fiscal years 2019 and 2018 was as follows (in millions): 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Cost of Product Revenue

Cost of product revenue consists of (1) manufacturing royalties, net of volume discounts and other vendor reimbursements, (2) certain royalty expenses for celebrities, professional sports leagues, movie studios and other organizations, and independent software developers, (3) inventory costs, (4) expenses for defective products, (5) write-offs of post launch prepaid royalty costs and losses on previously unrecognized licensed intellectual property commitments, (6) amortization of certain intangible assets, (7) personnel-related costs, and (8) warehousing and distribution costs. We generally recognize volume discounts when they are earned from the manufacturer (typically in connection with the achievement of unit-based milestones); whereas other vendor reimbursements are generally recognized as the related revenue is recognized.

Cost of product revenue from operations decreased by $185 million during fiscal year 2019, as compared to fiscal year 2018. This decrease was primarily due to a decrease in inventory and royalty costs associated with Star Wars Battlefront II, which launched during fiscal year 2018, with no comparable royalty-bearing title launched during fiscal year 2019.

Cost of Service and Other Revenue

Cost of service and other revenue consists primarily of (1) royalty costs, (2) data center, bandwidth and server costs associated with hosting our online games and websites, (3) inventory costs, (4) payment processing fees and (5) mobile platform fees associated with our mobile revenue (for transactions in which we are acting as the principal in the sale to the end customer).

Cost of service and other revenue increased by $42 million during fiscal year 2019, as compared to fiscal year 2018. This increase was primarily due to costs associated with Anthem and Apex Legends, which launched as online-only titles during fiscal year 2019 and resulted in significant data center, bandwidth and server usage.

Research and Development

Research and development expenses consist of expenses incurred by our production studios for personnel-related costs, related overhead costs, contracted services, depreciation and any impairment of prepaid royalties for pre-launch products. Research and development expenses for our online products include expenses incurred by our studios consisting of direct development and related overhead costs in connection with the development and production of our online games. Research and development expenses also include expenses associated with our digital platform, software licenses and maintenance, and management overhead.

Research and development expenses for fiscal years 2019 and 2018 were as follows (in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Research and development expenses increased by $113 million, or 9 percent, in fiscal year 2019, as compared to fiscal year 2018. This $113 million increase was primarily due to (1) a $65 million increase in personnel-related costs primarily resulting from an increase in headcount due to our continued investment in our studios and the Respawn acquisition, partially offset by reduction of variable compensation and related expenses, (2) a $38 million increase in stock-based compensation primarily in connection with the Respawn acquisition, (3) a $22 million increase in facilities-related costs, and (4) an increase in losses of $15 million from our cash flow hedging program in fiscal year 2019 as compared to fiscal year 2018. We use hedges to protect against currency exchange rate movements in our research and development expenses. These increases were partially offset by 

35

a $41 million decrease in development advances primarily resulting from the extinguishment of development advances payable to Respawn as a result of our acquisition.

Marketing and Sales

Marketing and sales expenses consist of personnel-related costs, related overhead costs, advertising, marketing and promotional expenses, net of qualified advertising cost reimbursements from third parties.

Marketing and sales expenses for fiscal years 2019 and 2018 were as follows (in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Marketing and sales expenses increased by $61 million, or 10 percent, in fiscal year 2019, as compared to fiscal year 2018. This $61 million increase was primarily due to an increase in advertising and promotional spending associated with our 2019 game launches, particularly with respect to the marketing and promotional campaigns associated with our two new intellectual properties, Anthem and Apex Legends.

General and Administrative

General and administrative expenses consist of personnel and related expenses of executive and administrative staff, corporate functions such as finance, legal, human resources, and information technology, related overhead costs, fees for professional services such as legal and accounting, and allowances for doubtful accounts.

General and administrative expenses for fiscal years 2019 and 2018 were as follows (in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

General and administrative expenses decreased by $9 million, or 2 percent, in fiscal year 2019, as compared to fiscal year 2018. This $9 million decrease was primarily due to a $24 million decrease in contracted services primarily due to lower legal expenses. This decrease was partially offset by an $11 million increase primarily in IT security costs and a $6 million increase in personnel-related costs resulting from an increase in headcount.

Income Taxes

Provision for income taxes for fiscal years 2019 and 2018 was as follows (in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Our effective tax rate for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2019 was 5.6 percent as compared 28.0 percent for the same period in fiscal year 2018. Our effective tax rate and resulting provision for income taxes for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2019 was significantly lower than the same period in fiscal year 2018 due to the recognition of the impacts of the U.S. Tax Act in fiscal year ended March 31, 2018, a change in the mix of earnings, and the lower statutory tax rate applied to earnings realized in the U.S. The U.S. Tax Act significantly revised the U.S. corporate income tax system by, among other things, lowering the U.S. corporate income tax rate to 21 percent, generally implementing a territorial tax system and imposing the Transition Tax. 

We have concluded the accounting under the U.S. Tax Act within the time period set forth in SAB 118, the SEC guidance that allowed for a measurement period of up to one year after the enactment date of the U.S. Tax Act to finalize the recording of the related tax impacts, including the impacts of the Transition Tax, the remeasurement of U.S. deferred tax assets and liabilities as a result of the reduction of the U.S. corporate tax rate, and the accounting policy election related to U.S. taxes on foreign earnings. We recorded tax expense of $235 million related to the U.S. Tax Act for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018, $192 million of which relates to the Transition Tax. During the year ended March 31, 2019, we made no material adjustments to our provisional amounts recognized due to the U.S. Tax Act during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018.

36

The U.S. Tax Act creates new U.S. taxes on foreign earnings. An accounting policy election is available to either recognize the deferred tax impacts of the U.S. taxes on foreign earnings or to account for them as a period cost. We have elected to account for the impacts of these new taxes as a period cost. 

Our effective tax rates for fiscal year 2020 and future periods will continue to depend on a variety of factors, including changes in our business, such as acquisitions and intercompany transactions, our corporate structure, the geographic location of business functions or assets, the geographic mix of income, our agreements with tax authorities, applicable accounting rules, applicable tax laws and regulations, rulings and interpretations thereof, developments in tax audit and other matters, and variations in our annual pre-tax income or loss. We anticipate that the impact of excess tax benefits and tax deficiencies may result in significant fluctuations to our effective tax rate in the future. 

Subsequent to the fiscal year ended March 31, 2019, we completed an intra-entity sale of some of our intellectual property rights to our Swiss subsidiary, where our international business is headquartered. The transaction did not result in a taxable gain. Under U.S. GAAP, any profit resulting from this intercompany transaction will be eliminated upon consolidation. However, the transaction resulted in a step-up of the Swiss tax deductible basis in the transferred intellectual property rights and, accordingly, created a temporary difference between the book basis and the tax basis of such intellectual property rights. As a result, this transaction will result in the recognition of a deferred tax asset, which we estimate at approximately $2.3 billion, subject to a realizability analysis. The deferred tax asset will be recognized as a one-time tax benefit in our consolidated financial statements during the three months ending June 30, 2019. This deferred tax asset will reverse over a 20-year period and is subject to a periodic realizability analysis. The deferred tax asset and the one-time tax benefit will be measured based on the Swiss tax rate expected to apply in the years the asset will be recovered. We will not recognize any deferred taxes related to the U.S. taxes on foreign earnings associated with this transfer due to our policy election to recognize these taxes as a period cost. We do not expect the transaction to impact our cash taxes or our operating cash flow in fiscal year 2020.

Comparison of Fiscal Year 2018 to Fiscal Year 2017

For the comparison of fiscal year 2018 to fiscal year 2017, refer to Part II, Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for our fiscal year ended March 31, 2018, filed with the SEC on May 23, 2018 under the subheading “Comparison of Fiscal Year 2018 to Fiscal Year 2017.”

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

For the comparison of fiscal year 2018 to fiscal year 2017, refer to Part II, Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for our fiscal year ended March 31, 2018, filed with the SEC on May 23, 2018 under the subheading “Liquidity and Capital Resources”.

37

Changes in Cash Flow

Operating Activities. Net cash provided by operating activities decreased by $145 million during fiscal year 2019 as compared to fiscal year 2018. The decrease is primarily driven by lower cash receipts related to a decrease in net bookings and an increase in cash paid for taxes, partially offset by lower royalty payments and higher interest income.

Investing Activities. Net cash provided by investing activities decreased by $453 million during fiscal year 2019 as compared to fiscal year 2018 primarily driven by a $1,478 million decrease in proceeds from the sales and maturities of short-term investments. This was partially offset by a $945 million decrease in the purchase of short-term investments and a $92 million decrease in payments in connection with mergers and acquisitions activity.

Financing Activities. Net cash used in financing activities increased by $610 million during fiscal year 2019 as compared to fiscal year 2018 primarily due to a $591 million increase in the repurchase and retirement of our common stock.

Short-term Investments

Due to our mix of fixed and variable rate securities, our short-term investment portfolio is susceptible to changes in short-term interest rates. As of March 31, 2019, our short-term investments had gross unrealized losses of $1 million, or less than 1 percent of the total in short-term investments, and gross unrealized gains of less than $1 million, or less than 1 percent of the total in short-term investments. From time to time, we may liquidate some or all of our short-term investments to fund operational needs or other activities, such as capital expenditures, business acquisitions or stock repurchase programs. 

Senior Notes

In February 2016, we issued $600 million aggregate principal amount of the 2021 Notes and $400 million aggregate principal amount of the 2026 Notes. We used the net proceeds of $989 million for general corporate purposes, including the payment of our formerly outstanding convertible notes and repurchases of our common stock. The effective interest rate is 3.94% for the 2021 Notes and 4.97% for the 2026 Notes. Interest is payable semiannually in arrears, on March 1 and September 1 of each year. See Note 12 — Financing Arrangements to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this Form 10-K as it relates to our Senior Notes, which is incorporated by reference into this Item 7. 

Credit Facility

In March 2015, we entered into a $500 million senior unsecured revolving credit facility with a syndicate of banks. As of March 31, 2019, no amounts were outstanding under the credit facility. See Note 12 — Financing Arrangements to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this Form 10-K as it relates to our credit facility, which is incorporated by reference into this Item 7.

Financial Condition

We believe that our cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments, cash generated from operations and available financing facilities will be sufficient to meet our operating requirements for at least the next 12 months, including working capital requirements, capital expenditures, debt repayment obligations, and potentially, future acquisitions, stock repurchases, or strategic investments. We may choose at any time to raise additional capital to repay debt, strengthen our financial position, facilitate expansion, repurchase our stock, pursue strategic acquisitions and investments, and/or to take advantage of business opportunities as they arise. There can be no assurance, however, that such additional capital will be available to us on favorable terms, if at all, or that it will not result in substantial dilution to our existing stockholders.

In May 2018, a Special Committee of our Board of Directors, on behalf of the full Board of Directors, authorized a program to repurchase up to $2.4 billion of our common stock. This stock repurchase program supersedes and replaces the May 2017 program, and expires on May 31, 2020. Under this program, we may purchase stock in the open market or through privately-negotiated transactions in accordance with applicable securities laws, including pursuant to pre-arranged stock trading plans. The timing and actual amount of the stock repurchases will depend on several factors including price, capital availability, regulatory requirements, alternative investment opportunities and other market conditions. We are not obligated to repurchase a specific number of shares under this program and it may be modified, suspended or discontinued at any time. We repurchased approximately 10.4 million shares for approximately $1,116 million under this program during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2019. We are actively repurchasing shares under this program.

38

We have a “shelf” registration statement on Form S-3 on file with the SEC. This shelf registration statement, which includes a base prospectus, allows us at any time to offer any combination of securities described in the prospectus in one or more offerings. Unless otherwise specified in a prospectus supplement accompanying the base prospectus, we would use the net proceeds from the sale of any securities offered pursuant to the shelf registration statement for general corporate purposes, which may include funding for working capital, financing capital expenditures, research and development, marketing and distribution efforts, and if opportunities arise, for acquisitions or strategic alliances. Pending such uses, we may invest the net proceeds in interest-bearing securities. In addition, we may conduct concurrent or other financings at any time.

Our ability to maintain sufficient liquidity could be affected by various risks and uncertainties including, but not limited to, those related to customer demand and acceptance of our products, our ability to collect our accounts receivable as they become due, successfully achieving our product release schedules and attaining our forecasted sales objectives, the impact of acquisitions and other strategic transactions in which we may engage, the impact of competition, economic conditions in the United States and abroad, the seasonal and cyclical nature of our business and operating results, risks of product returns and the other risks described in the “Risk Factors” section, included in Part I, Item 1A of this report.

Contractual Obligations and Commercial Commitments

See Note 13 — Commitments and Contingencies to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this Form 10-K as it relates to our contractual obligations and commercial commitments, which is incorporated by reference into this Item 7.

OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS

As of March 31, 2019, we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements, as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of Regulation S-K promulgated by the SEC, that have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues and expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures, or capital resources that are material to investors.

INFLATION

We believe the impact of inflation on our results of operations has not been significant in any of the past three fiscal years.

Item 7A: Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk