ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

In the normal course of our business, we are exposed to market risk, primarily from changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates that could impact our results of operations and financial position. We manage our exposure to these market risks through our regular operating and financing activities, and, when deemed appropriate, through the use of derivative financial instruments, such as interest rate swaps, to hedge certain of these exposures. We use derivative financial instruments as risk management tools and not for speculative or trading purposes.

Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk

A substantial majority of our revenue, expense and capital expenditure activities are transacted in U.S. dollars. However, we do transact business in other currencies, primarily the British pound, the Australian dollar, the Canadian dollar, the Chilean peso, the Argentine peso and the Euro. For most of these foreign currencies, we are a net recipient, and, therefore, benefit from a weaker U.S. dollar and are adversely affected by a stronger U.S. dollar relative to the foreign currencies in which we transact significant amounts of business.

We are required to translate, or express in U.S. dollars, the assets and liabilities of our foreign subsidiaries that are denominated or measured in foreign currencies at the applicable year-end rate of exchange on our Consolidated Balance Sheets and income statement items of our foreign subsidiaries at the average rates prevailing during the year. We record the resulting translation adjustment, and gains and losses resulting from the translation of intercompany balances of a long-term investment nature within other comprehensive income, as a component of our shareholders’ equity. Foreign currency transaction gains and losses, which have historically been immaterial, are recorded on our Consolidated Statements of Income. We generally do not mitigate the risks associated with fluctuating exchange rates, although we may from time to time through forward contracts or other derivative instruments hedge a portion of our translational foreign currency exposure or exchange rate risks associated with material transactions which are denominated in a foreign currency.

For the year ended December 31, 2018, a 10% weaker U.S. dollar against the currencies of all foreign countries in which we had operations during 2018 would have increased our revenue by $55.9 million and our pre-tax operating profit by $10.7 million. For the year ended December 31, 2017, a 10% weaker U.S. dollar against the currencies of all foreign countries in which we had operations during 2017 would have increased our revenue by $54.7 million and our pre-tax operating profit by $18.6 million. A 10% stronger U.S. dollar would have resulted in similar decreases to our revenue and pre-tax operating profit for 2018 and 2017.

On average across our mix of international businesses, foreign currencies at December 31, 2018 were weaker against the U.S. dollar than the average foreign exchange rates that prevailed across the full year 2018. As a result, if foreign exchange rates were unchanged throughout 2019, foreign exchange translation would reduce growth as reported in U.S. dollars. As foreign exchange rates change daily, there can be no assurance that foreign exchange rates will remain constant throughout 2019, and rates could go either higher or lower.

Interest Rate Risk

Our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates to our variable-rate commercial paper, Revolver, and Floating Rate Senior Note borrowings. We attempt to achieve the lowest all-in weighted-average cost of debt while simultaneously taking into account the mix of our fixed- and floating-rate debt, and the average life and scheduled maturities of our debt. At December 31, 2018, our weighted average cost of debt was 3.8% and weighted-average life of debt was 5.42 years. At December 31, 2018, 89% of our debt was fixed rate, and the remaining 11% was variable rate. Occasionally we use derivatives to manage our exposure to changes in interest rates by entering into interest rate swaps. A 100 basis point increase in the weighted-average interest rate on our variable-rate debt would have increased our 2018 interest expense by $3.0 million.

Based on the amount of outstanding variable-rate debt, we have exposure to interest rate risk. In the future, if our mix of fixed-rate and variable-rate debt were to change due to additional borrowings under existing or new variable-rate debt, we could have additional exposure to interest rate risk. The nature and amount of our long-term and short-term debt, as well as the proportionate amount of fixed-rate and variable-rate debt, can be expected to vary as a result of future business requirements, market conditions and other factors.

58

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA