ITEM 1. BUSINESS

OVERVIEW

Company Overview 

E*TRADE is a financial services company that provides brokerage and related products and services for traders, investors, stock plan administrators and participants, and registered investment advisors (RIAs). Founded on the principle of innovation, we aim to enhance the financial independence of traders and investors through a powerful digital offering that includes tools and educational materials, complemented by professional advice and support, catering to the complex and unique needs of customers to help meet their near- and long-term investing goals. We provide these services to customers through our digital platforms and network of industry-licensed customer service representatives and financial consultants, over the phone, by email and online via two national financial centers and in-person at 30 regional financial centers across the United States. We operate federally chartered savings banks with the primary purpose of maximizing the value of deposits generated through our brokerage business.

Our corporate offices are located at 11 Times Square, 32nd Floor, New York, New York 10036. We were incorporated in California in 1982 and reincorporated in Delaware in July 1996. We had approximately 4,000 employees at December 31, 2018. We operate directly and through several subsidiaries, many of which are overseen by governmental and self-regulatory organizations (SROs). Substantially all of our revenues for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 were derived from our operations in the United States. Our most important subsidiaries are described below:

•E*TRADE Securities LLC (E*TRADE Securities) is a registered broker-dealer that clears and settles customer transactions

•E*TRADE Bank is a federally chartered savings bank that provides Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) insurance on certain qualifying amounts of customer deposits and provides other banking and cash management capabilities

•E*TRADE Savings Bank, a subsidiary of E*TRADE Bank, is a federally chartered savings bank that provides FDIC insurance on certain qualifying amounts of customer deposits and provides custody solutions for RIAs

•E*TRADE Financial Corporate Services is a provider of software and services for managing equity compensation plans to our corporate clients

•E*TRADE Futures LLC (E*TRADE Futures) is a registered non-clearing Futures Commission Merchant (FCM) that provides retail futures transaction capabilities for our customers

•E*TRADE Capital Management, LLC (E*TRADE Capital Management) is a registered investment advisor that provides investment advisory services for our customers

E*TRADE 2018 10-K | Page 3

Table of Contents 

Delivering a powerful digital offering for our customers is a core pillar of our business strategy and we believe our focus on being a digital leader in the financial services industry is a competitive advantage. Our services are available through the following award-winning digital platforms:

Web

Our leading-edge sites for customers and our primary channel to interact with prospects

• Access to a broad range of trading and investing solutions

• Actionable ideas and information

• Research and education for decision making

Mobile

Powerful trading and investing applications for smartphones, tablets and watches

• Top-rated mobile apps

• Platforms to manage accounts on the move

• Stock and portfolio alerts

Active Trading Platforms

Powerful software and web-based trading solutions

• Sophisticated trading tools

• Advanced portfolio and market tracking

• Idea generation and analysis

STRATEGY

Our business strategy is focused on leveraging our brand, hybrid support model, and technology to grow our retail and institutional channels to generate robust earnings and exceptional returns for the benefit of our shareholders.

Leverage our brand, hybrid support model, and leading technology for scale and growth

E*TRADE's unrivaled and tech-forward brand is synonymous with digital brokerage and drives outsized awareness and consideration among business-to-customer and business-to-business audiences. We are able to serve peak volumes across channels with capacity for growth and acquisition through our strong and scalable infrastructure. Our customers benefit from digitally led experiences, complemented by professional advice and support. We cater to the complex and unique needs of traders, investors, stock plan administrators and participants, and independent registered investment advisors.

Empower self-directed retail customers through a powerful digital offering and professional guidance

E*TRADE has three core digital offerings for the retail investor—trading, investing, and banking. With trading, we maintain a leading position among active and derivatives traders through the Power E*TRADE web-based platform and support model. On the investing front we connect customers with a range of easy-to-use wealth management solutions. And lastly, we are advancing digital banking capabilities to help increase engagement with customers and prospects.

E*TRADE 2018 10-K | Page 4

Table of Contents 

Capitalize on symbiotic institutional channels to drive growth

E*TRADE serves two institutional client segments—stock plan administrators and RIAs. These channels are critical for growth. We aim to expand on our #1 position in stock plan administration through innovative digital solutions and expert support—driving growth in retail and institutional relationships. On the RIA front, we plan to leverage the power of E*TRADE's brand, digital ethos, and our broad customer base to grow the RIA channel. We also plan to connect retail customers and stock plan participants seeking higher touch services to top-tier advisors through our recently launched referral network—driving asset growth and retention.

Generate robust earnings growth and returns

We aim to deliver superior returns on customer assets by capturing the full value of our retail and institutional relationships by leveraging E*TRADE's highly scalable model to expand operating margin. We aim to return a significant portion of our earnings to shareholders and expand return on equity over time. We also aim to generate robust annual earnings growth.

PRODUCTS AND SERVICES

We offer a broad range of products and services to our customers. Our core brokerage business is organized into four product areas: Trading, Investing, Corporate Services, and Advisor Services. Additionally, we offer banking and cash management capabilities through our banking subsidiaries. 

Trading

The Company delivers automated trade order placement and execution services, offering our customers a full range of investment vehicles, including US equities, exchange-traded funds (ETFs), options, bonds, futures, American depositary receipts and non-proprietary mutual funds. We also offer margin accounts, enabling qualifying customers to borrow against their securities, supported by robust margin solutions, including calculators and requirement lookup and analysis tools. The Company also offers a fully paid lending program which allows customers to earn income on certain securities held in cash accounts when they permit us to lend those securities.

The Company markets trading products and services to active traders and self-directed investors. Products and services are delivered through web, desktop and mobile channels. Trading and investing tools are supported by guidance, including fixed income, options and futures specialists available on-call for customers. Other tools and resources include independent research and analytics, live and on-demand education, market commentary, and strategies, trading ideas and screeners for major asset classes.

Investing

The Company endeavors to help investors build wealth and address their long-term investing needs through a variety of products and services, a suite of managed products and asset allocation models. These include our Core Portfolios, Blend Portfolios, Dedicated Portfolios, and Fixed Income Portfolios. The Company also offers self-directed digital tools across web and mobile channels, including mutual fund and ETF screeners, All Star Lists, a collection of pre-built ETF or mutual fund portfolios based on time frame and risk tolerance, an assortment of planning and allocation tools, thematic investing opportunities, education and editorial content. Investors also have access to a wide selection of ETFs and mutual funds, including more than 250 commission-free ETFs and more than 4,400 no-load, no-transaction fee mutual funds.

The Company also offers guidance through a team of licensed financial consultants and Chartered Retirement Planning CounselorsSM at our 30 regional financial centers and through our two national financial centers by phone, email and online channels. Customers can receive complimentary portfolio reviews and personalized investment recommendations.

E*TRADE 2018 10-K | Page 5

Table of Contents 

Corporate Services

The Company provides stock plan administration services for public and private companies. Through our industry-leading platform, Equity Edge Online, the Company offers management of employee stock option plans, employee stock purchase plans and restricted stock plans with fully-automated stock plan administration. Accounting, reporting and scenario modeling tools are also available. The integrated stock plan solutions include multi-currency settlement and delivery, and streamlined tax calculation. Additionally, corporate clients are offered 10b5-1 plan design and implementation, along with SEC filing assistance and automated solutions. Through our platform, participants have enhanced visibility into the creation and approval of their plan through digital tools and resources. Participants have full access to E*TRADE's robust investing and trading capabilities, including tailored education and planning tools, and dedicated stock plan service representatives. Corporate Services is an important driver of brokerage account and asset growth, serving as an introductory channel to the Company, with approximately 1.8 million stock plan accounts. We serve approximately 20% of S&P 500 companies, including nearly 40% of technology companies and over 50% of healthcare companies within the S&P 500 index. During the year ended December 31, 2018, we had $23.0 billion of new client implementations through this channel. 

Advisor Services

With the acquisition of TCA, which was completed on April 9, 2018, the Company has expanded its ability to provide custody services to independent RIAs. Liberty, our proprietary technology platform, includes sophisticated modeling, rebalancing, reporting and practice management capabilities that are fully customizable for the RIA. We have launched a referral program, the E*TRADE Advisor Network, through which E*TRADE's financial consultants can refer retail customers to pre-qualified RIAs on our custody platform. We expect the E*TRADE Advisor Network will improve the Company's ability to drive asset growth and retain customers seeking specialized services and sophisticated advice. 

Banking and Cash Management Capabilities

The Company's banking and cash management capabilities include deposit accounts insured by the FDIC, which are fully integrated into customer brokerage accounts. Among other features, E*TRADE Bank's customers are able to transfer to and from accounts at E*TRADE and elsewhere for free and checking account customers have access to debit cards with ATM fee refunds, online and mobile bill pay, and mobile check deposits. E*TRADE Bank's savings account offerings include the new Premium Savings Account, which provides a higher yield to savings account customers as compared to our other deposit products. The E*TRADE Line of Credit program allows customers to borrow against the market value of securities pledged as collateral.

E*TRADE 2018 10-K | Page 6

Table of Contents 

SALES AND CUSTOMER SERVICE

We believe providing superior sales and customer service is fundamental to our business. We strive to maintain a high standard of customer service by staffing the customer support team with appropriately trained personnel who are equipped to handle customer inquiries in a prompt and thorough manner. Our customer service representatives utilize technology solutions that enable our team to reduce the number of touch-points required to address customer needs. We also have specialized customer service programs that are tailored to the needs of various customer groups. We provide sales and customer support through the following channels:

Online

Our Online Service Center serves as a portal for customer requests, providing answers to frequently asked questions, a secure message portal, and live chat capabilities to engage directly with our customer service representatives. In addition, our Investor Education Center provides customers with access to a variety of live and on-demand educational content and courses.

Phone

We have a toll-free number that connects customers to the appropriate department where an investment advisor or customer service representative can address a customer's needs.

Financial Centers

We have 30 financial centers located across the US where retail investors can get face-to-face support and guidance. Financial consultants are available on-site, over the phone and via email to help customers assess their asset allocations and develop plans to help them achieve their investment goals. 

COMPETITION

The online financial services industry continues to evolve and remains highly competitive. Our core brokerage business competes with full service, discount, and online brokerage firms, RIAs, finance technology start-ups, and internet, retail and savings banks. Some of these competitors provide online trading and banking services, investment advisor services, robo-advice capabilities, and a host of other financial products and services.

Competition in the financial services industry continues to intensify, particularly amid continued consolidation and pressures on pricing. The proliferation of emerging financial technology start-ups further evidences the continued shift to digital offerings. Our future success will depend upon our ability to continue providing digitally compelling and easy to use products and solutions to our customers.

We also face competition in attracting and retaining qualified employees. Our ability to compete effectively in financial services will depend upon our ability to attract new employees, and to retain and motivate our existing employees while efficiently managing compensation-related costs.

E*TRADE 2018 10-K | Page 7

Table of Contents 

REGULATION

Our business is subject to regulation, primarily by US federal and state regulatory agencies and certain SROs, such as central banks and securities exchanges, that have been charged with the protection of the financial markets and the interests of those participating in those markets. We, along with other larger institutions, have been subject to a broad range of rules and regulations and a climate of heightened regulatory scrutiny, that resulted in part from the enactment of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Dodd-Frank Act) in 2010, which significantly changed the bank regulatory structure of our Company and its federal savings bank subsidiaries. 

In May 2018, the Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief, and Consumer Protection Act of 2018 (EGRRCPA) was passed. The EGRRCPA amended provisions in the Dodd-Frank Act as well as other statutes administered by the Federal Reserve Board, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC), and the FDIC (collectively, the “federal banking agencies”). In July 2018, the federal banking agencies issued a joint release clarifying that as a result of the passage of EGRRCPA, certain requirements, including company-run stress testing requirements under the Dodd-Frank Act, would no longer be required for savings and loan holding companies and banks with less than $100 billion in total consolidated assets, such as the Company and E*TRADE Bank. In addition, the Federal Reserve Board issued a separate statement clarifying that, pursuant to EGRRCPA, it will not take action to enforce certain regulatory and reporting requirements, including the modified liquidity coverage ratio for firms, like the Company, with less than $100 billion in total consolidated assets. The Federal Reserve Board issued a proposal in October 2018 that, if adopted as proposed, would apply certain requirements to savings and loan holding companies with $100 billion or more in total consolidated assets; while the Company currently does not surpass that threshold, it could in the future.

Financial Services Regulation

Our regulators are increasingly focused on ensuring that our customer privacy, data protection, information security and cyber security-related policies and practices are adequate to inform consumers of our data collection, use, sharing or security practices, to provide them with choices, if required, about how we use and share their information, and to safeguard their personal information. We maintain systems designed to comply with these privacy, data protection, information security and cyber security requirements, including procedures designed to securely process, transmit and store confidential information and protect against unauthorized access to such information.

Our brokerage and banking entities are required by the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999 to disclose their privacy policies and practices related to sharing customer information with affiliates and non-affiliates. These rules give customers the ability to "opt out" of having non-public information disclosed to third parties or receiving marketing solicitations from affiliates and non-affiliates based on non-public information received from our brokerage and banking entities. The Bank Secrecy Act, as amended by the USA PATRIOT ACT of 2001 (BSA/USA PATRIOT Act), applies to our brokerage and banking entities and requires financial institutions to develop anti-money laundering (AML) programs to assist in the prevention and detection of money laundering and combating terrorism. In order to comply with the BSA/USA PATRIOT Act, we have an AML department that is responsible for developing and implementing our enterprise-wide programs for compliance with the various AML and counter-terrorist financing laws and regulations. Our brokerage and banking entities are also subject to US sanctions laws administered by the Office of Foreign Assets Control and we have policies and procedures in place to comply with these laws. In providing certain retirement account types and services to such accounts, E*TRADE Securities, E*TRADE Capital Management, and E*TRADE Savings Bank are also subject to certain rules and regulations of the Department of Labor and the Internal Revenue Service. For additional regulatory information on our brokerage and banking regulations, see MD&A—Liquidity and Capital Resources and Note 19—Regulatory Requirements.

E*TRADE 2018 10-K | Page 8

Table of Contents 

Savings and Loan Holding Company and Bank Regulation

The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Federal Reserve Board, and together with the twelve Federal Reserve Banks, the Federal Reserve) has primary jurisdiction for the supervision and regulation of savings and loan holding companies, including the Company. We are required to file periodic reports with the Federal Reserve and are subject to its examination and supervision. The Company is required to serve as a source of financial and managerial strength for its subsidiary banks.

Our banking entities are regulated, supervised, and examined by the OCC, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB), and the FDIC. The Company and the banking entities are also subject to regulations and various requirements and restrictions under state and other federal laws. Such regulations cover all aspects of the banking business, including lending practices, safeguarding deposits, customer privacy and information security, capital structure, transactions with affiliates and conduct and qualifications of personnel and provide the regulatory authorities broad discretion in connection with their supervisory, examination and enforcement activities and policies.

In certain circumstances, each of our banking entities may be subject to restrictions on its ability to declare dividends or make capital distributions and may be required to provide notice, submit applications or requests for non-objection from the OCC or the Federal Reserve in connection with a planned capital distribution. The Company’s ability to pay dividends on our stock is subject to limits, including in certain instances the requirement that we consult with or receive approval from the Federal Reserve prior to taking such capital actions to ensure that the proposed actions do not raise safety and soundness considerations. Prior Federal Reserve approval is required for the Company to repurchase its stock and such approval is conditioned on multiple factors, including the Company’s current and projected financial condition.

Basel III Capital Framework

The US Basel III framework for the calculation of a banking organization’s regulatory capital and risk-weighted assets became effective for us and for our federal savings bank subsidiaries on January 1, 2015, subject to a phase-in period for certain requirements over several years. The US Basel III rules increased the quantity and quality of required regulatory capital, established a capital conservation buffer, and made changes to the calculation of risk-weighted assets. Failure to maintain the capital conservation buffer limits a banking organization's ability to make capital distributions and discretionary bonus payments to executive officers. 

Failure to meet capital requirements can trigger discretionary and mandatory actions by regulators. The FDIC Improvement Act of 1991 requires the appropriate federal banking regulator to take "prompt corrective action" with respect to a depository institution if that institution does not meet certain capital adequacy standards. While these regulations generally apply only to banks, such as E*TRADE Bank and E*TRADE Savings Bank, the Federal Reserve is authorized to take appropriate action against a parent savings and loan holding company, such as the Company, based on the undercapitalized status of any bank subsidiary. In certain instances, we would be required to guarantee the performance of a capital restoration plan if either of our bank subsidiaries were undercapitalized.

Resolution Planning

The FDIC currently requires insured depository institutions with total assets of $50 billion or more, based on the average of the four most recent quarters, to submit to the FDIC periodic plans providing for their resolution by the FDIC in the event of failure under the receivership and liquidation provisions of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act. E*TRADE Bank and E*TRADE Savings Bank are currently not subject to these rules, but if either were to exceed the asset threshold, it would be required to file with the FDIC an annual resolution plan demonstrating how it could be resolved in an orderly and timely manner in the event of receivership such that the FDIC would be able to ensure the bank's depositors receive access to their 

E*TRADE 2018 10-K | Page 9

Table of Contents 

deposits within one business day, to maximize the net present value of the bank's assets when disposed of, and to minimize losses incurred by the bank's creditors.

Federal Deposit Insurance and Related Assessments

The FDIC’s Deposit Insurance Fund (DIF) provides insurance coverage for certain deposits, generally up to $250,000 per depositor, per insured bank and per account ownership type, and is funded by quarterly assessments on insured depository institutions. Each of our banking entities has deposits insured by the FDIC and pays quarterly assessments to the DIF, maintained by the FDIC, for this insurance coverage. On March 25, 2016, the FDIC published its final rule to add a surcharge to the regular DIF assessments of banks with $10 billion or more in assets, which included E*TRADE Bank. Under the final rule, E*TRADE Bank was subject to an additional surcharge applied to its assessment base, which took effect for the assessment period beginning on July 1, 2016. Surcharges at an annual rate of 4.5 basis points were assessed until the sooner of (1) the DIF attaining the minimum reserve ratio of 1.35 percent of insured deposits or (2) the fourth quarter of 2018. In November 2018, the FDIC announced the end of these surcharges, with the last surcharge being assessed for the third quarter of 2018. The surcharge did not have a material impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.

Home Owners' Loan Act

Under the Home Owners’ Loan Act, the OCC requires E*TRADE Bank and E*TRADE Savings Bank to comply with the qualified thrift lender (QTL) test. Under the QTL test, a federal savings bank is required to maintain at least 65% of its “portfolio assets” (defined as the savings bank’s total assets less the sum of: (i) specified liquid assets up to 20% of total assets; (ii) intangibles, including goodwill; and (iii) the value of property used to conduct its business) in certain “qualified thrift investments” (primarily residential mortgages and related investments, including certain mortgage-backed securities, credit card loans, student loans and small business loans) in at least nine months of the most recent 12-month period. E*TRADE Bank and E*TRADE Savings Bank currently meet that test. A savings bank that fails to meet the QTL test is subject to certain operating restrictions and may be required to convert to a national bank charter.

Brokerage Regulation and Capital Requirements

Our US broker-dealer, E*TRADE Securities, is registered with the SEC and is subject to regulation by the SEC and by SROs, such as the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA) and the securities exchanges of which it is a member, as well as various state regulators. In addition, our FCM subsidiary, E*TRADE Futures, is registered with the CFTC and is a member of the National Futures Association (NFA). E*TRADE Capital Management is registered with the SEC and is subject to regulation as such by the SEC as well as various state regulators.

Brokerage regulation covers various aspects of brokerage activities, including segregated cash requirements and net capital. E*TRADE Securities carries security accounts for customers and maintains segregated cash and investments pursuant to Rule 15c3-3 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. E*TRADE Futures maintains cash deposits that have been segregated or secured for the benefit of futures clients pursuant to CFTC regulations governing FCMs. E*TRADE Securities is subject to the Uniform Net Capital Rule, Rule 15c3-1 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, which requires the maintenance of minimum net capital, and E*TRADE Futures is subject to CFTC net capital requirements. Brokerage regulation also covers other brokerage activities, including required books and records, safekeeping of funds and securities, trading, prohibited transactions, public offerings, margin lending, customer qualifications for margin and options transactions, registration of personnel and transactions with affiliates. 

E*TRADE 2018 10-K | Page 10

Table of Contents 

AVAILABLE INFORMATION

We make our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports, available free of charge at our corporate website as soon as reasonably practicable after they have been filed with the SEC. Our corporate website address is about.etrade.com. Information on our website is not part of this report. The SEC maintains a website that contains the materials we file with the SEC at www.sec.gov.

ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS