Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

Our business and financial results are affected by fluctuations in world financial markets, including changes in currency exchange rates and interest rates. We manage these risks through a combination of normal operating and financing activities and derivative financial instruments. We do not use derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes.

Interest Rate Risk

Our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our investment portfolio and our long-term debt. Our investment strategy is focused on preserving capital and supporting our liquidity requirements, while earning a reasonable market return. We invest in a variety of fixed-rate debt securities, primarily time deposits, commercial paper, U.S. and foreign government and agency securities, asset-backed securities, corporate debt securities, and municipal debt securities. The market value of our investments may decline if current market interest rates rise. As of December 31, 2018, we had $726.2 million of investments in fixed-rate debt securities which had an average remaining term to maturity of approximately 1.0 years. Taking into consideration the average maturity of our fixed-rate debt securities, a hypothetical 0.5% to 1.0% absolute increase in interest rates at December 31, 2018 would have resulted in a $3.5 million to $7.0 million decrease in the fair value of these investments. Such a decrease would only result in a realized loss if we choose or are forced to sell the investments before the scheduled maturity, which we currently do not anticipate.

For more information related to outstanding debt obligations, see Note 6 to the "Consolidated Financial Statements."

We are also exposed to interest rate risk on our debt obligations. As of December 31, 2018, we had $600.0 million of Notes outstanding that carry a fixed rate, and also had available a $750.0 million Credit Agreement that carries a variable interest rate based on the London interbank offered rate ("LIBOR"). As of December 31, 2018, there were no borrowings outstanding under the Credit Agreement. Based on our December 31, 2018 variable debt levels, a hypothetical 1.0% absolute increase in our floating market interest rates would increase our interest expense by approximately $6.0 million, most of which would be offset by increased returns on our short-term investments. The impact on net interest would be immaterial to our financial condition and results of operations. As of December 31, 2018, a hypothetical 1.0% absolute increase in market interest rates would decrease the fair value of the fixed-rate debt by approximately $44.7 million. This hypothetical change in interest rates would not impact the interest expense on the fixed-rate debt.

For more information related to outstanding debt obligations, see Note 9 to the "Consolidated Financial Statements."

Currency Risk

We are exposed to foreign currency risks that arise from normal business operations. These risks include the translation of local currency balances and results of our non-United States subsidiaries into United States dollars, currency gains and losses related to intercompany and third-party transactions denominated in currencies other than a location's functional currency, and currency gains and losses associated with intercompany loans. Our principal currency exposures relate to the Euro and the Japanese yen. Our objective is to minimize the volatility of our exposure to these risks through a combination of normal operating and financing activities and the use of derivative financial instruments in the form of foreign currency forward exchange contracts and cross currency swap contracts. The total notional amount of our derivative financial instruments entered into for foreign currency management purposes at December 31, 2018 was $1.4 billion. A hypothetical 10% increase/decrease in the value of the United States dollar against all hedged currencies would increase/decrease the fair value of these derivative contracts by $61.2 million. Any gains or losses on the fair value of derivative contracts would generally be offset by gains and losses on the underlying transactions, so the net impact would not be significant to our financial condition or results of operations.

For more information related to outstanding foreign exchange contracts, see Note 2 and Note 11 to the "Consolidated Financial Statements."

38
Credit Risk

Derivative financial instruments involve credit risk in the event the financial institution counterparty should default. It is our policy to execute such instruments with major financial institutions that we believe to be creditworthy. At December 31, 2018, all derivative financial instruments were with bank counterparties assigned investment grade ratings by national rating agencies. We further diversify our derivative financial instruments among counterparties to minimize exposure to any one of these entities. We have not experienced a counterparty default and do not anticipate any non-performance by our current derivative counterparties.

Concentrations of Risk

We invest excess cash in a variety of fixed-rate debt securities, and diversify the investments between financial institutions. Our investment policy limits the amount of credit exposure to any one issuer.

In the normal course of business, we provide credit to customers in the health care industry, perform credit evaluations of these customers, and maintain allowances for potential credit losses, which have historically been adequate compared to actual losses. In 2018, we had no customers that represented 10% or more of our total net sales or accounts receivable, net.

Investment Risk

We are exposed to investment risks related to changes in the underlying financial condition and credit capacity of certain of our investments. As of December 31, 2018, we had $726.2 million of investments in fixed-rate debt securities of various companies, of which $483.8 million were long-term. In addition, we had $22.5 million of investments in equity instruments of public and private companies. Should these companies experience a decline in financial condition or credit capacity, or fail to meet certain development milestones, a decline in the investments' values may occur, resulting in unrealized or realized losses.

39
Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data