Part I. Item 1. Business

We refer to Expedia Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries (formerly "Expedia, Inc.") collectively as “Expedia Group,” the “Company,” “us,” “we” and “our” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Forward-Looking Statements

This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements reflect the views of our management regarding current expectations and projections about future events and are based on currently available information. Actual results could differ materially from those contained in these forward-looking statements for a variety of reasons, including, but not limited to, those discussed in the section entitled “Risk Factors” as well as those discussed elsewhere in this report. Other unknown or unpredictable factors also could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Accordingly, readers should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. The use of words such as “anticipates,” “estimates,” “expects,” “intends,” “plans” and “believes,” among others, generally identify forward-looking statements; however, these words are not the exclusive means of identifying such statements. In addition, any statements that refer to expectations, projections or other characterizations of future events or circumstances are forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are inherently subject to uncertainties, risks and changes in circumstances that are difficult to predict. We are not under any obligation and do not intend to publicly update or review any of these forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, even if experience or future events make it clear that any expected results expressed or implied by those forward-looking statements will not be realized. Please carefully review and consider the various disclosures made in this report and in our other reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) that attempt to advise interested parties of the risks and factors that may affect our business, prospects and results of operations.

Management Overview

General Description of our Business

Expedia Group, Inc. is an online travel company, empowering business and leisure travelers through technology with the tools and information they need to efficiently research, plan, book and experience travel. We seek to grow our business through a dynamic portfolio of travel brands, including our majority-owned subsidiaries that feature the world’s broadest supply portfolio — with more than one million properties, including more than 370,000 of HomeAway's over 1.8 million online bookable vacation rental listings, in 200 countries and territories, over 500 airlines, packages, rental cars, cruises, insurance, as well as destination services and activities. Travel suppliers distribute and market products via our desktop and mobile offerings, as well as through alternative distribution channels, our private label business and our call centers in order to reach our extensive, global audience. In addition, our advertising and media businesses help other businesses, primarily travel providers, reach a large audience of travelers around the globe.

Our portfolio of brands includes:

•Expedia.com®, a leading full service online travel company with localized websites in over 30 countries;

•Hotels.com®, a leading global lodging expert operating 90 localized websites in 41 languages with its award winning Hotels.com® Rewards loyalty program;

•Expedia® Partner Solutions, a global business-to-business ("B2B") brand that powers the hotel business of hundreds of leading airlines, travel agencies, loyalty and corporate travel companies plus several top consumer brands through its API and template solutions;

•trivago®, a leading online hotel metasearch platform with websites in 55 countries worldwide;

•HomeAway®, a global online marketplace for the alternative accommodations industry, which also includes the VRBO brand, among others;

•Egencia®, a leading corporate travel management company;

•Orbitz® and CheapTickets®, leading U.S. travel websites, as well as ebookers®, a full-service travel brand with websites in seven European countries;

•Travelocity®, a leading online travel brand in the United States and Canada;

1
•Hotwire®, a leading online travel website offering spontaneous travel through Hot Rate® deals;

•Wotif Group, a leading portfolio of travel brands including Wotif.com®, Wotif.co.nz, lastminute.com.au®, lastminute.co.nz and travel.com.au®;

•Expedia® Group Media Solutions, the advertising sales division of Expedia Group that builds creative media partnerships and enables brand advertisers to target a highly-qualified audience of travel consumers;

•CarRentals.com™, a premier online car rental booking company with localized websites in four countries;

•Classic Vacations®, a top luxury travel specialist;

•Expedia Local Expert®, a provider of online and in-market concierge services, activities, experiences and ground transportation in over 2,000 destinations worldwide; 

•Expedia® CruiseShipCenters®, a provider of exceptional value and expert advice for travelers booking cruises and vacations through its network of more than 270 retail travel agency franchises across North America; and

•SilverRail Technologies, Inc., provider of a global rail retail and distribution platform connecting rail carriers and suppliers to both online and offline travel distributors.

Equity Ownership and Voting Control 

As of December 31, 2018, there were 134,334,400 shares of Expedia Group common stock and 12,799,999 shares of Expedia Class B common stock outstanding. Expedia Group stockholders are entitled to one vote for each share of common stock and ten votes for each share of Class B common stock outstanding. As of December 31, 2018, Liberty Expedia Holdings, Inc. (“Liberty Expedia Holdings”), through its wholly-owned subsidiaries, held approximately 8% of Expedia Group’s outstanding common stock and 100% of Expedia Group’s outstanding Class B common stock (or, assuming conversion of all shares of Class B common stock into shares of common stock, held 16% of Expedia Group’s outstanding common stock). Barry Diller, Chairman and Senior Executive of Expedia Group holds an irrevocable proxy granted by Liberty Expedia Holdings, pursuant to which Mr. Diller has the right to vote the Expedia Group securities held by Liberty Expedia Holdings and its subsidiaries (the “Diller Proxy”), which proxy has been assigned by Mr. Diller to Liberty Expedia Holdings until the earlier of May 4, 2019 or the occurrence of certain termination events. As of December 31, 2018, as a result of their agreements and respective holdings in Expedia Group, Mr. Diller and Liberty Expedia Holdings may be deemed to share voting power over securities representing approximately 55% of the combined voting power of the outstanding Expedia Group capital stock.

By virtue of the voting power of an irrevocable proxy granted to Mr. Diller by John C. Malone and Leslie Malone over their shares in Liberty Expedia Holdings and the governance arrangements at Liberty Expedia Holdings, during the period the assignment of the Diller Proxy and the proxy granted him by the Malones are in effect, Mr. Diller is effectively able to control the outcome of nearly all matters submitted to a vote or for the consent of Expedia Group’s stockholders (other than with respect to the election by the Expedia Group common stockholders of 25% of the members of Expedia Group’s Board of Directors and certain matters as to which a separate class vote of the holders of Expedia Group common stock or Expedia Group preferred stock is required under Delaware law). Upon the termination or expiration of the assignment of the Diller Proxy (unless the Diller Proxy itself has terminated), Mr. Diller will continue to be able to control the outcome of such matters. In addition, pursuant to the Amended and Restated Governance Agreement, dated as of December 20, 2011, as amended, among Expedia Group, Liberty Expedia Holdings and Mr. Diller, each of Mr. Diller and Liberty Expedia Holdings generally has the right to consent to certain significant corporate actions in the event that Expedia Group or any of its subsidiaries incurs any new obligations for borrowed money within the definition of “total debt” set forth in the Governance Agreement for as long as Expedia Group’s ratio of total debt to EBITDA, as defined therein, equals or exceeds eight to one.

On February 4, 2019, Expedia Group filed a Current Report on Form 8-K (the “Form 8-K”) reporting that Liberty Expedia Holdings and Mr. Diller filed an amended statement on Schedule 13D/A that included a description of discussions that had taken place between a member of Expedia Group management (as authorized by a special committee of disinterested directors formed by the Expedia Group Board of Directors) and a member of Liberty Expedia Holdings management (as authorized by a committee of the Board of Directors of Liberty Expedia Holdings composed of all of Liberty Expedia Holdings’ Series A common stock directors) regarding a potential business combination transaction in which the outstanding shares of Liberty Expedia Holdings’ Series A common stock and Series B common stock would be exchanged for newly issued shares of Expedia Group common stock. The Form 8-K also described expectations regarding (i) the exchange, in connection with the consummation of any such transaction with Liberty Expedia Holdings, of Expedia Group common stock beneficially owned by Mr. Diller and a charitable foundation formed by Mr. Diller for shares of Expedia Group Class B common stock currently owned by Liberty Expedia Holdings, as would be permitted under certain circumstances by the governance and shareholder agreements relating to Expedia Group currently in effect and (ii) the entry, in connection with the consummation of any such transaction, into certain amendments to the Governance Agreement currently in effect relating to Mr. Diller’s ability 

2
to exchange for or purchase in the future additional shares of Expedia Group Class B common stock, as well as other governance arrangements and transfer restrictions. 

Market Opportunity & Business Strategy

Expedia Group is one of the world’s largest online travel companies, yet our gross bookings represent only about 6% of total worldwide travel spending. Phocuswright estimates global travel spending at approximately $1.7 trillion in 2018, with an increasing share booked through online channels each year. We have built, and continue to build, a broad and deep supply portfolio which today includes more than one million properties, including over 370,000 of HomeAway's over 1.8 million online bookable vacation rental listings, over 500 airlines and numerous car rental companies, cruise companies and other travel suppliers.

We believe the strength of our brand portfolio as well as our enhanced product offerings and new channel penetration drives customer demand, which when combined with our global scale and broad based supply, give us a unique advantage in addressing the ongoing migration of travel bookings from offline to online around the world. With our unmatched global audience of travelers, and our deep and broad selection of travel products, there is a rich interplay between supply and demand in our global marketplace that helps us provide value to both travelers planning trips and supply partners wanting to grow their business through a better understanding of travel retailing and consumer demand in addition to reaching consumers in markets beyond their reach. Our primary growth drivers are global expansion, including of our supply portfolio, technology and product innovation, and new channel penetration and expansion.

Portfolio of Brands

Expedia Group operates a strong brand portfolio with global reach, targeting a broad range of travelers, travel suppliers and advertisers. We know that consumers typically visit multiple travel websites prior to booking travel, and having a multi-brand strategy increases the likelihood that those consumers will visit one or more of our websites. We also market to consumers through a variety of channels, including internet search and metasearch and social media websites, and having multiple brands appear in search results also increases the likelihood of attracting visitors. In addition, our brands tailor their product offerings and websites to particular traveler demographics. For example, Hotwire finds deep discount deals for the budget-minded travel shopper while our Classic Vacations brand targets high-end, luxury travelers. Brand Expedia spans the widest swath of potential customers with multi-product travel options across a broad value spectrum, while our Hotels.com brand focuses specifically on a hotel only product offering.

Brand Expedia. A leading full-service online travel brand with localized websites in over 30 countries covering 18 languages offering a wide selection of travel products and services. Through an award-winning mobile app and Expedia-branded websites, travelers have access to the latest technology that delivers airline tickets, lodging, car rentals, cruises, insurance and other travel needs, such as airport transfers, tickets to attractions and tours, from hundreds of thousands of suppliers, on both a standalone and package basis. Across the more than 20 years that Expedia has been helping people travel with confidence and ease, the company has learned that travelers benefit when Expedia continually improves and optimizes its offering, to ensure that travelers the world over can book the trip they need, in the manner they choose, at any point and save. That commitment has propelled Expedia to a leadership position within travel, and ensures that Expedia can continue to help millions of travelers experience the world.

Hotels.com. Hotels.com focuses entirely on marketing and distributing lodging accommodations. Hotels.com, with 90 localized websites worldwide in 41 languages worldwide and market leading mobile apps on all major platforms, offers travelers a broad selection of lodging options. Because of its single product offering, Hotels.com is often our first entry point into a region allowing us to evaluate the market opportunity prior to adding additional brands and product offerings. Hotels.com Rewards®, the loyalty program established in 2008, offers travelers the ability to earn one free night for every ten nights stayed.

Expedia Partner Solutions. Expedia Partner Solutions is the purely partner-focused arm of Expedia Group. Expedia Partner Solutions partners with businesses across a wide range of verticals including loyalty programs, airlines, travel agents and online retailers who remarket Expedia Partner Solutions' accommodation rates and availabilities to their travelers. Partners can access its accommodations in the way that best suits their business, whether that is a fully customizable environment through Expedia Partner Solutions' API, Rapid; an ‘off-the-shelf,’ white-label or co-branded online template solution Hotels.com for partners; or a powerful agent tool, Expedia TAAP.

trivago. trivago is our majority-owned hotel metasearch company, based in Dusseldorf, Germany. The online platform gives travelers access to price comparisons from more than 400 booking websites for over 3.0 million hotels and other accommodations, including over 1.5 million units of alternative accommodations, in over 190 countries. Officially launched in 2005, trivago is a leading global brand in hotel search and can be accessed worldwide via 55 localized websites and apps in 33 

3
languages. Subsequent to its initial public offering ("IPO") in December 2016, the company is listed on the Nasdaq Global Select Market and trades under the symbol "TRVG." 

HomeAway. In December 2015, we acquired HomeAway, which operates an online marketplace for the alternative accommodations industry. The HomeAway portfolio includes the vacation rental websites HomeAway, which operates 55 localized websites around the world, and VRBO. In addition, HomeAway operates several regional brands around the world and offers software solutions to property managers.

Egencia. Our full-service travel management company offers travel products and services to businesses and their corporate travelers. Egencia maintains a global presence in more than 60 countries across North America, Europe and Asia Pacific. Egencia provides, among other things, a global technology platform coupled with local telephone assistance with expert travel consultants, relevant supply targeted at business travelers, and consolidated reporting for its clients. Egencia charges its corporate clients account management fees, as well as transactional fees for various contacts made as part of the travel process. In addition, Egencia provides on-site agents to some corporate clients to provide in-house, seamless support. Egencia also offers consulting and meeting management services as well as advertising opportunities. We believe the corporate travel sector represents a significant opportunity for Expedia through Egencia’s compelling technology solution for businesses seeking to improve employees’ travel experiences and optimize travel costs by moving the focus of the corporate travel program to online and mobile services versus the traditional call center approach.

Orbitz, CheapTickets, ebookers. In September 2015, we acquired Orbitz Worldwide, Inc., including all of its assets and portfolio brands, including Orbitz, CheapTickets and ebookers. The Orbitz Reward program allows travelers to earn rewards on flights, hotels and packages that can be instantly redeemed on tens of thousands of hotels worldwide. Budget travel site CheapTickets gives customers more ways to save on their next trip with last minute deals and discounts, while also offering travelers event tickets to top concerts, theater, sporting events and more. ebookers is a leading online travel agent in EMEA offering travelers an array of travel options across flights, accommodations, packages, car hire providers and destination activities. With ebookers, travelers have the flexibility to build their perfect trip by booking a combination of elements in the same place. 

Travelocity. Travelocity is a pioneer in the online travel industry and celebrated its 20th anniversary in 2016. Travelocity and its famous Roaming Gnome encourage travelers in the United States and Canada to “Wander Wisely™”.

Hotwire. Hotwire offers a travel booking service that matches flexible, value-oriented travelers with suppliers who have excess seats, rooms and cars they offer at lower rates than retail. Hotwire’s Hot Rate® Hotels, Hot Rate® Cars and Hot Rate® Flights offer travelers an extra low price as the supplier name is not revealed until after the traveler books and pays. With Hotwire’s unique model, suppliers create value from excess availability without diluting their core, brand-loyal traveler base. Hotwire partners with leading hotel companies worldwide, brand-name domestic and international airlines, and major car rental companies in the United States.

Wotif Group. Wotif Group is a leading Australian online travel company, comprised of the Wotif.com, lastminute.com.au and travel.com.au brands in Australia, and Wotif.co.nz and lastminute.co.nz in New Zealand. Wotif.com launched in 2000, and was listed on the Australian Securities Exchange in June 2006 as Wotif.com Holdings Limited, under the ASX code “WTF,” prior to being acquired by Expedia in 2014.

CarRentals.com. CarRentals.com is an online car rental marketing and retail firm offering a diverse selection of car rentals direct to consumers. CarRentals.com is able to provide our customers more choices across the globe and help our supply partners expand their marketing reach.

Classic Vacations. Classic Vacations offers individually tailored vacations primarily through a national network of third-party retail travel agents. Classic delivers a full line of premium vacation packages — air, hotels, car rentals, activities, cruises and private transportation — to create customized luxury vacations in Hawaii, the Caribbean, Mexico, Costa Rica, Europe, Australia, New Zealand, Fiji, Maldives, Dubai, Seychelles and Tahiti. Travel agents and travelers can preview our product offering through our website www.classicvacations.com.

Expedia Local Expert. Our Expedia Local Expert network offers online and in-market concierge services, activities, experiences, attractions and ground transportation. With access to a rich portfolio of more than 35,000 tours and adventures, LX can be found on more than 70 Expedia Group websites, and operates more than 100 concierge and activity desks in major resort destinations.

Expedia CruiseShipCenters. Expedia CruiseShipCenters is North America’s leading cruise specialist, providing a full range of travel products through its network of independently owned retail travel franchises. With over 270 points of sale across North America and a team of over 6,000 professionally-trained vacation consultants, the franchise company has been 

4
recognized as a top seller with every major cruise line and is consistently ranked as a top-rated franchise organization year after year.

SilverRail Technologies, Inc. SilverRail technology is built for rail, uniting the ecosystem of rail carriers and travel distributors around the world’s most comprehensive rail search and booking platform. The product suite spans the full customer experience: journey planning, booking, payment, ticketing, scheduling, pricing and inventory management, reporting and administration. SilverRail's technology platform, SilverCore, is the world’s first unified platform for global rail distribution, connecting carriers and suppliers to both online and offline travel distributors. 

Growth Strategy

Global Expansion. Our Brand Expedia, Hotels.com, Egencia, and Expedia Partner Solutions brands operate both domestically and through international points of sale, including in Europe, Asia Pacific, Canada and Latin America. In addition, ebookers offers multi-product online travel reservations in Europe and Wotif.com, Wotif.co.nz, lastminute.com.au, lastminute.co.nz and travel.com.au are focused principally on the Australia and New Zealand markets. The HomeAway portfolio has 55 vacation rental websites all around the world. We own a majority share of trivago, a leading metasearch company. Officially launched in 2005, trivago is one of the best known travel brands in Europe and North America. In December 2016, trivago successfully completed its initial public offering and trades on the Nasdaq Global Select Market under the symbol "TRVG." In addition, we have commercial agreements in place with Ctrip and eLong in China, Traveloka in Southeast Asia, as well as Despegar in Latin America, among many others. In conjunction with the commercial arrangements with Traveloka and Despegar, we have also made strategic investments in both companies. In 2018, approximately 38% of our worldwide gross bookings and 45% of worldwide revenue were through international points of sale compared to just 21% for both worldwide gross bookings and revenue in 2005. We have a goal of generating more than two-thirds of our revenue through businesses and points of sale outside of the United States.

In expanding our global reach, we leverage significant investments in technology, operations, brand building, supplier relationships and other initiatives that we have made since the launch of Expedia.com in 1996. More recently, we have invested in migrating parts of our technology platform to the cloud, as well as focused on expanding our lodging supply in key focus markets around the world. Our scale of operations enhances the value of technology innovations we introduce on behalf of our travelers and suppliers. We believe that our size and scale afford the company the ability to negotiate competitive rates with our supply partners, provide breadth of choice and travel deals to our traveling customers through an expanding supply portfolio and create opportunities for new value added offers for our customers such as our loyalty programs. The size of Expedia Group’s worldwide traveler base makes our websites an increasingly appealing channel for travel suppliers to reach customers. In addition, the sheer size of our user base and search query volume allows us to test new technologies very quickly to determine which innovations are most likely to improve the travel research and booking process, and then roll those features out to our worldwide audience to drive improvements in conversion.

Product Innovation. Each of our leading brands was a pioneer in online travel and has been responsible for driving key innovations in the space for more than two decades. Each Expedia Group technology platform is operated by a dedicated technology team, which drives innovations that make researching and shopping for travel increasingly easier and helps customers find and book the best possible travel options. We have made key investments in technology, including significant development of our technical platforms, that make it possible for us to deliver innovations at a faster pace. Improvements in our global platforms for Hotels.com and Brand Expedia continue to enable us to significantly increase the innovation cycle, thereby improving conversion and driving faster growth rates for those brands. Since 2014, we have acquired Travelocity, Wotif Group and Orbitz Worldwide, including Orbitz, CheapTickets and ebookers, and migrated their brands to the Brand Expedia technology platform. In addition, Orbitz for Business customers were migrated to the Egencia technology platform in 2016. In 2015, we acquired HomeAway, Inc., including all of its brands. We intend to continue leveraging these technology investments when launching additional points of sale in new countries, introducing new website features, adding supplier products and services including new business model offerings, as well as proprietary and user-generated content for travelers. 

Channel Expansion. Technological innovations and developments continue to create new opportunities for travel bookings. In the past few years, each of our brands made significant progress creating new mobile websites and mobile applications that are receiving strong reviews and solid download trends, and many of our brands now see more traffic via mobile devices than via traditional PCs. Mobile bookings continue to present an opportunity for incremental growth as they are often completed with a much shorter booking window than we historically experienced via more traditional online booking methods. Additionally, our brands are implementing new technologies like voice-based search, chatbots and messaging apps as mobile-based options for travelers. In addition, we are seeing significant cross-device usage among our customers, who connect to our websites and apps across multiple devices and platforms throughout their travel planning process. We also believe mobile represents an efficient marketing channel given the opportunity for direct traffic acquisition, increase in share of wallet and in repeat customers, particularly through mobile applications. During 2018, more than one in three Expedia Group transactions globally were booked on a mobile device.

5
Business Models

We make travel products and services available both on a stand-alone and package basis, primarily through the following business models: the merchant model, the agency model and the advertising model. In addition, our HomeAway business facilitates vacation rental bookings, earning per transaction commissions, traveler service fees or a combination, and provides subscription-based and other ancillary services to property owners and managers.

Under the merchant model, we facilitate the booking of hotel rooms, alternative accommodations, airline seats, car rentals and destination services from our travel suppliers and we are the merchant of record for such bookings. The majority of our merchant transactions relate to hotel bookings. Under the agency model, we facilitate travel bookings and act as the agent in the transaction, passing reservations booked by the traveler to the relevant travel provider. We receive commissions or ticketing fees from the travel supplier and/or traveler.

We continue to see closer integration of the agency hotel product with our core merchant product through our Expedia Traveler Preference (ETP) program by offering, for participating hotels, customers the choice of whether to pay Expedia Group in advance under our merchant contract (Expedia Collect) or pay at the hotel at the time of the stay (Hotel Collect). Growth in our ETP contracts has generally resulted in reduced negotiated economics to compensate for hotel supply partners absorbing expenses such as credit card fees and customer service costs, and as we continue to expand the breadth and depth of our global hotel offering, we have made adjustments to our economics in various geographies including changes based on local market conditions. Based on these dynamics, we expect our revenue per room night to remain under pressure in the future.

Through various of our Expedia Group-branded and other multi-product websites, travelers can dynamically assemble multiple component travel packages for a specified period at a lower price as compared to booking each component separately. Packages assembled by travelers through the packaging model on these websites primarily include a merchant hotel component and an air or car component. Travelers typically select packages based on the total package price, without being provided component pricing, and we have started to introduce a "shopping cart" style feature that incorporates an overall package discount after a traveler selects multiple products. The use of the merchant travel components in packages enables us to make certain travel products available at prices lower than those charged on an individual component basis by travel suppliers without impacting their other pricing models. In addition, we also offer third-party pre-assembled package offerings, primarily through our international points of sale, further broadening our scope of products and services to travelers. We expect the package product to continue to be marketed primarily using the merchant model.

Under the advertising model, we offer travel and non-travel advertisers access to a potential source of incremental traffic and transactions through our various media and advertising offerings on trivago and our transaction-based websites.

Relationships with Travel Partners

Overview. We make travel products and services available from a variety of hotel companies, large and small commercial airlines, car rental companies, cruise lines, destination service providers, HomeAway property owners and managers and other travel partners. We seek to build and maintain long-term, strategic relationships with travel suppliers and global distribution system (“GDS”) partners. An important component of the success of our business depends on our ability to maintain our existing, as well as build new, relationships with travel suppliers and GDS partners.

Travel Suppliers. We strive to deliver value to our travel supply partners through a wide range of innovative, targeted merchandising and promotional strategies designed to generate consumer demand and increase their revenue, while simultaneously reducing their overall marketing transaction and customer service costs. Our strategic account managers and local hotel market managers work directly with travel suppliers to optimize the exposure of their travel products and brands through our points of sale, including participation in need-based, seasonal and event-driven promotions and experimentation within the new channels we are building.

We developed proprietary technology to assist hotel suppliers in managing, pricing and marketing their supply. Our “direct connect” technology allows hotels to upload information about available products and services and rates directly from their central reservation systems and to automatically confirm hotel reservations made by our travelers. Proprietary marketing tools assist hotels in tailoring demand to their requirements and our revenue management product provides pricing insight based on Expedia Group data and analytics. Our suite of white label website offerings power hotel, package and meeting space booking on suppliers' own websites. 

In addition, HomeAway’s vacation rental listing services includes a set of tools for property owners or managers, which enables them to manage an availability calendar, reservations, inquiries and the content of the listing, as well as provide various other services for property owners or managers to manage reservations or drive incremental sales volume.

6
Distribution Partners. GDSs, also referred to as computer reservation services, provide a centralized, comprehensive repository of travel suppliers’ ‘content’ — such as availability and pricing of seats on various airline point-to-point flights, or ‘segments.’ The GDSs act as intermediaries between the travel suppliers and travel agencies, allowing agents to reserve and book flights, rooms or other travel products. Our relationships with GDSs primarily relate to our air business. We use Sabre, Amadeus and Travelport as our GDS segment providers in order to ensure the widest possible supply of content for our travelers.

Marketing and Promotions

Our marketing programs are intended to build and maintain the value of our various brands, drive traffic and ultimately bookings through our various brands and businesses, optimize ongoing traveler acquisition costs and strategically position our brands in relation to one another. Our long-term success and profitability depends on our continued ability to maintain and increase the overall number of traveler transactions flowing through our brand and shared global platforms in a cost-effective manner, as well as our ability to attract repeat customers to our websites.

Our marketing channels primarily include online advertising, including search engine marketing and optimization as well as metasearch, social media websites, offline advertising, loyalty programs, mobile apps and direct and/or personalized traveler communications on our websites as well as through direct e-mail communication with our travelers. Our marketing programs and initiatives include promotional offers such as coupons as well as seasonal or periodic special offers from our travel suppliers based on our supplier relationships. Our traveler loyalty programs include Hotels.com Rewards on Hotels.com global websites and Expedia®Rewards on over 30 Brand Expedia points of sale, as well as Orbitz Rewards on Orbitz.com. The cost of these loyalty programs is recorded as a reduction of revenue in our consolidated financial statements.

We also make use of affiliate marketing. The Brand Expedia, Hotels.com, Hotwire, Travelocity, Orbitz, CheapTickets, HomeAway, Wotif and lastminute.com.au branded websites receive bookings from consumers who have clicked-through to the respective websites through links posted on affiliate partner websites. Affiliate partners can also make travel products and services available on their own websites through a Brand Expedia, Hotels.com or HomeAway co-branded offering or a private label website. Our Expedia Partner Solutions business provides our affiliates with technology and access to a wide range of products and services. We manage agreements with thousands of third-party affiliate partners, including a number of leading travel companies, pursuant to which we pay a commission for bookings originated from their websites.

Operations and Technology

We operate several technology platforms that support our brands. The Brand Expedia technology platform supports our full-service and multi-product brands, including Brand Expedia, Orbitz, Travelocity, Wotif Group, CheapTickets, ebookers and Expedia Local Expert, as well as certain parts of the Hotwire brand. The Hotels.com technology platform supports our hotel-only offering, including Hotels.com and Expedia Partner Solutions. In addition, we operate Egencia, our corporate travel platform; HomeAway, our alternative accommodations platform; and trivago, the metasearch platform. 

All of our transaction-based brands share and benefit from our eCommerce platform infrastructure, including customer support, data centers and transaction processing capabilities. 

We provide 24-hour-a-day, seven-day-a-week traveler sales and support by telephone or via e-mail. For purposes of operational flexibility, we use a combination of outsourced and in-house call centers. Our call centers are located throughout the world, including outsourced operations in the Philippines, El Salvador, Egypt and India. We invested significantly in our call center technologies, with the goal of improving customer experience and increasing the efficiency of our call center agents, and have plans to continue reaping the benefits of these investments going forward.

Our systems infrastructure and web and database servers are housed in various locations, mainly in the United States, which have 24-hour monitoring and engineering support. These data centers have their own generators and multiple back-up systems. Significant amounts of our owned computer hardware for operating the websites are located at these facilities. Additionally, we are in the midst of a multi-year project to migrate products, data storage and functionality and significantly increase our utilization of public cloud computing services, such as Amazon Web Services. For some critical systems, we have both production and disaster-recovery facilities. Our technology systems are subject to certain risks, which are described below in Part I, Item 1A — Risk Factors.

7
Competition

Our brands compete in rapidly evolving and intensely competitive markets. We believe international markets represent especially large opportunities for Expedia Group and those of our competitors that wish to expand their brands and businesses abroad to achieve global scale. We also believe that Expedia Group is one of only a few companies that are focused on building a truly global, travel marketplace.

Our competition, which is strong and increasing, includes online and offline travel companies that target leisure and corporate travelers, including travel agencies, tour operators, travel supplier direct websites and their call centers, consolidators and wholesalers of travel products and services, large online portals and search websites, certain travel metasearch websites, mobile travel applications, social media websites, as well as traditional consumer eCommerce and group buying websites. We face these competitors in local, regional, national and/or international markets. In some cases, competitors are offering more favorable terms and improved interfaces to suppliers and travelers which make competition increasingly difficult. We also face competition for customer traffic on internet search engines and metasearch websites, which impacts our customer acquisition and marketing costs.

We believe that maintaining and enhancing our brands is a critical component of our effort to compete. We differentiate our brands from our competitors primarily based on the multiple channels we use to generate demand, quality and breadth of travel products, channel features and usability, price or promotional offers, traveler service and quality of travel planning content and advice as well as offline brand efforts. The emphasis on one or more of these factors varies, depending on the brand or business and the related target demographic. Our brands face increasing competition from travel supplier direct websites. In some cases, supplier direct channels offer advantages to travelers, such as long standing loyalty programs, complimentary services such as Wi-Fi, and better pricing. Our websites feature travel products and services from numerous travel suppliers, and allow travelers to combine products and services from multiple providers in one transaction. We face competition from airlines, hotels, alternative accommodation websites, rental car companies, cruise operators and other travel service providers, whether working individually or collectively, some of which are suppliers to our websites. Our business is generally sensitive to changes in the competitive landscape, including the emergence of new competitors or business models, and supplier consolidation.

Intellectual Property Rights

Our intellectual property rights, including our patents, trademarks, copyright, domain names, trade dress, proprietary technology, and trade secrets, are an important component of our business. For example, we rely heavily upon our intellectual property and proprietary information in our content, brands, domain names and website URLs, software code, proprietary technology, ratings indexes, informational databases, images, graphics and other components that make up our services. We have acquired some of our intellectual property rights and proprietary information through acquisitions, as well as licenses and content agreements with third parties.

We protect our intellectual property and proprietary information through registration and by relying on our terms of use, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions, as well as international, national, state and common law rights. In addition, we enter into confidentiality and invention assignment agreements with employees and contractors, and license and confidentiality agreements with other third parties. Despite these precautions, it may be possible for a third party to copy or otherwise obtain and use our trade secrets or our intellectual property and proprietary information without authorization which, if discovered, might require the uncertainty of legal action to correct. In addition, there can be no assurance that others will not independently and lawfully develop substantially similar properties.

We maintain our trademark portfolio by filing trademark applications with national trademark offices, maintaining appropriate registrations, securing contractual trademark rights when appropriate, and relying on common law trademark rights when appropriate. We also register copyrights and domain names as we deem appropriate. We protect our trademarks, copyrights and domain names with an enforcement program and use of intellectual property licenses. Trademark and intellectual property protection may not be available or may not be sought, sufficient or effective in every jurisdiction where we operate. Contractual disputes or limitations may affect the use of trademarks and domain names governed by private contract.

We have considered, and will continue to consider, the appropriateness of filing for patents to protect inventions, as circumstances may warrant. However, patents protect only specific inventions and there can be no assurance that others may not create new products or methods that achieve similar results without infringing upon patents owned by us. We also protect some inventions and methods by maintaining them as trade secrets, either because it provides superior and potentially longer-termed protection, or because the invention is not patentable but provides us with a competitive advantage.

In connection with our copyrightable content, we post and institute procedures under the Digital Millennium Copyright Act and similar Host Privilege statutes worldwide to gain immunity from copyright liability for photographs, text and other 

8
content uploaded by users. However, differences between statutes, limitations on immunity, and moderation efforts may affect our ability to claim immunity. 

From time to time, we may be subject to legal proceedings and claims in the ordinary course of our business, including claims of alleged infringement or infringement by us of the trademarks, copyrights, patents and other intellectual property rights of third parties. In addition, litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights, protect our trade secrets or determine the validity and scope of proprietary rights claimed by others. Any such litigation, regardless of outcome or merit, could result in substantial costs and diversion of management and technical resources, any of which could materially harm our business.

Regulation

We must comply with laws and regulations relating to the travel industry, the vacation rental industry and the provision of travel services, including registration in various states as “sellers of travel” and compliance with certain disclosure requirements and participation in state restitution funds In addition, our businesses are subject to regulation by the U.S. Department of Transportation and must comply with various rules and regulations governing the provision of air transportation, including those relating to advertising and accessibility.

As we continue to expand the reach of our brands into the European, Asia-Pacific and other international markets, we are increasingly subject to laws and regulations applicable to travel agents or tour operators in those markets, including, in some countries, pricing display requirements, licensing and registration requirements, mandatory bonding and travel indemnity fund contributions, industry specific value-added tax regimes and laws regulating the provision of travel packages. For example, the European Economic Community Council Directive on Package Travel, Package Holidays and Package Tours imposes various obligations upon marketers of travel packages, such as disclosure obligations to consumers and liability to consumers for improper performance of the package, including supplier failure.

We are also subject to consumer protection, privacy and consumer data, labor, economic and trade sanction programs, tax, and anti-trust and competition laws and regulations around the world that are not specific to the travel industry. For example, the European Union adopted a new regulation in May 2018 called the General Data Protection Regulation (“GDPR”). The GDPR requires companies, including ours, to meet enhanced requirements regarding the handling of personal data. Similar laws are currently under discussion in other jurisdictions. In addition, certain laws and regulations have not historically been applied in the context of online travel companies, so there can be uncertainty regarding how these requirements relate to our business.

Additional Information

Company Website and Public Filings. We maintain a corporate website at www.expediagroup.com. Except as explicitly noted, the information on our website, as well as the websites of our various brands and businesses, is not incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, or in any other filings with, or in any information furnished or submitted to, the SEC. We make available, free of charge through our website, our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports, filed or furnished pursuant to Sections 13(a) or Section 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as soon as reasonably practicable after they have been electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. In addition, the SEC’s website, www.sec.gov, contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. The content on the SEC's website referred to above in this Form 10-K is not incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K unless expressly noted.

Code of Ethics. We have adopted a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics for Directors and Senior Financial Officers (the “Code of Ethics”) that applies to our Chief Executive officer, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Accounting Officer and Controller, and is a “code of ethics” as defined by applicable rules of the SEC. The Code of Ethics is posted on our corporate website at www.expediagroup.com/Investors under the “Corporate Governance” tab. If we make any substantive amendments to the Code of Ethics or grant any waiver, including any implicit waiver, from a provision of the Code of Ethics to our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, or Chief Accounting Officer and Controller, we will disclose the nature of the amendment or waiver on that website or in a report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC.

Employees

As of December 31, 2018, we employed approximately 24,500 full-time and part-time employees. We believe we have good relationships with our employees, including relationships with employees represented by works councils or other similar organizations.

9
Part I. Item 1A. Risk Factors