Item 7.Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

You should read the following discussion of our financial condition and results of operations in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and the related notes included in Part II, Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In addition to our historical consolidated financial information, the following discussion contains forward-looking statements that reflect our plans, estimates, and beliefs. Our actual results could differ materially from those discussed in the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to these differences include those discussed below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, particularly in Part I, Item 1A, "Risk Factors." For a discussion of limitations in the measurement of certain of our user metrics, see the section entitled "Limitations of Key Metrics and Other Data" in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Certain revenue information in the section entitled "—Revenue—Foreign Exchange Impact on Revenue" is presented on a constant currency basis. This information is a non-GAAP financial measure. To calculate revenue on a constant currency basis, we translated revenue for the full year 2018 using 2017 monthly exchange rates for our settlement currencies other than the U.S. dollar. This non-GAAP financial measure is not intended to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for, or superior to, financial information prepared and presented in accordance with GAAP. This measure may be different from non-GAAP financial measures used by other companies, limiting its usefulness for comparison purposes. Moreover, presentation of revenue on a constant currency basis is provided for year-over-year comparison purposes, and investors should be cautioned that the effect of changing foreign currency exchange rates has an actual effect on our operating results. We believe this non-GAAP financial measure provides investors with useful supplemental information about the financial performance of our business, enables comparison of financial results between periods where certain items may vary independent of business performance, and allows for greater transparency with respect to key metrics used by management in operating our business.

Executive Overview of Full Year 2018 Results 

Our key user metrics and financial results for 2018 are as follows:

User growth:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Financial results:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•Total costs and expenses were $30.93 billion.

•Income from operations was $24.91 billion.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•Capital expenditures were $13.92 billion.

•Effective tax rate was 13%.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

In 2018, we continued to focus on our main revenue growth priorities: (i) helping marketers use our products to connect with consumers where they are and (ii) making our ads more relevant and effective.

We continued to invest, based on our roadmap, in: (i) our most developed ecosystems, Facebook and Instagram, (ii) driving growth and building ecosystems around our products that already have significant user bases, such as Messenger and WhatsApp, as well as continuing to grow features like Stories, and (iii) long-term technology initiatives, such as connectivity, artificial intelligence, and augmented and virtual reality, that we believe will further our mission to give people the power to build community and bring the world closer together. We intend to continue to invest based on this roadmap and we anticipate that additional investments in the following areas will continue to drive significant year-over-year expense growth in 2019: (i) expanding our data center capacity, network infrastructure, and office facilities as well as scaling our headcount to support our growth, and (ii) investments in safety and security, marketing, video content, and our long-term technology initiatives. Expense growth exceeded revenue growth in 2018, which we anticipate will continue in 2019.

35

Trends in Our User Metrics

The numbers for our key metrics, our DAUs, MAUs, and average revenue per user (ARPU), do not include Instagram, WhatsApp, or Oculus users unless they would otherwise qualify as such users, respectively, based on their other activities on Facebook. In addition, other user engagement metrics do not include Instagram, WhatsApp, or Oculus unless otherwise specifically stated.

Trends in the number of users affect our revenue and financial results by influencing the number of ads we are able to show, the value of our ads to marketers, the volume of Payments transactions, as well as our expenses and capital expenditures. Substantially all of our daily and monthly active users (as defined below) access Facebook on mobile devices. 

•Daily Active Users (DAUs). We define a daily active user as a registered Facebook user who logged in and visited Facebook through our website or a mobile device, or used our Messenger application (and is also a registered Facebook user), on a given day. We view DAUs, and DAUs as a percentage of MAUs, as measures of user engagement on Facebook.

Note: For purposes of reporting DAUs, MAUs, and ARPU by geographic region, Europe includes all users in Russia and Turkey and Rest of World includes all users in Africa, Latin America, and the Middle East. 

36

Worldwide DAUs increased 9% to 1.52 billion on average during December 2018 from 1.40 billion during December 2017. Users in India, Indonesia, and the Philippines represented key sources of growth in DAUs during December 2018, relative to the same period in 2017.

•Monthly Active Users (MAUs). We define a monthly active user as a registered Facebook user who logged in and visited Facebook through our website or a mobile device, or used our Messenger application (and is also a registered Facebook user), in the last 30 days as of the date of measurement. MAUs are a measure of the size of our global active user community on Facebook.

As of December 31, 2018, we had 2.32 billion MAUs, an increase of 9% from December 31, 2017. Users in India, Indonesia, and the Philippines represented key sources of growth in 2018, relative to the same period in 2017.

37

Trends in Our Monetization by User Geography

We calculate our revenue by user geography based on our estimate of the geography in which ad impressions are delivered, virtual and digital goods are purchased, or consumer hardware devices are shipped. We define ARPU as our total revenue in a given geography during a given quarter, divided by the average of the number of MAUs in the geography at the beginning and end of the quarter. While ARPU includes all sources of revenue, the number of MAUs used in this calculation only includes users of Facebook and Messenger as described in the definition of MAU above. Revenue from users who are not also Facebook or Messenger MAUs was not material. The geography of our users affects our revenue and financial results because we currently monetize users in different geographies at different average rates. Our revenue and ARPU in regions such as United States & Canada and Europe are relatively higher primarily due to the size and maturity of those online and mobile advertising markets. For example, ARPU in 2018 in the United States & Canada region was more than ten times higher than in the Asia-Pacific region.

Note: Our revenue by user geography in the charts above is geographically apportioned based on our estimation of the geographic location of our users when they perform a revenue-generating activity. This allocation differs from our revenue disaggregated by geography disclosure in our consolidated financial statements where revenue is geographically apportioned based on the location of the customer. 

38

For 2018, worldwide ARPU was $24.96, an increase of 24% from 2017. Over this period, ARPU increased by 34% in Europe, 33% in United States & Canada, 21% in Rest of World, and 20% in Asia-Pacific. In addition, user growth was more rapid in geographies with relatively lower ARPU, such as Asia-Pacific and Rest of World. We expect that user growth in the future will be primarily concentrated in those regions where ARPU is relatively lower, such that worldwide ARPU may continue to increase at a slower rate relative to ARPU in any geographic region, or potentially decrease even if ARPU increases in each geographic region.

39

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates

Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). The preparation of these consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, costs and expenses, and related disclosures. We evaluate our estimates and assumptions on an ongoing basis. Our estimates are based on historical experience and various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Our actual results could differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions.

An accounting policy is deemed to be critical if it requires an accounting estimate to be made based on assumptions about matters that are highly uncertain at the time the estimate is made, if different estimates reasonably could have been used, or if changes in the estimate that are reasonably possible could materially impact the financial statements. We believe that the assumptions and estimates associated with income taxes, loss contingencies, and business combinations and valuation of goodwill and other acquired intangible assets have the greatest potential impact on our consolidated financial statements. Therefore, we consider these to be our critical accounting policies and estimates. For further information on all of our significant accounting policies, see Note 1—Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in the accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Income Taxes

We are subject to income taxes in the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining our provision for income taxes and income tax assets and liabilities, including evaluating uncertainties in the application of accounting principles and complex tax laws. 

We record a provision for income taxes for the anticipated tax consequences of the reported results of operations using the asset and liability method. Under this method, we recognize deferred income tax assets and liabilities for the expected future tax consequences of temporary differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities, as well as for loss and tax credit carryforwards. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using the tax rates that are expected to apply to taxable income for the years in which those tax assets and liabilities are expected to be realized or settled. We recognize the deferred income tax effects of a change in tax rates in the period of the enactment. We record a valuation allowance to reduce our deferred tax assets to the net amount that we believe is more likely than not to be realized. 

We recognize tax benefits from uncertain tax positions only if we believe that it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained on examination by the taxing authorities based on the technical merits of the position. These uncertain tax positions include our estimates for transfer pricing that have been developed based upon analyses of appropriate arms-length prices. Similarly, our estimates related to uncertain tax positions concerning research tax credits are based on an assessment of whether our available documentation corroborating the nature of our activities supporting the tax credits will be sufficient. Although we believe that we have adequately reserved for our uncertain tax positions (including net interest and penalties), we can provide no assurance that the final tax outcome of these matters will not be materially different. We make adjustments to these reserves in accordance with the income tax accounting guidance when facts and circumstances change, such as the closing of a tax audit or the refinement of an estimate. To the extent that the final tax outcome of these matters is different from the amounts recorded, such differences will affect the provision for income taxes in the period in which such determination is made, and could have a material impact on our financial condition and operating results.

On December 22, 2017, the 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (Tax Act) was enacted into law and the new legislation contains several key tax provisions that affected us, including a one-time mandatory transition tax on accumulated foreign earnings and a reduction of the corporate income tax rate to 21% effective January 1, 2018, among others. We are required to recognize the effect of the tax law changes in the period of enactment, such as determining the transition tax, remeasuring our U.S. deferred tax assets and liabilities as well as reassessing the net realizability of our deferred tax assets and liabilities. In December 2017, the SEC staff issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 118, Income Tax Accounting Implications of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (SAB 118), which allowed us to record provisional amounts during a measurement period not to extend beyond one year of the enactment date. As a result, we previously provided a provisional estimate of the effect of the Tax Act in our financial statements. In the fourth quarter of 2018, we completed our analysis to determine the effect of the Tax Act and recorded immaterial adjustments as of December 31, 2018. 

Loss Contingencies

We are involved in legal proceedings, claims, and regulatory, tax or government inquiries and investigations that arise in the ordinary course of business. Certain of these matters include speculative claims for substantial or indeterminate amounts of damages. We record a liability when we believe that it is both probable that a loss has been incurred and the amount can be reasonably estimated. If we determine that a loss is reasonably possible and the loss or range of loss can be estimated, we disclose the possible loss in the accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements.

We review the developments in our contingencies that could affect the amount of the provisions that have been previously recorded, and the matters and related reasonably possible losses disclosed. We make adjustments to our provisions and changes to our disclosures 

40

accordingly to reflect the impact of negotiations, settlements, rulings, advice of legal counsel, and updated information. Significant judgment is required to determine both the probability and the estimated amount of loss. 

The outcome of these matters is inherently uncertain. Therefore, if one or more of these matters were resolved against us for amounts in excess of management's expectations, our results of operations and financial condition, including in a particular reporting period in which any such outcome becomes probable and estimable, could be materially adversely affected. See Note 9—Commitments and Contingencies and Note 12—Income Taxes of the accompanying notes to our consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" and Part I, Item 3, "Legal Proceedings" of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information regarding these contingencies.

Business Combinations and Valuation of Goodwill and Other Acquired Intangible Assets

We allocate the fair value of purchase consideration to the tangible assets acquired, liabilities assumed, and intangible assets acquired based on their estimated fair values. The excess of the fair value of purchase consideration over the fair values of these identifiable assets and liabilities is recorded as goodwill. Such valuations require management to make significant estimates and assumptions, especially with respect to intangible assets. Significant estimates in valuing certain intangible assets include, but are not limited to, future expected cash flows from acquired users, acquired technology, and trade names from a market participant perspective, useful lives, and discount rates. Management’s estimates of fair value are based upon assumptions believed to be reasonable, but which are inherently uncertain and unpredictable and, as a result, actual results may differ from estimates. During the measurement period, which is not to exceed one year from the acquisition date, we may record adjustments to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed, with the corresponding offset to goodwill. Upon the conclusion of the measurement period, any subsequent adjustments are recorded to earnings.

We review goodwill for impairment at least annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances would more likely than not reduce the fair value of our single reporting unit below its carrying value. As of December 31, 2018, no impairment of goodwill has been identified.

Acquired finite-lived intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful lives. We evaluate the recoverability of our intangible assets for possible impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of such assets may not be recoverable. The evaluation is performed at the lowest level for which identifiable cash flows are largely independent of the cash flows of other assets and liabilities. Recoverability of these assets is measured by a comparison of the carrying amounts to the future undiscounted cash flows the assets are expected to generate. If such review indicates that the carrying amount of property and equipment and intangible assets is not recoverable, the carrying amount of such assets is reduced to fair value. We have not recorded any significant impairment charges during the years presented.

In addition to the recoverability assessment, we routinely review the remaining estimated useful lives of our finite-lived intangible assets. If we reduce the estimated useful life assumption for any asset, the remaining unamortized balance would be amortized over the revised estimated useful life.

41

Components of Results of Operations

Revenue

Advertising. We generate substantially all of our revenue from advertising. Our advertising revenue is generated by displaying ad products on Facebook, Instagram, Messenger, and third-party affiliated websites or mobile applications. Marketers pay for ad products either directly or through their relationships with advertising agencies or resellers, based on the number of impressions delivered or the number of actions, such as clicks, taken by users. 

We recognize revenue from the display of impression-based ads in the contracted period in which the impressions are delivered. Impressions are considered delivered when an ad is displayed to a user. We recognize revenue from the delivery of action-based ads in the period in which a user takes the action the marketer contracted for. The number of ads we show is subject to methodological changes as we continue to evolve our ads business and the structure of our ads products. We calculate price per ad as total ad revenue divided by the number of ads delivered, representing the effective price paid per impression by a marketer regardless of their desired objective such as impression or action. For advertising revenue arrangements where we are not the principal, we recognize revenue on a net basis.

Payments and other fees. Payments revenue is comprised of the net fee we receive from developers using our Payments infrastructure. Our other fees revenue consists primarily of revenue from the delivery of consumer hardware devices, as well as revenue from various other sources.

Cost of Revenue and Operating Expenses

Cost of revenue. Our cost of revenue consists primarily of expenses associated with the delivery and distribution of our products. These include expenses related to the operation of our data centers, such as facility and server equipment depreciation, salaries, benefits, and share-based compensation for employees on our operations teams, and energy and bandwidth costs. Cost of revenue also includes costs associated with partner arrangements, including traffic acquisition and content acquisition costs, credit card and other transaction fees related to processing customer transactions, and cost of consumer hardware device inventory sold. 

Research and development. Research and development expenses consist primarily of share-based compensation, salaries, and benefits for employees on our engineering and technical teams who are responsible for building new products as well as improving existing products. We expense all of our research and development costs as they are incurred.

Marketing and sales. Our marketing and sales expenses consist of salaries, share-based compensation, and benefits for our employees engaged in sales, sales support, marketing, business development, and customer service functions. Our marketing and sales expenses also include marketing and promotional expenditures, and professional services such as content reviewers. 

General and administrative. The majority of our general and administrative expenses consist of salaries, benefits, and share-based compensation for certain of our executives as well as our legal, finance, human resources, corporate communications and policy, and other administrative employees. In addition, general and administrative expenses include legal-related costs and professional services. 

42

Results of Operations

The following tables set forth our consolidated statements of income data:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Share-based compensation expense included in costs and expenses:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The following tables set forth our consolidated statements of income data (as a percentage of revenue):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

43

Share-based compensation expense included in costs and expenses (as a percentage of revenue):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Revenue

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

2018 Compared to 2017. Revenue in 2018 increased $15.19 billion, or 37%, compared to 2017. The increase was mostly due to an increase in advertising revenue. 

The most important factor driving advertising revenue growth was an increase in revenue from ads on mobile devices. For 2018, we estimate that mobile advertising revenue represented approximately 92% of total advertising revenue, as compared with approximately 88% in 2017. The increase in advertising revenue for 2018 was due to increases in the number of ads delivered and the average price per ad. In 2018 compared to 2017, the number of ads delivered increased by 22%, as compared with approximately 15% in 2017, and the average price per ad increased by 13%, as compared with approximately 29% in 2017. 

The increase in the ads delivered was driven by an increase in users and their engagement, and an increase in the number and frequency of ads displayed across our products. The increase in average price per ad was driven by an increase in demand for our ad inventory. Factors contributing to the increase in demand for our ad inventory include an increase in spend from existing marketers and an increase in the number of marketers actively advertising on our platform as well as the quality, relevance, and performance of those ads. We anticipate that future advertising revenue growth will be driven by a combination of price and the number of ads displayed. 

Advertising spending is traditionally seasonally strong in the fourth quarter of each year. We believe that this seasonality in advertising spending affects our quarterly results, which generally reflect significant growth in advertising revenue between the third and fourth quarters and a decline in advertising spending between the fourth and subsequent first quarters. For instance, our advertising revenue increased 23%, 26%, and 27% between the third and fourth quarters of 2018, 2017, and 2016, respectively, while advertising revenue for both the first quarters of 2018 and 2017 declined 8% and 9% compared to the fourth quarters of 2017 and 2016, respectively.

2017 Compared to 2016. Revenue in 2017 increased $13.02 billion, or 47%, compared to 2016. The increase was mostly due to an increase in advertising revenue.

The most important factor driving advertising revenue growth was an increase in revenue from ads on mobile devices. For 2017, we estimate that mobile advertising revenue represented approximately 88% of total advertising revenue, as compared with approximately 83% in 2016. Factors that influenced our advertising revenue growth in 2017 included (i) an increase in average price per ad, (ii) an increase in users and their engagement, and (iii) an increase in the number and frequency of ads displayed on mobile devices. 

In 2017 compared to 2016, the average price per ad increased by 29%, as compared with approximately 5% in 2016, and the number of ads delivered increased by 15%, as compared with approximately 50% in 2016. The increase in average price per ad was driven by an increase in demand for our ad inventory; factors contributing to this include an increase in spend from existing marketers and an increase in the number of marketers actively advertising on our platform as well as the quality, relevance, and performance of those ads. The increase in the ads delivered was driven by an increase in users and their engagement and an increase in the number and frequency of ads displayed on News Feed, partially offset by increasing user engagement with video content and other product 

44

changes. 

No customer represented 10% or more of total revenue during the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017, and 2016.

Foreign Exchange Impact on Revenue 

The general weakening of the U.S. dollar relative to certain foreign currencies in the full year 2018 compared to the same period in 2017, and in the full year 2017 compared to the same period in 2016, had a favorable impact on our revenue. If we had translated revenue for the full year 2018 using the prior year's monthly exchange rates for our settlement currencies other than the U.S. dollar, our total revenue and advertising revenue would have been $55.44 billion and $54.61 billion, respectively. If we had translated revenue for the full year 2017 using 2016 monthly exchange rates for our settlement currencies other than the U.S. dollar, our total revenue and advertising revenue would have been $40.36 billion and $39.65 billion, respectively. Using these constant rates, both total revenue and advertising revenue would have been $401 million lower than actual revenue and advertising revenue for the full year 2018, and $293 million and $292 million lower than actual revenue and advertising revenue, respectively, for the full year 2017.

Cost of revenue 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

2018 Compared to 2017. Cost of revenue in 2018 increased $3.90 billion, or 72%, compared to 2017. The increase was mostly due to an increase in operational expenses related to our data centers and technical infrastructure and higher costs associated with partnership agreements, including traffic acquisition and content acquisition costs. 

2017 Compared to 2016. Cost of revenue in 2017 increased $1.67 billion, or 44%, compared to 2016. The majority of the increase was due to an increase in operational expenses related to our data centers and technical infrastructure and, to a lesser extent, higher costs associated with partnership agreements, including content acquisition costs, and ads payment processing.

In 2019, we anticipate that the cost of revenue will increase as we continue to expand our data center capacity and technical infrastructure to support user growth, increased user engagement, and the delivery of new products and services and, to a lesser extent, due to higher costs associated with ads payment processing and various partnership agreements.

Research and development

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

2018 Compared to 2017. Research and development expenses in 2018 increased $2.52 billion, or 32%, compared to 2017. The majority of the increase was due to an increase in payroll and benefits expense as a result of a 43% growth in employee headcount from December 31, 2017 to December 31, 2018 in engineering and other technical functions, and, to a lesser extent, an increase in professional service expenses. Payroll and benefits expense growth was less than headcount growth partially due to a $473 million decrease in share-based compensation related to the acquisitions completed in 2014.

2017 Compared to 2016. Research and development expenses in 2017 increased $1.84 billion, or 31%, compared to 2016. The majority of the increase was due to an increase in payroll and benefits as a result of a 49% growth in employee headcount from December 31, 2016 to December 31, 2017 in engineering and other technical functions, partially offset by a $262 million decrease in share-based compensation related to the acquisitions completed in 2014. 

45

In 2019, we plan to continue to hire software engineers and other technical employees, and to increase our investment to support our research and development initiatives. We expect payroll and related expenses growth to be more consistent with headcount growth as share-based compensation related to the acquisitions completed in 2014 are now substantially recognized.

Marketing and sales

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

2018 Compared to 2017. Marketing and sales expenses in 2018 increased $3.12 billion, or 66%, compared to 2017. The increase was mostly driven by marketing, community operations, and payroll and benefits expenses. Our payroll and benefits expenses increased as a result of a 33% increase in employee headcount from December 31, 2017 to December 31, 2018 in our marketing and sales functions.

2017 Compared to 2016. Marketing and sales expenses in 2017 increased $953 million, or 25%, compared to 2016. The majority of the increase was due to increases in payroll and benefits expenses as a result of a 35% increase in employee headcount from December 31, 2016 to December 31, 2017 in our marketing and sales functions, and increases in our consulting and other professional service fees. 

In 2019, we plan to continue the hiring of marketing and sales employees to support our marketing, sales, and partnership efforts and to increase our investment in community operations to support our security efforts. 

General and administrative

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

2018 Compared to 2017. General and administrative expenses in 2018 increased $934 million, or 37%, compared to 2017. The increase was primarily due to increases in payroll and benefits expenses as a result of a 32% increase in employee headcount from December 31, 2017 to December 31, 2018 in general and administrative functions.

2017 Compared to 2016. General and administrative expenses in 2017 increased $786 million, or 45%, compared to 2016. The majority of the increase was due to an increase in payroll and benefits expenses as a result of a 58% increase in employee headcount from December 31, 2016 to December 31, 2017 in general and administrative functions, and to a lesser extent, higher legal-related costs.

In 2019, we plan to continue to increase general and administrative expenses to support overall company growth.

Interest and other income (expense), net

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

46

2018 Compared to 2017. Interest and other income, net in 2018 increased $57 million compared to 2017. The increase in 2018 was due to an increase in interest income driven by higher interest rates, partially offset by an increase in other expense as a result of foreign exchange impact occurring from the periodic re-measurement of our foreign currency balances.

2017 Compared to 2016. Interest and other income, net in 2017 increased $300 million compared to 2016. The majority of the increase in 2017 was due to an increase in interest income driven by higher invested cash balances and interest rates. In addition, foreign exchange impact resulting from the periodic re-measurement of our foreign currency assets and liabilities also contributed to the increase in 2017.

Provision for income taxes

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

2018 Compared to 2017. Our provision for income taxes in 2018 decreased $1.41 billion, or 30%, compared to 2017, primarily due to a one-time expense of approximately $2.27 billion in 2017 resulting from the Tax Act, partially offset by an increase in income before provision for income taxes.

Our effective tax rate in 2018 decreased compared to 2017, primarily due to a one-time tax expense of approximately $2.27 billion related to the Tax Act in 2017.

2017 Compared to 2016. Our provision for income taxes in 2017 increased $2.36 billion, or 103%, compared to 2016, mostly due to the effects of the Tax Act that was enacted on December 22, 2017 and an increase in income before provision for income taxes, partially offset by an increase in excess tax benefits recognized from share-based compensation. As a result of the Tax Act, we recognized a one-time mandatory transition tax on accumulated foreign subsidiary earnings, remeasured our U.S. deferred tax assets and liabilities, and reassessed the net realizability of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, which increased our provision for income taxes in 2017 by $2.27 billion. 

Effective Tax Rate Items. Our effective tax rate in the future will depend upon the proportion of our income before provision for income taxes earned in the United States and in jurisdictions with a tax rate lower than the U.S. statutory rate, as well as a number of other factors, including excess tax benefits from share-based compensation, tax effects of integrating intellectual property from acquisitions, settlement of tax contingency items, tax effects of changes in our business, and the impact of changes in tax law.

The proportion of our income before provision for income taxes earned in jurisdictions with a tax rate lower than the U.S. statutory rate will depend upon the proportion of revenue and costs associated with the respective jurisdictions. 

The accounting for share-based compensation will increase or decrease our effective tax rate based upon the difference between our share-based compensation expense and the deductions taken on our tax return which depends upon the stock price at the time of employee award vesting. If our stock price remains constant to the January 28, 2019 price, we expect our effective tax rate for 2019 will be a few percentage points higher than our 2018 rate. 

Integrating intellectual property from acquisitions into our business generally involves intercompany transactions that have the impact of increasing our provision for income taxes. Consequently, our provision for income taxes and our effective tax rate may initially increase in the period of an acquisition and integration. The magnitude of this impact will depend upon the specific type, size, and taxing jurisdictions of the intellectual property as well as the relative contribution to income in subsequent periods.

On July 27, 2015, the United States Tax Court (Tax Court) issued an opinion in Altera Corp v. Commissioner (Tax Court Opinion), which concluded that related parties in a cost sharing arrangement are not required to share expenses related to share-based compensation. The Tax Court Opinion was appealed by the Commissioner to the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals (Ninth Circuit). On July 24, 2018, the Ninth Circuit issued an opinion (Ninth Circuit Opinion) that reversed the Tax Court Opinion. The Ninth Circuit Opinion was subsequently withdrawn and the case is being reheard. Since the Ninth Circuit Opinion was withdrawn, we continue to treat our share-based compensation expense in accordance with the Tax Court Opinion. We also continue to monitor developments in this case and any impact the final opinion could have on our consolidated financial statements. Had the Ninth Circuit not withdrawn its opinion, our effective tax rate for 2018 would have been higher.

47

Unrecognized Tax Benefits. As of December 31, 2018, we had net unrecognized tax benefits of $3.07 billion which were accrued as other liabilities. These unrecognized tax benefits were predominantly accrued for uncertainties related to transfer pricing with our foreign subsidiaries, which includes licensing of intellectual property, providing services and other transactions, as well as for uncertainties with our research tax credits. The ultimate settlement of the liabilities will depend upon resolution of tax audits, litigation, or events that would otherwise change the assessment of such items. Based upon the status of litigation described below, the current status of tax audits in various jurisdictions, and excluding the effects of the Altera Corp v. Commissioner case that we are monitoring, we do not anticipate a significant impact to such amounts within the next 12 months. 

In July 2016, we received a Statutory Notice of Deficiency (Notice) from the IRS related to transfer pricing with our foreign subsidiaries in conjunction with the examination of the 2010 tax year. While the Notice applies only to the 2010 tax year, the IRS states that it will also apply its position for tax years subsequent to 2010, which, if the IRS prevails in its position, could result in an additional federal tax liability of an estimated, aggregate amount of up to approximately $5.0 billion in excess of the amounts in our originally filed U.S. return, plus interest and any penalties asserted. We do not agree with the position of the IRS and have filed a petition in the Tax Court challenging the Notice. In March 2018, we received a second Notice from the IRS in conjunction with the examination of our 2011 through 2013 tax years. The IRS applied its position from the 2010 tax year to each of these years and also proposed new adjustments related to other transfer pricing with our foreign subsidiaries and certain tax credits that we claimed. If the IRS prevails in its position for these new adjustments, this could result in an additional federal tax liability of up to approximately $680 million in excess of the amounts in our originally filed U.S. return, plus interest and any penalties asserted. We do not agree with the positions of the IRS in the second Notice and have filed a petition in the Tax Court challenging the second Notice. We have previously accrued an estimated unrecognized tax benefit consistent with the guidance in ASC 740 that is lower than the potential additional federal tax liability from the positions taken by the IRS in the two Notices. In addition, if the IRS prevails in its positions, related to transfer pricing with our foreign subsidiaries, the additional tax that we would owe would be partially offset by a reduction in the tax that we owe under the mandatory transition tax on accumulated foreign earnings from the Tax Act. As of December 31, 2018, we have not resolved these matters, and proceedings continue in Tax Court. 

We believe that adequate amounts have been reserved in accordance with ASC 740 for any adjustments to the provision for income taxes or other tax items that may ultimately result from these examinations. The timing of the resolution, settlement, and closure of any audits is highly uncertain, and it is reasonably possible that the balance of gross unrecognized tax benefits could significantly change in the next 12 months. Given the number of years remaining that are subject to examination in various jurisdictions, we are unable to estimate the full range of possible adjustments to the balance of gross unrecognized tax benefits. If the taxing authorities prevail in the assessment of additional tax due, the assessed tax, interest, and penalties, if any, could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. 

48

Quarterly Results of Operations Data

The following tables set forth our unaudited quarterly consolidated statements of income data in dollars and as a percentage of total revenue for each of the eight quarters in the period ended December 31, 2018. We have prepared the quarterly consolidated statements of income data on a basis consistent with the audited consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In the opinion of management, the financial information reflects all adjustments, consisting only of normal recurring adjustments, which we consider necessary for a fair presentation of this data. This information should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and related notes included in Part II, Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The results of historical periods are not necessarily indicative of the results of operations for any future period.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

49

Share-based compensation expense included in costs and expenses:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Share-based compensation expense included in costs and expenses:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

50

Liquidity and Capital Resources

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Our principal sources of liquidity are our cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities, and cash generated from operations. Cash and cash equivalents, and marketable securities consist mostly of cash on deposit with banks, investments in money market funds, and investments in U.S. government securities, U.S. government agency securities, and corporate debt securities. Cash and cash equivalents, and marketable securities were $41.11 billion as of December 31, 2018, a decrease of $597 million from December 31, 2017, mostly due to $13.92 billion for purchases of property and equipment, $12.88 billion for repurchases of our Class A common stock, and $3.21 billion of taxes paid related to net share settlement of equity awards, offset by $29.27 billion of cash generated from operations and a $500 million increase in overdraft in cash pooling entities.

Cash paid for income taxes was $3.76 billion for the year ended December 31, 2018. As of December 31, 2018, our federal net operating loss carryforward was $7.88 billion, and we anticipate that none of this amount will be utilized to offset our federal taxable income in 2018. As of December 31, 2018, we had $290 million of federal tax credit carryforward, of which none will be available to offset our federal tax liabilities in 2018. In addition, we are monitoring the Altera Corp. v. Commissioner case as it applies to our facts and circumstances as it could increase our cash paid for income taxes. 

 In May 2016, we entered into a $2.0 billion senior unsecured revolving credit facility, and any amounts outstanding under the facility will be due and payable on May 20, 2021. As of December 31, 2018, no amounts had been drawn down and we were in compliance with the covenants under this credit facility.

Our board of directors has authorized a share repurchase program that commenced in 2017 and does not have an expiration date. During the second quarter of 2018, we completed repurchases under the original authorization to purchase up to $6.0 billion of our Class A common stock. In April 2018, the authorization for the repurchase of our Class A common stock was increased by an additional $9.0 billion, and we completed repurchases under this authorization during the fourth quarter of 2018. In December 2018, our board of directors authorized an additional $9.0 billion of repurchases under this program. During the year ended December 31, 2018, we repurchased and subsequently retired 79 million shares of our Class A common stock for $12.93 billion. As of December 31, 2018, $9.0 billion remained available and authorized for repurchases. 

In 2018, we paid $3.21 billion of taxes related to the net share settlement of equity awards.

In 2018, we established a multi-currency notional cash pool for certain of our entities with a third-party bank provider. Actual cash balances are not physically converted and are not commingled between participating legal entities. As part of the notional cash pool agreement, the bank extends overdraft credit to our participating entities as needed, provided that the overall notionally pooled balance of all accounts in the pool at the end of each day is at least zero. In the unlikely event of a default by our collective entities participating in the pool, any overdraft balances incurred would be guaranteed by Facebook, Inc. See Note 9—Commitments and Contingencies of the accompanying notes to our consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information regarding our notional cash pooling arrangement.

As of December 31, 2018, $16.28 billion of the $41.11 billion in cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities was held by our foreign subsidiaries. The Tax Act imposed a mandatory transition tax on accumulated foreign earnings and eliminated U.S. taxes on foreign subsidiary distributions. As a result, earnings in foreign jurisdictions are available for distribution to the U.S. without incremental U.S. taxes.

We currently anticipate that our available funds, credit facility, and cash flow from operations will be sufficient to meet our operational cash needs for the foreseeable future.

51

Cash Provided by Operating Activities

Cash flow from operating activities during 2018 mostly consisted of net income, adjusted for certain non-cash items, such as total depreciation and amortization of $4.32 billion and share-based compensation expense of $4.15 billion. The increase in cash flow from operating activities during 2018 compared to 2017 was mostly due to an increase in net income, adjusted for certain non-cash items, such as depreciation and amortization, deferred income tax and share-based compensation expense. Due to the enactment of the Tax Act in 2017, we recorded a higher tax liability in 2017, which partially offset the increase in cash flow from operating activities in 2018. 

Cash flow from operating activities during 2017 mostly consisted of net income, adjusted for certain non-cash items, such as share-based compensation expense of $3.72 billion and total depreciation and amortization of $3.03 billion. The increase in cash flow from operating activities during 2017 compared to 2016 was mostly due to an increase in net income, adjusted for certain non-cash items, such as depreciation and amortization and share-based compensation expense. Due to the enactment of the Tax Act in 2017, we recorded a provisional tax liability of $2.9 billion relating to the one-time mandatory transition tax on our accumulated foreign earnings, which also contributed to the increase in 2017 compared to 2016. 

Cash flow from operating activities during 2016 mostly consisted of net income, adjusted for certain non-cash items, such as share-based compensation expense of $3.22 billion and total depreciation and amortization of $2.34 billion. The increase in cash flow from operating activities during 2016 compared to 2015, was mostly due to an increase in net income, including the impact of ASU 2016-09 adoption, as adjusted for depreciation and amortization, deferred income taxes, and share-based compensation expense.

Cash Used in Investing Activities

Cash used in investing activities during 2018 mostly resulted from $13.92 billion of capital expenditures as we continued to invest in data centers, servers, network infrastructure, and office buildings, offset by $2.47 billion of net sales and maturities of marketable securities. The decrease in cash used in investing activities during 2018 compared to 2017 was mostly due to a decrease in the net purchases of marketable securities, partially offset by an increase in capital expenditures.

Cash used in investing activities during 2017 mostly resulted from $13.25 billion for net purchases of marketable securities and $6.73 billion for capital expenditures as we continued to invest in servers, data centers, office buildings, and network infrastructure. The increase in cash used in investing activities during 2017 compared to 2016 was due to increases in net purchases of marketable securities and capital expenditures.

Cash used in investing activities during 2016 mostly resulted from $7.19 billion for net purchases of marketable securities and $4.49 billion for capital expenditures as we continued to invest in data centers, servers, office buildings, and network infrastructure. The increase in cash used in investing activities during 2016 compared to 2015 was mostly due to increases in capital expenditures and net purchases of marketable securities.

We anticipate making capital expenditures in 2019 of approximately $18 billion to $20 billion.

Cash Used in Financing Activities

Cash used in financing activities during 2018 consisted of $12.88 billion paid for repurchases of our Class A common stock, and $3.21 billion of taxes paid related to net share settlement of equity awards, offset by a $500 million overdraft in cash pooling entities. The increase in cash used in financing activities during 2018 compared to 2017 was mostly due to an increase in repurchases of our Class A common stock, partially offset by an increase in overdraft balances in cash pooling entities.

Cash used in financing activities during 2017 mostly consisted of $3.25 billion of taxes paid related to net share settlement of equity awards, and $1.98 billion paid for repurchases of our Class A common stock. The increase in cash used in financing activities during 2017 compared to 2016 was mostly due to taxes paid related to net share settlement of equity awards and repurchases of our Class A common stock that commenced in 2017.

Cash used in financing activities during 2016 mostly consisted of principal payments on capital lease and other financing obligations. The increase in cash used in financing activities was due to full repayment of our capital lease and other financing obligations in 2016.

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

We did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements as of December 31, 2018.

52

Contractual Obligations

Our principal commitments consist of obligations under operating leases, which include among others, certain of our offices, data centers, land, and colocation leases, as well as contractual commitments related to network infrastructure and data center operations. The following table summarizes our commitments to settle contractual obligations in cash as of December 31, 2018 (in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Other contractual commitments primarily relate to network infrastructure and our data center operations.

As part of the normal course of the business, we may enter into multi-year agreements to purchase certain network components that do not specify a fixed or minimum price commitment or to purchase renewable energy that do not specify a fixed or minimum volume commitment. These agreements are generally entered into in order to secure either volume or price. Using projected market prices or expected volume consumption, the total estimated spend is approximately $6.0 billion. The ultimate spend under these agreements may vary and will be based on prevailing market prices or actual volume purchased. 

In addition, our other liabilities include $3.07 billion related to net uncertain tax positions as of December 31, 2018. Due to uncertainties in the timing of the completion of tax audits, the timing of the resolution of these positions is uncertain and we are unable to make a reasonably reliable estimate of the timing of payments in individual years beyond 12 months. As a result, this amount is not included in the above contractual obligations table.

Contingencies

We are involved in legal proceedings, claims, and regulatory, tax or government inquiries and investigations. We record a provision for a liability when we believe that it is both probable that a liability has been incurred, and that the amount can be reasonably estimated. If we determine that a loss is reasonably possible and the loss or range of loss can be estimated, we disclose the possible loss in the accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements. Significant judgment is required to determine both probability and the estimated amount of loss. Such matters are inherently unpredictable and subject to significant uncertainties, some of which are beyond our control. Should any of these estimates and assumptions change or prove to be incorrect, it could have a material impact on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows.

See Note 9—Commitments and Contingencies and Note 12—Income Taxes of the accompanying notes to our consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" and Part I, Item 3, "Legal Proceedings" of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information regarding contingencies.

Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements 

In February 2016, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842) (ASU 2016-02), as amended, which generally requires lessees to recognize operating and financing lease liabilities and corresponding right-of-use assets on the balance sheet and to provide enhanced disclosures surrounding the amount, timing and uncertainty of cash flows arising from leasing arrangements. We will adopt the new standard effective January 1, 2019 on a modified retrospective basis and will not restate comparative periods. We will elect the package of practical expedients permitted under the transition guidance, which allows us to carryforward our historical lease classification, our assessment on whether a contract is or contains a lease, and our initial direct costs for any leases that exist prior to adoption of the new standard. We will also elect to combine lease and non-lease components and to keep leases with an initial term of 12 months or less off the balance sheet and recognize the associated lease payments in the consolidated statements of income on a straight-line basis over the lease term. We estimate approximately $6 billion would be recognized as total right-of-use assets and total lease liabilities on our consolidated balance sheet as of January 1, 2019. Other than disclosed, we do not expect the new standard to have a material impact on our remaining consolidated financial statements.

In January 2017, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2017-04, Intangibles—Goodwill and Other (Topic 350): Simplifying the Test for Goodwill Impairment (ASU 2017-04), which eliminates step two from the goodwill impairment test. Under ASU 2017-04, an entity should recognize an impairment charge for the amount by which the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value up to the amount of goodwill allocated to that reporting unit. This guidance will be effective for us in the first quarter of 2020 on a prospective basis, and early adoption is permitted. We do not expect the standard to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. 

53

Item 7A.Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk