Item 7.  Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.  

Introduction  

This Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (“MD&A”) is a supplement to the accompanying consolidated financial statements and provides additional information on our business, recent developments, financial condition, liquidity and capital resources, cash flows and results of operations. MD&A is organized as follows:  

 >    Overview: This section provides a general description of our business, and a discussion of management’s general outlook regarding market demand, our competitive position and product innovation, as well as recent developments we believe are important to understanding our results of operations and financial condition or in understanding anticipated future trends.  

 >    Basis of Presentation: This section provides a discussion of the basis on which our consolidated financial statements were prepared.  

 >    Results of Operations: This section provides an analysis of our results of operations for each of the three years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016.  

 >    Liquidity and Capital Resources: This section provides a discussion of our financial condition and an analysis of our cash flows for each of the three years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016. This section also provides a discussion of our contractual obligations, other purchase commitments and customer credit risk that existed at December 31, 2018, as well as a discussion of our ability to fund our future commitments and ongoing operating activities through internal and external sources of capital.  

 >    Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates: This section identifies and summarizes those accounting policies that significantly impact our reported results of operations and financial condition and require significant judgment or estimates on the part of management in their application.  

Overview  

The Company is a leader in home and security products focused on the design, manufacture and sale of market-leading branded products in the following categories: kitchen and bath cabinetry, plumbing and accessories, entry door systems, security products and outdoor performance materials used in decking, railing and fencing products.  

For the year ended December 31, 2018, net sales based on country of destination were:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

We believe the Company has certain competitive advantages including market-leading brands, a diversified mix of customer channels, lean and flexible supply chains, a decentralized business model and a strong capital structure as well as a tradition of strong innovation and customer service. We are focused on outperforming our markets in growth, profitability and returns in order to drive increased shareholder value. We believe the Company’s track record reflects the long-term attractiveness and potential of our categories and our leading brands. As consumer demand and the housing market continue to grow, we expect the benefits of operating leverage and strategic spending to support increased manufacturing capacity and long-term growth initiatives will help us to continue to achieve profitable organic growth.  

18   

Table of Contents 

We believe our most attractive opportunities are to invest in profitable organic growth initiatives. We also believe that as the market grows, we have the potential to generate additional growth from leveraging our cash flows and balance sheet strength by pursuing accretive strategic acquisitions, non-controlling equity investments, and joint ventures, and by returning cash to shareholders through a combination of dividends and repurchases under our share repurchase program as explained in further detail under “Liquidity and Capital Resources” below.  

The U.S. market for our home products consists of spending on both new home construction and repair and remodel activities within existing homes, with the substantial majority of the markets we serve consisting of repair and remodel spending. Continued growth in the U.S. market for our home products will largely depend on consumer confidence, employment, home prices, stable mortgage rates and credit availability. 

We may be impacted by fluctuations in raw materials, tariffs, transportation costs, foreign exchange rates and promotional activity among our competitors. We strive to offset the potential unfavorable impact of these items with productivity improvements and price increases.  

During the three years ended December 31, 2018, our net sales grew at a compounded annual rate of 6.2% as we benefited from an improving U.S. home products market, acquisitions, and growth in international markets. Operating income grew at a compounded annual rate of 7.4% with consolidated operating margins improving from 10% in 2015 to 11% in 2018. Growth in operating income was primarily due to higher sales volume, changes to our portfolio of businesses, control and leverage of our operating expenses and the benefits of productivity programs.  

During 2018, the U.S. home products market grew due to increases in new home construction and repair and remodel activities. We believe new housing construction experienced approximately 5% growth in 2018 compared to 2017 and spending for home repair and remodeling increased approximately 4%. In 2018, net sales grew 4% due to price increases to help mitigate cumulative raw material cost increases, the acquisitions in our Plumbing and Doors & Security segments, higher sales volume primarily resulting from U.S. home products market growth, and the effect of favorable foreign exchange. In 2018, operating income decreased 12.8% due to unfavorable mix, asset impairment charges, higher employee-related costs and restructuring charges.  

During 2017, the U.S. home products market grew due to increases in new home construction and repair and remodel activities. We believe new housing construction experienced approximately 7% growth in 2017 compared to 2016 and spending for home repair and remodeling increased by approximately 5%. In 2017, net sales grew 6% and operating income increased 9% due to higher sales volume primarily resulting from U.S. home products market growth, the acquisitions in our Plumbing segments, price increases to help mitigate cumulative raw material cost increases, the effect of favorable foreign exchange and productivity improvements.  

During the fourth quarter of 2018, our Plumbing segment entered into strategic partnerships with several companies who incorporate emerging technology into plumbing-related products, and at the same time acquired non-controlling equity interests in two of our partners. This includes an investment in Flo Technologies, Inc.  

In September 2018, we issued $600 million of unsecured senior notes (“2018 Senior Notes”) in a registered public offering. The 2018 Senior Notes are due in 2023 with a coupon rate of 4%. All other terms and conditions of the 2018 Senior Notes are substantially consistent with our other senior notes issued in June 2015 (“2015 Senior Notes”, and collectively with the 2018 Senior Notes, the “Senior Notes”). We used the proceeds from the 2018 Senior Notes offering to pay down our revolving credit facility.  

In September 2018, we acquired 100% of the membership interests of Fiber Composites LLC (“Fiberon”), a leading U.S. manufacturer of outdoor performance materials used in decking, railing and fencing products  

19   

Table of Contents 

 for a total purchase price of approximately $470.0 million, subject to certain post-closing adjustments. The acquisition of Fiberon provides category expansion and product extension opportunities into the outdoor living space for our Doors & Security segment. We financed the transaction using cash on hand and borrowings under our revolving credit and term loan facilities. Fiberon’s results of operations are included in the Doors & Security segment from the date of acquisition.  

In July 2018, we publicly announced an internal reorganization to combine our historical Doors and Security segments under common leadership to drive innovation, accelerate product development, and enhance investments and business processes. In connection with the reorganization, we changed how our chief operating decision maker evaluates and allocates the resources for the combined business. Reporting for the new Doors & Security segment began in the third quarter of 2018 and historical financial segment information has been restated to conform to the new segment presentation.  

In March 2018, the Company entered into a $350 million term loan for general corporate purposes that matures in March 2019. In August 2018, the Company amended its existing $350 million term loan to increase the borrowings under the term loan from $350 million to $525 million. All terms and conditions on the amended term loan remain the same as the previous $350 million term loan. Interest rates under the term loan are variable based on LIBOR at the time of the borrowing and the Company’s long-term credit rating and can range from LIBOR + 0.625% to LIBOR + 1.25%. Covenants under the term loan are the same as the existing $1.25 billion revolving credit agreement.  

In October 2017, we acquired Domotec Holdings Limited (“Victoria + Albert”), a UK-based premium brand of standalone bathtubs, sinks, tub fillers, faucets and other accessories. In July 2017, we acquired Shaws Since1897 Limited (“Shaws”), a UK-based luxury plumbing products company that specializes in manufacturing and selling fireclay sinks and selling brassware and accessories. The total combined consideration paid was approximately $146 million, subject to certain post-closing adjustments and deferred acquisition payments. We financed both of the acquisitions using cash on hand and borrowings under our revolving credit facility. These transactions broadened our plumbing portfolio.  

During the third quarter of 2016, we announced the creation of GPG, which was designed to support the growth of multiple plumbing brands with an enhanced set of products and brands, while leveraging Moen’s existing global supply chain and broad distribution network.  

In September 2016, we acquired ROHL LLC (“ROHL”), a California-based luxury plumbing company and in a related transaction, we acquired TCL Manufacturing Ltd, which gave us ownership of Perrin & Rowe, a UK manufacturer and designer of luxury kitchen and bathroom plumbing products. The total combined purchase price was approximately $166 million, subject to certain post-closing adjustments. We financed both acquisitions using cash on hand and borrowings under our existing credit facility. These transactions broadened the plumbing portfolio and enhanced future growth opportunities.  

In June 2016, we amended and restated our credit agreement to combine and rollover the existing revolving credit facility and term loan into a new standalone $1.25 billion revolving credit facility. Terms and conditions of the credit agreement, including the total commitment amount, essentially remained the same as our previous credit assesment. The revolving credit facility will mature in June 2021 and borrowings thereunder will be used for general corporate purposes.  

In May 2016, we acquired Riobel Inc (“Riobel”), a Canadian plumbing company specializing in premium showroom bath and shower fittings, for a total purchase price of $94.6 million, subject to certain post-closing adjustments. We financed the transaction using cash on hand and borrowings under our existing credit facilities.  

Basis of Presentation  

The consolidated financial statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K have been derived from the accounts of the Company and its wholly-owned subsidiaries. The Company’s consolidated financial  

20   

Table of Contents 

 statements are based on a fiscal year ending December 31. Certain of the Company’s subsidiaries operate on a 52 or 53 week fiscal year ending during the month of December. In December 2017, there were certain transactions that resulted in approximately $38 million of net cash outflows relating to payments made to third parties in the normal course of business during the period between the year-end of our wholly-owned subsidiaries and the Company’s year-end (in 2018, amounts were immaterial).  

In September 2018, we acquired Fiber Composites LLC (“Fiberon”). The financial results of Fiberon were included in the Company’s consolidated statements of income and statements of cash flow beginning in September 2018 and the consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2018. The results of operations are included in the Doors & Security segment.  

In October 2017, we acquired Victoria + Albert. In July 2017, we acquired Shaws. The financial results of both of the acquisitions were included in the Company’s consolidated balance sheets as of December 31, 2017 and in the Company’s consolidated statements of income and statements of cash flow beginning in October 2017 and July 2017, respectively. The results of operations are included in the Plumbing segment.  

In September 2016, we acquired ROHL and in a related transaction, we acquired TCL Manufacturing Ltd., which gave us ownership of Perrin & Rowe and in May 2016, we acquired Riobel. The financial results of ROHL and Riobel were included in the Company’s consolidated balance sheets as of December 31, 2016 and in the Company’s consolidated statements of income and statements of cash flow beginning in September 2016 and May 2016, respectively. The results of operations are included in the Plumbing segment.  

Results of Operations  

The following discussion of both consolidated results of operations and segment results of operations refers to the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to the year ended December 31, 2017, and the year ended December 31, 2017 compared to the year ended December 31, 2016. The discussion of consolidated results of operations should be read in conjunction with the discussion of segment results of operations and our financial statements and notes thereto included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Unless otherwise noted, all discussion of results of operations are for continuing operations.  

Years Ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (a)    We revised our previously reported results in 2017 and 2016 to reflect our adoption of ASU 2017-07, Presentation of Net Periodic Pension and Postretirement Costs, and to reflect our new Doors & Security segment resulting from the reorganization we announced in July 2018.  

Certain items had a significant impact on our results in 2018, 2017 and 2016. These included the acquisitions of Fiberon, Victoria + Albert, Shaws, Riobel, ROHL and Perrin & Rowe, restructuring and other charges, asset impairment charges and the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates.  

21   

Table of Contents 

In 2018, financial results included:  

 >    the addition of the Fiberon acquisition in our Doors & Security segment,  

 >    asset impairment charges of $62.6 related to impairment of two indefinite-lived tradenames within our Cabinets segment which was primarily the result of changes in the mix of revenue across our tradenames finalized during our annual planning process conducted during the fourth quarter, as well as restructuring actions announced during the third quarter,  

 >    restructuring and other charges of $35.4 million before tax ($26.9 million after tax), primarily related to costs associated with our initiatives to consolidate our manufacturing footprint and product lines in our Cabinets segment and severance costs within all of our segments,  

 >    the impact of foreign exchange primarily due to movement in the Canadian Dollar, British Pound, Mexican Peso and Chinese Yuan, which had a favorable impact compared to 2017, of approximately $9 million on net sales, approximately $6 million on operating income and approximately $6 million on net income and  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 >    During 2018, the Company completed its SAB 118 analysis with respect to income tax effects resulting from the enactment of the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 on December 22, 2017 (the “Tax Act”) As a result, the Company recorded a tax expense in the amount of $5.5 million in 2018.  

In 2017, financial results included:  

 >    the benefit of the acquisitions in our Plumbing segment,  

 >    restructuring and other charges of $18.5 million before tax ($12.3 million after tax), primarily related to losses on disposal of inventory associated with exiting a product line in our Doors & Security segment and exiting a customer relationship in our Cabinets segment, as well as severance costs within our Doors & Security, Plumbing and Cabinets segments,  

 >    impairment charge of $7.0 million pertaining to a cost method investment in a development stage home products company due to other-than-temporary decline in its fair value,  

 >    the impact of foreign exchange primarily due to movement in the Canadian dollar, which had a favorable impact compared to 2016, of approximately $4 million on net sales, approximately $5 million on operating income and approximately $4 million on net income and  

 >    an estimated net tax benefit of $25.7 million resulting from the of the Tax Act.  

In 2016, financial results included:  

 >    the benefit of the acquisitions in our Cabinets and Plumbing segments,  

 >    restructuring and other charges of $19.3 million before tax ($13.6 million after tax), primarily associated with severance costs and charges associated with the relocation of a manufacturing facility within our Doors & Security segment and  

 >    the impact of foreign exchange primarily due to movement in the Canadian dollar, which had an unfavorable impact compared to 2015, of approximately $27 million on net sales, approximately $6 million on operating income and approximately $6 million on net income.  

2018 Compared to 2017  

Total Fortune Brands  

Net sales  

Net sales increased $201.8 million, or 3.8%. The increase was due to price increases to help mitigate cumulative raw material cost increases, higher international sales, principally in China, our acquisitions  

22   

Table of Contents 

 during 2017 and 2018 in our Plumbing and Doors & Security segments, higher sales volume primarily from the growth in the U.S. home products market, the benefit from new product introductions and favorable foreign exchange of approximately $9 million. These benefits were partially offset by more moderate industry growth during the second half of 2018, unfavorable mix and higher promotions and rebates.  

Cost of products sold  

Cost of products sold increased $167.4 million, or 5.0%, due to higher net sales, increased commodity costs, higher restructuring and other charges related to costs associated with our initiatives to consolidate and rationalize our manufacturing footprint and discontinue certain product lines in our Cabinets segment, and higher amortization of the acquisition-related inventory fair value adjustment in our Plumbing and Doors & Security segments. These factors were partially offset by the benefit of productivity improvements.  

Selling, general and administrative expenses  

Selling, general and administrative expenses increased $44.5 million, or 3.7%, due to higher employee-related costs, the impact from our acquisitions during 2017 and 2018 in our Plumbing and Doors & Security segments and higher transportation costs partially offset by the benefit from restructuring actions.  

Amortization of intangible assets  

Amortization of intangible assets increased $4.4 million due to our acquisitions during 2017 and 2018 in our Plumbing and Doors & Security segments offset by a decrease related to a definite-lived customer relationship intangible that was fully amortized during the second quarter of 2017.  

Loss on sale of product line  

In April 2017, we completed the sale of Field ID, our cloud-based inspection and safety compliance software product line included in our Doors & Security segment. We recorded a pre-tax loss of $2.4 million as the result of this sale.  

Asset impairment charges  

Asset impairment charges of $62.6 million in 2018 related to two indefinite-lived tradenames within our Cabinets segment. During the third quarter of 2018, we recognized an impairment of $27.1 million related to one tradename, which was primarily the result of reduced revenue growth expectations associated with Cabinets operations in Canada, including the announced closure of Company-owned retail locations during the third quarter of 2018. During the fourth quarter of 2018, we recognized an impairment of $35.5 million related to another tradename, which was primarily the result of lower than forecasted sales during the fourth quarter of 2018 as well as projected changes in the mix of revenue across our tradenames in future periods, including the impact of more moderate industry growth expectations, which were finalized during our annual planning process conducted during the fourth quarter. Asset impairment charges of $3.2 million in the first quarter of 2017 related to our decision to sell Field ID.  

Restructuring charges  

Restructuring charges of $24.1 million in 2018 primarily related to severance costs within all of our segments and costs associated with our initiatives to consolidate our manufacturing footprint and product lines in our Cabinets segment. Restructuring charges of $8.3 million in 2017 primarily related to severance costs across all segments and charges associated with the relocation of a manufacturing facility within our Cabinets segment.  

Operating income  

Operating income decreased $87.3 million or 12.8%. Operating income decreased due to unfavorable mix, asset impairment charges, higher employee-related costs and restructuring charges partially offset by  

23   

Table of Contents 

 higher net sales, including the benefit from acquisitions in our Plumbing segment and productivity improvements.  

Interest expense  

Interest expense increased $25.1 million to $74.5 million due to higher average borrowings to finance share repurchases and acquisitions and higher average interest rates.  

Other income, net  

Other income, net, was $16.3 million in the twelve months ended December 31, 2018, compared to $1.7 million in the twelve months ended December 31, 2017. The increase in other income, net, is primarily due to hedge gains associated with our September 2018 debt issuance, favorable foreign currency adjustments and various tax credits within our Plumbing business partially offset by lower defined benefit plan income in 2018 ($3.0 million decrease). In addition, 2017 reflects a $7.0 million impairment charge related to a cost method investment.  

Income taxes  

The effective income tax rates for 2018 and 2017 were 27.4% and 25.1%, respectively. The 2018 effective income tax rate was favorably impacted by the corporate tax rate reduction from 35% to 21% under The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (the “Tax Act”). The 2018 effective income tax rate was unfavorably impacted by the repeal of the Domestic Production Activity (Internal Revenue Code Section 199) Deduction, a valuation allowance increase ($3 million), an adjustment to the provisional net benefit recorded in 2017 under the Tax Act ($5.5 million), state and local taxes, unfavorable tax rates in foreign jurisdictions ($3.5 million), and increases in uncertain tax positions ($4.1 million).  

The 2017 effective income tax rate was favorably impacted by the Tax Act. The effective income tax rate for 2017 was favorably impacted by a tax benefit related to share-based compensation ($23.9 million), the tax benefit attributable to the Domestic Production Activity (Internal Revenue Code Section 199) Deduction ($10.9 million) and favorable tax rates in foreign jurisdictions ($8.3 million), partially offset by state and local taxes and increases to uncertain tax positions ($11.6 million).  

The Tax Act made significant changes to the U.S. Internal Revenue Code including a reduction in the corporate tax rate from 35% to 21% for tax years beginning after December 31, 2017, generally providing for an exemption from federal income tax for dividends received from foreign subsidiaries, and imposing a one-time transition tax on the deemed repatriation of cumulative foreign earnings and profits as of December 31, 2017. On December 22, 2017, Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 118 (“SAB 118”) was issued, which deals with the application of U.S. GAAP to situations where a registrant does not have the necessary information available, prepared or analyzed (including computations) in reasonable detail to complete the accounting for certain income tax effects of the Tax Act. In accordance with SAB 118, we calculated our best estimate of the impact of the Tax Act on our 2017 effective income tax rate. As a result, the Company recorded a provisional net benefit of $25.7 million in the fourth quarter of 2017, the period in which the Tax Act was enacted. This provisional amount included an estimated reduction in the Company’s net deferred tax liabilities of $62.4 million resulting from the decrease in the federal income tax rate; an estimated deemed repatriation tax liability of $28.5 million; and an estimated net increase to our provision for taxes on foreign earnings not considered permanently reinvested of $8.2 million. During the fourth quarter of 2018, the Company completed its analysis in conjunction with the SAB 118 measurement period ending on December 22, 2018. The total tax provision impact for the year ended December 31, 2018 was an unfavorable adjustment of $5.5 million related primarily to certain deferred tax assets and liabilities.  

Income from continuing operations  

Net income from continuing operations was $390.0 million in 2018 compared to $475.3 million in 2017. The decrease of $85.3 million was primarily due to lower operating income.  

24   

Table of Contents 

Loss from discontinued operations  

The loss from discontinued operations was $0.2 million and $2.6 million in 2018 and 2017, respectively and is related to the prior sale of the Waterloo tool storage and Simonton window businesses.  

Results By Segment  

Cabinets  

Net sales decreased $48.5 million, or 2.0%, predominantly due to the impact of exiting a customer relationship and unfavorable mix. These factors were partially offset by the benefit from new product introductions and price increases to help mitigate cumulative raw material cost increases.  

Operating income decreased $123.7 million, or 46.3%, primarily due to lower net sales, tradename asset impairment charges of $62.6 million, higher restructuring and other charges incurred to consolidate our manufacturing footprint and discontinue certain product lines and increased employee-related costs due to inflation, partially offset by the benefit from productivity improvements.  

Plumbing  

Net sales increased $162.5 million, or 9.4% due to higher sales unit volume in the U.S. China and Canada, new product introductions across our distribution channels, the benefit from the 2017 acquisitions of Victoria + Albert and Shaws and price increases to help mitigate cumulative raw material cost increases partially offset by higher rebates. Foreign exchange was favorable by approximately $5 million.  

Operating income increased $16.8 million, or 4.7%, due to the higher net sales and benefits from productivity improvements. These benefits were partially offset by commodity cost inflation, higher employee-related costs, unfavorable mix, amortization of the acquisition-related inventory fair value adjustments ($5.5 million) related to our 2017 acquisitions and increased marketing and advertising costs. In addition, 2017 operating income reflects the impact of adopting ASU 2017-07 during 2018 and the reclassification of approximately $5.1 million from Plumbing operating income to other income, net.  

Doors & Security  

Net sales increased $87.8 million, or 8.0%, due to higher sales volume, resulting from the benefit from new product introductions, the acquisition of Fiberon in 2018, price increases to help mitigate cumulative raw material cost increases and the impact of favorable foreign exchange, which were partly offset by increased non-repeating sales promotions and unfavorable mix.  

Operating income increased $8.7 million, or 5.9%, due to higher net sales and an inventory valuation accounting change benefit of $12.8 million, which were partially offset by non-repeating sales promotions and inventory step up amortization related to the Fiberon acquisition.  

Corporate  

Corporate expenses decreased by $10.9 million mainly due to lower employee-related costs. In addition, 2017 corporate expense reflects the impact of adopting ASU 2017-07 during the first quarter of 2018 and the related reclassification of approximately $4.5 million of 2017 income from Corporate expenses to other income, net.  

25   

Table of Contents 

2017 Compared to 2016  

Total Fortune Brands  

Net sales  

Net sales increased $298.4 million, or 6.0%. The increase was due to higher sales volume primarily from improvement in U.S. market conditions for home products, new product introductions, the benefit from the acquisitions in our Plumbing segment and price increases to help mitigate cumulative raw material cost increases as well as the benefit from favorable foreign exchange of approximately $4 million. These benefits were partially offset by unfavorable mix, higher sales promotions, and sales rebates.  

Cost of products sold  

Cost of products sold increased $169.5 million, or 5.3%, due to higher net sales, including the impact of the acquisitions in our Plumbing segment and raw material cost increases, partially offset by the benefit of productivity improvements.  

Selling, general and administrative expenses  

Selling, general and administrative expenses increased $61.4 million, or 5.4%, due to higher employee-related costs and advertising costs as well as the impact of the acquisitions in our Plumbing segment.  

Amortization of intangible assets  

Amortization of intangible assets increased $3.6 million primarily due to the acquisitions in our Plumbing segment, partially offset by a decrease relating to a definite-lived customer relationship intangible in our Doors & Security segment that was fully amortized during the second quarter of 2017.  

Loss on sale of product line  

In April 2017, we completed the sale of Field ID, our cloud-based inspection and safety compliance software product line included in our Doors & Security segment. We recorded a pre-tax loss of $2.4 million as the result of this sale.  

Asset impairment charges  

Asset impairment charges of $3.2 million relate to our decision in the first quarter of 2017 to sell Field ID.  

Restructuring charges  

Restructuring charges of $8.3 million in 2017 primarily related to severance costs within all of our segments as well as charges associated with a plant relocation in our Cabinets segment. Restructuring charges of $13.9 million in 2016 primarily related to the severance costs and charges associated with the relocation of a manufacturing facility within our Doors & Security segment.  

Operating income  

Operating income increased $63.9 million or 10.3%. Operating income increased due to higher net sales, including the benefit from acquisitions in our Plumbing segment and productivity improvements. These benefits were partially offset by unfavorable mix, higher employee-related costs, raw material, labor inflation and advertising costs. 2017 and 2016 were adjusted to reflect the impact of adopting ASU 2017-07 and reclassification of $9.6 million and $14.1 million, respectively from operating income to other income, net.  

26   

Table of Contents 

Interest expense  

Interest expense of $49.4 million was $0.3 million higher as compared to last year primarily due to higher average interest rates which was partially offset by lower average borrowings and the absence of the write-off of debt issuance costs incurred in 2016.  

Other income, net  

Other income, net, was of $1.7 million in the twelve months ended December 31, 2017 compared to $12.6 million in the twelve months ended December 31, 2016. The decrease of $10.9 million was primarily due to a $7.0 million impairment charge in 2017 pertaining to a cost method investment and a decrease in defined benefit income of $4.5 million.  

Income taxes  

The effective income tax rates for 2017 and 2016 were 25.1% and 29.2% respectively. The 2017 effective income tax rate was favorably impacted by the Tax Act ($25.7 million). The effective income tax rates for 2017 and 2016 were favorably impacted by the tax benefit attributable to share-based compensation (ASU 2016-09) deduction ($23.9 million and $27.8 million, respectively), the Domestic Production Activity (Internal Revenue Code Section 199) deduction ($10.9 million and $13.0 million, respectively) and favorable tax rates in foreign jurisdictions ($8.3 million and $7.6 million, respectively), offset by state and local taxes and increases to uncertain tax positions ($11.6 million and $13.2 million, respectively). 

Income from continuing operations  

Net income from continuing operations was $475.3 million in 2017 compared to $412.4 million in 2016. The increase of $62.9 million was primarily due to higher operating income.  

(Loss) income from discontinued operations  

The loss from discontinued operations of $2.6 million in 2017 primarily related to the prior sale of the Waterloo tool storage and Simonton window businesses. The income from discontinued operations of $0.8 million in 2016 included the effect of tax adjustments relating to the Waterloo business.  

Results By Segment  

Cabinets  

Net sales increased $69.3 million, or 2.9%, due to higher sales volume driven primarily by continuing improvement in the U.S. home products market and the benefit from new product introductions, price increases to help mitigate cumulative raw material cost increases and a $3 million benefit from favorable foreign exchange. These benefits were partially offset by unfavorable mix and higher sales promotions.  

Operating income increased $9.4 million, or 3.6%, due to the increase in net sales and productivity improvements. These benefits were partially offset by unfavorable mix, higher employee-related costs, higher labor inflation and higher transportation costs.  

Plumbing  

Net sales increased $186.4 million, or 12.1%, due to higher sales volume driven by continuing improvement in the U.S. home products market and the benefit from new product introductions, higher sales in international markets, principally China, and the benefit from the acquisitions of Riobel, ROHL and Perrin & Rowe in 2016 as well as Shaws and Victoria + Albert in 2017. These benefits were partially offset by higher sales rebates.  

27   

Table of Contents 

Operating income increased $43.6 million, or 13.8%, due to higher net sales, productivity improvements and favorable mix as well as a $4 million benefit from favorable foreign exchange. These benefits were partially offset by employee-related costs, higher raw materials costs and higher advertising costs. In addition, 2017 and 2016 operating income reflects the impact of adopting ASU 2017-07 and reclassification of approximately $5.1 million and $11.4 million, respectively from operating income to other income, net.   

Doors & Security  

Net sales increased $42.7 million, or 4.1%, due to higher sales volume, including the benefit from new product introductions, and price increases to help mitigate cumulative raw material cost increases. These benefits were partially offset by the impact of exiting two security product lines in our commercial distribution channels.  

Operating income increased $20.5 million, or 16.2%, primarily due to the higher net sales, the benefits from productivity improvements, lower restructuring and other charges (approximately $6 million) relating to the completion in 2016 of a manufacturing facility relocation, favorable foreign exchange and the related cost savings resulting from the facility relocation. In addition, 2017 and 2016 operating income reflects the impact of adopting ASU 2017-07 and reclassification of zero and $2.1 million, respectively from operating income to other income, net.   

Corporate  

Corporate expenses increased by $9.6 million mainly due to the impairment of a long lived asset. In addition, 2017 and 2016 operating income reflects the impact of adopting ASU 2017-07 and reclassification of $4.5 million and $0.6 million, respectively from operating income to other income, net.   

Liquidity and Capital Resources  

Our primary liquidity needs are to support working capital requirements, fund capital expenditures and service indebtedness, as well as to finance acquisitions, repurchase shares of our common stock and pay dividends to stockholders, as deemed appropriate. Our principal sources of liquidity are cash on hand, cash flows from operating activities, availability under our credit facility and debt issuances in the capital markets. Our operating income is generated by our subsidiaries. There are no restrictions on the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or make other distributions to Fortune Brands. In December 2018, our Board of Directors increased the quarterly cash dividend by 10% to $0.22 per share of our common stock. Our Board of Directors will continue to evaluate dividend payment opportunities on a quarterly basis. There can be no assurance as to when and if future dividends will be paid, and at what level, because the payment of dividends is dependent on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, capital requirements and other factors deemed relevant by our Board of Directors.  

In September 2018, we issued $600 million of unsecured senior notes (“2018 Senior Notes”) in a registered public offering. The 2018 Senior Notes are due in 2023 with a coupon rate of 4%. We used the proceeds from the Senior Notes offering to pay down our revolving credit facility. On December 31, 2018, the outstanding amount of the 2018 Senior Notes, net of underwriting commissions, price discounts, and debt issuance costs, was $595.0 million.  

In March 2018, the Company entered into a $350 million term loan for general corporate purposes that matures in March 2019. In August 2018, the Company amended its existing $350 million term loan to increase the borrowings under the term loan from $350 million to $525 million. All terms and conditions on the amended term loan remain the same as the previous $350 million term loan. The amended term loan is for general corporate purposes and matures in March 2019. At December 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, amounts due under the term loan were $525.0 million and zero, respectively, which are included within short term debt in our consolidated balance sheet. Interest rates under the term loan are variable  

28   

Table of Contents 

 based on LIBOR at the time of the borrowing and the Company’s long-term credit rating and can range from LIBOR + 0.625% to LIBOR + 1.25%. Covenants under the term loan are the same as the existing $1.25 billion revolving credit agreement. As of December 31, 2018, we were in compliance with all covenants under this term loan.  

We periodically review our portfolio of brands and evaluate potential strategic transactions to increase shareholder value. However, we cannot predict whether or when we may enter into acquisitions, joint ventures or dispositions, make any purchases of shares of our common stock under our share repurchase program, or pay dividends, or what impact any such transactions could have on our results of operations, cash flows or financial condition, whether as a result of the issuance of debt or equity securities, or otherwise. Our cash flows from operations, borrowing availability and overall liquidity are subject to certain risks and uncertainties, including those described in the section “Item 1A. Risk Factors.”  

In June 2016, the Company amended and restated its 2011 credit agreement to combine and rollover the prior revolving credit facility and term loan into a new standalone $1.25 billion revolving credit facility. This amendment and restatement of the credit agreement was a non-cash transaction for the Company. Terms and conditions of the credit agreement, including the total commitment amount, essentially remained the same as under the 2011 credit agreement. The revolving credit facility will mature in June 2021 and borrowings thereunder will be used for general corporate purposes. On December 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, our outstanding borrowings under these facilities were $320.0 million and $615.0 million, respectively, all of which is included in long-term debt in our consolidated balance sheet. Interest rates under the facility are variable based on LIBOR at the time of the borrowing and the Company’s long-term credit rating and can range from LIBOR + 0.9% to LIBOR + 1.5%. As of December 31, 2018, we were in compliance with all covenants under this facility. As a result of the refinancing, we wrote off prepaid debt issuance costs of approximately $1.3 million as of June 30, 2016.  

In June 2015, we issued $900 million of unsecured senior notes (“2015 Senior Notes”, and collectively with the 2018 Senior Notes, the “Senior Notes”) in a registered public offering. The 2015 Senior Notes consist of two tranches: $400 million of five-year notes due in 2020 with a coupon rate of 3% and $500 million of ten-year notes due in 2025 with a coupon rate of 4%. We used the proceeds from the 2015 Senior Notes offering to pay down our revolving credit facility and for general corporate purposes. On December 31, 2018, the outstanding amount of the 2015 Senior Notes, net of underwriting commissions, price discounts, and debt issuance costs, was $894.1 million.  

On April 30, 2018, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $150 million of shares of our common stock over the two years ending April 30, 2020. On July 13, 2018, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $400 million of shares of our common stock over the two years ending July 13, 2020. As of December 31, 2018, the Company’s total remaining share repurchase authorization under the repurchase programs was approximately $413.7 million. The share repurchase programs do not obligate the Company to repurchase any specific dollar amount or number of shares and may be suspended or discontinued at any time. In 2018, we repurchased 12.0 million shares of our outstanding common stock under the Company’s share repurchase programs for $694.6 million.  

We currently have uncommitted bank lines of credit in China, which provide for unsecured borrowings for working capital of up to $23.5 million in aggregate as of both December 31, 2018 and 2017, of which zero were outstanding, as of December 31, 2018 and 2017. The weighted-average interest rates on these borrowings were 0%, 0% and 1.5% in 2018, 2017 and 2016 respectively.  

Acquisitions, divestitures and other strategic partnerships in 2018, 2017 and 2016 include:  

 >    During the fourth quarter of 2018, our Plumbing segment entered into strategic partnerships with several companies which incorporate emerging technology into plumbing-related products, and at the same time acquired non-controlling equity interests in two of our partners. This includes an investment in Flo Technologies, Inc. (“Flo”), a U.S. manufacturer of a comprehensive water monitoring and shut-off  

29   

Table of Contents 

     system with leak detection and proactive leak detection technologies. Our investments in our strategic partners are recorded at cost, plus or minus any changes resulting from observable price changes in orderly transactions for identical or similar investments of the same issuer.  

 >    In September 2018, we acquired 100% of membership interests of Fiberon, a leading U.S. manufacturer of outdoor performance materials used in decking, railing and fencing products for a total purchase price of approximately $470.0 million, subject to certain post-closing adjustments. The acquisition of Fiberon provides category expansion and product extension opportunities for our Doors & Security segment into the outdoor living space. The results of operations, subsequent to the closing of the acquisition, are included in the Doors & Security segment.  

 >    In October 2017, the Company acquired Victoria + Albert, a UK-based premium brand of standalone bathtubs, sinks, tub fillers, faucets and other accessories. In July 2017, we acquired Shaws, a UK-based luxury plumbing products company that specializes in manufacturing and selling fireclay sinks, and selling brassware and accessories. The combined consideration paid was approximately $146 million, including $19.9 million of additional purchase price consideration paid related to post-closing adjustments and deferred acquisition payments during the year ended December 31, 2018. The combined consideration paid is subject to further deferred acquisition payments. The results of operations of the acquired companies are included in the Plumbing segment from the respective dates of acquisition. We financed the transactions using cash on hand and borrowings under our revolving credit facility.  

 >    In September 2016, we acquired ROHL, a California-based luxury plumbing company. We also acquired Perrin & Rowe, a UK manufacturer and designer of luxury kitchen and bathroom plumbing products. The total combined purchase price was approximately $166 million, subject to certain post-closing adjustments. We financed the transaction using cash on hand and borrowings under our existing credit facility.  

 >    In May 2016, we acquired Riobel, a Canadian plumbing company for a purchase price of $94.6 million in cash, subject to certain post-closing adjustments. We financed the transaction using cash on hand and borrowings under our existing credit facilities.  

In 2018, we invested approximately $45 million in incremental capacity to support long-term growth potential. We expect capital spending in 2019 to be in the range of $135 to $145 million.  

On December 31, 2018, we had cash and cash equivalents of $262.9 million, of which $260.1 million was held at non-U.S. subsidiaries. We manage our global cash requirements considering (i) available funds among the subsidiaries through which we conduct business, (ii) the geographic location of our liquidity needs, and (iii) the cost to access international cash balances. The repatriation of non-U.S. cash balances from certain subsidiaries could have adverse tax consequences as we may be required to pay and record tax expense on those funds that are repatriated.  

Our operating cash flows are significantly impacted by the seasonality of our businesses. We typically generate most of our operating cash flow in the third and fourth quarters of each year.  

Cash Flows  

Below is a summary of cash flows for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

30   

Table of Contents 

Net cash provided by operating activities was $604.0 million in 2018 compared to $600.3 million in 2017 and $650.5 million in 2016. The $3.7 million increase in cash provided was due to lower build in working capital, primarily driven by lower accounts receivable balances and increases in accrued taxes. The $50.2 million decrease in cash provided by operating activities from 2017 to 2016 was primarily due to higher build in working capital, primarily driven by higher inventory purchases in 2017, partially offset by a higher net income.  

Net cash used in investing activities was $634.3 million in 2018 compared to $287.7 million in 2017 and $385.1 million in 2016. The increase in cash used of $346.6 million from 2017 to 2018 was primarily due to a $341.0 million increase in cost of acquisitions. The decrease of $97.4 million from 2016 to 2017 was primarily due to lower cost of acquisitions of $115.1 million, partially offset by $15.7 million of higher capital expenditures.  

Net cash used by financing activities was $6.8 million in 2018 compared to $250.1 million in 2017 and $250.4 million in 2016. The decrease in net cash used of $243.3 million was primarily due to higher net borrowings in 2018 compared to 2017 ($751.2 million increase), partly offset by higher share repurchases in 2018 compared to 2017 ($479.8 million increase).  

Pension Plans  

Subsidiaries of Fortune Brands sponsor their respective defined benefit pension plans that are funded by a portfolio of investments maintained within our benefit plan trust. In 2018, 2017 and 2016, we contributed $10.0 million, $28.4 million and zero, respectively, to qualified pension plans. In 2019, we expect to make pension contributions of approximately $8.0 million. As of December 31, 2018, the fair value of our total pension plan assets was $599.6 million, representing funding of 79% of the accumulated benefit obligation liability. For the foreseeable future, we believe that we have sufficient liquidity to meet the minimum funding that may be required by the Pension Protection Act of 2006.  

Foreign Exchange  

We have operations in various foreign countries, principally Canada, China, Mexico, the United Kingdom, France, Australia and Japan. Therefore, changes in the value of the related currencies affect our financial statements when translated into U.S. dollars.  

Contractual Obligations and Other Commercial Commitments  

The following table describes other obligations and commitments to make future payments under contracts, such as debt and lease agreements, and under contingent commitments, such as debt guarantees, as of December 31, 2018.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (a)   Interest payments on long-term debt were calculated using the borrowing rate in effect on December 31, 2018.  

 (b)  Purchase obligations include contracts for raw material and finished goods purchases; selling and administrative services; and capital expenditures.  

 (c)  Pension and postretirement contributions cannot be determined beyond 2019.  

31   

Table of Contents 

Due to the uncertainty of the timing of settlement with taxing authorities, we are unable to make reasonably reliable estimates of the period of cash settlement of unrecognized tax benefits. Therefore, $83.5 million of unrecognized tax benefits as of December 31, 2018 have been excluded from the Contractual Obligations table above.  

In addition to the contractual obligations and commitments listed and described above, we also had other commercial commitments for which we are contingently liable as of December 31, 2018. Other corporate commercial commitments include standby letters of credit of $43.6 million, in the aggregate, all of which expire in less than one year, and surety bonds of $8.0 million, of which $7.0 million matures in less than 1 year and $1.0 million matures in 1-3 years. These contingent commitments are not expected to have a significant impact on our liquidity.  

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements  

As of December 31, 2018, we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements that are material or reasonably likely to be material to our financial condition or results of operations.  

Foreign Currency Risk  

Certain anticipated transactions, assets and liabilities are exposed to foreign currency risk. Principal currencies hedged include the Canadian dollar, British pound, the Mexican peso and the Chinese yuan. We regularly monitor our foreign currency exposures in order to maximize the overall effectiveness of our foreign currency hedge positions. For additional information on this risk, see Item 7A “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  

Derivative Financial Instruments  

In accordance with ASC requirements for Derivatives and Hedging, we recognize all derivative contracts as either assets or liabilities on the balance sheet, and the measurement of those instruments is at fair value. If the derivative is designated as a fair value hedge and is effective, the changes in the fair value of the derivative and of the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk are recognized in earnings in the same period. If the derivative is designated as a cash flow hedge, the effective portions of changes in the fair value of the derivative are recorded in other comprehensive income (“OCI”) and are recognized in the consolidated statement of income when the hedged item affects earnings. Ineffective portions of changes in the fair value of cash flow hedges are recognized in earnings. If the derivative is designated as an effective economic hedge of the net investment in a foreign operation, the changes in the fair value of the derivative is reported in the cumulative translation adjustment section of OCI. Similar to foreign currency translation adjustments, these changes in fair value are recognized in earnings only when realized upon sale or upon complete or substantially complete liquidation of the investment in the foreign entity.  

Deferred currency gains/(losses) of $2.2 million, $0.4 million and $(3.5) million (before tax impact) were reclassified into earnings for the year ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively. Based on foreign exchange rates as of December 31, 2018, we estimate that $3.3 million of net currency derivative gain included in OCI as of December 31, 2018 will be reclassified to earnings within the next twelve months.  

Recently Issued Accounting Standards  

The adoption of recent accounting standards, as discussed in Note 2, “Recently Issued Accounting Standards,” to our Consolidated Financial Statements, has not had and is not expected to have a significant impact on our revenue, earnings or liquidity.  

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates  

Our significant accounting policies are described in Note 2, “Significant Accounting Policies,” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The Consolidated  

32   

Table of Contents 

 Financial Statements are prepared in conformity with GAAP. Preparation of the financial statements requires us to make judgments, estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts of assets and liabilities reflected in the financial statements and revenues and expenses reported for the relevant reporting periods. We believe the policies discussed below are the Company’s critical accounting policies as they include the more significant, subjective and complex judgments and estimates made when preparing our consolidated financial statements.  

Allowances for Doubtful Accounts  

Trade receivables are recorded at the stated amount, less allowances for discounts and doubtful accounts. The allowances for doubtful accounts represent estimated uncollectible receivables associated with potential customer defaults on contractual obligations (usually due to customers’ potential insolvency) or discounts related to early payment of accounts receivables by our customers. The allowances include provisions for certain customers where a risk of default has been specifically identified. In addition, the allowances include a provision for customer defaults on a general formula basis when it is determined that the risk of some default is probable and estimable, but cannot yet be associated with specific customers. The assessment of the likelihood of customer defaults is based on various factors, including the length of time the receivables are past due, historical collection experience and existing economic conditions. In accordance with this policy, our allowance for doubtful accounts was $3.7 million and $3.3 million as of December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.  

Inventories  

Inventory provisions are recorded to reduce inventory to the net realizable dollar value for obsolete or slow moving inventory based on assumptions about future demand and marketability of products, the impact of new product introductions, inventory levels and turns, product spoilage and specific identification of items, such as product discontinuance, engineering/material changes, or regulatory-related changes. In accordance with this policy, our inventory provision was $45.3 million and $45.0 million as of December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.  

Long-lived Assets  

In accordance with ASC requirements for Property, Plant and Equipment, a long-lived asset (including amortizable identifiable intangible assets) or asset group held for use is tested for recoverability whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that its carrying amount may not be recoverable. When such events occur, we compare the sum of the undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use and eventual disposition of the asset or asset group to the carrying amount of a long-lived asset or asset group. The cash flows are based on our best estimate of future cash flows derived from the most recent business projections. If this comparison indicates that there is an impairment, the amount of the impairment is calculated based on fair value. Fair value is estimated primarily using discounted expected future cash flows on a market-participant basis.  

Goodwill and Indefinite-lived Intangible Assets  

In accordance with ASC requirements for Intangibles — Goodwill and Other, goodwill is tested for impairment at least annually in the fourth quarter, and written down when impaired. An interim impairment test is performed if an event occurs or conditions change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of the reporting unit below the carrying value.  

We evaluate the recoverability of goodwill using a weighting of the income (80%) and market (20%) approaches. For the income approach, we use a discounted cash flow model, estimating the future cash flows of the reporting units to which the goodwill relates and then discounting the future cash flows at a market-participant-derived discount rate. In determining the estimated future cash flows, we consider current and projected future levels of income based on management’s plans for that business; business  

33   

Table of Contents 

 trends, prospects and market and economic conditions; and market-participant considerations. Furthermore, our cash flow projections used to assess impairment of our goodwill and other intangible assets are significantly influenced by our projection for the U.S. home products market, our annual operating plans finalized in the fourth quarter of each year, and our ability to execute on various planned cost reduction initiatives supporting operating income improvements. Our projection for the U.S. home products market is inherently uncertain and is subject to a number of factors, such as employment, home prices, credit availability, new home starts and the rate of home foreclosures. For the market approach, we apply market multiples for peer groups to the current operating results of the reporting units to determine each reporting unit’s fair value. The Company’s reporting units are operating segments, or one level below operating segments when appropriate. When the estimated fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value, we measure and recognize the amount of the goodwill impairment loss based on that difference.  

The significant assumptions that are used to determine the estimated fair value for goodwill impairment testing include the following: third-party market forecasts of U.S. new home starts and home repair and remodel spending; management’s sales, operating income and cash flow forecasts; peer company EBITDA earnings multiples; the market-participant-based discount rate; and the perpetuity growth rate. Our estimates of reporting unit fair values are based on certain assumptions that may differ from our historical and future actual operating performance. Specifically, assumptions related to growth in the new construction and repair and remodel segments of the U.S. home products markets drive our forecasted sales growth. The market forecasts are developed using independent third-party forecasts from multiple sources. In addition, estimated future operating income and cash flow consider our historical performance at similar levels of sales volume and management’s future operating plans as reflected in annual and long-term plans that are reviewed and approved by management.  

Purchased intangible assets other than goodwill are amortized over their useful lives unless those lives are determined to be indefinite. The determination of the useful life of an intangible asset other than goodwill is based on factors including historical tradename performance with respect to consumer name recognition, geographic market presence, market share, plans for ongoing tradename support and promotion, customer attrition rates, and other relevant factors. Certain of our tradenames have been assigned an indefinite life as we currently anticipate that these tradenames will contribute cash flows to the Company indefinitely. Indefinite-lived intangible assets are not amortized, but are evaluated at least annually to determine whether the indefinite useful life is appropriate. We measure the fair value of identifiable intangible assets upon acquisition and we review for impairment annually in the fourth quarter, and whenever market or business events indicate there may be a potential impairment of that intangible. Impairment losses are recorded to the extent that the carrying value of the indefinite-lived intangible asset exceeds its fair value. The significant assumptions that are used to determine the estimated fair value for indefinite-lived intangible assets upon acquisition and subsequent impairment testing are forecasted revenue growth rates; the assumed royalty rate; and the market-participant discount rate. Impairment losses are recorded to the extent that the carrying value of the indefinite-lived intangible asset exceeds its fair value. We measure fair value of our indefinite-lived tradenames using the standard relief-from-royalty approach which estimates the present value of royalty income that could be hypothetically earned by licensing the brand name to a third party over the remaining useful life. The determination of fair value using this technique requires the use of estimates and assumptions related to projected tradename revenue growth, the assumed royalty rate and the discount rate. We first assess qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not that an indefinite-lived intangible asset is impaired. Qualitative factors include changes in volume, customers and the industry. If it is deemed more likely than not that an intangible asset is impaired, we will perform a quantitative impairment test.  

In the third quarter of 2018, we recorded a pre-tax impairment charge of $27.1 million related to an indefinite-lived tradename in our Cabinets segment. This charge was primarily the result of reduced revenue growth expectations associated with Cabinets operations in Canada, including the announced closure of Company-owned retail locations during the third quarter of 2018. During the fourth quarter of 2018, we recorded a pre-tax impairment charge of $35.5 million related to another indefinite-lived  

34   

Table of Contents 

 tradename in our Cabinets segment as part of our annual impairment testing performed in the fourth quarter. This charge was primarily the result of reduced revenue growth expectations identified during our annual planning process conducted during the fourth quarter, which includes more moderate industry growth expectations. The fair values of the impaired tradenames were measured using the relief-from-royalty approach, which estimates the present value of royalty income that could be hypothetically earned by licensing the tradename to a third party over their remaining useful life. Some of the more significant assumptions inherent in estimating the fair value include estimated future annual net sales for the tradename, assumed royalty rate, income tax rate, and a discount rate that reflects the level of risk associated with the tradename’s future sales and profitability. We selected the assumptions used in the financial forecasts using historical data, supplemented by current and anticipated market conditions, estimated growth rates, and management plans. These assumptions represent level 3 inputs of the fair value hierarchy (refer to Note 10 “Fair Value Measurements” to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of the Annual Report on Form 10-K). As of December 31, 2018, the carrying value of the tradenames that were impaired was $152.0 million. A further reduction in the estimated fair value of these tradenames could trigger future impairments.  

In 2017 and 2016, we did not record any asset impairment charges in operating income associated with goodwill or indefinite-lived intangible assets.  

Defined Benefit Plans  

We have a number of pension plans in the United States, covering many of the Company’s employees. In addition, the Company provides postretirement health care and life insurance benefits to certain retirees. Service cost for 2018 relates to benefit accruals in an hourly Union defined benefit plan in our Doors & Security segment. Benefit accruals under all other defined benefit pension plans were frozen as of December 31, 2016.  

We recognize changes in the fair value of pension plan assets and net actuarial gains or losses in excess of 10 percent of the greater of the fair value of pension plan assets or each plan’s projected benefit obligation (the “corridor”) in earnings immediately upon remeasurement, which is at least annually in the fourth quarter of each year. Net actuarial gains and losses occur when actual experience differs from any of the assumptions used to value defined benefit plans or when assumptions change as they may each year. The primary factors contributing to actuarial gains and losses are changes in the discount rate used to value obligations as of the measurement date and the differences between expected and actual returns on pension plan assets. This accounting method results in the potential for volatile and difficult to forecast gains and losses. The pre-tax recognition of actuarial (gains) losses was $3.8 million, $(0.5) million and $1.9 million in 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively. The total net actuarial losses in accumulated other comprehensive income for all defined benefit plans were $71.5 million as of December 31, 2018, compared to $67.4 million as of December 31, 2017.  

We record amounts relating to these defined benefit plans based on various actuarial assumptions, including discount rates, assumed rates of return, compensation increases, turnover rates and health care cost trend rates. We review our actuarial assumptions on an annual basis and make modifications to the assumptions based on current economic conditions and trends. We believe that the assumptions utilized in recording our obligations under our plans are reasonable based on our experience and on advice from our independent actuaries; however, differences in actual experience or changes in the assumptions may materially affect our financial condition or results of operations. The expected return on plan assets is determined based on the nature of the plans’ investments, our current asset allocation and our expectations for long-term rates of return. The weighted-average long-term expected rate of return on pension plan assets for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 was 6.0% and 6.4%, respectively. Compensation increases reflect expected future compensation trends. The discount rate used to measure obligations is based on a spot-rate yield curve on a plan-by-plan basis that matches projected future benefit payments with the appropriate interest rate applicable to the timing of the projected future benefit payments. The bond portfolio used for the selection of the discount rate is from the top quartile of bonds  

35   

Table of Contents 

 rated by nationally recognized statistical rating organizations, and includes only non-callable bonds and those that are deemed to be sufficiently marketable with a Moody’s credit rating of Aa or higher. The weighted-average discount rate for defined benefit liabilities as of December 31, 2018 and 2017 was 4.4% and 3.8%, respectively.  

For postretirement benefits, our health care trend rate assumption is based on historical cost increases and expectations for long-term increases. As of December 31, 2018, for postretirement medical and prescription drugs in the next year, our assumption was an assumed rate of increase of 6.9% for pre-65 retirees and 8.0% for post-65 retirees, declining until reaching an ultimate assumed rate of increase of 4.5% per year in 2027. As of December 31, 2017, for postretirement medical and prescription drugs in the next year, our assumption was an assumed rate of increase of 7.1% for pre-65 retirees and 8.4% for post-65 retirees, declining until reaching an ultimate assumed rate of increase of 4.5% per year in 2026.  

Below is a table showing pre-tax pension and postretirement expenses, including the impact of actuarial gains and losses:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The actuarial losses in 2018 were principally due to lower asset returns. The actuarial gains in 2017 were principally due to our normal re-measurement of prior year defined benefit plan liabilities. The actuarial losses in 2016 were principally due to the re-measurement relating to a retiree medical plan. Discount rates in 2018 used to determine benefit obligations increased by an average of 60 basis points for pension benefits. Discount rates for 2018 postretirement benefits increased an average of 80 basis points. Discount rates in 2017 used to determine benefit obligations decreased by an average of 50 basis points for pension benefits. Discount rates for postretirement benefits remained the same in 2017 as in 2016. Discount rates in 2016 used to determine benefit obligations decreased by an average of 30 basis points for pension benefits and an average of 70 basis points for postretirement benefits. Our actual return on plan assets in 2018 was (3.5)% compared to an actuarial assumption of an average 6.0% expected return. Our actual return on plan assets in 2017 was 16.3% compared to an actuarial assumption of an average 6.4% expected return. Significant actuarial losses in future periods would be expected if discount rates decline, actual returns on plan assets are lower than our expected return, or a combination of both occurs.  

A 25 basis point change in our discount rate assumption would lead to an increase or decrease in our pension and postretirement liability of approximately $23 million. A 25 basis point change in the long-term rate of return on plan assets used in accounting for our pension plans would have a $1.5 million impact on pension expense. In addition, if required, actuarial gains and losses will be recorded in accordance with our defined benefit plan accounting method as previously described. It is not possible to forecast or predict whether there will be actuarial gains and losses in future periods, and if required, the magnitude of any such adjustment. These gains and losses are driven by differences in actual experience or changes in the assumptions that are beyond our control, such as changes in interest rates and the actual return on pension plan assets.  

In January 2018, we adopted ASU 2017-07, which requires entities to present the defined benefit plan non-service related costs outside the operating income subtotal. The new guidance was applied retrospectively in the consolidated statement of income. As a result, we reclassified $9.6 million and  

36   

Table of Contents 

 $14.1 million of income from the operating income subtotal to other income, in the twelve months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. The retrospective impact of adopting ASU 2017-07 is as follows:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Income Taxes  

In accordance with ASC requirements for Income Taxes, we establish deferred tax liabilities or assets for temporary differences between financial and tax reporting bases and subsequently adjust them to reflect changes in tax rates expected to be in effect when the temporary differences reverse. We record a valuation allowance reducing deferred tax assets when it is more likely than not that such assets will not be realized.  

We record liabilities for uncertain income tax positions based on a two-step process. The first step is recognition, where we evaluate whether an individual tax position has a likelihood of greater than 50% of being sustained upon examination based on the technical merits of the position, including resolution of any related appeals or litigation processes. For tax positions that are currently estimated to have a less than 50% likelihood of being sustained, no tax benefit is recorded. For tax positions that have met the recognition threshold in the first step, we perform the second step of measuring the benefit to be recorded. The actual benefits ultimately realized may differ from our estimates. In future periods, changes in facts, circumstances, and new information may require us to change the recognition and measurement estimates with regard to individual tax positions. Changes in recognition and measurement estimates are recorded in the consolidated statement of income and consolidated balance sheet in the period in which such changes occur. As of December 31, 2018, we had liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits pertaining to uncertain tax positions totaling $83.5 million. It is reasonably possible that the unrecognized tax benefits may decrease in the range of $1.4 million to $3.5 million in the next 12 months primarily as a result of the conclusion of U.S. federal, state and foreign income tax proceedings.  

The Tax Act made significant changes to the U.S. Internal Revenue Code including a reduction in the corporate tax rate from 35% to 21% for tax years beginning after December 31, 2017, generally providing for an exemption from federal income tax for dividends received from foreign subsidiaries, and imposing a one-time transition tax on the deemed repatriation of cumulative foreign earnings and profits as of December 31, 2017. On December 22, 2017, Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 118 (“SAB 118”) was issued, which deals with the application of U.S. GAAP to situations where a registrant does not have the necessary information available, prepared or analyzed (including computations) in reasonable detail to complete the accounting for certain income tax effects of the Tax Act. In accordance with SAB 118, we calculated our best estimate of the impact of the Tax Act on our 2017 effective income tax rate. As a result, the Company recorded a provisional net benefit of $25.7 million in the fourth quarter of 2017, the period in which the Tax Act was enacted. This provisional amount included an estimated reduction in the Company’s net deferred tax liabilities of $62.4 million resulting from the decrease in the federal income tax rate; an estimated deemed repatriation tax liability of $28.5 million; and an estimated net increase to our provision for taxes on foreign earnings not considered permanently reinvested of $8.2 million. In the quarter ended December 31, 2018, the Company completed its analysis in conjunction with the SAB 118 measurement period ending on December 22, 2018. The total tax provision impact for the year ended December 31, 2018 was an unfavorable adjustment of $5.5 million related primarily to certain deferred tax assets and liabilities.  

The Tax Act included a provision for Global Intangible Low-Taxed Income (GILTI), the Company elected an accounting policy to treat GILTI as a period cost when incurred. The GILTI provision is effective for taxable years of foreign corporations beginning after December 31, 2017.  

37   

Table of Contents 

Customer Program Costs  

Customer programs and incentives are a common practice in our businesses. Our businesses incur customer program costs to obtain favorable product placement, to promote sales of products and to maintain competitive pricing. We record estimates to reduce revenue for customer programs and incentives, which are considered variable consideration, and include price discounts, volume-based incentives, promotions and cooperative advertising when revenue is recognized in order to determine the amount of consideration the Company will ultimately be entitled to receive. These estimates are based on historical and projected experience for each type of customer. In addition, for certain customer program incentives, we receive an identifiable benefit (goods or services) in exchange for the consideration given and record the associated expenditure in selling, general and administrative expenses. Volume allowances are accrued based on management’s estimates of customer volume achievement and other factors incorporated into customer agreements, such as new products, store sell-through, merchandising support, levels of returns and customer training. Management periodically reviews accruals for these rebates and allowances, and adjusts accruals when circumstances indicate (typically as a result of a change in volume expectations). The costs typically recognized in “selling, general and administrative expenses” include product displays, point of sale materials and media production costs.  

Litigation Contingencies  

Our businesses are subject to risks related to threatened or pending litigation and are routinely defendants in lawsuits associated with the normal conduct of business. Liabilities and costs associated with litigation-related loss contingencies require estimates and judgments based on our knowledge of the facts and circumstances surrounding each matter and the advice of our legal counsel. We record liabilities for litigation-related losses when a loss is probable and we can reasonably estimate the amount of the loss in accordance with ASC requirements for Contingencies. We evaluate the measurement of recorded liabilities each reporting period based on the then-current facts and circumstances specific to each matter. The ultimate losses incurred upon final resolution of litigation-related loss contingencies may differ materially from the estimated liability recorded at any particular balance sheet date. Changes in estimates are recorded in earnings in the period in which such changes occur.  

Environmental Matters  

We are involved in remediation activities to clean up hazardous wastes as required by federal and state laws. Liabilities for remediation costs of each site are based on our best estimate of undiscounted future costs, excluding possible insurance recoveries or recoveries from other third parties. Uncertainties about the status of laws, regulations, technology and information related to individual sites make it difficult to develop estimates of environmental remediation exposures. Some of the potential liabilities relate to sites we own, and some relate to sites we no longer own or never owned. Several of our subsidiaries have been designated as potentially responsible parties (“PRPs”) under “Superfund” or similar state laws. As of December 31, 2018, ten such instances have not been dismissed, settled or otherwise resolved. In 2018, none of our subsidiaries were identified as a PRP in a new instance and no instances were settled, dismissed or otherwise resolved. In most instances where our subsidiaries are named as a PRP, we enter into cost-sharing arrangements with other PRPs. We give notice to insurance carriers of potential PRP liability, but very rarely, if ever, receive reimbursement from insurance for PRP costs. We believe that the cost of complying with the present environmental protection laws, before considering estimated recoveries either from other PRPs or insurance, will not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. At December 31, 2018 and 2017, we had accruals of $0.6 million and $0.7 million, respectively, relating to environmental compliance and cleanup including, but not limited to, the above mentioned Superfund sites.  

 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk.