ITEM 7A.Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.

Interest Rate Sensitivity

Our investment portfolio is exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates. The fair market value of fixed-rate securities may be adversely impacted by fluctuations in interest rates while income earned on floating rate securities may decline as a result of decreases in interest rates. Under our current policies, we do not use interest rate derivative instruments to manage exposure to interest rate changes. We attempt to ensure the safety and preservation of our invested principal funds by limiting default risk, market risk, and reinvestment risk. We mitigate default risk by investing in investment-grade securities. We have historically maintained a relatively short average maturity for our investment portfolio, and we believe a hypothetical 100 basis point adverse move in interest rates along the entire interest rate yield curve would not materially affect the fair value of our interest-sensitive financial instruments. 

 39
Changes in interest rates may impact gains or losses from the conversion of our outstanding convertible senior notes. In June 2014, we issued $633 million aggregate principal amount of 0% convertible senior notes due 2019 (2019 Notes) and $517 million aggregate principal amount of 0.5% convertible senior notes due 2021 (2021 Notes). In August 2018, we issued $750 million aggregate principal amount of 0% convertible senior notes due 2023 (2023 Notes). At our election, the notes are convertible into cash, shares of our common stock, or a combination of cash and shares of our common stock under certain circumstances, including trading price conditions related to our common stock. If the trading price of our common stock reaches a price at 130% above the conversion price, the notes become convertible. Upon conversion, we are required to record a gain or loss for the difference between the fair value of the debt to be extinguished and its corresponding net carrying value. The fair value of the debt to be extinguished depends on our then-current incremental borrowing rate. If our incremental borrowing rate at the time of conversion is higher or lower than the implied interest rate of the notes, we will record a gain or loss in our consolidated statement of income during the period in which the notes are converted. The implicit interest rates for the 2019, 2021, and 2023 Notes were 2.9%, 3.5%, and 3.7%, respectively. An incremental borrowing rate that is a hypothetical 100 basis points lower than the implicit interest rate upon conversion of $100 million aggregate principal amount of each of the 2019, 2021, and 2023 Notes would result in losses of approximately $1 million, $2 million, and $4 million, respectively. 

Foreign Currency Exchange Risk

We conduct a portion of our business in currencies other than our U.S. dollar functional currency. These transactions give rise to monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. The value of these monetary assets and liabilities are subject to changes in currency exchange rates from the time the transactions are originated until settlement in cash. Our foreign currency exposures are primarily concentrated in the euro, Japanese yen, Australian dollar, and Canadian dollar. Both realized and unrealized gains or losses on the value of these monetary assets and liabilities are included in the determination of net income. 

We use forward exchange contracts to manage foreign currency risks related to monetary assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. We only use derivative financial instruments to reduce foreign currency exchange rate risks; we do not hold any derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. We primarily use forward exchange contracts to hedge foreign currency exposures, and they generally have terms of one month or less. Realized and unrealized gains or losses on the value of financial contracts entered into to hedge the exchange rate exposure of these monetary assets and liabilities are also included in the determination of net income, as they have not been designated for hedge accounting. These contracts, which settle monthly, effectively fix the exchange rate at which these specific monetary assets and liabilities will be settled, so that gains or losses on the forward contracts offset the gains or losses from changes in the value of the underlying monetary assets and liabilities. As of December 30, 2018, the total notional amounts of outstanding forward contracts in place for foreign currency purchases was $122 million.

 40
ITEM 8.Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.