ITEM 7.Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.

Our Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) will help readers understand our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flow. It is provided in addition to the accompanying consolidated financial statements and notes. This MD&A is organized as follows: 

•Business Overview and Outlook. High level discussion of our operating results and significant known trends that affect our business.

•Results of Operations. Detailed discussion of our revenues and expenses.

•Liquidity and Capital Resources. Discussion of key aspects of our consolidated statements of cash flows, changes in our financial position, and our financial commitments.

 26
•Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements. We have no off-balance sheet arrangements.

•Contractual Obligations. Tabular disclosure of known contractual obligations as of December 30, 2018.

•Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates. Discussion of significant changes we believe are important to understanding the assumptions and judgments underlying our consolidated financial statements.

•Recent Accounting Pronouncements. Summary of recent accounting pronouncements applicable to our consolidated financial statements.

This MD&A discussion contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. See “Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements” preceding Item 1 of this report for additional factors relating to such statements. See “Risk Factors” in Item 1A of this report for a discussion of certain risk factors applicable to our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Operating results are not necessarily indicative of results that may occur in future periods. 

Business Overview and Outlook 

This overview and outlook provides a high-level discussion of our operating results and significant known trends that affect our business. We believe that an understanding of these trends is important to understanding our financial results for the periods being reported herein as well as our future financial performance. This summary is not intended to be exhaustive, nor is it intended to be a substitute for the detailed discussion and analysis provided elsewhere in this report.

About Illumina

We have two reportable segments: Illumina’s core operations (Core Illumina) and one segment related to the activities of our Consolidated VIEs. Our Consolidated VIEs currently include only the operations of Helix, whereas prior to the GRAIL deconsolidation on February 28, 2017, our Consolidated VIEs included the combined operations of Helix and GRAIL. For information on Helix and GRAIL, refer to note “2. Balance Sheet Account Details” and note “10. Segment Information and Geographic Data” in Part II, Item 8 of this report. 

Our focus on innovation has established us as the global leader in DNA sequencing and array-based technologies, serving customers in the research, clinical and applied markets. Our products are used for applications in the life sciences, oncology, reproductive health, agriculture and other emerging segments.

Our customers include a broad range of academic, government, pharmaceutical, biotechnology, and other leading institutions around the globe.

Our comprehensive line of products addresses the scale of experimentation and breadth of functional analysis to advance disease research, drug development, and the development of molecular tests. This portfolio of leading-edge sequencing and array-based solutions addresses a range of genomic complexity and throughput, enabling researchers and clinical practitioners to select the best solution for their scientific challenge.

On November 1, 2018, we entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger to acquire Pacific Biosciences of California, Inc. (PacBio) for an all-cash price of approximately $1.2 billion (or $8.00 per share), subject to applicable regulatory approvals. We believe PacBio’s highly accurate long reads combined with our highly accurate and scalable short reads will provide researchers and clinicians with a more perfect view of the genome, enhancing their ability to make novel discoveries and broaden clinical utility across a range of applications. The transaction is expected to close mid-2019. See note “3. Intangible Assets, Goodwill, and Acquisitions” in Part II, Item 8 of this report for further details regarding this acquisition.

Financial Overview 

Consolidated financial highlights include the following: 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

 27
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Our future effective tax rate may vary from the U.S. federal statutory tax rate due to the mix of earnings in tax jurisdictions with different statutory tax rates and the other factors discussed in the risk factor “We are subject to risks related to taxation in multiple jurisdictions” in Part I Item 1A “Risk Factors” of this report. We may also be adversely impacted in the future if the tax court opinion regarding the exclusion of stock compensation from cost-sharing charges is overturned. We anticipate that our future effective tax rate will remain lower than the U.S. federal statutory tax rate of 21% due to the portion of our earnings that will be subject to lower statutory tax rates. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

 28
Results of Operations

To enhance comparability, the following table sets forth audited consolidated statement of operations data for the years ended December 30, 2018, December 31, 2017, and January 1, 2017, stated as a percentage of total revenue. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Percentages may not recalculate due to rounding.

Our fiscal year is the 52 or 53 weeks ending the Sunday closest to December 31, with quarters of 13 or 14 weeks ending the Sunday closest to March 31, June 30, September 30, and December 31. Fiscal years 2018, 2017, and 2016 were all 52 weeks.

Revenue

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

 29
Other product revenue consists primarily of freight. Service and other revenue consists primarily of sequencing and genotyping service revenue as well as instrument service contract revenue. Total revenue primarily relates to Core Illumina for all periods presented.

2018 Compared to 2017

The increase in consumables revenue in 2018 was primarily due to a $338 million increase in sequencing consumables revenue driven primarily by growth in the instrument installed base. Instruments revenue increased in 2018 primarily due to a $48 million increase in sequencing instruments revenue driven by increased shipments of our NovaSeq and NextSeq instruments, partially offset by fewer shipments of our HiSeq instrument. Service and other revenue increased in 2018 as a result of increased revenue from sequencing services, co-development agreements, and genotyping services.

2017 Compared to 2016

The increase in consumables revenue in 2017 was primarily due to a $197 million increase in sequencing consumables revenue driven by growth in the sequencing instrument installed base. Instruments revenue increased in 2017 primarily due to a $34 million increase in sequencing instruments revenue due to shipments of our NovaSeq instrument introduced in Q1 2017, partially offset by lower shipments of our HiSeq and HiSeq X instruments. The increase in service and other revenue in 2017 was driven by revenue from genotyping services and extended instrument service contracts associated with a larger sequencing installed base. 

 Gross Margin

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

2018 Compared to 2017

The gross margin increase in 2018 was driven primarily by an increase in consumables as a percentage of total revenue, which generate higher gross margins, and an $18 million impairment of an acquired intangible asset and inventory reserves related to product transitions that were recorded in 2017.

2017 Compared to 2016

The gross margin decrease in 2017 was driven by a variety of factors, including an $18 million impairment of an acquired intangible asset, an increase in lower-margin array services mix, inventory reserves related to product transitions, and lower instrument margin from the NovaSeq introduction.

Operating Expense

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

2018 Compared to 2017

Core Illumina R&D expense increased by $78 million, or 15%, primarily due to increased headcount, as we continue to invest in the research and development of new products and enhancements to existing products, and an increase in performance-based compensation. R&D expense of our Consolidated VIEs decreased by $1 million, primarily due to the deconsolidation of GRAIL in Q1 2017, partially offset by the growth in Helix’s operations. 

 30
Core Illumina SG&A expense increased by $125 million, or 20%, primarily due to increased headcount and investments in facilities to support the continued growth and scale of our operations, and an increase in performance-based compensation. SG&A expense of our Consolidated VIEs decreased by $5 million primarily due to the deconsolidation of GRAIL in Q1 2017, partially offset by the growth of Helix's operations. 

2017 Compared to 2016

Core Illumina R&D expense increased by $58 million, or 13%, primarily due to increased headcount as we continue to invest in the research and development of new products and enhancements to existing products. R&D expense of our Consolidated VIEs decreased by $16 million, primarily due to the deconsolidation of GRAIL in Q1 2017, partially offset by growth in Helix’s operations. 

Core Illumina SG&A expense increased by $73 million, or 13%, primarily due to increased headcount and facilities investments to support the continued growth and scale of our operations. SG&A expense of our Consolidated VIEs increased by $17 million due to marketing expenses related to Helix’s July 2017 platform launch and increased headcount, as well as performance-based compensation related to the GRAIL Series B financing. These results were partially offset by the deconsolidation of GRAIL in Q1 2017. 

Legal contingencies in 2016 represented a reversal of previously recorded expense related to the settlement of patent litigation.

Other Income (Expense), Net

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Other income (expense), net primarily relates to Core Illumina for all periods presented.

2018 Compared to 2017

Interest income increased in 2018 compared to 2017 as a result of higher yields on our investments and higher cash and cash-equivalent balances. Interest expense consisted primarily of accretion of discount on our convertible senior notes and interest recorded on our financing obligations related to our build-to-suit properties. Other income (expense), net, in 2018, consisted primarily of mark-to-market adjustments and impairments from our strategic investments. Other income (expense), net decreased in 2018 primarily due to a $453 million gain recorded on the deconsolidation of GRAIL in Q1 2017.

2017 Compared to 2016

Interest income increased in 2017 compared to 2016 as a result of higher yields on our investments and higher savings and money market balances. Interest expense consisted primarily of accretion of discount on our convertible senior notes. Other income (expense), net increased in 2017 compared to 2016 primarily due to a $453 million gain recorded on the deconsolidation of GRAIL in Q1 2017 and an increase in net foreign exchange gains.

 31
Provision for Income Taxes

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

2018 Compared to 2017

In 2018, the U.S. federal statutory rate was reduced from 35% to 21%. In 2018, the variance from the U.S. federal statutory rate of 21% was primarily impacted by the mix of earnings in jurisdictions with lower statutory tax rates than the U.S. federal statutory tax rate, such as in Singapore and the United Kingdom, and excess tax benefits related to share-based compensation, offset partially by the $11 million tax expense associated with updating prior year estimates of the impact of U.S. Tax Reform. In 2017, the effective tax rate was primarily impacted by the mix of earnings in jurisdictions with lower statutory rates from the U.S. federal statutory rate, such as in Singapore and the United Kingdom, and excess tax benefits related to share-based compensation. Such impacts were offset primarily by the provisional estimated impact of U.S. Tax Reform of $150 million. The impact of U.S. Tax Reform primarily represented our provisional estimate of the one-time transition tax on earnings of certain foreign subsidiaries that were previously tax deferred, and the impact of revaluing our U.S. deferred tax assets and liabilities based on the statutory rates at which they are expected to be recognized in the future, which for federal purposes was reduced from 35% to 21%. 

2017 Compared to 2016

In 2017, the effective tax rate was equivalent to the U.S. federal statutory tax rate of 35% and was primarily impacted by the mix of earnings in jurisdictions with lower statutory tax rates than the U.S. federal statutory tax rate, such as in Singapore and the United Kingdom, and excess tax benefits related to share-based compensation. Such impacts were offset primarily by the provisional estimated impact of U.S. Tax Reform of $150 million. The impact of U.S. Tax Reform primarily represented our provisional estimates of the one-time transition tax on earnings of certain foreign subsidiaries that were previously tax deferred, and the impact of revaluing our U.S. deferred tax assets and liabilities based on the statutory rates at which they are expected to be recognized in the future, which for federal purposes was reduced from 35% to 21%. In 2016, the variance from the U.S. federal statutory tax rate of 35% was primarily attributable to the mix of earnings in jurisdictions with lower statutory rates from the U.S. federal statutory rate, such as in Singapore and the United Kingdom, partially offset by the tax impact associated with the investment in our consolidated variable interest entities.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

At December 30, 2018, we had approximately $1.1 billion in cash and cash equivalents, of which approximately $487 million was held by our foreign subsidiaries. Cash and cash equivalents held by Helix as of December 30, 2018 were $24 million. Cash and cash equivalents decreased by $81 million from last year due to the factors described in the “Cash Flow Summary” below. Our primary source of liquidity, other than our holdings of cash, cash equivalents, and investments, has been cash flows from operations and, from time to time, issuances of debt. Our ability to generate cash from operations provides us with the financial flexibility we need to meet operating, investing, and financing needs. It is our intention to indefinitely reinvest the historical earnings of our foreign subsidiaries generated prior to 2017. As of December 30, 2018, we asserted that $63 million of foreign earnings would not be indefinitely reinvested.

Historically, we have liquidated our short-term investments and/or issued debt and equity securities to finance our business needs as a supplement to cash provided by operating activities. As of December 30, 2018, we had $2.4 billion in short-term investments, including $103 million held by Helix. Our short-term investments are predominantly comprised of marketable securities consisting of U.S government-sponsored entities, corporate debt securities, and U.S. Treasury securities.

In August 2018, we issued convertible senior notes due 2023 (2023 Notes) with an aggregate principal amount of $750 million. The net proceeds from the issuance, after deducting the offering expenses payable by us, were $735 million. We used a portion of the net proceeds to repurchase $103 million of our common stock concurrently with the offering. The 2023 Notes mature on August 15, 2023 and were not convertible as of December 30, 2018.

 32
Our convertible senior notes due in 2019 and 2021 became convertible, at the option of the holders, on October 1, 2018 and continued to be convertible through December 31, 2018. However, effective January 1, 2019, these convertible senior notes were no longer convertible. Regardless, the notes due in 2019 become convertible at any time on or after March 15, 2019 until June 13, 2019 and mature on June 15, 2019. It is our intent and policy to settle conversions of the notes through combination settlement; this involves repayment of an amount of cash equal to the principal amount and delivery of the excess of conversion value over the principal amount in shares of common stock. 

We anticipate that our current cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments, together with cash provided by operating activities, are sufficient to fund our near-term capital and operating needs for at least the next 12 months, including the pending acquisition of PacBio for a price of approximately $1.2 billion in cash, as described above. Operating needs include the planned costs to operate our business, including amounts required to fund working capital and capital expenditures. Our primary short-term needs for capital, which are subject to change, include: 

•support of commercialization efforts related to our current and future products, including expansion of our direct sales force and field support resources both in the United States and abroad;

•acquisitions of equipment and other fixed assets for use in our current and future manufacturing and research and development facilities;

•the continued advancement of research and development efforts;

•potential strategic acquisitions and investments;

•repayment of debt obligations; 

•the expansion needs of our facilities, including costs of leasing and building out additional facilities; and

•repurchases of our outstanding common stock.

 Authorizations to repurchase $49 million of our common stock remained available as of December 30, 2018. On February 6, 2019, our Board of Directors authorized a new share repurchase program, which supersedes all prior and available repurchase authorizations, to repurchase $550 million of outstanding common stock. The repurchases may be completed under a 10b5-1 plan or at management’s discretion. 

Certain noncontrolling Helix investors may require Illumina to redeem certain noncontrolling interests in cash at the then approximate redemption fair market value. Such redemption right is exercisable at the option of certain noncontrolling interest holders after January 1, 2021, provided that a bona fide pursuit of the sale of Helix has occurred and an initial public offering of Helix has not been completed. The fair value of the redeemable noncontrolling interests related to Helix as of December 30, 2018 was $61 million. 

We had $69 million remaining in our capital commitment to a venture capital investment fund as of December 30, 2018. 

We expect that our revenue and the resulting operating income, as well as the status of each of our new product development programs, will significantly impact our cash management decisions. 

Our future capital requirements and the adequacy of our available funds will depend on many factors, including:

•our ability to successfully commercialize and further develop our technologies and create innovative products in our markets; 

•scientific progress in our research and development programs and the magnitude of those programs; 

•competing technological and market developments; and 

•the need to enter into collaborations with other companies or acquire other companies or technologies to enhance or complement our product and service offerings. 

 33
Cash Flow Summary

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Operating Activities

Net cash provided by operating activities in 2018 primarily consisted of net income of $782 million plus net adjustments of $378 million, partially offset by net changes in operating assets and liabilities of $18 million. The primary non-cash adjustments to net income included share-based compensation of $193 million, depreciation and amortization expenses of $179 million, accretion of debt discount of $41 million, partially offset by deferred income taxes of $18 million. Cash flow impact from changes in net operating assets and liabilities were primarily driven by increases in accounts receivable and inventory, partially offset by increases in accrued liabilities and accounts payable. 

Net cash provided by operating activities in 2017 primarily consisted of net income of $678 million and net changes in net operating assets and liabilities of $195 million. We also had $2 million in net non-cash adjustments to net income, consisting of a gain on deconsolidation of GRAIL of $453 million, depreciation and amortization expenses of $156 million, share-based compensation of $164 million, deferred income taxes of $81 million, impairment of intangible assets of $23 million, and accretion of debt discount of $30 million. Cash flow impact from changes in net operating assets and liabilities were primarily driven by an increase in other long-term liabilities of $160 million related primarily to estimated taxes associated with the U.S. Tax Reform as well as increases in accrued liabilities, partially offset by increases in inventory and accounts receivable. 

Net cash provided by operating activities in 2016 consisted of net income of $428 million plus net adjustments of $396 million partially offset by net changes in net operating assets and liabilities of $45 million. The primary non-cash expenses added back to net income included depreciation and amortization expenses of $141 million, share-based compensation of $129 million, deferred income taxes of $94 million, and accretion of debt discount of $30 million. Cash flow impact from changes in net operating assets and liabilities were primarily driven by an increase in inventory and a decrease in accrued liabilities.

Investing Activities

Net cash used in investing activities totaled $1,813 million in 2018. We purchased $2,859 million of available-for-sale securities and $1,457 million of our available-for-sale securities matured or were sold during the period. We paid net cash of $100 million for acquisitions and $15 million for strategic investments. We also invested $296 million in capital expenditures, primarily associated with our investment in facilities. 

Net cash used in investing activities totaled $214 million in 2017. We purchased $742 million of available-for-sale securities and $643 million of our available-for-sale securities matured or were sold during the period. We received $278 million from the sale of a portion of our ownership interest in GRAIL. In connection with the sale, we removed $52 million in cash from our consolidated balance sheet as a result of the deconsolidation. We paid $29 million for strategic investments and invested $310 million in capital expenditures primarily associated with our investment in facilities. 

Net cash used in investing activities totaled $515 million in 2016. We purchased $895 million of available-for-sale securities and $683 million of our available-for-sale securities matured or were sold during the period. We also paid net cash of $18 million for acquisitions, $14 million for strategic investments, $11 million for intangibles, and invested $260 million in capital expenditures primarily associated with facilities, and the purchase of manufacturing, research and development equipment.

 34
Financing Activities

Net cash provided by financing activities totaled $594 million in 2018. We received $735 million in proceeds from the issuance of $750 million in principal amount of our convertible senior notes due 2023, net of issuance costs. We also received $46 million in proceeds from the issuance of common stock through the exercise of stock options and the sale of shares under our employee stock purchase plan. We used $201 million to repurchase our common stock and $74 million to pay taxes related to net share settlement of equity awards. Contributions from noncontrolling interest owners were $92 million. Additionally, $4 million was used by Helix to repay financing obligations.

Net cash used in financing activities totaled $176 million in 2017. We used $251 million to repurchase our common stock and $68 million to pay taxes related to net share settlement of equity awards. We received $71 million in proceeds from the issuance of common stock through the exercise of stock options and the sale of shares under our employee stock purchase plan. Contributions from noncontrolling interest owners were $79 million. Additionally, $9 million was used by Helix to repay financing obligations.

Net cash used in financing activities totaled $296 million in 2016. We used $100 million to pay taxes related to net share settlement of equity awards, $29 million to pay acquisition-related contingent consideration and $249 million to repurchase our common stock. We used $66 million to repay financing obligations and received $47 million in proceeds from the issuance of common stock through the exercise of stock options and the sale of shares under our employee stock purchase plan. Contributions from noncontrolling interest owners were $89 million.

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

We do not participate in any transactions that generate relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, such as entities often referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities, which would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes. During the fiscal year ended December 30, 2018, we were not involved in any “off-balance sheet arrangements” within the meaning of the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission. 

Contractual Obligations

Contractual obligations represent future cash commitments and liabilities under agreements with third parties and exclude orders for goods and services entered into in the normal course of business that are not enforceable or legally binding. The following table represents our contractual obligations as of December 30, 2018, aggregated by type (in millions): 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

_______________________________________

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(2)Debt obligations include the principal amount of our convertible senior notes due 2019, 2021, and 2023, as well as interest payments to be made under the notes. Although these notes mature in 2019, 2021, and 2023, respectively, they may be converted into cash and shares of our common stock prior to maturity if certain conditions are met. Any 

 35
conversion prior to maturity can result in repayments of the principal amounts sooner than the scheduled repayments as indicated in the table. See note “5. Debt and Other Commitments” in Part II, Item 8 of this report for further discussion. 

(3)In the normal course of business, we enter into agreements to purchase goods or services that are not cancelable without penalty, primarily related to licensing and supply arrangements. See note “5. Debt and Other Commitments” in Part II, Item 8 of this report for further discussion.

(4)U.S. Tax Reform transition tax includes the remaining portion of the one-time tax on earnings of certain foreign subsidiaries which we elected to pay in installments in accordance with the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act enacted on December 22, 2017. 

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates

The preparation of financial statements in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Management bases its estimates on historical experience, market and other conditions, and various other assumptions it believes to be reasonable. Although these estimates are based on management’s best knowledge of current events and actions that may impact us in the future, the estimation process is, by its nature, uncertain given that estimates depend on events over which we may not have control. If market and other conditions change from those that we anticipate, our consolidated financial statements may be materially affected. In addition, if our assumptions change, we may need to revise our estimates, or take other corrective actions, either of which may also have a material effect on our consolidated financial statements. 

We believe that the following critical accounting policies and estimates have a higher degree of inherent uncertainty and require our most significant judgments. In addition, had we used estimates different from any of these, our consolidated financial statements could have been materially different from those presented. Members of our senior management have discussed the development and selection of our critical accounting policies and estimates, and our disclosure regarding them, with the audit committee of our board of directors. Our accounting policies are more fully described in note “1. Organization and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” in Part II, Item 8 of this report. 

Revenue Recognition

Our revenue is generated primarily from the sale of products and services. Product revenue primarily consists of sales of instruments and consumables used in genetic analysis. Service and other revenue primarily consists of revenue generated from genotyping and sequencing services and instrument service contracts.

We recognize revenue when control of our products and services is transferred to our customers in an amount that reflects the consideration we expect to receive from our customers in exchange for those products and services. This process involves identifying the contract with a customer, determining the performance obligations in the contract, determining the contract price, allocating the contract price to the distinct performance obligations in the contract, and recognizing revenue when the performance obligations have been satisfied. A performance obligation is considered distinct from other obligations in a contract when it provides a benefit to the customer either on its own or together with other resources that are readily available to the customer and is separately identified in the contract. We consider a performance obligation satisfied once we have transferred control of a good or service to the customer, meaning the customer has the ability to use and obtain the benefit of the good or service. 

Revenue from product sales is recognized generally upon delivery to the end customer, which is when control of the product is deemed to be transferred. Invoicing typically occurs upon shipment and payment is typically due within 60 days from invoice. In instances where right of payment or transfer of title is contingent upon the customer’s acceptance of the product, revenue is deferred until all acceptance criteria have been met. Revenue from instrument service contracts is recognized as the services are rendered, typically evenly over the contract term. Revenue from genotyping and sequencing services is recognized when earned, which is generally at the time the genotyping or sequencing analysis data is made available to the customer.

Revenue is recorded net of discounts, distributor commissions, and sales taxes collected on behalf of governmental authorities. Employee sales commissions are recorded as selling, general and administrative expenses when incurred as the amortization period for such costs, if capitalized, would have been one year or less.

 36
We regularly enter into contracts with multiple performance obligations. Revenue recognition for contracts with multiple deliverables is based on the separate satisfaction of each distinct performance obligation within the contract. Most performance obligations are generally satisfied within a short time frame, approximately three to six months, after the contract execution date. 

The contract price is allocated to each performance obligation in proportion to its standalone selling price. We determine our best estimate of standalone selling price using average selling prices over a rolling 12-month period coupled with an assessment of current market conditions. If the product or service has no history of sales or if the sales volume is not sufficient, we rely upon prices set by management, adjusted for applicable discounts. 

In certain markets, products and services are sold to customers through distributors. In most sales through distributors, the product is delivered directly to customers by us. The terms of sales transactions through distributors are consistent with the terms of direct sales to customers. 

Investments

We invest in various types of securities, including debt securities in government-sponsored entities, corporate debt securities, U.S. Treasury securities and equity securities. As of December 30, 2018, we had $2.4 billion in short-term investments, including $103 million held by Helix. We classify our investments as Level 1, 2, or 3 within the fair value hierarchy. Fair values determined by Level 1 inputs utilize quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets that we have the ability to access. Fair values determined by Level 2 inputs utilize data points that are observable such as quoted prices, interest rates and yield curves. Fair values determined by Level 3 inputs utilize unobservable data points for the asset. 

As discussed in note “4. Fair Value Measurements” in Part II, Item 8 of this report, approximately half of our security holdings have been classified as Level 2. These securities have been initially valued at the transaction price and subsequently valued utilizing a third-party service provider who assesses the fair value using inputs other than quoted prices that are observable either directly or indirectly, such as yield curve, volatility factors, credit spreads, default rates, loss severity, current market and contractual prices for the underlying instruments or debt, broker and dealer quotes, as well as other relevant economic measures. We perform certain procedures to corroborate the fair value of these holdings, and in the process, we apply judgment and estimates that if changed, could significantly affect our statement of financial positions. 

Allowance for Doubtful Accounts

We maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of our customers to make required payments. We evaluate the collectibility of our accounts receivable based on a combination of factors. We regularly analyze customer accounts, review the length of time receivables are outstanding, review historical loss rates and assess current economic trends that may impact the level of credit losses in the future. Our allowance for doubtful accounts has generally been adequate to cover our actual credit losses. However, since we cannot reliably predict future changes in the financial stability of our customers, we may need to increase our reserves if the financial conditions of our customers deteriorate. 

Inventory Valuation

Inventories are stated at lower of cost or net realizable value. We regularly review inventory for excess and obsolete products and components, taking into account product life cycles, quality issues, historical experience, and usage forecasts. We record write-downs of inventory for potentially excess, obsolete, or impaired goods in order to state inventory at net realizable value. We make assumptions about future demand, market conditions, and the release of new products that may supersede old ones. However, if actual market conditions are less favorable than anticipated, additional inventory write-downs could be required. 

Contingencies

We are involved in various lawsuits and claims arising in the ordinary course of business, including actions with respect to intellectual property, employment, and contractual matters. In connection with these matters, we assess, on a regular basis, the probability and range of possible loss based on the developments in these matters. A liability is recorded in the consolidated financial statements if it is believed to be probable that a loss has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. Because litigation is inherently unpredictable and unfavorable resolutions could occur, assessing contingencies is highly subjective and requires judgments about future events. We regularly review outstanding legal matters to determine the adequacy of the liabilities accrued and related disclosures in consideration of many factors, which include, but 

 37
are not limited to, past history, scientific and other evidence, and the specifics and status of each matter. We may change our estimates if our assessment of the various factors changes and the amount of ultimate loss may differ from our estimates, resulting in a material effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and/or cash flows. 

Business Combinations

Under the acquisition method of accounting, we allocate the fair value of the total consideration transferred to the tangible and identifiable intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their estimated fair values on the date of acquisition. The fair values assigned, defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between willing market participants, are based on estimates and assumptions determined by management. These valuations require us to make significant estimates and assumptions. We record the excess consideration over the aggregate fair value of tangible and intangible assets, net of liabilities assumed, as goodwill. 

Management typically uses the discounted cash flow method to value our acquired intangible assets. This method requires significant management judgment to forecast future operating results and establish residual growth rates and discount factors. The estimates we use to value and amortize intangible assets are consistent with the plans and estimates that we use to manage our business and are based on available historical information and industry estimates and averages. If the subsequent actual results and updated projections of the underlying business activity change compared with the assumptions and projections used to develop these values, we could experience impairment charges. In addition, we have estimated the economic lives of certain acquired assets and these lives are used to calculate depreciation and amortization expense. If our estimates of the economic lives change, depreciation or amortization expenses could be accelerated or slowed. 

Intangible Assets and Other Long-Lived Assets — Impairment Assessments

We perform regular reviews to determine if the carrying values of our long-lived assets are impaired. A review of identifiable intangible assets and other long-lived assets is performed when an event occurs indicating the potential for impairment. If indicators of impairment exist, we assess the recoverability of the affected long-lived assets and compare their fair values to the respective carrying amounts. 

In order to estimate the fair value of identifiable intangible assets and other long-lived assets, we estimate the present value of future cash flows from those assets. The key assumptions that we use in our discounted cash flow model are the amount and timing of estimated future cash flows to be generated by the asset over an extended period of time and a rate of return that considers the relative risk of achieving the cash flows, the time value of money, and other factors that a willing market participant would consider. Significant judgment is required to estimate the amount and timing of future cash flows and the relative risk of achieving those cash flows. 

Assumptions and estimates about future values and remaining useful lives are complex and often subjective. They can be affected by a variety of factors, including external factors such as industry and economic trends, and internal factors such as changes in our business strategy and our internal forecasts. For example, if our future operating results do not meet current forecasts or if we experience a sustained decline in our market capitalization that is determined to be indicative of a reduction in fair value of our reporting units, we may be required to record future impairment charges for purchased intangible assets. Impairment charges could materially decrease our future net income and result in lower asset values on our balance sheet. 

Share-Based Compensation

We measure and recognize compensation expense for all share-based payments based on estimated fair value. We estimate the fair value of stock purchases under our employee stock purchase plan using the Black-Scholes-Merton (BSM) option-pricing model. The fair value of our restricted stock units is based on the market price of our common stock on the date of grant. 

The determination of fair value of share-based awards requires the use of certain estimates and highly judgmental assumptions that affect the amount of share-based compensation expense recognized in our consolidated statements of income. These include estimates of the expected volatility of our stock price, expected life of an award, expected dividends, the risk-free interest rate, and forecast of our future financial performance, in the case of performance stock units. We determine the volatility of our stock price by equally weighing the historical and implied volatility of our common stock. The historical volatility of our common stock over the most recent period is generally commensurate with the volatility we project over the estimated expected life of our stock awards, adjusted for the impact of unusual fluctuations not reasonably expected to recur, and other relevant factors. Implied volatility is calculated from the implied market volatility of exchange-traded call options on our common stock. The expected life of an award is based on historical forfeiture experience, exercise activity, and on the 

 38
terms and conditions of the stock awards. We determined expected dividend yield to be 0% given we have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock and we currently do not anticipate paying such cash dividends. The risk-free interest rate is based upon U.S. Treasury securities with remaining terms similar to the expected term of the share-based awards. We update our forecast of future financial performance periodically, which impacts our estimate of the number of shares to be issued pursuant to the outstanding performance stock units. We amortize the fair value of share-based compensation on a straight-line basis over the requisite service periods of the awards. If any of the assumptions used change significantly, share-based compensation expense may differ materially from what we have recorded in the current period. 

Warranties

We generally provide a one-year warranty on instruments. Additionally, we provide a warranty on consumables through the expiration date, which generally ranges from six to twelve months after the manufacture date. We establish an accrual for estimated warranty expenses based on historical experience as well as anticipated product performance. We periodically review the adequacy of our warranty reserve, and adjust, if necessary, the warranty percentage and accrual based on actual experience and estimated costs to be incurred. If our estimates of warranty obligation change or if actual product performance is below our expectations, we may incur additional warranty expense. 

Income Taxes

Our provision for income taxes, deferred tax assets and liabilities, and reserves for unrecognized tax benefits reflect our best assessment of estimated future taxes to be paid. Significant judgments and estimates based on interpretations of existing tax laws or regulations in the United States and the numerous foreign jurisdictions where we are subject to income tax are required in determining our provision for income taxes. Changes in tax laws, statutory tax rates, and estimates of our future taxable income could impact the deferred tax assets and liabilities provided for in the consolidated financial statements and would require an adjustment to the provision for income taxes. 

Deferred tax assets are regularly assessed to determine the likelihood they will be recovered from future taxable income. A valuation allowance is established when we believe it is more likely than not the future realization of all or some of a deferred tax asset will not be achieved. In evaluating our ability to recover deferred tax assets within the jurisdiction which they arise, we consider all available positive and negative evidence. Factors reviewed include the cumulative pre-tax book income for the past three years, scheduled reversals of deferred tax liabilities, our history of earnings and reliability of our forecasts, projections of pre-tax book income over the foreseeable future, and the impact of any feasible and prudent tax planning strategies. 

We recognize the impact of a tax position in our consolidated financial statements only if that position is more likely than not of being sustained upon examination by taxing authorities, based on the technical merits of the position. Tax authorities regularly examine our returns in the jurisdictions in which we do business and we regularly assess the tax risk of our return filing positions. Due to the complexity of some of the uncertainties, the ultimate resolution may result in payments that are materially different from our current estimate of the tax liability. These differences, as well as any interest and penalties, will be reflected in the provision for income taxes in the period in which they are determined.

Recent Accounting Pronouncements

For a summary of recent accounting pronouncements applicable to our consolidated financial statements see note “1. Organization and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” in Part II, Item 8, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which is incorporated herein by reference. 

ITEM 7A.Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.