ITEM 7 - MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) is intended to provide readers of our consolidated financial statements with the perspectives of management. This should allow the readers of this report to obtain a comprehensive understanding of our businesses, strategies, current trends, and future prospects. Our MD&A includes the following sections:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

You should note that this MD&A contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Please see the section entitled “Forward-Looking Statements” immediately preceding Part I for important information to consider when evaluating such statements.

You should read this MD&A in conjunction with the financial statements and related notes in Item 8 of this Annual Report. 

Effective August 1, 2018, we adopted the requirements of Accounting Standards Update (ASU) 2014-09, “Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606)” and ASU 2016-18, “Statement of Cash Flows (Topic 230): Restricted Cash.” All prior period amounts have been restated to comply with these standards. See Note 1 in Item 8 of this Annual Report for more information.

In fiscal 2018 and fiscal 2019 we acquired several companies including TSheets.com LLC, Exactor, Inc., and Applatix, Inc. We have included their results of operations in our consolidated results of operations from their respective dates of acquisition. See Note 6 in Item 8 of this Annual Report for more information. 

EXECUTIVE OVERVIEW

This overview provides a high level discussion of our operating results and some of the trends that affect our business. We believe that an understanding of these trends is important in order to understand our financial results for fiscal 2019 as well as our future prospects. This summary is not intended to be exhaustive, nor is it a substitute for the detailed discussion and analysis provided elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Industry Trends and Seasonality

Industry Trends

A.I. is transforming multiple industries, including financial technology. Disruptive start-ups, emerging ecosystems and mega-platforms are harnessing new technology to create personalized experiences, deliver data-driven insights and increase speed of service. These shifts are creating a more dynamic and highly competitive environment where customer expectations are shifting around the world as more services become digitized and the array of choices continues to increase. 

Seasonality

Our Consumer and Strategic Partner offerings have a significant and distinct seasonal pattern as sales and revenue from our income tax preparation products and services are heavily concentrated in the period from November through April. This seasonal pattern results in higher net revenues during our second and third quarters ending January 31 and April 30, respectively. We expect the seasonality of our Consumer and Strategic Partner businesses to continue to have a significant impact on our quarterly financial results in the future.

  Intuit Fiscal 2018 Form 10-K 30  

Tables of Contents

Key Challenges and Risks

Our growth strategy depends upon our ability to initiate and embrace disruptive technology trends, to enter new markets, and to drive broad adoption of the products and services we develop and market. Our future growth also increasingly depends on the strength of our third-party business relationships and our ability to continue to develop, maintain, and strengthen new and existing relationships. To remain competitive and continue to grow, we are investing significant resources in our product development, marketing, and sales capabilities, and we expect to continue to do so in the future.

As we offer more online services, the ongoing operation and availability of our platforms and systems and those of our external service providers is becoming increasingly important. Because we help customers manage their financial lives, we face risks associated with the hosting, collection, use, and retention of personal customer information and data. We are investing significant management attention and resources in our information technology infrastructure and in our privacy and security capabilities, and we expect to continue to do so in the future.

For our consumer and professional tax offerings, we have implemented additional security measures and are continuing to work with state and federal governments to share information regarding suspicious filings. We continue to invest in security measures and to work with the broader industry and government to protect our customers against this type of fraud.

For a complete discussion of the most significant risks and uncertainties affecting our business, please see “Forward-Looking Statements” immediately preceding Part I and “Risk Factors” in Item 1A of Part I of this Report.

Overview of Financial Results

The most important financial indicators that we use to assess our business are revenue growth for the company as a whole and for each reportable segment; operating income growth for the company as a whole ; earnings per share; and cash flow from operations. We also track certain non-financial drivers of revenue growth and, when material, identify them in the applicable discussions of segment results below. These non-financial drivers include, for example, customer growth and retention for all of our businesses. Service offerings are a significant part of our business. Our total service and other revenue was $5.2 billion or 76% of our total revenue in fiscal 2019 and we expect our total service and other revenue to continue to grow in the future.

Key highlights for fiscal 2019 include the following:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

  Intuit Fiscal 2019 Form 10-K 31  

Tables of Contents

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES

In preparing our consolidated financial statements in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), we are required to make estimates, assumptions, and judgments that can have a significant impact on our net revenue, operating income or loss and net income or loss, as well as on the value of certain assets and liabilities on our consolidated balance sheets. We believe that the estimates, assumptions, and judgments involved in the following accounting policies have the greatest potential impact on our consolidated financial statements, so we consider these to be our critical accounting policies: 

•Revenue Recognition

•Business Combinations

•Goodwill, Acquired Intangible Assets, and Other Long-Lived Assets – Impairment Assessments

•Accounting for Share-Based Compensation Plans

•Legal Contingencies

•Accounting for Income Taxes – Estimates of Deferred Taxes, Valuation Allowances, and Uncertain Tax Positions

Our senior management has reviewed the development and selection of these critical accounting policies and their disclosure in this Annual Report on Form 10-K with the Audit and Risk Committee of our Board of Directors.

Revenue Recognition

We derive our revenue primarily from the sale of packaged desktop software products, desktop software subscriptions, and online services such as tax, accounting, payroll, and merchant payment processing. Our contracts with customers often include promises to transfer multiple products and services. In determining how revenue should be recognized, a five-step process is used, which requires judgment and estimates within the revenue recognition process. The primary judgments include identifying the performance obligations in the contract and determining whether the performance obligations are distinct. If any of these judgments were to change it could cause a material increase or decrease in the amount of revenue we report in a particular period. For additional information, see “Revenue Recognition” in Note 1 to the financial statements in Item 8 of this Annual Report.

Business Combinations

As described in “Description of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies – Business Combinations,” in Note 1 to the financial statements in Item 8 of this Annual Report, under the acquisition method of accounting we generally recognize the identifiable assets acquired, the liabilities assumed, and any noncontrolling interests in an acquiree at their fair values as of the date of acquisition. We measure goodwill as the excess of consideration transferred, which we also measure at fair value, over the net of the acquisition date fair values of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed. The acquisition method of accounting requires us to exercise judgment and make significant estimates and assumptions regarding the fair values of the elements of a business combination as of the date of acquisition, including the fair values of identifiable intangible assets, deferred tax asset valuation allowances, liabilities related to uncertain tax positions, and contingencies. This method also requires us to refine these estimates over a one-year measurement period to reflect new information obtained about facts and circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date that, if known, would have affected the measurement of the amounts recognized as of that date. If we are required to retroactively adjust provisional amounts that we have recorded for the fair values of assets and liabilities in connection with acquisitions, these adjustments could materially decrease our operating income and net income and result in lower asset values on our consolidated balance sheet.

Significant estimates and assumptions that we must make in estimating the fair value of acquired technology, customer lists, and other identifiable intangible assets include future cash flows that we expect to generate from the acquired assets. If the subsequent actual results and updated projections of the underlying business activity change compared with the assumptions and projections used to develop these values, we could record impairment charges. In addition, we have estimated the economic lives of certain acquired assets and these lives are used to calculate depreciation and amortization expense. If our estimates of the economic lives change, depreciation or amortization expenses could be accelerated or slowed.

Goodwill, Acquired Intangible Assets and Other Long-Lived Assets – Impairment Assessments

We estimate the fair value of acquired intangible assets and other long-lived assets that have finite useful lives whenever an event or change in circumstances indicates that the carrying value of the asset may not be recoverable. We test for potential impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets that have indefinite useful lives annually in our fourth fiscal quarter or whenever indicators of impairment arise. The timing of the annual test may result in charges to our consolidated statement of operations in our fourth fiscal quarter that could not have been reasonably foreseen in prior periods.

As described in “Description of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies – Goodwill, Acquired Intangible Assets and Other Long-Lived Assets,” in Note 1 to the financial statements in Item 8 of this Annual Report, in order to estimate the fair value of goodwill we use a weighted combination of a discounted cash flow model (known as the income 

  Intuit Fiscal 2019 Form 10-K 32  

Tables of Contents

approach) and comparisons to publicly traded companies engaged in similar businesses (known as the market approach). The income approach requires us to use a number of assumptions, including market factors specific to the business, the amount and timing of estimated future cash flows to be generated by the business over an extended period of time, long-term growth rates for the business, and a rate of return that considers the relative risk of achieving the cash flows and the time value of money. We evaluate cash flows at the reporting unit level. Although the assumptions we use in our discounted cash flow model are consistent with the assumptions we use to generate our internal strategic plans and forecasts, significant judgment is required to estimate the amount and timing of future cash flows from each reporting unit and the relative risk of achieving those cash flows. When using the market approach, we make judgments about the comparability of publicly traded companies engaged in similar businesses. We base our judgments on factors such as size, growth rates, profitability, risk, and return on investment. We also make judgments when adjusting market multiples of revenue, operating income, and earnings for these companies to reflect their relative similarity to our own businesses. See Note 5 to the financial statements in Item 8 of this Annual Report for a summary of goodwill by reportable segment.

We estimate the recoverability of acquired intangible assets and other long-lived assets that have finite useful lives by comparing the carrying amount of the asset to the future undiscounted cash flows that we expect the asset to generate. In order to estimate the fair value of those assets, we estimate the present value of future cash flows from those assets. The key assumptions that we use in our discounted cash flow model are the amount and timing of estimated future cash flows to be generated by the asset over an extended period of time and a rate of return that considers the relative risk of achieving the cash flows and the time value of money. Significant judgment is required to estimate the amount and timing of future cash flows and the relative risk of achieving those cash flows. We also make judgments about the remaining useful lives of acquired intangible assets and other long-lived assets that have finite lives. See Note 5 to the financial statements in Item 8 of this Annual Report for a summary of cost, accumulated amortization and weighted average life in years for our acquired intangible assets.

Assumptions and estimates about future values and remaining useful lives are complex and often subjective. They can be affected by a variety of factors, including external factors such as industry and economic trends, and internal factors such as changes in our business strategy and our internal forecasts. For example, if our future operating results do not meet current forecasts or if we experience a sustained decline in our market capitalization that is determined to be indicative of a reduction in fair value of one or more of our reporting units, we may be required to record future impairment charges for goodwill and acquired intangible assets. Impairment charges could materially decrease our future net income and result in lower asset values on our consolidated balance sheet.

During the fourth quarters of fiscal 2019, fiscal 2018, and fiscal 2017 we performed our annual goodwill impairment tests. Using the methodology described in “Description of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies – Goodwill, Acquired Intangible Assets and Other Long-Lived Assets,” in Note 1 to the financial statements in Item 8 of this Annual Report, we determined that the estimated fair values of all of our reporting units exceeded their carrying values and that they were not impaired. In addition, during this analysis we concluded that the estimated fair values of all of our reporting units substantially exceeded their carrying values.

Accounting for Share-Based Compensation Plans

Restricted stock units (RSUs) granted typically vest based on continued service. We value these time-based RSUs at the date of grant using the intrinsic value method. We amortize the fair value of time-based RSUs on a straight-line basis over the service period. Certain RSUs granted to senior management vest based on the achievement of pre-established performance or market goals. We estimate the fair value of performance-based RSUs at the date of grant using the intrinsic value method and the probability that the specified performance criteria will be met. Each quarter we update our assessment of the probability that the specified performance criteria will be achieved and adjust our estimate of the fair value of the performance-based RSUs if necessary. We amortize the fair values of performance-based RSUs over the requisite service period for each separately vesting tranche of the award. We estimate the fair value of market-based RSUs at the date of grant using a Monte Carlo valuation methodology and amortize those fair values over the requisite service period for each separately vesting tranche of the award. The Monte Carlo methodology that we use to estimate the fair value of market-based RSUs at the date of grant incorporates into the valuation the possibility that the market condition may not be satisfied. Provided that the requisite service is rendered, the total fair value of the market-based RSUs at the date of grant must be recognized as compensation expense even if the market condition is not achieved. However, the number of shares that ultimately vest can vary significantly with the performance of the specified market criteria. All of the RSUs we grant have dividend rights that are subject to the same vesting requirements as the underlying equity awards, so we do not adjust the intrinsic (market) value of our RSUs for dividends.

We use a lattice binomial model and the assumptions described in Note 10 to the financial statements in Item 8 of this Annual Report to estimate the fair value of stock options granted. We estimate the expected term of options granted based on implied exercise patterns using a binomial model. We estimate the volatility of our common stock at the date of grant based on the implied volatility of publicly traded one-year and two-year options on our common stock. Our decision to use implied volatility is based upon the availability of actively traded options on our common stock and our assessment that implied volatility is more representative of future stock price trends than historical volatility. We base the risk-free interest rate that we use in our option valuation model on the implied yield in effect at the time of option grant on constant maturity U.S. Treasury issues with equivalent remaining terms. We use an annualized expected dividend yield in our option valuation model. We adjust share-based compensation expense for actual forfeitures as they occur. We amortize the fair value of options on a 

  Intuit Fiscal 2019 Form 10-K 33  

Tables of Contents

straight-line basis over the requisite service periods of the awards, which are generally the vesting periods. We may elect to use different assumptions under our option valuation model in the future, which could materially affect our net income or loss and net income or loss per share. See Note 10 to the financial statements in Item 8 of this Annual Report for more information.

Legal Contingencies

We are subject to certain legal proceedings, as well as demands, claims and threatened litigation that arise in the normal course of our business. We review the status of each significant matter quarterly and assess our potential financial exposure. If the potential loss from any claim or legal proceeding is considered probable and the amount can be reasonably estimated, we record a liability and an expense for the estimated loss. If we determine that a loss is possible and the range of the loss can be reasonably determined, then we disclose the range of the possible loss. Significant judgment is required in the determination of whether a potential loss is probable, reasonably possible, or remote as well as in the determination of whether a potential exposure is reasonably estimable. Our accruals are based on the best information available at the time. As additional information becomes available, we reassess the potential liability related to our pending claims and litigation and may revise our estimates. Potential legal liabilities and the revision of estimates of potential legal liabilities could have a material impact on our financial position and results of operations. See Note 12 to the financial statements in Item 8 of this Annual Report for more information.

Accounting for Income Taxes – Estimates of Deferred Taxes, Valuation Allowances, and Uncertain Tax Positions

We estimate our income taxes based on the various jurisdictions where we conduct business. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide income tax provision. The calculation of our tax liabilities involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax rules and the potential for future adjustment of our uncertain tax positions by the United States Internal Revenue Service or other taxing jurisdictions. We estimate our current tax liability and assess temporary differences that result from differing treatments of certain items for tax and accounting purposes. These differences result in deferred tax assets and liabilities, which we show on our consolidated balance sheet. We must then assess the likelihood that our deferred tax assets will be realized. To the extent we believe that realization is not likely, we establish a valuation allowance. When we establish a valuation allowance or increase this allowance in an accounting period, we record a corresponding tax expense in our consolidated statement of operations.

We record a valuation allowance to reflect uncertainties about whether we will be able to utilize our deferred tax assets before they expire. We assess the need for an adjustment to the valuation allowance on a quarterly basis. The assessment is based on our estimates of future sources of taxable income in the jurisdictions in which we operate and the periods over which our deferred tax assets will be realizable. While we have considered future taxable income in assessing the need for a valuation allowance for the periods presented, we could in the future be required to increase the valuation allowance to take into account additional deferred tax assets that we may be unable to realize. An increase in the valuation allowance could have an adverse impact on our income tax provision and net income in the period in which we record the change.

We recognize and measure benefits for uncertain tax positions using a two-step approach. The first step is to evaluate the tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return by determining if the weight of available evidence indicates that it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained upon audit, including resolution of any related appeals or litigation processes. For tax positions that are more likely than not of being sustained upon audit, the second step is to measure the tax benefit as the largest amount that is more than 50% likely of being realized upon settlement. Significant judgment is required to evaluate uncertain tax positions. We evaluate our uncertain tax positions on a quarterly basis. Our evaluations are based upon a number of factors, including changes in facts or circumstances, changes in tax law, correspondence with tax authorities during the course of audits and effective settlement of audit issues. Changes in the recognition or measurement of uncertain tax positions could result in material increases or decreases in our income tax expense in the period in which we make the change, which could have a material impact on our effective tax rate and operating results. See Note 9 to the financial statements in Item 8 of this Annual Report for more information.

  Intuit Fiscal 2019 Form 10-K 34  

Tables of Contents

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Fiscal 2019 Compared with Fiscal 2018

Total net revenue increased $759 million or 13% in fiscal 2019 compared with fiscal 2018. Our Small Business & Self-Employed segment revenue increased 15% due to growth in the Online Ecosystem. Our Consumer segment revenue increased 11% due to a shift in mix to our higher end product offerings, growth in TurboTax federal units, and a higher average revenue per customer. See “Segment Results” later in this Item 7 for more information.

Operating income increased $294 million or 19% in fiscal 2019 compared with fiscal 2018. The increase was due to the higher revenue described above partially offset by higher costs for advertising, marketing, staffing, and outside services. Additionally, in fiscal 2018, we recorded a $79 million loss related to the sale of our data center in Quincy, Washington. See “Operating Expenses” later in this Item 7 for more information.

Net income increased $228 million or 17% in fiscal 2019 compared with fiscal 2018 due to the increase in operating income described above, partially offset by a higher effective tax rate in fiscal 2019. Net income for fiscal 2018 includes tax benefits related to the reorganization of a subsidiary and the re-measurement of our net deferred tax liability balances as a result of the enactment of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (2017 Tax Act). See Note 9 to the financial statements in Item 8 of this Annual Report for more information. Diluted net income per share increased 16% to $5.89 as a result of the increase in net income noted above.

Fiscal 2018 Compared with Fiscal 2017 

Total net revenue increased $829 million or 16% in fiscal 2018 compared with fiscal 2017. Revenue in our Small Business & Self-Employed segment increased 19% primarily due to growth in the Online Ecosystem driven by customer acquisition. Our Consumer segment revenue increased 15% due to a higher average revenue per customer, growth in TurboTax federal units, and a shift in mix to our higher end product offerings. See “Segment Results” later in this Item 7 for more information.

Operating income increased $142 million or 10% in fiscal 2018 compared with fiscal 2017 due to the increase in revenue described above partially offset by higher costs for staffing, advertising, marketing, outside services, and share-based compensation. We also recorded a $79 million loss related to the sale of our data center in Quincy, Washington in the 2018 period. See “Operating Expenses” later in this Item 7 for more information.

Net income increased $344 million or 35% in fiscal 2018 compared with fiscal 2017 due to the increase in operating income described above and a lower effective tax rate in the fiscal 2018 period. Net income for fiscal 2018 includes tax benefits related to the reorganization of a subsidiary and the re-measurement of our net deferred tax liability balances as a result of the 2017 Tax Act. Additionally, the U.S statutory federal corporate tax rate decreased from 35% to 21% under the 2017 Tax Act. The change resulted in a blended lower U.S. statutory federal rate of 26.9% for fiscal 2018. See “Non-Operating Income and Expenses - Income Taxes” later in this Item 7 for more information. Diluted net income per share for fiscal 2018 increased 35% to $5.09, in line with the increase in net income.

Segment Results

The information below is organized in accordance with our three reportable segments. All of our segments operate and sell to customers primarily in the United States. International total net revenue was less than 5% of consolidated total net revenue for all periods presented.

Segment operating income is segment net revenue less segment cost of revenue and operating expenses. Segment expenses do not include certain costs, such as corporate selling and marketing, product development, general and administrative expenses and share-based compensation expenses, which are not allocated to specific segments. These unallocated costs totaled $1.73 billion in fiscal 2019, $1.62 billion in fiscal 2018, and $1.32 billion in fiscal 2017. Unallocated costs increased in fiscal 2019 compared with fiscal 2018 and in fiscal 2018 compared with fiscal 2017 due to increased corporate product development, selling and marketing, and general and administrative expenses in support of the growth of our businesses and 

  Intuit Fiscal 2019 Form 10-K 35  

Tables of Contents

higher share-based compensation expenses. Segment expenses also do not include amortization of acquired technology and amortization of other acquired intangible assets which totaled $26 million in fiscal 2019, $21 million in fiscal 2018, and $14 million in fiscal 2017. See Note 13 to the financial statements in Item 8 of this Annual Report for reconciliations of total segment operating income to consolidated operating income for each fiscal year presented.

  Intuit Fiscal 2019 Form 10-K 36  

Tables of Contents

 Small Business & Self-Employed

Small Business & Self-Employed segment revenue includes both Online Ecosystem and Desktop Ecosystem revenue.

Our Online Ecosystem includes revenue from QuickBooks Online, QuickBooks Online Advanced and QuickBooks Self-Employed financial and business management offerings; small business payroll services, including QuickBooks Online Payroll, Intuit Online Payroll, Intuit Full Service Payroll; merchant payment processing services for small businesses who use online offerings; and financing for small businesses.

Our Desktop Ecosystem includes revenue from our QuickBooks Desktop packaged software products (Desktop Pro, Desktop for Mac, Desktop Premier, and QuickBooks Point of Sale); QuickBooks Desktop software subscriptions (QuickBooks Desktop Pro Plus, QuickBooks Desktop Premier Plus, and QuickBooks Enterprise, and ProAdvisor Program memberships for the accounting professionals who serve small businesses); desktop payroll products (QuickBooks Basic Payroll, QuickBooks Assisted Payroll and QuickBooks Enhanced Payroll); merchant payment processing services for small businesses who use desktop offerings; and financial supplies.

Segment product revenue is derived from revenue related to software license and version protection for our QuickBooks Desktop products and subscriptions, license and related updates for our desktop payroll products and financial supplies, which are all part of our Desktop Ecosystem. Segment service and other revenue is derived from our Online Ecosystem revenue; and Desktop Ecosystem revenue related to support and connected services for our QuickBooks Desktop and desktop payroll products and subscriptions and merchant payment processing services.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

  Intuit Fiscal 2019 Form 10-K 37  

Tables of Contents

Fiscal 2019 Compared with Fiscal 2018 

Revenue for our Small Business & Self-Employed segment increased $472 million or 15% in fiscal 2019 compared with fiscal 2018. The increase was primarily due to growth in Online Ecosystem revenue.

Online Ecosystem

Online Ecosystem revenue increased $457 million or 38% in fiscal 2019 compared with fiscal 2018. QuickBooks Online Accounting revenue increased 41% in fiscal 2019 compared with fiscal 2018 due to an increase in QuickBooks Online subscribers and average revenue per customer. At July 31, 2019 QuickBooks Online subscribers were 4.5 million, up 32% compared to July 31, 2018. Online Services revenue increased 34% primarily due to customer growth in online payroll and payments and an increase in revenue from other online services.

Desktop Ecosystem

Desktop Ecosystem revenue increased $15 million or 1% in fiscal 2019 compared with fiscal 2018, primarily due to an increase in license revenue for our QuickBooks Enterprise offering and an increase in revenue from our payroll and payments offerings as a result of customer growth during the period. This increase was partially offset by a decrease in revenue from the delivery of version protection for our QuickBooks Enterprise customers. 

Small Business & Self-Employed segment operating income increased $223 million or 17% in fiscal 2019 compared with fiscal 2018 due to the higher revenue described above which was partially offset by higher expenses for advertising, marketing, and staffing.

Fiscal 2018 Compared with Fiscal 2017 

Revenue for our Small Business & Self-Employed segment increased $487 million or 19% in fiscal 2018 compared with fiscal 2017. The increase was primarily due to growth in Online Ecosystem revenue.

Online Ecosystem

Online Ecosystem revenue increased $348 million or 41% in fiscal 2018 compared with fiscal 2017. QuickBooks Online Accounting revenue increased 41% in fiscal 2019 compared with fiscal 2018 due to an increase in QuickBooks Online subscribers. At July 31, 2018 QuickBooks Online subscribers were 3.4 million, up 43% compared to July 31, 2017. Online Services revenue increased 25% due to customer growth in online payroll and payments.

Desktop Ecosystem

Desktop Ecosystem revenue increased $139 million or 8% in fiscal 2018 compared with fiscal 2017, primarily due to an increase in revenue related to our QuickBooks Enterprise offering driven by growth in our QuickBooks Enterprise subscribers, an increase in average revenue per customer, as well as a change in our QuickBooks Enterprise offering that occurred when customers renewed their subscriptions during fiscal 2018. This increase was partially off-set by a decrease in revenue from our QuickBooks Desktop units as unit sales declined 15%.

Small Business & Self-Employed segment operating income increased $215 million or 19% in fiscal 2018 compared with fiscal 2017 due to the higher revenue described above which was partially offset by higher expenses for staffing, advertising, and marketing.

  Intuit Fiscal 2019 Form 10-K 38  

Tables of Contents

 Consumer 

Consumer segment product revenue is derived primarily from TurboTax desktop tax return preparation software and related form updates.

Consumer segment service and other revenue is derived primarily from TurboTax Online and TurboTax Live offerings, electronic tax filing services and connected services, and also from our Mint and Turbo offerings.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Fiscal 2019 Compared with Fiscal 2018 

Revenue for our Consumer segment increased $267 million or 11% in fiscal 2019 compared with fiscal 2018 due to a shift in mix to our higher priced product offerings including TurboTax Live, a 5% growth in TurboTax federal units, and a higher average revenue per customer.

Consumer segment operating income increased $155 million or 10% in fiscal 2019 compared with fiscal 2018 due to the higher revenue described above, which was partially offset by higher expenses for advertising, marketing, and staffing.

Fiscal 2018 Compared with Fiscal 2017 

Revenue for our Consumer segment increased $326 million or 15% in fiscal 2018 compared with fiscal 2017 due to a higher average revenue per customer, a 4% growth in TurboTax federal units, and a shift in mix to our higher end product offerings.

Consumer segment operating income increased $211 million or 15% in fiscal 2018 compared with fiscal 2017 due to the higher revenue described above which was partially offset by higher expenses for advertising, marketing, and staffing.

  Intuit Fiscal 2019 Form 10-K 39  

Tables of Contents

Strategic Partner

Strategic Partner segment product revenue is derived primarily from Lacerte, ProSeries, and ProFile desktop tax preparation software products and related form updates.

Strategic Partner segment service and other revenue is derived primarily from ProConnect Tax Online tax products, electronic tax filing service, connected services, and bank products.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Fiscal 2019 Compared with Fiscal 2018 

Revenue for our Strategic Partner segment increased $20 million or 4% in fiscal 2019 compared with fiscal 2018 primarily due to a higher average revenue per customer.

Strategic Partner segment operating income increased $34 million or 12% in fiscal 2019 compared with fiscal 2018 primarily due to the higher revenue described above and lower staffing expenses.

Fiscal 2018 Compared with Fiscal 2017 

Revenue for our Strategic Partner segment increased $16 million or 4% in fiscal 2018 compared with fiscal 2017 primarily due to a higher average revenue per customer.

Strategic Partner segment operating income increased $18 million or 7% in fiscal 2018 compared with fiscal 2017 primarily due to the higher revenue described above and relatively stable spending.

  Intuit Fiscal 2019 Form 10-K 40  

Tables of Contents

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Our cost of revenue has three components: (1) cost of product revenue, which includes the direct costs of manufacturing and shipping or electronically downloading our desktop software products; (2) cost of service and other revenue, which includes the direct costs associated with our online and service offerings, such as data center and customer support costs as well as the costs for the tax and bookkeeping professionals that support our TurboTax Live and QuickBooks Live offerings; and (3) amortization of acquired technology, which represents the cost of amortizing developed technologies that we have obtained through acquisitions over their useful lives.

Cost of product revenue as a percentage of product revenue was relatively consistent across all periods presented. We expense costs of product revenue as they are incurred for delivered software and we do not defer any of these costs when product revenue is deferred.

Cost of service and other revenue as a percentage of service and other revenue was relatively consistent across all periods presented. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Fiscal 2019 Compared with Fiscal 2018 

Total operating expenses as a percentage of total net revenue decreased in fiscal 2019 compared to fiscal 2018. Total net revenue increased $759 million or 13% and total operating expenses increased $276 million or 8%. The increase in operating expenses was primarily driven by $195 million for higher advertising and marketing expenses, $94 million for higher staffing expenses due to higher headcount, and $54 million for outside services. General and administrative expenses in the fiscal 2018 period include a $79 million loss related to the sale of our data center in Quincy, Washington.

Fiscal 2018 Compared with Fiscal 2017 

Total operating expenses as a percentage of total net revenue increased slightly in fiscal 2018 compared to fiscal 2017. Total net revenue increased $829 million or 16% and total operating expenses increased $519 million or 17%. The increase in operating expenses was primarily driven by $193 million for higher staffing expenses due to higher headcount, $127 million for higher advertising and marketing expenses, and $49 million for outside services. General and administrative expenses in the fiscal 2018 period include a $79 million loss related to the sale of our data center in Quincy, Washington.

Non-Operating Income and Expenses

Interest Expense

Interest expense of $15 million in fiscal 2019 consisted primarily of interest on our unsecured term loan and secured revolving credit facility. Interest expense of $20 million in fiscal 2018 consisted primarily of interest on our unsecured term loan and unsecured revolving credit facility. Interest expense of $31 million in fiscal 2017 consisted primarily of interest on our senior notes, unsecured term loan, and unsecured revolving credit facility. See Note 7 and Note 8 to the financial statements in Item 8 of this Annual Report for more information.

  Intuit Fiscal 2019 Form 10-K 41  

Tables of Contents

Interest and Other Income, Net

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Interest income increased in fiscal 2019 compared to fiscal 2018 due to higher average invested balances and higher average interest rates. Interest income increased in fiscal 2018 compared to fiscal 2017 due to higher average invested balances and higher average interest rates.

(2) In accordance with authoritative guidance, we record gains and losses associated with executive deferred compensation plan assets in interest and other income and gains and losses associated with the related liabilities in operating expenses. The total amounts recorded in operating expenses for each period are approximately equal to the total amounts recorded in interest and other income in those periods.

Income Taxes

Effective Tax Rate

Our effective tax rates for fiscal 2018 and 2017 have been restated to reflect the full retrospective application of ASU 2014-09, “Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606).” See Note 1 and Note 9 to the financial statement in Item 8 of this Annual Report for more information.

The 2017 Tax Act was enacted on December 22, 2017 and reduced the U.S. statutory federal corporate tax rate from 35% to 21%. The effective date of the tax rate change was January 1, 2018. The change resulted in a blended lower U.S. statutory federal rate of 26.9% for fiscal year 2018. In fiscal 2019, we fully benefited from the enacted lower tax rate of 21%.

We recorded a provisional benefit of $29 million for fiscal 2018 related to the re-measurement of certain deferred tax balances as the result of the 2017 Tax Act. In the second quarter of fiscal 2019, we completed our accounting for the income tax effects of the 2017 Tax Act, and there have been no material adjustments during the fiscal 2019 period.

Our effective tax rates for fiscal 2019, fiscal 2018, and fiscal 2017 were approximately 17%, 15%, and 29%. Excluding the tax benefits related to share-based compensation our effective tax rate for fiscal 2019 was approximately 24%. This differed from the federal statutory rate of 21% primarily due to state income taxes and non-deductible share-based compensation, which were partially offset by the benefit we received from the federal research and experimentation credit. Excluding the tax benefits related to share-based compensation, the reorganization of a subsidiary, and the benefit related to the re-measurement of certain deferred tax balances, our effective tax rate for fiscal 2018 was approximately 26% and did not differ significantly from the federal statutory rate of 26.9%. Excluding the tax benefits related to share-based compensation our effective tax rate for fiscal 2017 was approximately 34% and did not differ significantly from the federal statutory rate of 35%. See Note 9 to the financial statements in Item 8 of this Annual Report for more information about our effective tax rates.

At July 31, 2019, we had net deferred tax liabilities of $36 million which included a valuation allowance of $107 million for loss and tax credit carryforwards related to state research and experimentation tax credits, foreign losses, and state operating and capital losses. See “Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates” earlier in this Item 7 and Note 9 to the financial statements in Item 8 of this Annual Report for more information.

  Intuit Fiscal 2019 Form 10-K 42  

Tables of Contents

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

Overview

At July 31, 2019, our cash, cash equivalents and investments totaled $2.7 billion, an increase of $1.0 billion from July 31, 2018 due to the factors described in “Statements of Cash Flows” below. Our primary sources of liquidity have been cash from operations, which includes the collection of accounts receivable for products and services, and borrowings under our credit facilities. Our primary uses of cash have been for research and development programs, selling and marketing activities, repurchases of our common stock under our stock repurchase programs, the payment of cash dividends, debt service costs and debt repayment, acquisitions of businesses, and capital projects. As discussed in “Executive Overview – Industry Trends and Seasonality” earlier in this Item 7, our business is subject to significant seasonality. The balance of our cash, cash equivalents and investments generally fluctuates with that seasonal pattern. We believe the seasonality of our business is likely to continue in the future.

The following table summarizes selected measures of our liquidity and capital resources at the dates indicated:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

We have historically generated significant cash from operations and we expect to continue to do so during fiscal 2020. Our cash, cash equivalents, and investments totaled $2.7 billion at July 31, 2019, none of those funds were restricted, and approximately 90% of those funds were located in the U.S. Our unsecured revolving credit facility is available to us for general corporate purposes, including future acquisitions and share repurchases. At July 31, 2019, no amounts were outstanding under the unsecured revolving credit facility. Our secured revolving credit facility is available to fund a portion of our loans to qualified small businesses. At July 31, 2019, $48 million was outstanding under the secured revolving credit facility. See Note 7 to the financial statements in Item 8 of this Annual Report for more information. 

We evaluate, on an ongoing basis, the merits of acquiring technology or businesses, or establishing strategic relationships with and investing in other companies. Our strong liquidity profile enables us to quickly respond to these kinds of opportunities. Based on past performance and current expectations, we believe that our cash and cash equivalents, investments, and cash generated from operations will be sufficient to meet anticipated seasonal working capital needs, capital expenditure requirements, contractual obligations, commitments, debt service requirements, and other liquidity requirements associated with our operations for at least the next 12 months. We expect to return excess cash generated by operations to our stockholders through repurchases of our common stock and payment of cash dividends, after taking into account our operating and strategic cash needs.

Statements of Cash Flows

The following table summarizes selected items from our consolidated statements of cash flows for fiscal 2019, fiscal 2018, and fiscal 2017. Effective August 1, 2018, we adopted the requirements of Accounting Standards Update (ASU) 2016-18, “Statement of Cash Flows (Topic 230): Restricted Cash.” The amounts below have been restated to comply with this new standard. See the financial statements in Item 8 of this Annual Report for complete consolidated statements of cash flows for those periods.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

  Intuit Fiscal 2019 Form 10-K 43  

Tables of Contents

During fiscal 2019 we generated $2.3 billion in cash from operations. We also received $48 million from borrowings under our secured revolving credit facility and $33 million from the issuance of common stock under employee stock plans. During the same period we used $556 million for the repurchase of shares of our common stock under our stock repurchase programs, $501 million for the payment of cash dividends, $155 million for capital expenditures, $64 million for the acquisition of a business net of cash acquired, $49 million for net originations of term loans, and $50 million for the repayment of debt.

During fiscal 2018 we generated $2.1 billion in cash from operations. We also received $800 million from borrowings under our unsecured revolving credit facility, and $96 million from the issuance of common stock under employee stock plans. During the same period we used $850 million for the repayment of debt and amounts outstanding under our unsecured revolving credit facility, $407 million for the payment of cash dividends, $272 million for the repurchase of shares of our common stock under our stock repurchase programs, $363 million for the acquisitions of businesses net of cash acquired, and $124 million for capital expenditures.

During fiscal 2017 we generated $1.6 billion in cash from operations. We also received $190 million in cash from net sales of investments, $150 million from borrowings under our unsecured revolving credit facility, and $73 million from the net issuance of common stock under employee stock plans. During the same period we used $662 million in cash for the repayment of debt and amounts outstanding under our unsecured revolving credit facility, $839 million for the repurchase of shares of our common stock under our stock repurchase programs, $353 million for the payment of cash dividends, and $230 million for capital expenditures.

Stock Repurchase Programs and Dividends on Common Stock

As described in Note 10 to the financial statements in Item 8 of this Annual Report, during fiscal 2019, fiscal 2018, and fiscal 2017 we continued to repurchase shares of our common stock under a series of repurchase programs that our Board of Directors has authorized. At July 31, 2019, we had authorization from our Board of Directors to expend up to an additional $2.7 billion for stock repurchases. 

We have continued to pay quarterly cash dividends on shares of our outstanding common stock. During fiscal 2019 we declared cash dividends that totaled $1.88 per share of outstanding common stock or approximately $500 million. In August 2019 our Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.53 per share of outstanding common stock payable on October 18, 2019 to stockholders of records at the close of business on October 10, 2019. We currently expect to continue paying comparable cash dividends on a quarterly basis; however, future declarations of dividends and the establishment of future record dates and payment dates are subject to the final determination of our Board of Directors.

Business Combinations

During fiscal 2018 we acquired all of the outstanding equity interests of TSheets.com LLC, Exactor, Inc., and Applatix, Inc. for total combined cash and other consideration of approximately $412 million. The $412 million included approximately $27 million for the fair value of equity awards and other cash consideration that is being charged to expense over the future service period of up to three years. These three businesses became part of our Small Business & Self-Employed segment and provide additional features to our QuickBooks offerings such as automated time tracking and scheduling and the calculation and filing of sales and use taxes. We have included their results of operations in our consolidated results of operations from the dates of acquisition. Their results of operations for all periods presented and periods prior to the dates of acquisition were not material when compared with our consolidated results of operations. See Note 6 to the financial statements in Item 8 of this Annual Report for more information.

Credit Facilities

Unsecured Revolving Credit Facility and Term Loan

On May 2, 2019 we entered into an amended and restated credit agreement with certain institutional lenders for a credit facility with an aggregate principal amount of $1.4 billion, including a $400 million unsecured term loan that matures on February 1, 2021 and a $1 billion unsecured revolving credit facility that matures on May 2, 2024. This agreement amended and restated our prior unsecured revolving credit facility dated February 1, 2016.

Under the amended and restated credit agreement we may, subject to certain customary conditions, on one or more occasions increase commitments under the unsecured revolving credit facility in an amount not to exceed $250 million in the aggregate and may extend the maturity date up to two times. Advances under the unsecured revolving credit facility accrue interest at rates that are equal to, at our election, either Bank of America's alternate base rate plus a margin that ranges from 0.0% to 0.1% or the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) plus a margin that ranges from 0.69% to 1.1%. Actual margins under either election will be based on our senior debt credit ratings. At July 31, 2019, no amounts were outstanding under the unsecured revolving credit facility. We monitor counterparty risk associated with the institutional lenders that are providing the credit facility. We currently believe that the credit facility will be available to us should we choose to borrow under it.

  Intuit Fiscal 2019 Form 10-K 44  

Tables of Contents

On May 2, 2019 $400 million was outstanding on the term loan under the amended and restated credit agreement. Under this agreement we may, subject to certain customary conditions, on one or more occasions increase commitments under the term loan in an amount not to exceed $400 million in the aggregate. The term loan accrues interest at rates that are equal to, at our election, either Bank of America's alternate base rate plus a margin that ranges from 0.0% to 0.125% or LIBOR plus a margin that ranges from 0.625% to 1.125%. Actual margins under either election will be based on our senior debt credit ratings. The term loan is subject to quarterly principal payments of $12.5 million, with the balance payable on February 1, 2021. At July 31, 2019, $388 million was outstanding under the term loan.

The amended and restated credit agreement includes customary affirmative and negative covenants, including financial covenants that require us to maintain a ratio of total debt to annual earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) of not greater than 3.25 to 1.00 as of any date and a ratio of annual EBITDA to annual interest expense of not less than 3.00 to 1.00 as of the last day of each fiscal quarter. As of July 31, 2019 we were compliant with all required covenants.

Secured Revolving Credit Facility

On February 19, 2019 a subsidiary of Intuit entered into a $300 million secured revolving credit facility with a lender. The revolving credit facility is secured by cash and receivables of the subsidiary and is non-recourse to Intuit Inc. Advances under this secured revolving credit facility are used to fund a portion of our loans to qualified small businesses. The secured revolving credit facility is available for use for a term of two years and accrues interest at LIBOR plus 2.39%. Unused portions of the credit facility accrue interest at a rate of 0.5%. Outstanding advances mature on August 19, 2021 and payments made prior to February 19, 2020 are subject to a 1% prepayment fee. The agreement includes certain affirmative and negative covenants, including financial covenants that require the subsidiary to maintain specified financial ratios. As of July 31, 2019 we were compliant with all required covenants. At July 31, 2019, $48 million was outstanding under this facility, with a weighted-average interest rate of 7.75%, which includes the unused facility fee. The outstanding balance is secured by cash and receivables of the subsidiary totaling $89 million. 

Cash Held by Foreign Subsidiaries

Our cash, cash equivalents and investments totaled $2.7 billion at July 31, 2019. Approximately 10% of those funds were held by our foreign subsidiaries and subject to repatriation tax considerations. These foreign funds were located primarily in Canada and India. As a result of the 2017 Tax Act we do not expect to pay incremental U.S. taxes on repatriation. We have recorded income tax expense for Canada and India withholding and distribution taxes on earnings that are not permanently reinvested. In the event that funds from foreign operations are repatriated to the United States, we would pay withholding or distribution taxes at that time. 

OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS

At July 31, 2019, we did not have any significant off-balance sheet arrangements, as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of Regulation S-K.

  Intuit Fiscal 2019 Form 10-K 45  

Tables of Contents

CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS

The following table summarizes our known contractual obligations to make future payments at July 31, 2019: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(2)Represents agreements to purchase products and services that are enforceable, legally binding and specify terms, including: fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased; fixed, minimum or variable price provisions; and the approximate timing of the payments.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS

For a description of recent accounting pronouncements and the potential impact of these pronouncements on our consolidated financial statements, see Note 1 to the financial statements in Item 8 of this Annual Report.

  Intuit Fiscal 2019 Form 10-K 46  

Tables of Contents

ITEM 7A - QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK