Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.

The following discussion should be read in conjunction with "Item 6. Selected Financial Data" and the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto and the other financial and operating information included elsewhere in this Annual Report.

This discussion contains "forward-looking statements" as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and in other securities laws. See "Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements" on page iii of this Annual Report and "Item 1A. Risk Factors" beginning on page 6 of this Annual Report.

Overview

General

Our revenues consist of storage rental revenues as well as service revenues and are reflected net of sales and value added taxes. Storage rental revenues, which are considered a key driver of financial performance for the storage and information management services industry, consist primarily of recurring periodic rental charges related to the storage of materials or data (generally on a per unit basis) that are typically retained by customers for many years, technology escrow services that protect and manage source code, data backup and storage on our proprietary cloud and revenues associated with our data center operations. Service revenues include charges for related service activities, the most significant of which include: (1) the handling of records, including the addition of new records, temporary removal of records from storage, refiling of removed records and courier operations, consisting primarily of the pickup and delivery of records upon customer request; (2) destruction services, consisting primarily of secure shredding of sensitive documents and the related sale of recycled paper, the price of which can fluctuate from period to period, and customer termination and permanent removal fees; (3) other services, including the scanning, imaging and document conversion services of active and inactive records and project revenues; (4) consulting services; and (5) cloud-related data protection, preservation, restoration and recovery. Our service revenue growth has been negatively impacted by declining activity rates as stored records are becoming less active. While customers continue to store their records and tapes with us, they are less likely than they have been in the past to retrieve records for research and other purposes, thereby reducing service activity levels.

Cost of sales (excluding depreciation and amortization) consists primarily of wages and benefits for field personnel, facility occupancy costs (including rent and utilities), transportation expenses (including vehicle leases and fuel), other product cost of sales and other equipment costs and supplies. Of these, wages and benefits and facility occupancy costs are the most significant. Selling, general and administrative expenses consist primarily of wages and benefits for management, administrative, information technology, sales, account management and marketing personnel, as well as expenses related to communications and data processing, travel, professional fees, bad debts, training, office equipment and supplies. Trends in facility occupancy costs are impacted by the total number of facilities we occupy, the mix of properties we own versus properties we occupy under operating leases, fluctuations in per square foot occupancy costs, and the levels of utilization of these properties. Trends in total wages and benefits in dollars and as a percentage of total consolidated revenue are influenced by changes in headcount and compensation levels, achievement of incentive compensation targets, workforce productivity and variability in costs associated with medical insurance and workers' compensation.

The expansion of our international businesses has impacted the major cost of sales components and selling, general and administrative expenses. Our international operations are more labor intensive relative to revenue than our operations in North America and, therefore, labor costs are a higher percentage of international segment revenue. In addition, the overhead structure of our expanding international operations has generally not achieved the same level of overhead leverage as our North American segments, which may result in an increase in selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of consolidated revenue as our international operations become a larger percentage of our consolidated results.

Our depreciation and amortization charges result primarily from depreciation related to storage systems, which include racking structures, buildings, building and leasehold improvements and computer systems hardware and software. Amortization relates primarily to customer relationship intangible assets, contract fulfillment costs and data center lease-based intangible assets. Both depreciation and amortization are impacted by the timing of acquisitions.

28
Our consolidated revenues and expenses are subject to the net effect of foreign currency translation related to our operations outside the United States. It is difficult to predict the future fluctuations of foreign currency exchange rates and how those fluctuations will impact our Consolidated Statements of Operations. As a result of the relative size of our international operations, these fluctuations may be material on individual balances. Our revenues and expenses from our international operations are generally denominated in the local currency of the country in which they are derived or incurred. Therefore, the impact of currency fluctuations on our operating income and operating margin is partially mitigated. In order to provide a framework for assessing how our underlying businesses performed excluding the effect of foreign currency fluctuations, we compare the percentage change in the results from one period to another period in this report using constant currency presentation. The constant currency growth rates are calculated by translating the 2016 results at the 2017 average exchange rates and the 2017 results at the 2018 average exchange rates. Constant currency growth rates are a non-GAAP measure.

The following table is a comparison of underlying average exchange rates of the foreign currencies that had the most significant impact on our United States dollar-reported revenues and expenses:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The percentage of United States dollar-reported revenues for all other foreign currencies was 11.2%, 12.8% and 12.6% for the years ended December 31, 2016, 2017 and 2018, respectively.

Acquisitions

a. Recall Acquisition

On May 2, 2016, we completed the Recall Transaction. The results of operations of Recall have been included in our consolidated results from May 2, 2016. At the closing of the Recall Transaction, we paid approximately $331.8 million in cash and issued approximately 50.2 million shares of our common stock which, based on the closing price of our common stock as of April 29, 2016 (the last day of trading on the NYSE prior to the closing of the Recall Transaction) of $36.53 per share, resulted in a total purchase price to Recall shareholders of approximately $2,166.9 million. See Note 6 to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report for unaudited pro forma results of operations for us and Recall, as if the Recall Transaction was completed on January 1, 2015, for the year ended December 31, 2016.

29
b. IODC Acquisition

On January 10, 2018, we completed the IODC Transaction and at the closing of the IODC Transaction, we paid approximately $1,347.0 million. In addition to the amount paid at the closing of the IODC Transaction, there was the potential of $35.0 million in additional payments associated with the execution of future customer contracts through the one-year anniversary of the IODC Transaction, of which approximately $31.0 million is accrued at December 31, 2018. This amount is reported as a third-party commissions asset as a component of Other within Other assets, net, on our Consolidated Balance Sheet at December 31, 2018. See Note 6 to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report for unaudited pro forma results of operations for us and IODC, as if the IODC Transaction was completed on January 1, 2017, for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2018.

Divestments

a. Recall Divestments

See Note 6 to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report for information regarding divestments we agreed to make in connection with the receipt of regulatory approval of the Recall Transaction. See Note 13 to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report for additional information regarding the presentation of the Divestments (as defined in Note 6 to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report) in our Consolidated Statements of Operations and Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended December 31, 2016, 2017 and 2018. 

b. Iron Mountain - Russia and Ukraine Divestment

On May 30, 2017, Iron Mountain EES Holdings Ltd. ("IM EES"), a consolidated subsidiary of IMI, sold its records and information management operations in Russia and Ukraine to OSG Records Management (Europe) Limited (“OSG”) in a stock transaction (the “Russia and Ukraine Divestment”). As consideration for the Russia and Ukraine Divestment, IM EES received a 25% equity interest in OSG (the "OSG Investment"). 

We have concluded that the Russia and Ukraine Divestment does not meet the criteria to be reported as discontinued operations in our consolidated financial statements, as our decision to divest these businesses does not represent a strategic shift that will have a major effect on our operations and financial results. Accordingly, the revenues and expenses associated with these businesses are presented as a component of income (loss) from continuing operations in our Consolidated Statements of Operations for the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2017, respectively, and the cash flows associated with these businesses are presented as a component of cash flows from continuing operations in our Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2017, respectively, through the sale date. Our businesses in Russia and Ukraine represented approximately $17.5 million and $8.6 million of total revenues for the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2017, respectively. Our businesses in Russia and Ukraine represented approximately $0.3 million and $0.9 million of total (loss) income from continuing operations for the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2017, respectively. As a result of the Russia and Ukraine Divestment, we recorded a gain on sale of $38.9 million to Other expense (income), net, in the second quarter of 2017, representing the excess of the fair value of the consideration received over the carrying value of our businesses in Russia and Ukraine. 

30
c. IMFS Divestment

On September 28, 2018, Iron Mountain Fulfillment Services ("IMFS"), a consolidated subsidiary of IMI that operated our fulfillment services business in the United States, sold substantially all of its assets for total consideration of approximately $3.0 million (the "IMFS Divestment"). We have concluded that the IMFS Divestment does not meet the criteria to be reported as discontinued operations in our consolidated financial statements, as our decision to divest this business does not represent a strategic shift that will have a major effect on our operations and financial results. Accordingly, the revenues and expenses associated with this business are presented as a component of income (loss) from continuing operations in our Consolidated Statements of Operations for the years ended December 31, 2016, 2017 and 2018 and the cash flows associated with this business are presented as a component of cash flows from continuing operations in our Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended December 31, 2016, 2017 and 2018 through the sale date. The fair value of the consideration received as a result of the IMFS Divestment approximated the carrying value of IMFS and, therefore, during the third quarter of 2018, we recorded an insignificant loss in connection with the IMFS Divestment to Other expense (income), net. Our IMFS business represented approximately $23.8 million, $22.3 million and $20.2 million of total revenues for the years ended December 2016, 2017 and 2018, respectively. Our IMFS business represented approximately $2.7 million, $2.1 million and $1.6 million of total income from continuing operations for the years ended December 31, 2016, 2017 and 2018, respectively. Revenues for the year ended December 31, 2018 reflect the impact of the adoption of ASU 2014-09 whereas revenues for the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2017 do not. 

Significant Acquisition Costs

We currently estimate total acquisition and integration expenditures associated with the Recall Transaction and acquisition expenditures associated with the IODC Transaction to be approximately $405.0 million, the substantial majority of which was incurred prior to the end of 2018. This amount consists of operating expenditures associated with (1) the Recall Transaction, including: (i) advisory and professional fees to complete the Recall Transaction; (ii) costs associated with the Divestments (as defined in Note 6 to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report) required in connection with receipt of regulatory approvals (including transitional services); and (iii) costs to integrate Recall with our existing operations, including moving, severance, facility upgrade, REIT integration and system upgrade costs, as well as certain costs associated with our shared service center initiative for our finance, human resources and information technology functions; and (2) the advisory and professional fees to complete the IODC Transaction (collectively, "Significant Acquisition Costs"). From January 1, 2015 through December 31, 2018, we have incurred cumulative operating and capital expenditures associated with the Recall Transaction and the IODC Transaction of $388.1 million, including $314.5 million of Significant Acquisition Costs and $73.6 million of capital expenditures.

See Note 14 to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report for more information on Significant Acquisition Costs, including costs recorded by segment as well as recorded between cost of sales and selling, general and administrative expenses.

Adoption of ASU 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers

In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued ASU 2014-09. ASU 2014-09 provides guidance for management to reassess revenue recognition as it relates to: (1) transfer of control, (2) variable consideration, (3) allocation of transaction price based on relative standalone selling price, (4) licenses, (5) time value of money, and (6) contract costs. We adopted ASU 2014-09 as of January 1, 2018 using the modified retrospective method for all of our customer contracts, whereby the cumulative effect of applying ASU 2014-09 is recognized at the date of initial application. See Note 2.l. to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report for information on the impact to opening balance of (distributions in excess of earnings) earnings in excess of distributions on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. 

As a result of the adoption of ASU 2014-09, Adjusted EBITDA for the year ended December 31, 2018 increased by approximately $25.3 million, compared to the prior year period. The adoption of ASU 2014-09 did not have a material impact on Adjusted EPS, FFO (Nareit) or FFO (Normalized) for the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to the prior year period. The revenues for the year ended December 31, 2018 reflect a net $14.2 million, reclassification of certain components of storage rental revenues to service revenues associated with the adoption of ASU 2014-09.

31
 Non-GAAP Measures

Adjusted EBITDA

Adjusted EBITDA is defined as income (loss) from continuing operations before interest expense, net, provision (benefit) for income taxes, depreciation and amortization, and also excludes certain items that we believe are not indicative of our core operating results, specifically: (1) (gain) loss on disposal/write-down of property, plant and equipment (excluding real estate), net; (2) intangible impairments; (3) other expense (income), net; (4) gain on sale of real estate, net of tax; (5) Significant Acquisition Costs; and (6) REIT Costs (as defined below). Adjusted EBITDA Margin is calculated by dividing Adjusted EBITDA by total revenues. We use multiples of current or projected Adjusted EBITDA in conjunction with our discounted cash flow models to determine our estimated overall enterprise valuation and to evaluate acquisition targets. We believe Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA Margin provide our current and potential investors with relevant and useful information regarding our ability to generate cash flow to support business investment. These measures are an integral part of the internal reporting system we use to assess and evaluate the operating performance of our business.

Adjusted EBITDA excludes both interest expense, net and the provision (benefit) for income taxes. These expenses are associated with our capitalization and tax structures, which we do not consider when evaluating the operating profitability of our core operations. Finally, Adjusted EBITDA does not include depreciation and amortization expenses, in order to eliminate the impact of capital investments, which we evaluate by comparing capital expenditures to incremental revenue generated and as a percentage of total revenues. Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA Margin should be considered in addition to, but not as a substitute for, other measures of financial performance reported in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP"), such as operating income, income (loss) from continuing operations, net income (loss) or cash flows from operating activities from continuing operations (as determined in accordance with GAAP).

Reconciliation of Income (Loss) from Continuing Operations to Adjusted EBITDA (in thousands):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

_______________________________________________________________________________

(1)Tax expense associated with the gain on sale of real estate for the years ended December 31, 2014, 2015, 2016, 2017 and 2018 was $2.2 million, $0.2 million, $0.1 million, $0.0 million and $8.5 million, respectively.

(2)Includes costs associated with our conversion to a REIT, excluding REIT compliance costs beginning January 1, 2014 ("REIT Costs").

(3)On January 1, 2018, we adopted ASU 2014-09. For information regarding the impact of the adoption of ASU 2014-09 on our consolidated financial statements, see the Revenue Recognition section of Critical Accounting Policies included in Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in this Annual Report.

32
Adjusted EPS

Adjusted EPS is defined as reported earnings per share fully diluted from continuing operations excluding: (1) (gain) loss on disposal/write-down of property, plant and equipment (excluding real estate), net; (2) gain on sale of real estate, net of tax; (3) intangible impairments; (4) other expense (income), net; (5) Significant Acquisition Costs; (6) REIT Costs; and (7) the tax impact of reconciling items and discrete tax items. Adjusted EPS includes income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests. We do not believe these excluded items to be indicative of our ongoing operating results, and they are not considered when we are forecasting our future results. We believe Adjusted EPS is of value to our current and potential investors when comparing our results from past, present and future periods.

Reconciliation of Reported EPS—Fully Diluted from Continuing Operations to Adjusted EPS—Fully Diluted from Continuing Operations:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]_______________________________________________________________________________

(1)The difference between our effective tax rate and our structural tax rate (or adjusted effective tax rate) for the years ended December 31, 2014, 2015, 2016, 2017 and 2018 is primarily due to (i) the reconciling items above, which impact our reported income (loss) from continuing operations before provision (benefit) for income taxes but have an insignificant impact on our reported provision (benefit) for income taxes and (ii) other discrete tax items. Our structural tax rate for purposes of the calculation of Adjusted EPS for the years ended December 31, 2014, 2015, 2016, 2017 and 2018 was 14.4%, 16.8%, 18.5%, 19.7% and 18.2%, respectively.

(2)Columns may not foot due to rounding.

33
FFO (Nareit) and FFO (Normalized)

Funds from operations (“FFO”) is defined by the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts ("Nareit") and us as net income (loss) excluding depreciation on real estate assets, gains on sale of real estate, net of tax and amortization of data center leased-based intangibles ("FFO (Nareit)"). FFO (Nareit) does not give effect to real estate depreciation because these amounts are computed, under GAAP, to allocate the cost of a property over its useful life. Because values for well-maintained real estate assets have historically increased or decreased based upon prevailing market conditions, we believe that FFO (Nareit) provides investors with a clearer view of our operating performance. Our most directly comparable GAAP measure to FFO (Nareit) is net income (loss). Although Nareit has published a definition of FFO, modifications to FFO (Nareit) are common among REITs as companies seek to provide financial measures that most meaningfully reflect their particular business. Our definition of FFO (Normalized) excludes certain items included in FFO (Nareit) that we believe are not indicative of our core operating results, specifically: (1) (gain) loss on disposal/write-down of property, plant and equipment (excluding real estate), net; (2) intangible impairments; (3) other expense (income), net; (4) real estate capital lease depreciation; (5) Significant Acquisition Costs; (6) REIT Costs; (7) the tax impact of reconciling items and discrete tax items; (8) loss (income) from discontinued operations, net of tax; and (9) loss (gain) on sale of discontinued operations, net of tax.

In December 2018, Nareit issued a white paper that provided clarified guidance on the calculation of FFO (Nareit). The calculations below reflect the clarified guidance provided in the Nareit white paper. All previously reported periods have been restated to conform to the current presentation.

Reconciliation of Net Income (Loss) to FFO (Nareit) and FFO (Normalized) (in thousands):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

_______________________________________________________________________________

(1)Includes depreciation expense related to real estate assets (land improvements, buildings, building improvements, leasehold improvements and racking), excluding depreciation related to real estate capital lease.

(2)Tax expense associated with the gain on sale of real estate for the years ended December 31, 2014, 2015, 2016, 2017 and 2018 was $2.2 million, $0.2 million, $0.1 million, $0.0 million and $8.5 million, respectively.

(3)Includes amortization expense for Data Center In-Place Lease Intangible Assets and Data Center Tenant Relationship Intangible Assets as defined in Note 2.i. to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report.

34
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(5)Represents the tax impact of (i) the reconciling items above, which impact our reported income (loss) from continuing operations before provision (benefit) for income taxes but have an insignificant impact on our reported provision (benefit) for income taxes and (ii) other discrete tax items. Discrete tax items resulted in a (benefit) provision for income taxes of $(140.8) million, $(14.6) million, $(2.4) million, $(38.3) million and $(27.8) million for the years ended December 31, 2014, 2015, 2016, 2017 and 2018, respectively.

(6)Net of tax provision (benefit) of $0.0 million, $0.0 million, $0.8 million, $(1.8) million and $(0.1) million for the years ended December 31, 2014, 2015, 2016, 2017 and 2018, respectively.

Critical Accounting Policies

Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based upon our Consolidated Financial Statements, which have been prepared in accordance with GAAP. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates, judgments and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and for the period then ended. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate the estimates used. We base our estimates on historical experience, actuarial estimates, current conditions and various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. These estimates form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities and are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates. Our critical accounting policies include the following, which are listed in no particular order:

Revenue Recognition

Storage rental and service revenues are recognized in the month the respective storage rental or service is provided, and customers are generally billed on a monthly basis on contractually agreed-upon terms. Amounts related to future storage rental or prepaid service contracts for customers where storage rental fees or services are billed in advance are accounted for as deferred revenue and recognized ratably over the period the applicable storage rental or service is provided or performed. Revenues from the sales of products, which are included as a component of service revenues, are recognized when products are shipped and title has passed to the customer. Revenues from the sales of products, which represented less than 2% of consolidated revenues for the year ended December 31, 2018, have historically not been significant. The performance obligation is a series of distinct services (as determined for purposes of ASU 2014-09, a “series”) that have the same pattern of transfer to the customer that is satisfied over time. For those contracts that qualify as a series, we have a right to consideration from the customer in an amount that corresponds directly with the value of the underlying performance obligation transferred to the customer to date. This concept is known as "right to invoice" and we are applying the "right to invoice" practical expedient to all revenues, with the exception of storage revenues in our data center business. 

For all of our businesses, with the exception of the storage component of our data center business, each purchasing decision is fully in the control of the customer and, therefore, consideration beyond the current reporting period is variable and allocated to the specific period, which is consistent with the practical expedient described above. Our data center business features storage rental provided to the customer at contractually specified rates over a fixed contractual period. The storage rental revenue related to the storage component of our data center business is recognized on a straight-line basis over the contract term. The revenue related to the service component of our data center business is recognized in the period the data center access or related services are provided.

The costs associated with the initial movement of customer records into physical storage and certain commissions are considered costs to obtain or fulfill customer contracts (“Contract Fulfillment Costs”). See Note 2.l. to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report for information on each of the Contract Fulfillment Costs recognized under ASU 2014-09.

35
Accounting for Acquisitions

Part of our growth strategy has included the acquisition by us of numerous businesses. The purchase price of each acquisition has been determined after due diligence of the target business, market research, strategic planning and the forecasting of expected future results and synergies. Estimated future results and expected synergies are subject to revisions as we integrate each acquisition and attempt to leverage resources. 

During the third quarter of 2017, we adopted ASU No. 2017-01, Business Combinations (Topic 805): Clarifying the Definition of a Business ("ASU 2017-01"). ASU 2017-01 provides guidance for evaluating whether transactions should be accounted for as acquisitions of assets or businesses. The guidance provides a screen to determine when an integrated set of assets and activities does not qualify to be a business. The screen requires that when substantially all of the fair value of the gross assets acquired is concentrated in an identifiable asset or a group of similar identifiable assets, the acquisition should not be accounted for as the acquisition of a business, but rather the acquisition of an asset. If an acquisition is determined to be a business, goodwill is recognized as part of purchase accounting, whereas with the acquisition of an asset there is no goodwill recognized.

Each acquisition has been accounted for using the acquisition method of accounting as defined under the applicable accounting standards at the date of each acquisition. Accounting for acquisitions of a business has resulted in the capitalization of the cost in excess of the estimated fair value of the net assets acquired in each of these acquisitions as goodwill. We estimate the fair values of the assets acquired in each acquisition as of the date of acquisition and these estimates are subject to adjustment based on the final assessments of the fair value of intangible assets (primarily customer relationship and data center lease-based intangible assets), property, plant and equipment (primarily building, building improvements, leasehold improvements, data center infrastructure and racking structures), operating leases, contingencies and income taxes (primarily deferred income taxes). We complete these assessments within one year of the date of acquisition, as we acquire additional information impacting our estimates as of the acquisition date. See Note 6 to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report for a description of recent acquisitions. 

Determining the fair values of the net assets acquired requires management's judgment and often involves the use of assumptions with respect to future cash inflows and outflows, discount rates and market data, among other items. As it relates to our data center acquisitions, the fair values of the net assets acquired requires management's judgment and often involves the use of assumptions with respect to (i) certain economic costs (as described more fully in Note 2.i. to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report) avoided by acquiring a data center operation with active tenants that would have otherwise been incurred if the data center operation was purchased vacant, (ii) market rental rates and (iii) expectations of lease renewals and extensions. Due to the inherent uncertainty of future events, actual values of net assets acquired could be different from our estimated fair values and could have a material impact on our financial statements.

Of the net assets acquired in our acquisitions, the fair value of owned buildings, including building improvements, customer relationship and data center lease-based intangible assets, racking structures and operating leases are generally the most common and most significant. For significant acquisitions or acquisitions involving new markets or new products, we generally use third parties to assist us in estimating the fair value of owned buildings, including building improvements, customer relationship and lease-based intangible assets and market rental rates for acquired operating leases. For each of the significant acquisitions in our data center business that were completed in 2018, we have engaged third parties to assist us in calculating the fair value of the acquired assets, including lease-based intangible assets. For acquisitions that are not significant or do not involve new markets or new products, we generally use third parties to assist us in estimating the fair value of acquired owned buildings, including building improvements, and market rental rates for acquired operating leases. When not using third party appraisals of the fair value of acquired net assets, the fair value of acquired customer relationship intangible assets, above and below market operating leases, and acquired racking structures is determined internally. The fair value of acquired racking structures is determined internally by taking current estimated replacement cost at the date of acquisition for the quantity of racking structures acquired, discounted to take into account the quality (e.g. age, material and type) of the racking structures. We use discounted cash flow models to determine the fair value of customer relationship assets, which requires a significant amount of judgment by management, including estimating expected lives of the relationships, expected future cash flows and discount rates. We determine the fair value of tangible data center assets using an estimated replacement cost at the date of acquisition, then discounting for age, economic and functional obsolescence.

Our estimates of fair value are based upon assumptions believed to be reasonable at that time but which are inherently uncertain and unpredictable. Assumptions may be incomplete or inaccurate, and unanticipated events and circumstances may occur, which may affect the accuracy of such assumptions. Total property, plant and equipment acquired in our 2018 acquisitions was approximately $1,088.9 million, the significant majority of which we engaged with a third party to assist us in calculating the fair value. 

36
Impairment of Tangible and Intangible Assets

Assets subject to depreciation or amortization: We review long-lived assets and all finite-lived intangible assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying amount of such assets may not be recoverable. Examples of events or circumstances that may be indicative of impairment include, but are not limited to:

•A significant decrease in the market price of an asset;

•A significant change in the extent or manner in which a long-lived asset is being used or in its physical condition;

•A significant adverse change in legal factors or in the business climate that could affect the value of the asset;

•An accumulation of costs significantly greater than the amount originally expected for the acquisition or construction of an asset; 

•A current-period operating or cash flow loss combined with a history of operating or cash flow losses or a projection or forecast that demonstrates continuing losses associated with the use of a long-lived asset; and

•A current expectation that, more likely than not, an asset will be sold or otherwise disposed of significantly before the end of its previously estimated useful life.

If events indicate the carrying value of such assets may not be recoverable, recoverability of these assets is determined by comparing the forecasted undiscounted net cash flows of the operation to which the assets relate to their carrying amount. The operations are generally distinguished by the business segment and geographic region in which they operate. If it is determined that we are unable to recover the carrying amount of the assets, the long-lived assets are written down, on a pro rata basis, to fair value. Fair value is determined based on discounted cash flows or appraised values, depending upon the nature of the assets.

Goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets not subject to amortization: Goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives are not amortized but are reviewed annually for impairment, or more frequently if impairment indicators arise. Other than goodwill, we currently have no intangible assets that have indefinite lives and which are not amortized.

We have selected October 1 as our annual goodwill impairment review date. We have performed our annual goodwill impairment review as of October 1, 2016, 2017 and 2018. We concluded that as of October 1, 2016 and October 1, 2018, goodwill was not impaired. As of October 1, 2017, we determined that the fair value of the Consumer Storage reporting unit was less than its carrying value and, therefore, we recorded a $3.0 million impairment charge on the goodwill associated with this reporting unit during the fourth quarter of 2017, which represents a full write-off of all goodwill associated with this reporting unit. We concluded that the goodwill associated with each of our other reporting unit was not impaired as of October 1, 2017.

Our reporting units at which level we performed our goodwill impairment analysis as of October 1, 2018 were as follows: (1) North American Records and Information Management; (2) North American Data Management; (3) Global Data Center; (4) Consumer Storage; (5) Fine Arts; (6) Entertainment Services; (7) Western Europe; (8) Northern/Eastern Europe and Middle East and India ("NEE and MEI"); (9) Latin America; (10) Australia, New Zealand and South Africa ("ANZ SA"); and (11) Asia. See Note 2.h. to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report for a description of our reporting units.

37
Based on our goodwill impairment analysis as of October 1, 2018, our North American Records and Information Management, North American Data Management, Fine Arts, Western Europe, NEE and MEI, Latin America, ANZ SA, and Asia reporting units had estimated fair values that exceeded their carrying values by greater than 20%. These reporting units represent approximately $3,980.8 million, or 89.6%, of our consolidated goodwill balance at December 31, 2018. Our Consumer Storage reporting unit as of December 31, 2018 does not have goodwill. Our Global Data Center and Entertainment Services reporting units had estimated fair values that exceeded their carrying values by less than 20%. These reporting units represent approximately $460.2 million, or 10.4%, of our consolidated goodwill balance at December 31, 2018. The following is a summary of the Global Data Center and Entertainment Services reporting units, including goodwill balances (in thousands), percentage by which the fair value of these reporting units exceeded its carrying value, and certain key assumptions used by us in determining the fair value of the reporting unit as of October 1, 2018:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

_______________________________________________________________________________

(1)For purposes of our goodwill impairment analysis, the term "capital expenditures" includes both growth investment and recurring capital expenditures. 

(2)Terminal growth rates are applied in year ten of our discounted cash flow analysis.

As described below, reporting unit valuations are generally determined using a combined approach based on the Income Approach and Market Multiple Approach (both as defined below). There are inherent uncertainties and judgments involved when determining the fair value of the reporting units for purposes of our annual goodwill impairment testing. The following includes supplemental information to the table above for those reporting units where the estimated fair values exceeded their carrying values by less than 20% as of October 1, 2018. The success of each of these businesses and the achievement of certain key assumptions developed by management and used in the discounted cash flow analyses are contingent upon various factors including, but not limited to, (i) achieving growth from existing customers, (ii) sales to new customers, (iii) increased market penetration and (iv) accurately timing the capital investments related to expansions.

Our Global Data Center business operates in eight markets in the United States and three international markets. We provide mission-critical data centers that are designed and operated to protect and ensure the continued operation of IT infrastructure for our customers. Data centers are highly specialized and secure assets that serve as centralized repositories of server, storage and network equipment. They are capital intensive and designed to provide the space, power, cooling and network connectivity necessary to efficiently operate mission-critical IT equipment. The demand for data center infrastructure is being driven by many factors, but most importantly by significant growth in data as well as an increased demand for outsourcing. In order to attract and retain customers, as well as sustain growth in our existing and new markets, we must have the capability to tailor our facilities to meet the customers’ needs. This may include expansion in an existing data center, acquisition of new facilities or land for development. Our estimate of fair value reflects the expected growth in each of our data center markets along with the corresponding capital investments required to meet demand. The business is primarily comprised of acquisitions completed in late 2017 and 2018; therefore, we would expect that the fair value of this reporting unit will closely approximate its carrying value. 

The Entertainment Services business operates in a growing, but specialized, global industry influenced by fluctuation and innovation in content production and media storage needs in the studios, sports and marketing industries. It is expected that the growing consumer demand for new content will continue to drive the need for secure storage of digital media, while the rise of streaming media and the proliferation of platforms and formats will drive the need for services associated with the preservation, conversion and restoration of historical content and master film as archives are reviewed, indexed and discovered. Taken together, we believe these factors will result in continued growth of the entertainment storage industry. Our estimate of fair value reflects such growth potential and the corresponding capital needs. 

38
Key factors that could reasonably be expected to have a negative impact on the estimated fair value of these reporting units and potentially result in impairment charges include, but are not limited to: (i) a deterioration in general economic conditions, (ii) significant adverse changes in regulatory factors or in the business climate, and (iii) adverse actions or assessment by regulators, all of which could result in adverse changes to the key assumptions used in valuing the reporting units. The inability to meet the assumptions used in the Income Approach and Market Approach for each of the reporting units, or future adverse market conditions not currently known, could lead to a fair value that is less than the carrying value in any one of our reporting units. 

As of December 31, 2018, no factors were identified that would alter our October 1, 2018 goodwill impairment analysis. In making this assessment, we considered a number of factors including operating results, business plans, anticipated future cash flows, transactions and marketplace data. There are inherent uncertainties related to these factors and our judgment in applying them to the analysis of goodwill impairment. As described more fully in Note 2.h. to Notes to Consolidated Financial

Statements included in this Annual Report, during the fourth quarter of 2018, as a result of changes in the management of our Information Governance and Digital Solutions business in Sweden, we reassessed the composition of our reportable operating segments (see Note 9 to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report for a description of our reportable operating segments). As a result of this reassessment, we determined that our Information Governance and Digital Solutions business in Sweden (which was previously managed as a component of our Western Europe reporting unit) is now being managed in conjunction with our businesses included in our NEE and MEI reporting unit, which already included the remainder of our business in Sweden. We concluded that the goodwill associated with our Western Europe and NEE and MEI reporting units was not impaired following this change in reporting units.

Reporting unit valuations are generally determined using a combined approach based on the present value of future cash flows (the "Income Approach") and market multiples (the "Market Multiple Approach"). The Income Approach incorporates many assumptions including future growth rates and operating margins, discount rate factors, expected capital expenditures and income tax cash flows. Changes in economic and operating conditions impacting these assumptions could result in goodwill impairments in future periods. In conjunction with our annual goodwill impairment reviews, we reconcile the sum of the valuations of all of our reporting units to our market capitalization as of such dates.

Although we believe we have sufficient historical and projected information available to us to test for goodwill impairment, it is possible that actual results could differ from the estimates used in our impairment tests. Of the key assumptions that impact the goodwill impairment test, the expected future cash flows and discount rate are among the most sensitive and are considered to be critical assumptions, as changes to these estimates could have an effect on the estimated fair value of each of our reporting units. We have assessed the sensitivity of these assumptions on each of our reporting units as of October 1, 2018. With respect to the North American Records and Information Management, North American Data Management, Fine Arts, Western Europe, NEE and MEI, Latin America, ANZ SA and Asia reporting units as of October 1, 2018, we noted that, based on the estimated fair value of these reporting units determined as of October 1, 2018, (i) a hypothetical decrease of 10% in the expected annual future cash flows of these reporting units, with all other assumptions unchanged, would have decreased the estimated fair value of these reporting units as of October 1, 2018 by approximately 8.5% to 10.4% but would not, however, have resulted in the carrying value of any of these reporting units with goodwill exceeding their estimated fair value; and (ii) a hypothetical increase of 100 basis points in the discount rate, with all other assumptions unchanged, would have decreased the estimated fair value of these reporting units as of October 1, 2018 by a range of approximately 6.2% to 8.8% but would not, however, have resulted in the carrying value of any of these reporting units with goodwill exceeding their estimated fair value. With respect to the Global Data Center and Entertainment Services reporting units, we noted that, as of October 1, 2018, the estimated fair value of these reporting units exceeds their carrying value by less than 20%. Accordingly, any significant negative change in either the expected annual future cash flows of these reporting units or the discount rate may result in the carrying value of these reporting units exceeding their estimated fair value.

39
Income Taxes

As a REIT, we are generally permitted to deduct from our federal taxable income the dividends we pay to our stockholders. The income represented by such dividends is not subject to federal taxation at the entity level but is taxed, if at all, at the stockholder level. The income of our domestic TRSs, which hold our domestic operations that may not be REIT-compliant as currently operated and structured, is subject, as applicable, to federal and state corporate income tax. In addition, we and our subsidiaries continue to be subject to foreign income taxes in jurisdictions in which we have business operations or a taxable presence, regardless of whether assets are held or operations are conducted through subsidiaries disregarded for federal income tax purposes or TRSs. We will also be subject to a separate corporate income tax on any gains recognized on the sale or disposition of any asset previously owned by a C corporation during a five-year period following the date on which that asset was first owned by a REIT that are attributable to "built-in" gains with respect to that asset on that date. This built-in gains tax has been imposed on our depreciation recapture recognized into income as a result of accounting method changes commenced in our pre-REIT period and in connection with the Recall Transaction and the IODC Transaction. If we fail to remain qualified for taxation as a REIT, we will be subject to federal income tax at regular corporate income tax rates. Even if we remain qualified for taxation as a REIT, we may be subject to some federal, state, local and foreign taxes on our income and property in addition to taxes owed with respect to our TRS operations. In particular, while state income tax regimes often parallel the federal income tax regime for REITs, many states do not completely follow federal rules and some do not follow them at all.

Accounting for income taxes requires the recognition of deferred tax assets and liabilities for the expected future tax consequences of temporary differences between the tax and financial reporting bases of assets and liabilities and for loss and credit carryforwards. We measure deferred tax assets and liabilities using enacted tax rates expected to be applied to taxable income in the years in which those temporary differences and carryforwards are expected to be recovered or settled. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities as a result of a change in tax rates is recognized in income in the period that the change is enacted. Valuation allowances are provided when recovery of deferred tax assets does not meet the more likely than not standard as defined in GAAP. Valuation allowances would be reversed as a reduction to the provision for income taxes if related deferred tax assets are deemed realizable based on changes in facts and circumstances relevant to the recoverability of the asset.

At December 31, 2018, we have federal net operating loss carryforwards of $163.0 million available to reduce future federal taxable income, the majority of which expire from 2023 through 2037. Of the $163.0 million, we expect to utilize $49.4 million and realize a federal tax benefit of $10.4 million. A majority of the net operating loss carryforwards and federal tax benefit expected to be realized were generated by the IODC Transaction. We can carry forward these net operating losses to the extent we do not utilize them in any given available year. We have state net operating loss carryforwards, which expire from 2019 through 2038, of which an insignificant state tax benefit is expected to be realized. We have assets for foreign net operating losses of $82.5 million, with various expiration dates (and in some cases no expiration date), subject to a valuation allowance of approximately 67%. If actual results differ unfavorably from certain of our estimates used, we may not be able to realize all or part of our net deferred income tax assets and additional valuation allowances may be required. Although we believe our estimates are reasonable, no assurance can be given that our estimates reflected in the tax provisions and accruals will equal our actual results. These differences could have a material impact on our income tax provision and operating results in the period in which such determination is made.

The evaluation of an uncertain tax position is a two-step process. The first step is a recognition process whereby we determine whether it is more likely than not that a tax position will be sustained upon examination, including resolution of any related appeals or litigation processes, based on the technical merits of the position. The second step is a measurement process whereby a tax position that meets the more likely than not recognition threshold is calculated to determine the amount of benefit to recognize in the financial statements. The tax position is measured as the largest amount of benefit that is greater than 50% likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement.

We are subject to income taxes in the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. We are subject to examination by various tax authorities in jurisdictions in which we have business operations or a taxable presence. We regularly assess the likelihood of additional assessments by tax authorities and provide for these matters as appropriate. As of December 31, 2017 and 2018, we had approximately $38.5 million and $35.3 million, respectively, of reserves related to uncertain tax positions. The reversal of these reserves will be recorded as a reduction of our income tax provision if sustained. Although we believe our tax estimates are appropriate, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could result in changes in our estimates.

Following our conversion to a REIT in 2014, we concluded that it was not our intent to reinvest our current and future undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries indefinitely outside the United States.

40
During 2016, as a result of the closing of the Recall Transaction and the subsequent integration of Recall’s operations into our operations, we again reassessed our intentions regarding the indefinite reinvestment of such undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries outside the United States (the “2016 Indefinite Reinvestment Assessment”). As a result of the 2016 Indefinite Reinvestment Assessment, we concluded that it is our intent to indefinitely reinvest our current and future undistributed earnings of certain of our unconverted foreign TRSs outside the United States and, therefore, during 2016, we recognized a decrease in our provision for income taxes from continuing operations in the amount of $3.3 million, representing the reversal of previously recognized incremental foreign withholding taxes on the earnings of such unconverted foreign TRSs. As a result of the 2016 Indefinite Reinvestment Assessment, we no longer provide incremental foreign withholding taxes on the retained book earnings of these unconverted foreign TRSs, which was approximately $249.2 million as of December 31, 2018. As a REIT, future repatriation of incremental undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries will not be subject to federal or state income tax, with the exception of foreign withholding taxes in limited instances; however, such future repatriations will require distribution in accordance with REIT distribution rules, and any such distribution may then be taxable, as appropriate, at the stockholder level. We continue, however, to provide for incremental foreign withholding taxes on net book over outside basis differences related to the earnings of our foreign QRSs and certain other foreign TRSs (excluding unconverted foreign TRSs).

Tax Reform

On December 22, 2017, the Tax Reform Legislation was enacted into law in the United States. The Tax Reform Legislation amended the Code to reduce tax rates and modify policies, credits and deductions for businesses and individuals. The following summarizes certain components of the Tax Reform Legislation and the impact such components of the Tax Reform Legislation. One of the primary components of the Tax Reform Legislation was a reduction in the United States corporate federal income tax rate from 35% to 21% for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017.

a. Deemed Repatriation Transition Tax

The Tax Reform Legislation imposed a transition tax (the “Deemed Repatriation Transition Tax”) on a mandatory deemed repatriation of post-1986 undistributed foreign earnings and profits not previously subject to United States tax as of November 2, 2017 or December 31, 2017, whichever is greater (the “Undistributed E&P”), as of the last taxable year beginning before January 1, 2018. The Deemed Repatriation Transition Tax varied depending on whether the Undistributed E&P is held in liquid (as defined in the Tax Reform Legislation) or non-liquid assets. A participation deduction against the deemed repatriation would result in a Deemed Repatriation Transition Tax on Undistributed E&P of 15.5% if held in cash and liquid assets and 8.0% if held in non-liquid assets. The Deemed Repatriation Transition Tax applies regardless of whether or not an entity has cash in its foreign subsidiaries and regardless of whether the entity actually repatriates the Undistributed E&P back to the United States.

We have completed our analysis and determined that the amount of Undistributed E&P deemed repatriated under the Tax Reform Legislation in our taxable year ending December 31, 2017 was $160.0 million (the “Undistributed E&P”). We opted to include the full amount of Undistributed E&P in our 2017 taxable income, rather than spread it over eight years (as permitted by the Tax Reform Legislation). After applying the participation deduction, included in our REIT taxable income for 2017 was approximately $70.9 million related to the deemed repatriation of Undistributed E&P. 

b. Global Intangible Low-Taxed Income

For taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017, the Tax Reform Legislation introduced new provisions intended to prevent the erosion of the United States federal income tax base through the taxation of certain global intangible low-taxed income (“GILTI”). The GILTI provisions created a new requirement that certain income earned by controlled foreign corporations (“CFCs”) must be included currently in the gross income of the CFC’s United States tax resident shareholder. Generally, GILTI is the excess of the United States shareholder’s pro rata portion of the income of its foreign subsidiaries over the net deemed tangible income return of such subsidiaries. 

The GILTI provisions also provide for certain deductions against the inclusion of GILTI in taxable income; however, REITs are not eligible for such deductions. Therefore, 100% of our GILTI is included in our taxable income and will increase the required minimum distribution to our stockholders. We estimate the amount of the GILTI in our taxable income for the year ending December 31, 2018 to be approximately $20.8 million. We have adopted a policy such that we will recognize no deferred taxes related to basis differences resulting from GILTI. 

41
The Internal Revenue Service recently issued guidance clarifying that GILTI included in a REIT's taxable income is qualifying income for purposes of the 95% REIT gross income test that we are required to satisfy. We do not expect the GILTI provision will impact our provision for income taxes. However, the GILTI provision may impact the amount and characterization of dividends that we expect to pay in future taxable years.

c. Interest Deduction Limitation

The Tax Reform Legislation also limits, for certain entities, the deduction for net interest expense to the sum of business interest income plus 30% of adjusted taxable income (the “Interest Deduction Limitation”). Adjusted taxable income is defined in the Tax Reform Legislation similar to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017 and before January 1, 2022, and is defined similar to earnings before interest and taxes for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2021.

The Interest Deduction Limitation does not apply to taxpayers that qualify, and make an election, to be treated as an “electing real property trade or business”. As a REIT, IMI, including all of our QRSs, expects to make an election to be treated as an “electing real property trade or business” beginning in our taxable year ended December 31, 2018. As such, the interest deduction limitation will not apply to IMI or our QRSs; however, IMI will be required to utilize the alternative depreciation system for its real property. This election will not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. We do not generally believe that our TRSs are eligible for treatment as “electing real property trades or businesses”.

Recent Accounting Pronouncements

See Note 2.w. to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report for a description of recently issued accounting pronouncements, including those recently adopted.

42
Results of Operations

Comparison of Year Ended December 31, 2018 to Year Ended December 31, 2017 and Comparison of Year Ended December 31, 2017 to Year Ended December 31, 2016 (in thousands):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

_______________________________________________________________________________

(1)See "Non-GAAP Measures—Adjusted EBITDA" in this Annual Report for the definitions of Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA Margin, reconciliation of Adjusted EBITDA to Income (Loss) from Continuing Operations and a discussion of why we believe these non-GAAP measures provide relevant and useful information to our current and potential investors.

43
REVENUES

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

_______________________________________________________________________________

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(2)Our internal revenue growth rate, which is a non-GAAP measure, represents the year-over-year growth rate of our revenues excluding the impact of business acquisitions, divestitures, foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations and the impact of the adoption of ASU 2014-09. The revenues generated by Recall have been integrated with our existing revenues and it is impracticable for us to determine actual Recall revenue contribution for the applicable periods. Therefore, our internal revenue growth rates exclude the impact of revenues associated with the Recall Transaction based upon forecasted or budgeted Recall revenues beginning in the third quarter of 2016 through the one-year anniversary of the Recall Transaction. Our internal revenue growth rate includes the impact of acquisitions of customer relationships.

Storage Rental Revenues

In the year ended December 31, 2018, the increase in reported consolidated storage revenue was driven by the favorable impact of acquisitions/divestitures and consolidated internal storage rental revenue growth, partially offset by unfavorable fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. The impact of acquisitions/divestitures, net of the impact of the adoption of ASU 2014-09, contributed 8.2% to the reported storage rental revenue growth rates for the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to the prior year period, primarily driven by acquisitions in our Global Data Center Business segment. Internal storage rental revenue growth of 2.4% in the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to the prior year period was driven by internal storage rental revenue growth of 1.7% in our North American Records and Information Management Business segment, including results from revenue management, as well as internal storage rental revenue growth of 1.9% and 5.4% in our Western European Business and Other International Business segments, respectively, primarily caused by volume increases and, to a lesser extent, by revenue management in our Western European Business segment. Internal storage rental revenue growth in our North American Data Management Business was negative 0.3% for the year ended December 31, 2018, primarily due to lower storage volume. Excluding the impact of acquisitions/divestitures, global records management net volumes as of December 31, 2018 were flat compared to the ending volume as of December 31, 2017. Including the impact of acquisitions/divestitures, global records management reported net volumes as of December 31, 2018 increased by 1.0% over the ending volume at December 31, 2017, supported by volume increases of 0.8% and 7.0% in our Western European Business and Other International Business segments, respectively, partially offset by a net volume decrease of 1.4% in our North American Records and Information Management Business segment. Foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations decreased our reported storage rental revenue growth rate for the year ended December 31, 2018 by 0.3%, compared to the prior year period. 

44
In the year ended December 31, 2017, the increase in reported consolidated storage revenue was driven by the favorable impact of acquisitions/divestitures, consolidated internal storage rental revenue growth and favorable fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. The net impact of acquisitions/divestitures contributed 6.5% to the reported storage rental revenue growth rate for the year ended December 31, 2017 compared to the prior year period, primarily driven by our acquisition of Recall. Internal storage rental revenue growth of 3.9% in the year ended December 31, 2017 compared to the prior year period was driven by internal storage rental revenue growth of 3.2% in our North American Records and Information Management Business segment, due to revenue management, as well as internal storage rental revenue growth of 2.4%, 2.3% and 6.6% in our North American Data Management Business, Western European Business and Other International Business segments, respectively, primarily driven by volume increases. Excluding the impact of acquisitions/divestitures, global records management net volumes as of December 31, 2017 increased by 1.1% over the ending volume as of December 31, 2016. Global records management reported net volumes, including acquisitions/divestitures, as of December 31, 2017 increased by 1.7% over the ending volume at December 31, 2016, supported by volume increases of 1.7% and 6.0% in our Western European Business and Other International Business segments, respectively. Ending net volume including acquisitions/ divestitures at December 31, 2017 in our North American Records and Information Management Business segment was flat compared to the ending net volume at December 31, 2016 due to customers generating fewer documents requiring storage. Foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations increased our reported storage rental revenue growth rate for the year ended December 31, 2017 by 0.6%, compared to the prior year period.

Service Revenues

In the year ended December 31, 2018, the increase in reported consolidated service revenue was driven by internal service revenue growth and the favorable impact of acquisitions/divestitures, partially offset by unfavorable fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. The net impact of acquisitions/divestitures and the adoption of ASU 2014-09 contributed 4.3% to the reported service revenue growth rate for the year ended December 31, 2018, compared to the prior year period. Internal service revenue growth was 5.4% for the year ended December 31, 2018, compared to the prior year period, and was primarily driven by increased secured shredding revenues, in part due to higher recycled paper prices and customer acquisitions, and increased project activity in our North American Records and Information Management Business segment and project activity in our Other International Business and Western European Business segments, partially offset by continued declines in service revenue activity levels in our North American Data Management Business segment, as the storage business in this segment becomes more archival in nature and tape volumes decline. Foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations decreased our reported service revenue growth for the year ended December 31, 2018 by 0.5%, compared to the prior year period.

In the year ended December 31, 2017, the increase in reported consolidated service revenue was driven by the favorable impact of acquisitions/divestitures and favorable fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, partially offset by negative internal service revenue growth compared to the year ended December 31, 2016. The net impact of acquisitions/divestitures contributed 6.9% to the reported service revenue growth rate for the year ended December 31, 2017, compared to the prior year period, primarily driven by our acquisition of Recall. Foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations increased our reported service revenue growth for the year ended December 31, 2017 by 0.7%, compared to the prior year period. Internal service revenue growth was negative 0.3% for the year ended December 31, 2017, compared to the prior year period. The negative internal service revenue growth for the year ended December 31, 2017 reflects continued declines in retrieval/re-file activity and the related decrease in transportation revenues within our North American Records and Information Management Business and Western European Business segments as well as declines in service revenue activity levels in our North American Data Management Business segment, as the storage business becomes more archival in nature, and declines in project activity in our Other International Business segment. These declines were partially offset by growth in secure shredding revenues in our North American Records and Information Management Business segment, in part due to higher recycled paper prices and increased project activity in our Western European Business segment.

45
Total Revenues

For the reasons stated above, our reported consolidated revenues increased $380.2 million, or 9.9%, to $4,225.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2018 from $3,845.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2017. The net impact of acquisitions/divestitures contributed 6.6% to the reported consolidated revenue growth rate for the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to the prior year period, primarily driven by acquisitions in our Global Data Center Business segment. Consolidated internal revenue growth was 3.6% in the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to the prior year period. Foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations decreased our reported consolidated revenue by 0.3% in the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to the prior year period, primarily due to the weakening of the Australian dollar and Brazilian real against the United States dollar, partially offset by the strengthening of the British pound sterling, Canadian dollar and the Euro against the United States dollar, based on an analysis of weighted average rates for the comparable periods.

For the reasons stated above, our reported consolidated revenues increased $334.1 million, or 9.5%, to $3,845.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2017 from $3,511.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2016. The net impact of acquisitions/divestitures contributed 6.6% to the reported consolidated revenue growth rate for the year ended December 31, 2017 compared to the prior year period, primarily driven by our acquisition of Recall. Consolidated internal revenue growth was 2.3% in the year ended December 31, 2017 compared to the prior year period. Foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations increased our reported consolidated revenue by 0.6% in the year ended December 31, 2017 compared to the prior year period, primarily due to the strengthening of the Australian dollar, Brazilian real, Canadian dollar and the Euro against the United States dollar, partially offset by the weakening of the British pound sterling against the United States dollar, based on an analysis of weighted average rates for the comparable periods.

Internal Growth—Eight-Quarter Trend

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

We expect our consolidated internal storage rental revenue growth rate for 2019 to be approximately 1.75% to 2.5% and our consolidated internal total revenue growth rate to be approximately 2.0% to 2.5%. During the past eight quarters, our internal storage rental revenue growth rate has ranged between 1.9% and 4.8%. Consolidated internal storage rental revenue growth and consolidated total internal revenue growth benefited by approximately 0.8% and 0.5%, respectively, in the second quarter of 2017, from a $4.2 million customer termination fee in our Global Data Center Business segment. Conversely, consolidated internal storage rental revenue growth and consolidated total internal revenue growth for the second quarter of 2018 were negatively impacted by the 0.8% and 0.5%, respectively, related to this termination fee. Our internal storage rental revenue growth rates have declined over the past two fiscal years, as internal storage rental revenue growth for full year 2017 and 2018 was 3.9% and 2.4%, respectively. At various points in the economic cycle, internal storage rental revenue growth may be influenced by changes in pricing and volume. In 2018, we experienced modest volume declines in our North American Records and Information Management Business and North American Data Management Business segments, with internal storage rental revenue growth coming primarily from revenue management in these segments and volume growth in our Western European Business and Other International Business segments, although at a slower rate than prior quarters. Within these business segments, we expect these trends to continue into the next few years.

The internal growth rate for service revenue is inherently more volatile than the internal growth rate for storage rental revenues due to the more discretionary nature of certain services we offer, such as large special projects, and, as a commodity, the volatility of pricing for recycled paper. These revenues, which are often event-driven and impacted to a greater extent by economic downturns as customers defer or cancel the purchase of certain services as a way to reduce their short-term costs, may be difficult to replicate in future periods. The internal growth rate for total service revenues over the past eight quarters reflects reduced retrieval/re-file activity and a related decrease in transportation revenues within our North American Records and Information Management Business and Western European Business segments, as well as continued service declines in service revenue activity levels in our North American Data Management Business segment as the storage business becomes more archival in nature. The recent increase in internal service revenue growth rates of 7.6%, 7.1% and 6.1% in the second, third and fourth quarters of 2018, respectively, reflects a strong contribution from our secure shredding business, which benefited from higher recycled paper prices, higher destruction activity and customer acquisitions in recent quarters. We do not expect these trends to be as favorable in 2019.

46
OPERATING EXPENSES

Cost of Sales

Consolidated cost of sales (excluding depreciation and amortization) consists of the following expenses (in thousands):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Labor

Labor expenses decreased to 19.4% of consolidated revenues in the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to 20.4% in the year ended December 31, 2017. The decrease in labor expenses as a percentage of consolidated revenues was primarily driven by a decrease in labor expenses associated with our North American Records and Information Management Business segment as a percentage of consolidated revenues, partially attributable to synergies associated with our acquisition of Recall and cost management initiatives. On a constant dollar basis, labor expenses for the year ended December 31, 2018 increased by $37.1 million, or 4.7%, compared to the prior year period, primarily driven by recent acquisitions.

Labor expenses decreased to 20.4% of consolidated revenues in the year ended December 31, 2017 compared to 21.5% in the year ended December 31, 2016. The decrease in labor expenses as a percentage of consolidated revenues was primarily driven by a decrease in labor expenses associated with our North American Records and Information Management Business segment as a percentage of consolidated revenues, primarily associated with wages and benefits growing at a lower rate than revenues, partially attributable to synergies associated with our acquisition of Recall. On a constant dollar basis, labor expenses for the year ended December 31, 2017 increased by $24.3 million, or 3.2%, compared to the prior year period, primarily driven by our acquisition of Recall.

47
Facilities

Facilities expenses increased to 15.4% of consolidated revenues in the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to 15.1% in the year ended December 31, 2017. The 30 basis points increase in facilities expenses as a percentage of consolidated revenues was primarily driven by a 115 basis point increase in facilities expenses in our Global Data Center Business segment, primarily driven by an increase in utility costs, which most customers are billed for, supporting power generation as a result of an increase in the number of facilities from our recent acquisitions, partially offset by a 80 basis point decrease in facilities expenses in our North American Records and Information Management Business segment partially attributable to synergies associated with our acquisition of Recall. On a constant dollar basis, facilities expenses for the year ended December 31, 2018 increased by $72.2 million, or 12.5%, compared to the prior year period, primarily driven by recent acquisitions in our Global Data Center Business segment.

Facilities expenses increased to 15.1% of consolidated revenues in the year ended December 31, 2017 compared to 14.9% in the year ended December 31, 2016. The 20 basis points increase in facilities expenses as a percentage of consolidated revenues was primarily driven by an increase in rent expense as a result of the acquisition of Recall, as Recall's real estate portfolio contains a more significant proportion of leased facilities than our real estate portfolio as it existed prior to the closing of the Recall Transaction. On a constant dollar basis, facilities expenses for the year ended December 31, 2017 increased by $55.0 million, or 10.4%, compared to the prior year period, primarily driven by our acquisition of Recall.

Transportation

Transportation expenses increased to 3.8% of consolidated revenues for the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to 3.7% for the year ended December 31, 2017. The increase in transportation expenses as a percentage of consolidated revenues was driven by higher fuel costs and the impact of our adoption of ASU 2014-09. On a constant dollar basis, transportation expenses for the year ended December 31, 2018 increased by $17.2 million, or 12.2%, compared to the prior year period, primarily driven by increases in third party carrier expenses, in part due to recent acquisitions in our Corporate and Other Business segment, fuel costs and the impact of our adoption of ASU 2014-09. 

Transportation expenses decreased to 3.7% of consolidated revenues for the year ended December 31, 2017 compared to 3.8% for the year ended December 31, 2016. The decrease in transportation expenses as a percentage of consolidated revenues was driven by a decrease in vehicle lease expense, primarily associated with our North American Records and Information Management Business segment, partially offset by an increase in third party carrier costs as a percentage of consolidated revenue, primarily associated with our Other International Business segment. On a constant dollar basis, transportation expenses for the year ended December 31, 2017 increased by $9.2 million, or 6.9%, compared to the prior year period, primarily driven by our acquisition of Recall.

Product Cost of Sales and Other

Product cost of sales and other, which includes cartons, media and other service, storage and supply costs and is highly correlated to service revenue streams, particularly project revenues, decreased to 3.9% of consolidated revenues for the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to 4.0% in the year ended December 31, 2017. The decrease in product cost of sales and other as a percentage of revenue was driven by costs associated with project activity growing at a lower rate than revenue, primarily in our North American Records and Information Management Business segment. On a constant dollar basis, product cost of sales and other increased by $12.3 million, or 8.0%, compared to the prior year period, primarily driven by special project costs, in part due to acquisitions in our Global Data Center Business segment.

For the year ended December 31, 2017, product cost of sales and other increased by $9.5 million, or 6.5%, on a constant dollar basis compared to the prior year period, primarily driven by our acquisition of Recall.

Significant Acquisition Costs

Significant Acquisition Costs included in cost of sales were $7.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2018, and primarily consisted of employee severance costs and facility integration costs associated with the Recall acquisition. Significant Acquisition Costs included in cost of sales were $20.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2017, and primarily consisted of employee severance costs and facility integration costs including labor, maintenance, transportation and other costs related to building moves and consolidation.

48
Selling, General and Administrative Expenses

Selling, general and administrative expenses consists of the following expenses (in thousands):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

General and Administrative

General and administrative expenses decreased to 13.4% of consolidated revenues for the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to 13.5% for the year ended December 31, 2017. The decrease in general and administrative expenses as a percentage of consolidated revenues was driven by a decrease in compensation expense as a percentage of consolidated revenues, partially attributable to synergies associated with our acquisition of Recall, as well as lower professional fees. On a constant dollar basis, general and administrative expenses for the year ended December 31, 2018 increased by $47.6 million, or 9.2%, compared to the prior year period, primarily driven by acquisitions in our Global Data Center Business segment.

General and administrative expenses decreased to 13.5% of consolidated revenues for the year ended December 31, 2017 compared to 14.4% for the year ended December 31, 2016. The decrease in general and administrative expenses as a percentage of consolidated revenues was driven mainly by a decrease in compensation expense, partially attributable to the plan implemented during the third quarter of 2015 that called for certain organizational realignments to reduce our overhead costs, particularly in our developed markets, in order to optimize our selling, general and administrative cost structure and to support investments to advance our growth strategy (the "Transformation Initiative") and synergies associated with our acquisition of Recall, partially offset by an increase in professional fees associated with innovation initiatives. On a constant dollar basis, general and administrative expenses for the year ended December 31, 2017 increased by $14.4 million, or 2.8%, compared to the prior year period, primarily driven by our acquisition of Recall.

49
Sales, Marketing & Account Management

Sales, marketing and account management expenses decreased to 6.1% of consolidated revenues for the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to 6.6% for the year ended December 31, 2017. The decrease in sales, marketing and account management expenses as a percentage of consolidated revenues was driven by a decrease in compensation expense, primarily due to the impact of our adoption of ASU 2014-09 related to capitalization of commissions. On a constant dollar basis, sales, marketing and account management expenses for the year ended December 31, 2018 increased by $4.1 million, or 1.6%, compared to the prior year period, primarily driven by recent acquisitions in our Global Data Center Business segment.

Sales, marketing and account management expenses decreased to 6.6% of consolidated revenues for the year ended December 31, 2017 compared to 6.8% for the year ended December 31, 2016. The decrease was driven by a decrease in sales, marketing and account management expenses in our North American Records and Information Business segment, primarily associated with wages and benefits growing at a lower rate than revenue, partially attributable to the Transformation Initiative and synergies associated with our acquisition of Recall. On a constant dollar basis, sales, marketing and account management expenses for the year ended December 31, 2017 increased by $14.4 million, or 6.0%, compared to the prior year period, primarily driven by our acquisition of Recall.

Information Technology

Information technology expenses increased to 3.6% of consolidated revenues for the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to 3.4% for the year ended December 31, 2017. Information technology expenses as a percentage of consolidated revenues reflect an increase in professional fees. On a constant dollar basis, information technology expenses for the year ended December 31, 2018 increased by $21.7 million, or 16.4%, compared to the prior year period, primarily driven by an increase in professional fees.

Information technology expenses increased to 3.4% of consolidated revenues for the year ended December 31, 2017 compared to 3.3% for the year ended December 31, 2016. Information technology expenses as a percentage of consolidated revenues reflect an increase in professional fees and software maintenance and license fees, partially offset by lower compensation expense, partially attributable to the Transformation Initiative and synergies associated with our acquisition of Recall. On a constant dollar basis, information technology expenses for the year ended December 31, 2017 increased by $15.0 million, or 12.8%, compared to the prior year period, primarily driven by our acquisition of Recall.

Bad Debt Expense

We maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts that is calculated based on our past loss experience, current and prior trends in our aged receivables, current economic conditions, and specific circumstances of individual receivable balances. We continue to monitor our customers' payment activity and make adjustments based on their financial condition and in light of historical and expected trends. Consolidated bad debt expense for the year ended December 31, 2018 is 0.4% of consolidated revenues compared to 0.4% for the year ended December 31, 2017. On a constant dollar basis, bad debt expense for the year ended December 31, 2018 increased by $4.2 million, or 29.4%, compared to the prior year period primarily due to higher bad debt expense associated with our North American Records and Information Management Business and North American Data Management Business segments.

Consolidated bad debt expense for the year ended December 31, 2017 increased to 0.4% of consolidated revenues for the year ended December 31, 2017 compared to 0.2% for the year ended December 31, 2016. On a constant dollar basis, bad debt expense for the year ended December 31, 2017 increased by $6.1 million, or 70.7%, compared to the prior year period primarily due to higher bad debt expense in our Other International Business segment.

Significant Acquisition Costs

Significant Acquisition Costs included in selling, general and administrative expenses were $43.0 million, $64.4 million and $120.0 million for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017, and 2016, respectively, and primarily consisted of advisory and professional fees and labor costs, as well as severance costs. 

50
Depreciation and Amortization

Depreciation expense increased $46.4 million, or 11.4%, on a reported dollar basis for the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to the year ended December 31, 2017, primarily due to increased depreciation of property, plant and equipment acquired in the recent acquisitions in our Global Data Center Business segment. See Note 2.f. to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report for additional information regarding the useful lives over which our property, plant and equipment is depreciated. Depreciation expense increased $40.8 million, or 11.2%, on a reported dollar basis for the year ended December 31, 2017 compared to the year ended December 31, 2016, primarily due to the increased depreciation of property, plant and equipment acquired in the Recall Transaction.

Amortization expense increased $70.7 million, or 60.9%, on a reported dollar basis for the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to the year ended December 31, 2017, primarily due to recent acquisitions in our Global Data Center Business segment and, to a lesser extent, the adoption of ASU 2014-09. Amortization expense increased $29.3 million, or 33.7%, on a reported dollar basis for the year ended December 31, 2017 compared to the year ended December 31, 2016, primarily due to the increased amortization of customer relationship intangible assets acquired in the Recall Transaction, which are amortized over a weighted average useful life of 13 years.

Gain on Disposal/Write-Down of Property, Plant and Equipment (Excluding Real Estate), Net

Consolidated gain on disposal/write-down of property, plant and equipment (excluding real estate), net was $9.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2018 and consisted primarily of gains associated with the involuntary conversion of assets included in a facility that we own in Argentina which was partially destroyed in a fire in 2014, for which we received insurance proceeds in excess of the carrying amount of such assets during the fourth quarter of 2018.

OTHER EXPENSES, NET

Interest Expense, Net (in thousands)

Consolidated interest expense, net increased $51.7 million to $409.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2018 from $353.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2017. Interest expense, net increased $42.9 million to $353.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2017 from $310.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2016. The increase in interest expense, net in each of the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 compared to the prior year period was the result of higher average debt outstanding during those periods. Our weighted average interest rate was 4.9% and 5.0% at December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. See Note 4 to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report for additional information regarding our indebtedness.

Other Expense (Income), Net (in thousands)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

51
Foreign Currency Transaction Losses 

We recorded net foreign currency transaction gains of $15.6 million in the year ended December 31, 2018, based on period-end exchange rates. These gains resulted primarily from the impact of changes in the exchange rate of each of the British pound sterling and Canadian dollar against the United States dollar compared to December 31, 2017 on our intercompany balances with and between certain of our subsidiaries and the Euro Notes (as defined below). These gains were partially offset by losses resulting primarily from the impact of changes in the exchange rate of each of the Australian dollar, Brazilian real and the Turkish lira against the United States dollar compared to December 31, 2017 on our intercompany balances with and between certain of our subsidiaries.

We recorded net foreign currency transaction losses of $43.2 million in the year ended December 31, 2017, based on period-end exchange rates. These losses resulted primarily from the impact of changes in the exchange rate of each of the British pound sterling, Canadian dollar and Euro against the United States dollar compared to December 31, 2016 on our intercompany balances with and between certain of our subsidiaries and Euro denominated bonds issued by IMI (the Euro Notes, as defined below). These losses were partially offset by gains resulting primarily from the impact of changes in the exchange rate of each of the Australian dollar, Mexican peso and Russian ruble against the United States dollar compared to December 31, 2016 on our intercompany balances with and between certain of our subsidiaries, as well as Euro forward contracts.

We recorded net foreign currency transaction losses of $20.4 million in the year ended December 31, 2016, based on period-end exchange rates. These losses resulted primarily from the impact of changes in the exchange rate of each of the Argentine peso, British pound sterling and Mexican peso against the United States dollar compared to December 31, 2015 on our intercompany balances with and between certain of our subsidiaries. These losses were partially offset by gains resulting primarily from the impact of changes in the exchange rate of each of the Brazilian real, Euro and Russian ruble against the United States dollar compared to December 31, 2015 on our intercompany balances with and between certain of our subsidiaries.

Debt Extinguishment Expense

During the year ended December 31, 2017, we recorded a debt extinguishment charge of $78.4 million primarily related to the early extinguishment of (i) the 6% Notes due 2020, (ii) the 61/8% CAD Senior Notes due 2021 and (iii) the GBP Notes due 2022 (each as defined and described more fully in Note 4 to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report), consisting of the write-off of unamortized deferred financing costs and call premiums. During the year ended December 31, 2016, we recorded a debt extinguishment charge of $9.3 million related to the termination of the Bridge Facility (as defined and described more fully in Note 4 to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report), which primarily consists of the write-off of unamortized deferred financing costs.

Other, Net

Other, net in the year ended December 31, 2017 includes a gain of $38.9 million associated with the Russia and Ukraine Divestment (see Note 13 to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report). Other, net in the year ended December 31, 2016 includes a charge of $15.4 million associated with the loss on disposal of the Australia Divestment Business and a charge of $1.4 million associated with the loss on disposal of the Iron Mountain Canadian Divestments, partially offset by $0.8 million of gains associated with a deferred compensation plan we sponsor. 

Provision (Benefit) for Income Taxes

Our effective tax rates for the years ended December 31, 2016, 2017 and 2018 were 30.6%, 12.0% and 10.1%, respectively. Our effective tax rate is subject to variability in the future due to, among other items: (1) changes in the mix of income between our QRSs and our TRSs, as well as among the jurisdictions in which we operate; (2) tax law changes; (3) volatility in foreign exchange gains and losses; (4) the timing of the establishment and reversal of tax reserves; and (5) our ability to utilize net operating losses that we generate.

On December 22, 2017, the Tax Reform Legislation was enacted into law in the United States. The Tax Reform Legislation amended the Code to reduce tax rates and modify policies, credits and deductions for businesses and individuals. The components of the Tax Reform Legislation are described in detail in Note 7 to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in our Annual Report. One of the primary components of the Tax Reform Legislation was a reduction in the United States corporate federal income tax rate from 35.0% to 21.0% for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017.

52
The primary reconciling items between the former federal statutory tax rate of 35.0% and our overall effective tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2016 were the benefit derived from the dividends paid deduction of $18.5 million and the impact of differences in the tax rates at which our foreign earnings are subject resulting in a tax benefit of $13.3 million, partially offset by valuation allowances on certain of our foreign net operating losses of $7.7 million.

The primary reconciling items between the former federal statutory tax rate of 35.0% and our overall effective tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2017 were the benefit derived from the dividends paid deduction of $78.9 million, the impact of differences in the tax rates at which our foreign earnings are subject resulting in a tax benefit of $11.9 million, a release of valuation allowances on certain of our foreign net operating losses of $4.3 million as a result of the merger of certain of our foreign subsidiaries, partially offset by the impact of the Tax Reform Legislation of $24.8 million (reflecting the impact of the Deemed Repatriation Transition Tax, partially offset by the impact of the U.S. federal rate reduction).

The primary reconciling items between the current federal statutory tax rate of 21.0% and our overall effective tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2018 were the benefit derived from the dividends paid deduction of $35.2 million, the impact of differences in the tax rates at which our foreign earnings are subject to, resulting in a tax provision of approximately $5.5 million and a discrete tax benefit of approximately $14.0 million associated with the resolution of a tax matter.

As a REIT, we are entitled to a deduction for dividends paid, resulting in a substantial reduction of federal income tax expense. As a REIT, substantially all of our income tax expense will be incurred based on the earnings generated by our foreign subsidiaries and our domestic TRSs.

We are subject to income taxes in the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. We are subject to examination by various tax authorities in jurisdictions in which we have business operations or a taxable presence. We regularly assess the likelihood of additional assessments by tax authorities and provide for these matters as appropriate. Although we believe our tax estimates are appropriate, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could result in changes in our estimates.

Gain on Sale of Real Estate, Net of Tax

Consolidated gain on sale of real estate, net of tax for the year ended December 31, 2018 was $55.3 million and consisted primarily of the sale of land and buildings in the United Kingdom. Consolidated gain on sale of real estate, net of tax for the year ended December 31, 2017 was $1.6 million and consisted primarily of the sale of land and a building in the United States for net proceeds of approximately $12.7 million. Consolidated gain on sale of real estate, net of tax for the year ended December 31, 2016 was $2.2 million, associated with the sale of certain land and buildings in North America.

53
INCOME FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS and ADJUSTED EBITDA (in thousands)

The following table reflects the effect of the foregoing factors on our consolidated income from continuing operations and Adjusted EBITDA:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

INCOME (LOSS) FROM DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS 

(Loss) income from discontinued operations, net of tax was $(12.4) million, $(6.3) million and $3.4 million for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively, primarily related to the operations of the Recall Divestments (as defined in Note 6 to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report).

NONCONTROLLING INTERESTS

Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests resulted in a decrease in net income attributable to IMI of $1.2 million, $1.6 million and $2.4 million for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively. These amounts represent our noncontrolling partners' share of earnings/losses in our majority-owned international subsidiaries that are consolidated in our operating results.

Segment Analysis (in thousands)

 See Note 9 to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report for a description of our reportable operating segments.

54
North American Records and Information Management Business

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

_______________________________________________________________________________

(1)See "Non-GAAP Measures—Adjusted EBITDA" in this Annual Report for the definitions of Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA Margin, a reconciliation of Adjusted EBITDA to Income (Loss) from Continuing Operations and a discussion of why we believe these non-GAAP measures provide relevant and useful information to our current and potential investors. 

(2)Segment Adjusted EBITDA Margin is calculated by dividing Segment Adjusted EBITDA by total segment revenues.

For the year ended December 31, 2018, reported revenue in our North American Records and Information Management Business segment increased 4.3% compared to the year ended December 31, 2017, due to internal revenue growth and the favorable net impact of acquisitions and the adoption of ASU 2014-09. Internal revenue growth of 4.2% was primarily the result of internal storage rental revenue growth of 1.7%, driven by revenue management, partially offset by volume decreases, and internal service revenue growth of 7.8% driven by growth in secure shredding revenue, in part due to higher recycled paper prices and customer acquisitions, and increased project and destruction activity. The net impact of acquisitions and the adoption of ASU 2014-09 contributed 0.1% to the reported revenue growth rates in our North American Records and Information Management Business segment for the year ended December 31, 2018, compared to the prior year period. Adjusted EBITDA margin increased 170 basis points during the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to the year ended December 31, 2017, primarily driven by a decrease in wages and benefits as a percentage of segment revenue, partially attributable to synergies associated with our acquisition of Recall, cost management initiatives, the capitalization of certain commissions as a result of our adoption of ASU 2014-09 and the benefit of revenue management.

For the year ended December 31, 2017, reported revenue in our North American Records and Information Management Business segment increased 6.2% compared to the year ended December 31, 2016, primarily due to the favorable net impact of acquisitions/divestitures and internal revenue growth. The net impact of acquisitions/divestitures contributed 3.6% to the reported revenue growth rate in our North American Records and Information Management Business segment for the year ended December 31, 2017 compared to the prior year period, driven by our acquisition of Recall. Internal revenue growth of 2.4% in the year ended December 31, 2017 was primarily the result of internal storage rental revenue growth of 3.2% in the year ended December 31, 2017, due to revenue management and internal service revenue growth of 1.1% in the year ended December 31, 2017, driven by growth in secure shredding revenues, in part due to higher recycled paper prices, partially offset by a decline in retrieval/re-file activity and the related decrease in transportation revenues. Adjusted EBITDA margin increased 290 basis points during the year ended December 31, 2017 compared to the year ended December 31, 2016, primarily driven by a decrease in wages and benefits as a percentage of segment revenue, partially attributable to the Transformation Initiative and synergies associated with our acquisition of Recall, as well as lower professional fees.

55
North American Data Management Business

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

_______________________________________________________________________________

(1)See "Non-GAAP Measures—Adjusted EBITDA" in this Annual Report for the definitions of Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA Margin, a reconciliation of Adjusted EBITDA to Income (Loss) from Continuing Operations and a discussion of why we believe these non-GAAP measures provide relevant and useful information to our current and potential investors.

(2)Segment Adjusted EBITDA Margin is calculated by dividing Segment Adjusted EBITDA by total segment revenues.

For the year ended December 31, 2018, reported revenue in our North American Data Management Business segment decreased 1.9%, compared to the year ended December 31, 2017, due to negative internal revenue growth. The negative internal revenue growth of 1.9% for the year ended December 31, 2018 was primarily attributable to a decline in internal service revenue growth of 5.4% due to continued declines in service revenue activity levels as the business becomes more archival in nature, as well as a decline in internal storage rental revenue of 0.3%, primarily attributable to volume decreases partially offset by the impact of revenue management. Adjusted EBITDA margin decreased 130 basis points during the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to the year ended December 31, 2017, primarily associated with investments in product management and development, as well as lower revenue not being offset by fixed costs.

For the year ended December 31, 2017, reported revenue in our North American Data Management Business segment increased 2.2%, compared to the year ended December 31, 2016, due to the favorable net impact of acquisitions/divestitures. The net impact of acquisitions/divestitures contributed 3.1% to the reported revenue growth rates in our North American Data Management Business segment for the year ended December 31, 2017, compared to the prior year period, primarily driven by our acquisition of Recall. The negative internal revenue growth of 1.0% for the year ended December 31, 2017 was primarily attributable to negative internal service revenue growth of 7.8% for the year ended December 31, 2017 due to continued declines in service revenue activity levels as the business becomes more archival in nature, partially offset by internal storage rental revenue growth of 2.4% in the year ended December 31, 2017, primarily attributable to volume increases. Adjusted EBITDA margin decreased 160 basis points during the year ended December 31, 2017 compared to the year ended December 31, 2016, primarily driven by an increase in selling, general and administrative expenses, partially attributable to investments associated with product management and development.

56
Western European Business

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

_______________________________________________________________________________

(1)See "Non-GAAP Measures—Adjusted EBITDA" in this Annual Report for the definitions of Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA Margin, a reconciliation of Adjusted EBITDA to Income (Loss) from Continuing Operations and a discussion of why we believe these non-GAAP measures provide relevant and useful information to our current and potential investors.

(2)Segment Adjusted EBITDA Margin is calculated by dividing Segment Adjusted EBITDA by total segment revenues.

For the year ended December 31, 2018, reported revenue in our Western European Business segment increased 6.3%, compared to the year ended December 31, 2017, due to favorable fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and internal revenue growth. Internal revenue growth was 1.6%, primarily attributable to internal storage rental revenue growth of 1.9%, primarily associated with volume increases, and to a lesser extent, revenue management and internal service revenue growth of 1.1%, driven by increased project and destruction activity. For the year ended December 31, 2018, foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations increased our reported revenues for the Western European Business segment by 4.1%, compared to the prior year period due to the strengthening of the Euro and British pound sterling against the United States dollar. Adjusted EBITDA margin increased 210 basis points during the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to the year ended December 31, 2017, primarily driven by wages and benefits and transportation expense growing at a lower rate than revenue as a result of synergies associated with our acquisition of Recall, cost management initiatives and the impact of our adoption of ASU 2014-09, partially offset by higher bad debt expense.

For the year ended December 31, 2017, reported revenue in our Western European Business segment increased 9.7%, compared to the year ended December 31, 2016, due to the favorable net impact of acquisitions/divestitures and internal revenue growth, partially offset by unfavorable fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. The net impact of acquisitions/ divestitures contributed 9.0% to the reported revenue growth rates in our Western European Business segment for the year ended December 31, 2017, compared to the prior year period, primarily driven by our acquisition of Recall. Internal revenue growth for the year ended December 31, 2017 was 1.9%, primarily attributable to internal storage rental revenue growth of 2.3% for the year ended December 31, 2017, primarily associated with volume increases. For the year ended December 31, 2017, foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations decreased our reported revenues for the Western European Business segment by 1.2%, compared to the prior year period due to the weakening of the British pound sterling against the United States dollar. Adjusted EBITDA margin increased 180 basis points during the year ended December 31, 2017 compared to the year ended December 31, 2016, driven by a decrease in selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of segment revenue, associated with wages and benefits growing at a lower rate than revenue as a result of the Transformation Initiative and synergies associated with our acquisition of Recall.

57
Other International Business

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

_______________________________________________________________________________

(1)See "Non-GAAP Measures—Adjusted EBITDA" in this Annual Report for the definitions of Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA Margin, a reconciliation of Adjusted EBITDA to Income (Loss) from Continuing Operations and a discussion of why we believe these non-GAAP measures provide relevant and useful information to our current and potential investors.

(2)Segment Adjusted EBITDA Margin is calculated by dividing Segment Adjusted EBITDA by total segment revenues.

For the year ended December 31, 2018, reported revenue in our Other International Business segment increased 3.2% compared to the year ended December 31, 2017, due to internal revenue growth and the favorable impact of acquisitions/divestitures, partially offset by unfavorable fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Internal revenue growth was 5.2%, supported by 5.4% internal storage rental revenue growth, primarily due to volume increases, and 5.0% internal service revenue growth, primarily due to increased project activity. The net impact of acquisitions/divestitures contributed 2.2% to reported revenue growth for the year ended December 31, 2018, compared to the prior year period. For the year ended December 31, 2018, foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations decreased our reported revenues for the Other International Business segment by 4.2% compared to the prior year period, primarily due to the weakening of the Australian dollar and Brazilian real against the United States dollar. Adjusted EBITDA margin increased 100 basis points during the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to the year ended December 31, 2017, primarily due to compensation growing at a lower rate than revenue, in part due to cost management initiatives and lower bad debt expense, partially offset by increases in facility maintenance and project costs.

For the year ended December 31, 2017, reported revenue in our Other International Business segment increased 20.7% compared to the year ended December 31, 2016, due to the favorable net impact of acquisitions/divestitures, internal revenue growth and favorable fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. The net impact of acquisitions/divestitures contributed 13.6% to the reported revenue growth rate in our Other International Business segment for the year ended December 31, 2017 compared to the prior year period, primarily driven by our acquisition of Recall. Internal revenue growth for the year ended December 31, 2017 was 3.7%, supported by 6.6% internal storage rental revenue growth, primarily due to volume increases, partially offset by negative 0.6% internal service revenue growth, primarily due to decreased project activity. Foreign currency fluctuations in the year ended December 31, 2017 resulted in increased revenue, as measured in United States dollars, of approximately 3.4% compared to the prior year period, primarily due to the strengthening of the Australian dollar, Brazilian real and Euro against the United States dollar. Adjusted EBITDA margin increased 290 basis points during the year ended December 31, 2017 compared to the year ended December 31, 2016, primarily due to a higher margin business in Australia as a result of our acquisition of Recall and to a lesser extent, synergies associated with our acquisition of Recall.

58
Global Data Center Business

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

_______________________________________________________________________________

(1)See "Non-GAAP Measures—Adjusted EBITDA" in this Annual Report for the definitions of Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA Margin, a reconciliation of Adjusted EBITDA to Income (Loss) from Continuing Operations and a discussion of why we believe these non-GAAP measures provide relevant and useful information to our current and potential investors.

(2)Segment Adjusted EBITDA Margin is calculated by dividing Segment Adjusted EBITDA by total segment revenues.

For the year ended December 31, 2018, reported revenue in our Global Data Center Business segment increased 507.5% compared to the year ended December 31, 2017, due to the impact of acquisitions. The impact of acquisitions contributed 498.5% to the reported revenue growth rate in our Global Data Center Business segment for the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to the prior year period (see Note 6 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report for additional acquisition details). Adjusted EBITDA increased $88.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to prior year period, primarily due to acquisitions.

For the year ended December 31, 2017, reported revenue in our Global Data Center Business segment increased 55.4% compared to the year ended December 31, 2016, due to the favorable net impact of acquisitions/divestitures and internal revenue growth. The net impact of acquisitions/divestitures contributed 31.4% to the reported revenue growth rate in our Global Data Center Business segment for the year ended December 31, 2017 compared to the prior year period, primarily driven by our acquisition of Mag Datacenters LLC, which operated Fortrust. Internal revenue growth for the year ended December 31, 2017 was 24.0%, supported by 29.0% internal storage rental revenue growth. Internal storage rental revenue growth and total internal revenue growth benefited by approximately 14.3% and 13.0%, respectively, from a $4.2 million customer termination fee in the second quarter of 2017. Adjusted EBITDA margin increased 430 basis points during the year ended December 31, 2017 compared to the year ended December 31, 2016, primarily due to the customer termination fee mentioned above.

59
Corporate and Other Business

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

_______________________________________________________________________________

(1)See "Non-GAAP Measures—Adjusted EBITDA" in this Annual Report for the definition of Adjusted EBITDA, a reconciliation of Adjusted EBITDA to Income (Loss) from Continuing Operations and a discussion of why we believe this non-GAAP measure provides relevant and useful information to our current and potential investors.

During the year ended December 31, 2018, Adjusted EBITDA in the Corporate and Other Business segment as a percentage of consolidated revenues increased 30 basis points compared to the year ended December 31, 2017. Adjusted EBITDA in the Corporate and Other Business segment decreased $12.7 million in the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to the year ended December 31, 2017, primarily driven by higher professional fees, partially offset by profitability associated with recent acquisitions in our Adjacent Businesses operating segment.

During the year ended December 31, 2017, Adjusted EBITDA in the Corporate and Other Business segment as a percentage of consolidated revenues remained unchanged from the year ended December 31, 2016 at 6.4%. Adjusted EBITDA in the Corporate and Other Business segment decreased $19.3 million in the year ended December 31, 2017 compared to the year ended December 31, 2016, primarily driven by an increase in information technology expenses associated with our acquisition of Recall, professional fees associated with our innovation investments and $3.5 million of costs associated with natural disasters, primarily Hurricane Maria, which damaged certain of our facilities in Puerto Rico in the third quarter of 2017.

60
Liquidity and Capital Resources

The following is a summary of our cash balances and cash flows (in thousands) as of and for the years ended December 31,

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Cash Flows from Operating Activities

For the year ended December 31, 2018, net cash flows provided by operating activities increased by $212.3 million compared to the prior year period. The primary factors that impacted the increase in cash flows provided by operating activities were an increase in net income (including non-cash charges and realized foreign exchange losses) of $160.6 million and a decrease in cash used in working capital of $51.7 million, primarily related to the timing of collections of accounts receivable, partially offset by the timing of payments associated with our accounts payable. 

Cash Flows from Investing Activities

Our business requires capital expenditures to maintain our ongoing operations, support our expected revenue growth and new products and services, and increase our profitability. These expenditures are included in the cash flows from investing activities. The nature of our capital expenditures has evolved over time along with the nature of our business. Our capital goes to support business-line growth and our ongoing operations, but we also expend capital to support the development and improvement of products and services and projects designed to increase our profitability. These expenditures are generally discretionary in nature. 

Our significant investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2018 are highlighted below:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•We paid cash for capital expenditures of $460.1 million. Our business requires capital expenditures to maintain our ongoing operations, support our expected revenue growth and new products and services, and increase our profitability. All of these expenditures are included in the cash flows from investing activities. Additional details of our capital spending is included in the Capital Expenditures section below.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Cash Flows from Financing Activities

Our significant financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2018 included:

•Net proceeds of $288.0 million primarily associated with the borrowings and repayments on our Revolving Credit Facility.

•Net proceeds of $178.3 million associated with the borrowings on our UK Bilateral Facility (as defined below).

•Net proceeds of $693.2 million associated with the borrowing of our Term Loan B (as defined below).

•Net proceeds of $76.2 million from the exercise of the Over-Allotment Option.

•Net proceeds of $8.7 million from sales of stock under our At The Market (ATM) Equity Program.

•Payment of dividends in the amount of $673.6 million on our common stock.

•Payment of $16.4 million for debt financing and equity issuance costs.

61
 Capital Expenditures

We present two categories of capital expenditures: (1) Growth Investment Capital Expenditures and (2) Recurring Capital Expenditures with the following sub-categories: (i) Real Estate, (ii) Non-Real Estate, (iii) Data Center and (iv) Innovation (for growth investment only). Data Center capital expenditures, which was previously presented as its own category that included growth and recurring capital expenditures, is now a sub-category with capital expenditures allocated between Growth Investment Capital Expenditures and Recurring Capital Expenditures. 

Growth Investment Capital Expenditures:

•Real Estate: Expenditures primarily related to investments in land, buildings, building improvements, leasehold improvements and racking structures to grow our revenues or achieve operational efficiencies.

•Non-Real Estate: Expenditures that support the growth of our business, and/or increase our profitability, such as customer-inventory technology systems, security upgrades or system enhancements.

•Data Center: Expenditures primarily related to investments in new construction of data center facilities (including the acquisition of land and development of facilities) or capacity expansion in existing buildings.

•Innovation: Discretionary capital expenditures in significant new products and services in new, existing or AB opportunities.

Recurring Capital Expenditures:

•Real Estate: Expenditures primarily related to the replacement of components of real estate assets such as buildings, building improvements, leasehold improvements and racking structures.

•Non-Real Estate: Expenditures primarily related to the replacement of customer-facing assets such as containers and shred bins, warehouse equipment, fixtures, computer hardware, or third-party or internally-developed software assets.

•Data Center: Expenditures related to the upgrade or re-configuration of existing data center assets.

The following table presents our capital spend for 2016, 2017 and 2018 organized by the type of the spending as described above. We have reclassified the categorization of our prior year capital expenditures to conform with our current presentation.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

___________________________________________________________________

(1)The amount at December 31, 2017 includes approximately $66,800 related to a capital lease associated with our data center in Manassas, Virginia.

62
Excluding capital expenditures associated with potential future acquisitions, opportunistic real estate investments and capital expenditures associated with the integrations of Recall and IODC, we expect our recurring capital expenditures on real estate and non-real estate, as well as non-real estate growth investment capital expenditures, to be approximately $145.0 million to $155.0 million, our capital expenditures on our data center business to be approximately $250.0 million and our capital expenditures on real estate growth investment and innovation to be approximately $175.0 million in the year ending December 31, 2019.

Dividends

See Note 12 to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report for information on dividends.

63
Financial Instruments and Debt

Financial instruments that potentially subject us to credit risk consist principally of cash and cash equivalents (including money market funds and time deposits) and accounts receivable. The only significant concentrations of liquid investments as of December 31, 2018 relate to cash and cash equivalents held on deposit with seven global banks, all of which we consider to be large, highly-rated investment-grade institutions. As per our risk management investment policy, we limit exposure to concentration of credit risk by limiting the amount invested in any one mutual fund to a maximum of 1% of the fund total assets or in any one financial institution to a maximum of $50.0 million. As of December 31, 2018, our cash and cash equivalents balance was $165.5 million.

Long-term debt as of December 31, 2018 is as follows (in thousands):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

See Note 4 to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report for additional information regarding our long-term debt. 

a. Credit Agreement

On August 21, 2017, we entered into a new credit agreement (the "Credit Agreement") which amended and restated our then existing credit agreement which consisted of a revolving credit facility (the "Former Revolving Credit Facility") and a term loan and was scheduled to terminate on July 6, 2019. The Credit Agreement consists of a revolving credit facility (the "Revolving Credit Facility") and a term loan (the "Term Loan A"). The maximum amount permitted to be borrowed under the Revolving Credit Facility is $1,750.0 million. The original amount of the Term Loan A was $250.0 million. Under the Revolving Credit Facility, we had the option to request additional commitments of up to $500.0 million, in the form of term loans or through increased commitments under the Revolving Credit Facility, subject to the conditions specified in the Credit Agreement. The Credit Agreement was originally scheduled to mature on August 21, 2022, at which point all obligations were to become due. 

64
On March 22, 2018, we entered into an amendment (the “2018 First Amendment”) to the Credit Agreement which provided us with the option to request additional commitments of up to approximately $1,260.0 million under the Credit Agreement in the form of term loans or through increased commitments under the Revolving Credit Facility, subject to the conditions specified in the Credit Agreement. On June 4, 2018, we entered into another amendment (the "2018 Second Amendment") to the Credit Agreement which (i) reduced interest rate margins applicable to existing and future borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility and Term Loan A by 0.25% and (ii) extended the maturity date of the Credit Agreement to June 4, 2023.

The amount available for borrowing under the Revolving Credit Facility as of December 31, 2018 was $912.9 million (which amount represents the maximum availability as of such date). 

In connection with the 2018 First Amendment, IMI's wholly owned subsidiary, Iron Mountain Information Management, LLC ("IMIM"), entered into an incremental term loan activation notice (the "Activation Notice"), with certain lenders pursuant to which the lenders party to the Activation Notice agreed to provide commitments to fund an incremental term loan B in the amount of $700.0 million (the “Term Loan B”). On March 26, 2018, IMIM borrowed the full amount of the Term Loan B, which matures on January 2, 2026. The Term Loan B was issued at 99.75% of par. The aggregate net proceeds of approximately $689.9 million, after paying commissions to the joint lead arrangers and net of the original discount, were used to repay outstanding borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility. The Term Loan B holders benefit from the same security and guarantees as other borrowings under the Credit Agreement. The Term Loan B holders also benefit from the same affirmative and negative covenants as other borrowings under the Credit Agreement; however, the Term Loan B holders are not generally entitled to the benefits of the financial covenants under the Credit Agreement. 

As of December 31, 2018, we had $693.2 million outstanding on the Term Loan B and the interest rate in effect under the Term Loan B was 4.3%. The amount of debt for the Term Loan B reflects an unamortized original issue discount of $1.6 million as of December 31, 2018. 

b. Australian Dollar Term Loan Amendment

On March 27, 2018, Iron Mountain Australia Group Pty Ltd ("IM Australia"), a wholly owned subsidiary of IMI, amended its AUD Term Loan (the "AUD Term Loan Amendment") to (i) increase the borrowings under the AUD Term Loan from 250.0 million Australian dollars to 350.0 million Australian dollars; (ii) increase the quarterly principal payments from 6.3 million Australian dollars per year to 8.8 million Australian dollars per year and (iii) decrease the interest rate on the AUD Term Loan from BBSY (an Australian benchmark variable interest rate) plus 4.3% to BBSY plus 3.875%. The interest rate in effect under the AUD Term Loan was 6.0% as of December 31, 2018. The AUD Term Loan matures in September 2022. All indebtedness associated with the AUD Term Loan was issued at 99% of par. The net proceeds associated with the AUD Term Loan Amendment of approximately 99.0 million Australian dollars (or approximately $75.6 million, based upon the exchange rate between the Australian dollar and the United States dollar on March 29, 2018 (the closing date of the AUD Term Loan Amendment)), net of the original discount, were used to repay outstanding borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility. See Note 4 to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report for additional details on the AUD Term Loan.

c. UK Bilateral Revolving Credit Facility 

On September 24, 2018, Iron Mountain (UK) PLC and Iron Mountain (UK) Data Centre Limited entered into a 140.0 million British pounds sterling Revolving Credit Facility (the "UK Bilateral Facility") with Barclays Bank PLC. The maximum amount permitted to be borrowed under the UK Bilateral Facility is 140.0 million British pounds sterling, and we have the option to request additional commitments of up to 125.0 million British pounds sterling, subject to the conditions specified in the UK Bilateral Facility. The UK Bilateral Facility was fully utilized on September 24, 2018 (the closing date of the UK Bilateral Facility). The UK Bilateral Facility is scheduled to mature on September 23, 2022, at which point all obligations become due. The UK Bilateral Facility contains an option to extend the maturity date for an additional year, subject to the conditions specified in the UK Bilateral Facility, including the lender's consent. The UK Bilateral Facility bears interest at LIBOR plus 2.25%. The interest rate in effect under the UK Bilateral Facility as of December 31, 2018 was 3.1%. The initial net proceeds received under the UK Bilateral Facility of 138.3 million British pounds sterling (or approximately $180.3 million, based upon the exchange rate between the British pound sterling and the United States dollar on September 24, 2018 (the closing date of the UK Bilateral Facility)), net of upfront fees, were used to repay borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility. The UK Bilateral Facility is secured by certain properties in the United Kingdom. IMI and its direct and indirect 100% owned United States subsidiaries that represent the substantial majority of its United States operations guarantee all the obligations under the UK Bilateral Facility. 

65
d. Accounts Receivable Securitization Program

In March 2015, we entered into a $250.0 million accounts receivable securitization program (the "Accounts Receivable Securitization Program") involving several of our wholly owned subsidiaries and certain financial institutions. Under the Accounts Receivable Securitization Program, certain of our subsidiaries sell substantially all of their United States accounts receivable balances to our wholly owned special purpose entities, Iron Mountain Receivables QRS, LLC and Iron Mountain Receivables TRS, LLC (the "Accounts Receivable Securitization Special Purpose Subsidiaries"). The Accounts Receivable Securitization Special Purpose Subsidiaries use the accounts receivable balances to collateralize loans obtained from certain financial institutions. The Accounts Receivable Securitization Special Purpose Subsidiaries are consolidated subsidiaries of IMI. IMIM retains the responsibility of servicing the accounts receivable balances pledged as collateral for the Accounts Receivable Securitization Program and IMI provides a performance guaranty. The maximum availability allowed is limited by eligible accounts receivable, as defined under the terms of the Accounts Receivable Securitization Program. 

On July 31, 2017, we amended the Accounts Receivable Securitization Program to (i) increase the maximum amount available from $250.0 million to $275.0 million and (ii) to extend the maturity date from March 6, 2018 to July 30, 2020, at which point all obligations become due. As of December 31, 2018, the maximum availability allowed and amount outstanding under the Accounts Receivable Securitization Program was $221.7 million, respectively. The interest rate in effect under the Accounts Receivable Securitization Program was 3.0% as of December 31, 2018, respectively. Commitment fees at a rate of 40 basis points are charged on amounts made available but not borrowed under the Accounts Receivable Securitization Program. 

e. Debt Covenants

The Credit Agreement, our indentures and other agreements governing our indebtedness contain certain restrictive financial and operating covenants, including covenants that restrict our ability to complete acquisitions, pay cash dividends, incur indebtedness, make investments, sell assets and take certain other corporate actions. The covenants do not contain a rating trigger. Therefore, a change in our debt rating would not trigger a default under the Credit Agreement, our indentures or other agreements governing our indebtedness. The Credit Agreement uses EBITDAR-based calculations as the primary measures of financial performance, including leverage and fixed charge coverage ratios.

Our leverage and fixed charge coverage ratios under the Credit Agreement as of December 31, 2017 and 2018, as well as our leverage ratio under our indentures as of December 31, 2017 and 2018 are as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

______________________________________________________________[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Noncompliance with these leverage and fixed charge coverage ratios would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and liquidity.

_______________________________________________________________________________

66
Our ability to pay interest on or to refinance our indebtedness depends on our future performance, working capital levels and capital structure, which are subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors which may be beyond our control. There can be no assurance that we will generate sufficient cash flow from our operations or that future financings will be available on acceptable terms or in amounts sufficient to enable us to service or refinance our indebtedness or to make necessary capital expenditures.

Equity Financing

a. At The Market (ATM) Equity Program

In October 2017, we entered into the Distribution Agreement with the Agents pursuant to which we may sell, from time to time, up to an aggregate sales price of $500.0 million of our common stock through the At The Market (ATM) Equity Program. Sales of our common stock made pursuant to the Distribution Agreement may be made in negotiated transactions or transactions that are deemed to be “at the market” offerings as defined in Rule 415 under the Securities Act, including sales made directly on the NYSE, or sales made to or through a market maker other than on an exchange, or as otherwise agreed between the applicable Agent and us. We intend to use the net proceeds from sales of our common stock pursuant to the At The Market (ATM) Equity Program for general corporate purposes, which may include acquisitions and investments, including acquisitions and investments in our data center business, and repaying amounts outstanding from time to time under the Revolving Credit Facility.

During the quarter ended December 31, 2018, there were no shares of common stock sold under the At The Market (ATM) Equity Program. During the year ended December 31, 2018, under the At The Market (ATM) Equity Program, we sold an aggregate of 273,486 shares of common stock for gross proceeds of approximately $8.8 million, generating net proceeds of $8.7 million, after deducting commissions of $0.1 million. As of December 31, 2018, the remaining aggregate sale price of shares of our common stock available for distribution under the At The Market (ATM) Equity Program was approximately $431.2 million.

b. Equity Offering

On December 12, 2017, we entered into the Underwriting Agreement with the Underwriters related to the Equity Offering. The offering price to the public for the Equity Offering was $37.00 per share, and we agreed to pay the Underwriters an underwriting commission of $1.38195 per share. The net proceeds to us from the Equity Offering, after deducting underwriters' commissions, was $516.5 million.

Pursuant to the Underwriting Agreement, we granted the Underwriters a 30-day option to purchase from us up to an additional 2,175,000 shares of common stock (the “Option Shares”) at the public offering price, less the underwriting commission and less an amount per share equal to any dividends or distributions declared by us and payable on the Firm Shares but not payable on the Option Shares (the “Over-Allotment Option"). On January 10, 2018, the Underwriters exercised the Over-Allotment Option in its entirety. The net proceeds to us from the exercise of the Over-Allotment Option, after deducting underwriters' commissions and the per share value of the dividend we declared on our common stock on October 24, 2017 (for which the record date was December 15, 2017) which was paid on January 2, 2018, was approximately $76.2 million. The net proceeds of the Equity Offering and the Over-Allotment Option, together with the net proceeds from the issuance of the 51/4% Notes, were used to finance the purchase price of the IODC Transaction, and to pay related fees and expenses.

67
Acquisitions

a. Noteworthy 2018 Acquisitions

On January 10, 2018, we completed the IODC Transaction and at the closing of the IODC Transaction, we paid approximately $1,347.0 million. In addition to the amount paid at the closing of the IODC Transaction, there was the potential of $35.0 million in additional payments associated with the execution of future customer contracts through the one-year anniversary of the IODC Transaction, of which approximately $31.0 million is accrued at December 31, 2018. This amount is reported as a third-party commissions asset as a component of Other within Other assets, net, on our Consolidated Balance Sheet at December 31, 2018. 

On March 8, 2018, in order to expand our data center operations into Europe and Asia, we acquired the operations of two data centers in London and Singapore from Credit Suisse International and Credit Suisse AG (together, "Credit Suisse") for a total of (i) 34.6 million British pounds sterling and (ii) 81.0 million Singapore dollars (or collectively, approximately $111.4 million, based upon the exchange rates between the United States dollar and the British pound sterling and Singapore dollar on the closing date of the Credit Suisse transaction) (the “Credit Suisse Transaction”). As part of the Credit Suisse Transaction, Credit Suisse entered into a long-term lease with us to maintain existing data center operations.

On May 25, 2018, in order to further expand our data center operations in Europe, we acquired EvoSwitch Netherlands B.V. and EvoSwitch Global Services B.V. (collectively, "EvoSwitch"), a data center colocation space and solutions provider with a data center in Amsterdam (the "EvoSwitch Transaction"), for (i) cash consideration of 189.0 million Euros (or approximately $222.0 million, based upon the exchange rate between the Euro and the United States dollar on the closing date of the EvoSwitch Transaction) and (ii) $25.0 million of additional consideration in the form of future services we will provide to the seller.

See Note 6 to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report for additional information regarding our 2018 acquisitions. 

b. Significant Acquisition Costs

Included in Significant Acquisition Costs are certain costs associated with the Recall Transaction and the IODC Transaction. This amount consists of (i) Significant Acquisition Costs and (ii) capital expenditures to integrate Recall with our existing operations. We currently estimate total acquisition and integration expenditures associated with the Recall Transaction and acquisition expenditures associated with the IODC Transaction to be approximately $405.0 million, the substantial majority of which was incurred prior to the end of 2018.

The following table presents the operating and capital expenditures associated with the Recall Transaction and the IODC Transaction incurred for the years ended December 31, 2016, 2017 and 2018 and the cumulative amount incurred through December 31, 2018 (in thousands):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

68
Contractual Obligations

The following table summarizes our contractual obligations as of December 31, 2018 and the anticipated effect of these obligations on our liquidity in future years (in thousands):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

_______________________________________________________________________________

(1)Amounts include variable rate interest payments, which are calculated utilizing the applicable interest rates as of December 31, 2018; see Note 4 to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report. Amounts also include interest on capital leases.

(2)These amounts are net of sublease income of $41.2 million in total (including $7.5 million, $14.3 million, $13.1 million and $6.3 million, in less than 1 year, 1-3 years, 3-5 years and more than 5 years, respectively).

(3)Purchase obligations include future construction costs associated with the expansion of our data center business which represent a substantial portion of the payments due in less than one year. 

(4)The table above excludes $35.3 million in uncertain tax positions as we are unable to make reliable estimates of the period of cash settlement, if any, with the respective taxing authorities.

(5)The table above excludes $70.5 million of redeemable noncontrolling interests, which represents the estimated redemption value of the redeemable noncontrolling interests. See Note 2.v. to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report. This table also excludes purchase commitments associated with acquisitions closed or expected to close in 2019.

We expect to meet our cash flow requirements for the next twelve months from cash generated from operations, cash on hand, borrowings under the Credit Agreement and other financings (including the issuance of equity under our At The Market (ATM) Equity Program). We expect to meet our long-term cash flow requirements using the same means described above. We are currently operating above our long-term targeted leverage ratio and expect our leverage ratio to reduce over time through effective capital allocation strategies and business growth.

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

We have no off-balance sheet arrangements as defined in Regulation S-K Item 303(a)(4)(ii).

Net Operating Losses

At December 31, 2018, we have federal net operating loss carryforwards of $163.0 million available to reduce future federal taxable income, the majority of which expire from 2023 through 2037. Of the $163.0 million, we expect to utilize $49.4 million and realize a federal tax benefit of $10.4 million. A majority of the net operating loss carryforwards and federal tax benefit expected to be realized were generated by the IODC Transaction. We can carry forward these net operating losses to the extent we do not utilize them in any given available year. We have state net operating loss carryforwards, which expire from 2019 through 2038, of which an insignificant state tax benefit is expected to be realized. We have assets for foreign net operating losses of $82.5 million, with various expiration dates (and in some cases no expiration date), subject to a valuation allowance of approximately 67%.

69
Inflation

Certain of our expenses, such as wages and benefits, insurance, occupancy costs and equipment repair and replacement, are subject to normal inflationary pressures. Although to date we have been able to offset inflationary cost increases with increased operating efficiencies, the negotiation of favorable long-term real estate leases and an ability to increase prices in our customer contracts (many of which contain provisions for inflationary price escalators), we can give no assurance that we will be able to offset any future inflationary cost increases through similar efficiencies, leases or increased storage rental or service charges.

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.