ITEM 7A.QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

Interest Rate and Market Risk

The primary objective of our investment activities is to preserve principal while at the same time maximizing the income we receive from our investments without significantly increasing risk. To achieve this objective, we maintain our portfolio of cash equivalents and short- and long-term investments in a variety of high quality securities, including U.S. treasuries, U.S. government agencies, corporate debt, cash deposits, money market funds, commercial paper, non-U.S. government agency securities, and taxable or tax exempt municipal bonds. The securities are classified as available-for-sale and consequently are recorded at fair value with unrealized gains or losses reported as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive loss. The weighted average duration of our portfolio as of December 31, 2018, was approximately 0.7 years. If interest rates rise, the market value of our investments may decline, which could result in a realized loss if we are forced to sell an investment before its scheduled maturity. A hypothetical increase in interest rate by 25 basis points would have resulted in a decrease in the fair value of our net investment position of approximately $8.5 million as of December 31, 2018. We do not utilize derivative financial instruments to manage our interest rate risks. 

The uncertain financial markets have resulted in a tightening in the credit markets, a reduced level of liquidity in many financial markets, and extreme volatility in fixed income and credit markets. The credit ratings of the securities we have invested in could further deteriorate and may have an adverse impact on the carrying value of these investments. 

Foreign Exchange Risk

The majority of our revenue, expense, and capital purchasing activities are transacted in U.S. dollars. However, we generally sell our products and services in local currencies where we have direct distribution channels. We operate in a number of markets on a direct sales basis and incur operating expenses in local currencies. We also purchase certain product components from non-U.S. suppliers in local currency. As a result, because a portion of our operations consist of sales activities outside of the U.S., we have foreign exchange exposures to non-U.S. dollar revenues, operating expenses, accounts receivable, accounts payable, and foreign currency bank balances. 

For the year ended December 31, 2018, sales denominated in foreign currencies were approximately 20% of total revenue. The objective of our hedging program is to mitigate the impact of changes in currency exchange rates on our net cash flow from foreign currency denominated sales. For the year ended December 31, 2018, our revenue would have decreased by approximately $42.0 million if the U.S. dollar exchange rate strengthened by 10%. We also hedge the net recognized non-functional currency balance sheet exposures with foreign exchange forward contracts to reduce the risk that our earnings and cash flows will be adversely affected by changes in exchange rates. A 10% strengthening of the U.S. dollar exchange rate against all currencies to which we have exposure, after considering foreign currency hedges and offsetting positions as of December 31, 2018, would have resulted in approximately $0.2 million increase in the carrying amounts of those net assets. Actual gains and losses in the future may differ materially from the hypothetical gains and losses discussed above based on changes in the timing and amount of foreign currency exchange rate movements and our actual exposure and hedging transactions. Bank counterparties to foreign exchange forward contracts expose us to credit-related losses in the event of their nonperformance. To mitigate that risk, we only contract with counterparties that meet certain minimum requirements under our counterparty risk assessment process. We monitor ratings and potential downgrades on at least a quarterly basis. Based on our ongoing assessment of counterparty risk, we will adjust our exposure to various counterparties. 

Although we sell to distributors outside of the U.S. in U.S. dollars, strengthening of the dollar can impact our distributors’ margins and could impact the end customers’ ability to purchase our product if our distributors seek to recover the impact of the change in the dollar by increasing product and service prices. Less than 10% of our revenue is conducted through distributors outside the U.S. Strengthening of the dollar relative to non-U.S. currencies could have an adverse impact on our business.

Our operations outside of the U.S. are subject to risks typical of operations outside of the U.S. including, but not limited to, differing economic conditions, changes in political climate, differing tax structures, other regulations and restrictions, and foreign exchange rate volatility. 

60
ITEM 8.FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA