ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

Market risk is the potential for economic losses to be incurred on market risk sensitive instruments arising from adverse changes in market factors such as interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. Our exposure to market risk from changes in interest rates and foreign exchange rates is limited. Management establishes and oversees the implementation of policies governing our funding, investments and use of derivative financial instruments. We monitor risk exposures on an ongoing basis. The effect of a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign exchange rates could result in a fair value loss of approximately $113 million on our foreign currency derivative contracts outstanding at December 31, 2018 related to the hedging program. In addition, a 100 basis point adverse change in interest rates would not have a material impact on our investments at December 31, 2018 and 2017. 

Foreign Exchange Risk

Our settlement activities are subject to foreign exchange risk resulting from foreign exchange rate fluctuations. This risk is typically limited to the one business day between setting the foreign exchange rates and clearing the financial transactions. We enter into foreign currency contracts to manage risk associated with anticipated receipts and disbursements which are either transacted in a non-functional currency or valued based on a currency other than the functional currencies of the entity. 

We may also enter into foreign currency derivative contracts to offset possible changes in value due to foreign exchange fluctuations of earnings, assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the entity. The objective of these activities is to reduce our exposure to transaction gains and losses resulting from fluctuations of foreign currencies against our functional and reporting currencies, principally the U.S. dollar and euro. 

Foreign currency exposures are managed together through our foreign exchange risk management activities, which are discussed further in Note 22 (Foreign Exchange Risk Management) to the consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8. The terms of the forward contracts are generally less than 18 months.

As of December 31, 2018, the majority of derivative contracts to hedge foreign currency fluctuations had been entered into with our customers. Our derivative contracts are summarized below: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

We also use foreign currency denominated debt to hedge a portion of our net investment in foreign operations against adverse movements in exchange rates, with changes in the translated value of the debt recorded within currency translation adjustment in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). We have designated our euro-denominated debt as a net investment hedge for a portion of our net investment in European foreign operations. Our euro-denominated debt is vulnerable to changes in the euro to U.S. dollar exchange rates. The principal amounts of our euro-denominated debt as well as the effective interest rates and scheduled annual maturities of the principal is included in Note 14 (Debt) to the consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8. 

56
Interest Rate Risk

Our interest rate sensitive assets are our investments in fixed income securities, which we generally hold as available-for-sale investments. Our policy is to invest in high quality securities, while providing adequate liquidity and maintaining diversification to avoid significant exposure. The fair value and maturity distribution of our available-for-sale investments for fixed income securities as of December 31 was as follows: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

We also have time deposits that are classified as held-to-maturity securities. At December 31, 2018 and 2017, the cost which approximates fair value, of our short-term held-to-maturity securities was $264 million and $700 million, respectively.

At December 31, 2018, we have U.S. dollar-denominated and euro-denominated debt, which is subject to interest rate risk. The principal amounts of this debt as well as the effective interest rates and scheduled annual maturities of the principal is included in Note 14 (Debt) to the consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8. See “Future Obligations” for estimated interest payments due by period relating to the U.S. dollar-denominated and euro-denominated debt. 

At December 31, 2018, we have the Commercial Paper Program and the Credit Facility which provide liquidity for general corporate purposes, including providing liquidity in the event of one or more settlement failures by our customers. Borrowing rates under the Commercial Paper Program are based on market conditions. Borrowing rates under the Credit Facility are variable rates, which are applied to the borrowing based on terms and conditions set forth in the agreement. See Note 14 (Debt) to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 for additional information on the Credit Facility and the Commercial Paper Program. We had no borrowings under the Commercial Paper Program or the Credit Facility at December 31, 2018 and 2017.

57
ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA