Item 7A.Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk

We are exposed to market risks related to interest rate changes and the corresponding changes in the market values of our debt and foreign currency fluctuations. In July 2017, we sold all short-term investments.

Interest Rate Risk

At December 31, 2018, our cash equivalents were generally invested in money market funds, which are not subject to market risk because the interest paid on such funds fluctuates with the prevailing interest rate. 

As of December 31, 2018, we had $10.4 billion of debt, consisting of fixed rate unsecured debt in ten tranches due between 2021 and 2029. Refer to Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements for details about all issuances. The fair value of our debt will fluctuate with movements of interest rates, increasing in periods of declining rates of interest and declining in periods of increasing rates of interest. The fair value of our debt will also fluctuate based on changes in foreign currency rates, as discussed below. 

Foreign Currency Risk

International revenues and cost of revenues account for 49% and 58%, respectively, of consolidated amounts for the year ended December 31, 2018. The majority of international revenues and a smaller portion of expenses are denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar and we therefore have foreign currency risk related to these currencies, which are primarily the euro, the British pound, the Canadian dollar, the Australian dollar, the Japanese yen, the Mexican peso and the Brazilian real.

Accordingly, changes in exchange rates, and in particular a weakening of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar may negatively affect our revenue and contribution profit (loss) of our International streaming segment as expressed in U.S. dollars. For the year ended December 31, 2018, we believe our international revenues would have been approximately $94 million higher had foreign currency exchange rates remained consistent with those for the year ended December 31, 2017.

We have also experienced and will continue to experience fluctuations in our net income as a result of gains (losses) on the settlement and the remeasurement of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in currencies that are not the functional currency. In the year ended December 31, 2018, we recognized a $1 million foreign exchange loss due to the remeasurement of significant content liabilities denominated in currencies other than functional currencies of our European and U.S. entities, mostly offset by the remeasurement of our Senior Notes denominated in euros.

In addition, the effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents in the year ended December 31, 2018 was a decrease of $40 million. 

We do not use foreign exchange contracts or derivatives to hedge any foreign currency exposures. The volatility of exchange rates depends on many factors that we cannot forecast with reliable accuracy. Our continued international expansion increases our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations and as a result such fluctuations could have a significant impact on our future results of operations.

Item 8.Financial Statements and Supplementary Data