ITEM 7.  

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 

General Overview 

The Company is a leading independent provider of equipment and technology to the upstream oil and gas industry. With operations in approximately 620 locations across six continents, NOV designs, manufactures and services a comprehensive line of drilling and well servicing equipment; sells and rents drilling motors, specialized downhole tools, and rig instrumentation; performs inspection and internal coating of oilfield tubular products; provides drill cuttings separation, management and disposal systems and services; and provides expendables and spare parts used in conjunction with the Company’s large installed base of equipment. NOV also manufactures coiled tubing and high-pressure fiberglass and composite tubing, and sells and rents advanced in-line inspection equipment to makers of oil country tubular goods. The Company has a long tradition of pioneering innovations which improve the cost-effectiveness, efficiency, safety, and environmental impact of oil and gas operations. 

NOV’s revenue and operating results are directly related to the level of worldwide oil and gas drilling and production activities and the profitability and cash flow of oil and gas companies and drilling contractors, which in turn are affected by current and anticipated prices of oil and gas. Oil and gas prices have been and are likely to continue to be volatile. See Item 1A. “Risk Factors”. The Company conducts its operations through three business segments: Wellbore Technologies, Completion & Production Solutions and Rig Technologies. See Item 1. “Business”, for a discussion of each of these business segments. 

Unless indicated otherwise, results of operations are presented in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (“GAAP”). Certain reclassifications have been made to the prior year financial statements in order for them to conform with the 2018 presentation. The Company discloses Adjusted EBITDA (defined as Operating Profit excluding Depreciation, Amortization and Other Items) in its periodic earnings press releases and other public disclosures to provide investors additional information about the results of ongoing operations. See Non-GAAP Financial Measures and Reconciliations in Results of Operations for an explanation of our use of non-GAAP financial measures and reconciliations to their corresponding measures calculated in accordance with GAAP. 

Operating Environment Overview 

NOV’s results are dependent on, among other things, the level of worldwide oil and gas drilling, well remediation activity, the price of crude oil and natural gas, capital spending by exploration and production companies and drilling contractors, and worldwide oil and gas inventory levels. Key industry indicators for the past three years include the following: 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

*  

Averages for the years indicated. See sources below. 

29 

The following table details the U.S., Canadian, and international rig activity and West Texas Intermediate Oil prices for the past nine quarters ended December 31, 2018 on a quarterly basis: 

Source: Rig count: Baker Hughes, Inc. (www.bakerhughes.com); West Texas Intermediate Crude Price: Department of Energy, Energy Information Administration (www.eia.doe.gov). 

The average price per barrel of West Texas Intermediate Crude was $64.94 in 2018, an increase of 28% over the average price for 2017 of $50.88 per barrel. The average natural gas price in 2018 was $3.13 per mmbtu, an increase of six percent compared to the 2017 average of $2.96 per mmbtu. Average rig activity worldwide increased nine percent for the full year in 2018 compared to 2017. The average crude oil price for the fourth quarter of 2018 was $59.08 per barrel, and natural gas was $3.77 per mmbtu. 

At February 8, 2019, there were 1,289 rigs actively drilling in North America, compared to the fourth quarter average of 1,249 rigs, an increase of three percent. The price for West Texas Intermediate Crude Oil was $52.72 per barrel at February 8, 2019, a decrease of 11% from the fourth quarter of 2018 average. The price for natural gas was $2.58 per mmbtu at February 8, 2019, a decrease of 32% from the fourth quarter of 2018 average. 

30 

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY  

National Oilwell Varco, Inc. generated revenue of $8.45 billion in 2018, an increase of 16% from the prior year as improving oil and gas prices resulted in increased drilling activity and demand for certain oilfield equipment and services. Average 2018 worldwide rig count (as measured by Baker Hughes) increased nine percent in comparison to 2017. The increase in activity led to increased revenues across all of the Company’s segments. 

For the year ended December 31, 2018, the Company reported an operating profit of $211 million compared to an operating loss of $277 million in 2017, and a net loss attributable to the Company of $31 million, or $0.08 per share compared to a net loss of $237 million or $0.63 per share during 2017.  

For the fourth quarter ended December 31, 2018, revenue was $2.40 billion, a $244 million or 11% increase compared to the third quarter of 2018. The Company reported net income of $12 million, or $0.03 per fully diluted share, an increase of $11 million, or $0.03 per fully diluted share, from the third quarter of 2018. Compared to the fourth quarter of 2017, revenue increased $429 million or 22%, and net income increased $26 million.  

During the fourth quarter of 2018, third quarter of 2018, and fourth quarter of 2017, pre-tax other items (severance, facility closures, asset impairments, write-downs, and other) were $21 million, nil, and $133 million, respectively. Excluding the other items from all periods, fourth quarter 2018 Adjusted EBITDA was $279 million, compared to $245 million in the third quarter of 2018 and $197 million in the fourth quarter of 2017.  

Segment Performance  

Wellbore Technologies  

Wellbore Technologies generated revenues of $884 million in the fourth quarter of 2018, an increase of four percent from the third quarter of 2018 and an increase of 24 percent from the fourth quarter of 2017. The segment’s revenue growth continued to outpace domestic and global drilling activity levels, with sales increasing 4.5 percent in the U.S. and 2.1 percent in international markets. The segment’s WellSite Services and Grant Prideco business units each posted double-digit percent sequential revenue increases supported by bookings of solids control equipment and drill pipe, which improved throughout the first three quarters of 2018. Operating profit was $41 million, or 4.6 percent of sales. Adjusted EBITDA increased 15 percent sequentially and 45 percent from the prior year to $155 million, or 17.5 percent of sales. An improved mix of business and higher volumes resulted in 54 percent sequential Adjusted EBITDA incrementals (the change in Adjusted EBITDA divided by the change in revenue).  

Completion & Production Solutions  

Completion & Production Solutions generated revenues of $788 million in the fourth quarter of 2018, an increase of seven percent from the third quarter of 2018 and an increase of 14 percent from the fourth quarter of 2017. The sequential increase in revenue was the result of improved progress and deliveries on projects and continued growth in demand for coiled tubing and wireline equipment. Operating profit was $64 million, or 8.1 percent of sales. Adjusted EBITDA increased 13 percent sequentially and 51 percent from the prior year to $112 million, or 14.2 percent of sales. Anticipated resin supply shortages in the Company’s Fiber Glass Systems business unit and holiday slowdowns impacted manufacturing plant absorption, limiting sequential Adjusted EBITDA incrementals to 25 percent. 

New orders booked during the quarter were $470 million, representing a book-to-bill of 103 percent when compared to the $456 million of orders shipped from backlog. Backlog for capital equipment orders for Completion & Production Solutions at December 31, 2018 was $894 million.  

Rig Technologies  

Rig Technologies generated revenues of $804 million in the fourth quarter of 2018, an increase of 26 percent from the third quarter of 2018 and an increase of 31 percent from the fourth quarter of 2017. Better progress on projects, delivery of two land rigs, and improved aftermarket sales resulted in the sequential revenue increase. Operating profit was $75 million, or 9.3 percent of sales. Adjusted EBITDA increased 31 percent sequentially and 46 percent from the prior year to $102 million, or 12.7 percent of sales. Adjusted EBITDA leverage was limited to 14 percent due to a change in product mix. 

New orders booked during the quarter totaled $119 million, representing a book-to-bill of 30 percent when compared to the $403 million of orders shipped from backlog. At December 31, 2018, backlog for capital equipment orders for Rig Technologies was $3.1 billion. 

31 

Oil & Gas Equipment and Services Market and Outlook 

Technological advancements in oilfield equipment and services unlocked production from previously uneconomic formations which, combined with high commodity demand and prices, enabled and sustained an increase in global drilling activity that dramatically grew oil supplies from 2004 to 2014. In the second half of 2014 demand growth in Asia, Europe and the U.S. weakened while drilling activity remained strong and production continued to grow. As a result, inventories of crude and refined products increased, and the price of oil declined significantly during 2015, the beginning of a generational market downturn. 

The Company aggressively sized its operations to the market and reduced operating expenses, while continuing to invest in developing and acquiring new products, technologies and operations that advanced longer term strategic goals. The Company successfully pivoted towards the industry’s increased focus on onshore unconventional developments, while strategically maintaining a leading position in offshore equipment. 

The market downturn stabilized during the second half of 2016. Through 2017 and into the first nine months of 2018, drilling activity increased for North America land, stabilized in international land markets, and remained depressed offshore. During the fourth quarter of 2018 oil prices declined sharply due to heavier than expected US shale production combined with market concerns about global growth, geopolitics (including trade wars) and interest rates. The average price of West Texas Intermediate Cushing Crude for the fourth quarter of 2018 was $59.08 a barrel, but ended the year at $45.15.  

Despite a surge in December equipment deliveries that resulted in NOV’s strong fourth quarter revenue, many customers have indicated a reduced spending outlook into the beginning of 2019. NOV’s customer base has become much faster at reacting to market swings, and we believe the fourth quarter dip will lead to lower first quarter revenues across our segments, particularly in North America.  

NOV’s global customer base includes national oil companies, international oil companies, independent oil and gas companies, onshore and offshore drilling contractors and service companies and others whose strategies and reactions to low or volatile commodity prices vary. The timing and slope of revenue impacts from market changes will be different across its geographic regions and three operating segments. NOV’s Wellbore Technologies segment and certain elements of its Completion & Production Solutions and Rig Technologies segments realize a faster response to changes in drilling activity, while its more capital equipment-oriented businesses tend to respond to increased drilling activity more slowly. 

The Company anticipates that land drilling customers will reduce spending through the first part of 2019, then continue investing in NOV’s equipment and services to enhance their competitiveness. North American pressure pumping customers will proceed cautiously in the face of lower well stimulation day rates. The Company remains optimistic regarding longer-term market fundamentals as existing oil and gas fields continue to deplete and numerous major projects to replenish supply have been deferred or canceled while global demand continues to grow. After a lower first quarter, there may be stronger activity in the second half of 2019, particularly if global growth, supply and demand balance, and geopolitical concerns ease.  

NOV expects unconventional resources will continue to gain a greater share of global production, and the Company will continue to enhance its unconventional resource focused products and technologies, including advanced, automated drilling rigs; premium drillpipe and directional drilling technologies; hydraulic fracture stimulation equipment; and multistage completion tools. NOV expects big data and predictive analytics to improve uptime and operating efficiency, and the Company remains at the forefront of applying this promising technology to oilfield drilling and completion equipment. The Company has used the recent downturn to vigorously advance these strategic initiatives and is encouraged by its progress. 

32 

Results of Operations 

The following table summarizes the Company’s revenue and operating profit (loss) by operating segment (in millions): 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Years Ended December 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017 

Wellbore Technologies 

Revenue from Wellbore Technologies for the year ended December 31, 2018 was $3,235 million, an increase of $658 million (25.5%) compared to the year ended December 31, 2017. The increase was due to an increase in global drilling activity and increased market share in certain product lines. 

Operating profit from Wellbore Technologies was $131 million for the year ended December 31, 2018, an increase of $233 million compared to the year ended December 31, 2017. Operating profit percentage for 2018 was 4.0% compared to operating loss percentage 4.0% in 2017.  

Included in operating profit are other items related to facility closures and inventory recoveries. Other items included in operating profit (loss) for Wellbore Technologies were $21 million for the year ended December 31, 2018 and $28 million for the year ended December 31, 2017.  

Completion & Production Solutions 

Revenue from Completion & Production Solutions for the year ended December 31, 2018 was $2,931 million, an increase of $259 million (9.7%) compared to the year ended December 31, 2017. The increase was due to improved progress and deliveries on projects and continued growth in demand for coiled tubing and wireline equipment and conductor pipe. 

Operating profit from Completion & Production Solutions was $166 million for the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to $98 million for 2017, an increase of $68 million (69.4%). Operating profit percentage increased to 5.7% from 3.7% in 2017.  

There were no other items included in operating profit for Completion & Production Solutions for the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to $33 million for the year ended December 31, 2017.  

The Completion & Productions Solutions segment monitors its capital equipment backlog to plan its business. New orders are added to backlog only when the Company receives a firm written order for major completion and production  

33 

components or a signed contract related to a construction project. The capital equipment backlog was $894 million at December 31, 2018, a decrease of $172 million, or 16 percent from backlog of $1,066 million at December 31, 2017. Numerous factors may affect the timing of revenue out of backlog. Considering these factors, the Company reasonably expects approximately $0.8 billion of revenue out of backlog in 2019 and approximately $122 million of revenue out of backlog in 2020 and thereafter. At December 31, 2018, approximately 58 percent of the capital equipment backlog was for offshore products and approximately 70 percent of the capital equipment backlog was destined for international markets. 

Rig Technologies 

Revenue from Rig Technologies for the year ended December 31, 2018 was $2,575 million, an increase of $323 million (14.3%) compared to the year ended December 31, 2017. The increase was due to better progress on projects and improved aftermarket sales. 

Operating profit from Rig Technologies was $213 million for the year ended December 31, 2018, an increase of $227 million compared to 2017. Operating profit percentage for 2018 was 8.3% compared to an operating loss percentage of 0.6% in 2017.  

Included in operating profit are other items related to severance and facility closures, and asset write-downs. Other items included in operating profit for Rig Technologies were $6 million for the year ended December 31, 2018 and $129 million for the year ended December 31, 2017.  

The Rig Technologies segment monitors its capital equipment backlog to plan its business. New orders are added to backlog only when the Company receives a firm written order for major drilling rig components or a signed contract related to a construction project. The capital equipment backlog was $3.1 billion at December 31, 2018, an increase of $1.2 billion, or 63%, from backlog of $1.9 billion at December 31, 2017. Numerous factors may affect the timing of revenue out of backlog. Considering these factors, the Company reasonably expects approximately $0.8 billion of revenue out of backlog in 2019 and approximately $2.3 billion of revenue out of backlog in 2020 and thereafter. At December 31, 2018, approximately 31% of the capital equipment backlog was for offshore products and approximately 90% of the capital equipment backlog was destined for international markets.  

Eliminations and corporate costs 

Eliminations and corporate costs were $299 million for the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to $259 million for the year ended December 31, 2017. This change is primarily due to an increase in intersegment sales. Sales from one segment to another generally are priced at estimated equivalent commercial selling prices; however, segments originating an external sale are credited with the full profit to the Company. Eliminations and corporate costs include intercompany transactions conducted between the three reporting segments that are eliminated in consolidation, as well as corporate costs not allocated to the segments. Intercompany transactions within each reporting segment are eliminated within each reporting segment. 

Other income (expense), net 

Other income (expense), net were expenses of $99 million for the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to expenses of $33 million for the year ended December 31, 2017. The increase in expense was primarily due to higher foreign exchange losses for 2018. 

Provision for income taxes 

The effective tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2018 was 153.7%, compared to 39.8% for 2017. For the year ended December 31, 2018, valuation allowances established on foreign tax credits generated during the year resulted in a higher effective tax rate than the U.S. statutory rate. For the year ended December 31, 2017, the revaluation of net deferred tax liabilities in the U.S. partially offset by valuation allowances established on foreign tax credits generated during the year, when applied to losses resulted in a higher effective tax rate than the U.S. statutory rate. 

34 

Years Ended December 31, 2017 and December 31, 2016 

Wellbore Technologies 

Revenue from Wellbore Technologies for the year ended December 31, 2017 was $2,577 million, an increase of $378 million (17.2%) compared to the year ended December 31, 2016. The increase was due to higher drilling activity. 

Operating loss from Wellbore Technologies was $102 million for the year ended December 31, 2017, a decrease of $668 million (86.8%) compared to the year ended December 31, 2016. Operating loss percentage decreased to 4.0% from 35.0% in 2016. Operating loss decreased due to higher drilling activity in 2017. 

Included in operating profit are other items related to costs associated with a Voluntary Early Retirement Plan established by the Company during the first quarter of 2016, costs related to severance and facility closures, and asset write-downs. Other items included in operating profit for Wellbore Technologies were $28 million for the year ended December 31, 2017 and $476 million for the year ended December 31, 2016.  

Completion & Production Solutions 

Revenue from Completion & Production Solutions for the year ended December 31, 2017 was $2,672 million, an increase of $431 million (19.2%) compared to the year ended December 31, 2016. The increase was due to higher market activity. 

Operating profit (loss) from Completion & Production Solutions was $98 million for the year ended December 31, 2017 compared to ($266) million for 2016, an increase of $364 million (136.8%). Operating profit (loss) percentage increased to 3.7% from (11.9)% in 2016. This increase was due to an overall increase in market activity. 

Included in operating profit are other items related to costs associated with a Voluntary Early Retirement Plan established by the Company during the first quarter of 2016; costs related to severance and facility closures; items related to acquisitions, such as transaction costs, the amortization of backlog and inventory that was stepped up to fair value during purchase accounting; and asset write-downs. Other items included in operating profit for Completion & Production Solutions were $33 million for the year ended December 31, 2017 and $274 million for the year ended December 31, 2016.  

The Completion & Productions Solutions segment monitors its capital equipment backlog to plan its business. New orders are added to backlog only when the Company receives a firm written order for major completion and production components or a signed contract related to a construction project. The capital equipment backlog was $1,066 million at December 31, 2017, an increase of $248 million, or 30% from backlog of $818 million at December 31, 2016. Numerous factors may affect the timing of revenue out of backlog. Considering these factors, the Company reasonably expects approximately $953 million of revenue out of backlog in 2018 and approximately $113 million of revenue out of backlog in 2019 and thereafter. At December 31, 2017, approximately 59% of the capital equipment backlog was for offshore products and approximately 73% of the capital equipment backlog was destined for international markets.  

Rig Technologies 

Revenue from Rig Technologies for the year ended December 31, 2017 was $2,252 million, a decrease of $858 million (27.6%) compared to the year ended December 31, 2016. The decrease was due to lower volumes in all areas. 

Operating loss from Rig Technologies was $14 million for the year ended December 31, 2017, an improvement of $1,019 million (98.6%) compared to 2016. Operating loss percentage decreased to 0.6%, from 33.2% in 2016. Operating loss decreased primarily due to a $972 million impairment charge incurred on the carrying value of goodwill during the third quarter of 2016 that did not repeat in 2017, partially offset by lower volumes.  

Included in operating profit are other items related to costs associated with a Voluntary Early Retirement Plan established by the Company during the first quarter of 2016, costs related to severance and facility closures, and asset write-downs, including the impairment charge mentioned above. Other items included in operating profit for Rig  

35 

Technologies were $129 million for the year ended December 31, 2017 and $1,255 million for the year ended December 31, 2016.  

The Rig Technologies segment monitors its capital equipment backlog to plan its business. New orders are added to backlog only when the Company receives a firm written order for major drilling rig components or a signed contract related to a construction project. The capital equipment backlog was $1.9 billion at December 31, 2017, a decrease of $0.6 billion, or 24%, from backlog of $2.5 billion at December 31, 2016. Numerous factors may affect the timing of revenue out of backlog. Considering these factors, the Company reasonably expects approximately $0.8 billion of revenue out of backlog in 2018 and approximately $1.1 billion of revenue out of backlog in 2019 and thereafter. At December 31, 2017, approximately 78% of the capital equipment backlog was for offshore products and approximately 81% of the capital equipment backlog was destined for international markets.  

Eliminations and corporate costs 

Eliminations and corporate costs in operating loss were $259 million for the year ended December 31, 2017 compared to $342 million for the year ended December 31, 2016. This change is primarily due to lower intersegment sales. Sales from one segment to another generally are priced at estimated equivalent commercial selling prices; however, segments originating an external sale are credited with the full profit to the Company. Eliminations and corporate costs include intercompany transactions conducted between the three reporting segments that are eliminated in consolidation, as well as corporate costs not allocated to the segments. Intercompany transactions within each reporting segment are eliminated within each reporting segment. 

Other income (expense), net 

Other income (expense), net were expenses of $33 million for the year ended December 31, 2017 compared to expenses of $101 million for the year ended December 31, 2016. The decrease was primarily due to lower asset disposals. 

Provision for income taxes 

The effective tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2017 was 39.8%, compared to 7.9% for 2016. For the year ended December 31, 2017, the revaluation of net deferred tax liabilities in the U.S. partially offset by valuation allowances established on foreign tax credits generated during the year, when applied to losses resulted in a higher effective tax rate than the U.S. statutory rate. For the year ended December 31, 2016, the impairment of goodwill not deductible for tax purposes, lower tax rates on losses incurred in foreign jurisdictions, and the establishment of valuation allowances, when applied to losses resulted in a lower effective tax rate than the U.S. statutory rate. 

Non-GAAP Financial Measures and Reconciliations 

The Company discloses Adjusted EBITDA (defined as Operating Profit excluding Depreciation, Amortization and, when applicable, Other Items) in its periodic earnings press releases and other public disclosures to provide investors additional information about the results of ongoing operations. The Company uses Adjusted EBITDA internally to evaluate and manage the business. Adjusted EBITDA is not intended to replace GAAP financial measures, such as Net Income. Other items in the three and twelve months ended December 31, 2018 were $21 and $9 million, pre-tax, respectively, primarily from the adjustment of certain accruals, restructure charges, and severance payments. Other items in 2017 consisted primarily of restructure charges for inventory write-downs, facility closures and severance payments. 

36 

The following tables set forth the reconciliation of Adjusted EBITDA to its most comparable GAAP financial measure (in millions): 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

37 

Liquidity and Capital Resources 

The Company assesses liquidity in terms of its ability to generate cash to fund operating, investing and financing activities. The Company remains in a strong financial position, with resources available to reinvest in existing businesses, strategic acquisitions and capital expenditures to meet short- and long-term objectives. The Company believes that cash on hand, cash generated from expected results of operations and amounts available under its revolving credit facility will be sufficient to fund operations, anticipated working capital needs and other cash requirements including capital expenditures, debt and interest payments and dividend payments for the foreseeable future. 

At December 31, 2018, the Company had cash and cash equivalents of $1,427 million, and total debt of $2,711 million. At December 31, 2017, cash and cash equivalents were $1,437 million and total debt was $2,712 million. As of December 31, 2018, approximately $979 million of the $1,427 million of cash and cash equivalents was held by our foreign subsidiaries and the earnings associated with this cash were subject to U.S. taxation under the Act defined in Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. If opportunities to invest in the U.S. are greater than available cash balances that are not subject to income tax, rather than repatriating cash, the Company may choose to borrow against its revolving credit facility or utilize its commercial paper program. 

On June 27, 2017, the Company entered into a new $3.0 billion credit agreement evidencing a five-year unsecured revolving credit facility, which expires on June 27, 2022, with a syndicate of financial institutions. This new credit facility replaced the Company’s previous $4.5 billion revolving credit facility. The Company has the right to increase the aggregate commitments under this new agreement to an aggregate amount of up to $4.0 billion upon the consent of only those lenders holding any such increase. Interest under the new multicurrency facility is based upon LIBOR, NIBOR or CDOR plus 1.125% subject to a ratings-based grid or the U.S. prime rate. The new credit facility contains a financial covenant regarding maximum debt-to-capitalization ratio of 60%. As of December 31, 2018, the Company was in compliance with a debt-to-capitalization ratio of 16.3%. 

On November 29, 2017, the Company repaid in its entirety the $500 million of its 1.35% unsecured Senior Notes using available cash balances. 

The Company’s outstanding debt at December 31, 2018 was $2,711 million and consisted of $1,394 million in 2.60% Senior Notes, $1,088 million in 3.95% Senior Notes, no commercial paper borrowings, and other debt of $229 million. The Company was in compliance with all covenants at December 31, 2018. 

At December 31, 2018, there were no commercial paper borrowings supported by the $3.0 billion credit facility and no outstanding letters of credit issued under the credit facility, resulting in $3.0 billion of funds available under this revolving credit facility. 

The Company had $480 million of outstanding letters of credit at December 31, 2018 that are under various bilateral letter of credit facilities. Letters of credit are issued as bid bonds, advanced payment bonds and performance bonds. The following table summarizes our net cash provided by operating activities, net cash used in investing activities and net cash used in financing activities for the periods presented (in millions): 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

38 

Operating Activities 

2018 vs 2017. Net cash provided by operating activities was $521 million in 2018 compared to $832 million in 2017. Before changes in operating assets and liabilities, net of acquisitions, cash was provided primarily by net loss from operations of $22 million plus non-cash charges of $779 million and $3 million in equity loss in unconsolidated affiliates.  

The change in operating assets and liabilities in 2018 compared to the same period in 2017 was primarily due to declines in inventory and contract assets. Net changes in operating assets and liabilities, net of acquisitions, used $400 million of cash in 2018 compared to cash provided of $448 million in the same period in 2017. 

From time to time, we participate in factoring arrangements to sell accounts receivable to third-party financial institutions. In 2018, we sold accounts receivable of $248 million at a cost of approximately $2 million, receiving cash proceeds totaling $246 million. Our factoring transactions in 2018 were recognized as sales, and the proceeds are included as operating cash flows in our Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. We did not factor any receivables during the fourth quarter 2018. 

2017 vs 2016. Net cash provided by operating activities was $832 million in 2017 compared to net cash provided by operating activities of $960 million in 2016. Before changes in operating assets and liabilities, net of acquisitions, cash was provided by operations in 2017 primarily from operating activities that generated earnings before non-cash charges of $379 million and $5 million in equity loss in unconsolidated affiliates. 

Net changes in operating assets and liabilities, net of acquisitions, provided $448 million of cash in 2017 compared to $1,044 million provided in 2016. The decrease in cash provided in 2017 compared to 2016 was primarily due to declines in cash provided by accounts receivable, inventory and costs in excess of billings, partially offset by declines in cash used by accrued liabilities and billings in excess of costs and by accounts payable providing cash in 2017 compared to using cash in 2016.  

Investing Activities 

2018 vs 2017. Net cash used in investing activities was $457 million in 2018 compared to $245 million in 2017. The increase in net cash used in investing activities was primarily the result of increased acquisitions and capital expenditures in 2018 compared to 2017. The Company used $280 million during 2018 for acquisitions compared to $86 million in 2017 and $244 million for capital expenditures during 2018, compared to $192 million in 2017. 

2017 vs 2016. Net cash used in investing activities was $245 million in 2017 compared to net cash used in investing activities of $488 million in 2016. The decrease in net cash used in investing activities was primarily the result of decreased acquisitions and capital expenditures in 2017 compared to 2016. The Company used $86 million during 2017 for acquisitions compared to $230 million in 2016 and $192 million for capital expenditures during 2017, compared to $284 million in 2016. 

Financing Activities 

2018 vs 2017. Net cash used in financing activities was $30 million in 2018 compared to $595 million in 2017. This decrease was primarily the result of lower debt payments in 2018 compared to 2017.  

2017 vs 2016. Net cash used in financing activities was $595 million in 2017 compared to $1,141 million in 2016. This decrease was primarily the result of $506 million of debt payments in 2017 compared to $900 million used to make payments on net commercial paper borrowings in 2016. In addition, the Company decreased its dividend to $76 million during 2017 compared to $230 million in 2016. 

Other 

The effect of the change in exchange rates on cash was an increase (decrease) of ($44) million, $37 million and ($3) million for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively. 

We believe that cash on hand, cash generated from operations and amounts available under our credit facilities and from other sources of debt will be sufficient to fund operations, working capital needs, capital expenditure requirements, dividends and financing obligations. 

39 

We intend to pursue additional acquisition candidates, but the timing, size or success of any acquisition effort and the related potential capital commitments cannot be predicted. We continue to expect to fund future cash acquisitions primarily with cash flow from operations and borrowings, including the unborrowed portion of the revolving credit facility or new debt issuances, but may also issue additional equity either directly or in connection with acquisitions. There can be no assurance that additional financing for acquisitions will be available at terms acceptable to us. 

A summary of the Company’s outstanding contractual obligations at December 31, 2018 is as follows (in millions): 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

As of December 31, 2018, the Company had $98 million of unrecognized tax benefits. This represents the tax benefits associated with various tax positions taken, or expected to be taken, on domestic and international tax returns that have not been recognized in our financial statements due to uncertainty regarding their resolution. Due to the uncertainty of the timing of future cash flows associated with these unrecognized tax benefits, we are unable to make reasonably reliable estimates of the period of cash settlement, if any, with the respective taxing authorities. Accordingly, unrecognized tax benefits have been excluded from the contractual obligations table above. For further information related to unrecognized tax benefits, see Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates 

In preparing the financial statements, we make assumptions, estimates and judgments that affect the amounts reported. We periodically evaluate our estimates and judgments that are most critical in nature which are related to revenue recognition under long-term construction contracts; allowance for doubtful accounts; inventory reserves; impairments of long-lived assets (excluding goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets); impairment of goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets; purchase price allocation of acquisitions; service and product warranties and income taxes. Our estimates are based on historical experience and on our future expectations that we believe are reasonable. The combination of these factors forms the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results are likely to differ from our current estimates and those differences may be material. 

Revenue Recognition 

The majority of the Company’s revenue streams record revenue at a point in time when a performance obligation has been satisfied by transferring control of promised goods or services to a customer. Products and services are sold or rented based upon a fixed or determinable price and do not generally include significant post-delivery obligations. Payment terms and conditions vary by contract type. We have elected to apply the practical expedient that does not require an adjustment for a financing component if, at contract inception, the period between when we transfer the promised goods or service to the customer and when the customer pays for the goods or service is one year or less. Shipping and handling costs are recognized when incurred and are treated as costs to fulfill the original performance obligation. 

Revenue is often generated from contracts that include multiple performance obligations. Using significant judgement, the Company considers the degree of customization, integration and interdependency of the related products and services when assessing distinct performance obligations within one contract. Stand-alone selling price (“SSP”) for each distinct performance obligation is generally determined using the price at which the products and services would be sold separately to the customer. Discounts, when provided, are allocated based on the relative SSP of the various products and services.  

40 

For revenue that is not recognized at a point in time, the Company follows accounting guidance for revenue recognized over time, as follows: 

Revenue Recognition under Long-term Construction Contracts  

Revenue is recognized over-time for certain long-term construction contracts in the Completion & Production Solutions and Rig Technologies segments. These contracts include custom designs for customer-specific applications that are unique and require significant engineering efforts. Revenue is recognized as work progresses on each contract. Right to payment is enforceable for performance completed to date, including a reasonable profit. 

We generally use the cost-to-cost (input) measure of progress for our contracts because it best depicts the transfer of assets to the customer which occurs as we incur costs. Under the cost-to-cost measure of progress, progress towards completion of each contract is measured based on the ratio of costs incurred to date to the total estimated costs at completion of the performance obligation. Revenues, including estimated fees or profits, are recorded proportionally as costs are incurred. These costs include labor, materials, subcontractors’ costs, and other direct costs. Any expected losses on a project are recorded in full in the period in which the loss becomes probable. 

These long-term construction contracts generally include a significant service of integrating a complex set of tasks and components into a single project or capability, so are accounted for as one performance obligation. 

Estimating total revenue and cost at completion of long-term construction contracts is complex, subject to many variables and requires significant judgment. It is common for our long-term contracts to contain late delivery fees, work performance guarantees, and other provisions that can either increase or decrease the transaction price. We estimate variable consideration as the most likely amount we expect to receive. We include variable consideration in the estimated transaction price to the extent it is probable that a significant reversal of cumulative revenue recognized will not occur, or when the uncertainty associated with the variable consideration is resolved. Our estimates of variable consideration and determination of whether to include estimated amounts in the transaction price are based on an assessment of our anticipated performance and historical, current and forecasted information that is reasonably available to us. Net revenue recognized from performance obligations satisfied in previous periods was $65 million for the year ended December 31, 2018 primarily due to change orders. 

Service and Repair Work 

For service and repair contracts, revenue is recognized over time. We generally use the output method to measure progress on service contracts due to the manner in which the customer receives and derives value from the services provided. For repair contracts, we generally use the cost-to-cost measure of progress because it best depicts the transfer of assets to the customer. 

Remaining Performance Obligations 

Remaining performance obligations represent the transaction price of firm orders for all revenue streams for which work has not been performed on contracts with an original expected duration of one year or more. We do not disclose the remaining performance obligations of royalty contracts, service contracts for which there is a right to invoice, and short-term contracts that are expected to have a duration of one year or less. 

As of December 31, 2018, the aggregate amount of the transaction price allocated to remaining performance obligations was $1,813 million. The Company expects to recognize approximately $887 million in revenue for the remaining performance obligations in 2019 and $926 million in 2020 and thereafter.  

Costs to Obtain and Fulfill a Contract 

We recognize an asset for the incremental costs of obtaining a contract, such as sales commissions, with a customer when we expect the benefit of those costs to be longer than one year. Costs to fulfill a contract, such as set-up and mobilization costs, are also capitalized when we expect to recover those costs. These contract costs are deferred and amortized over the period of contract performance. Total capitalized costs to obtain and fulfill a contract and the related amortization were immaterial during the periods presented and are included in other current and long-term  

41 

assets on our consolidated balance sheets. We apply the practical expedient to expense costs as incurred for costs to obtain a contract with a customer when the amortization period would have been one year or less. 

 Allowance for Doubtful Accounts 

The determination of the collectability of amounts due from customer accounts requires the Company to make judgments regarding future events and trends. Allowances for doubtful accounts are determined based on a continuous process of assessing the Company’s portfolio on an individual customer basis taking into account current market conditions and trends. This process consists of a thorough review of historical collection experience, current aging status of the customer accounts, and financial condition of the Company’s customers. Based on a review of these factors, the Company will establish or adjust allowances for specific customers. A substantial portion of the Company’s revenue comes from international oil companies, international shipyards, international oilfield service companies, and government-owned or government-controlled oil companies. Therefore, the Company has significant receivables in many foreign jurisdictions. If worldwide oil and gas drilling activity or changes in economic conditions in foreign jurisdictions deteriorate, the creditworthiness of the Company’s customers could also deteriorate and they may be unable to pay these receivables, and additional allowances could be required. At December 31, 2018 and 2017, allowance for bad debts totaled $161 million and $187 million, or 7.1% and 8.5% of gross accounts receivable, respectively. 

Historically, the Company’s charge-offs and provisions for the allowance for doubtful accounts have been immaterial to the Company’s consolidated financial statements. However, because of the risk factors mentioned above, changes in estimates could become material in future periods. 

Inventory Reserves 

Inventory is carried at the lower of cost or estimated net realizable value. The Company determines reserves for inventory based on historical usage of inventory on-hand, assumptions about future demand and market conditions, and estimates about potential alternative uses, which are limited. The Company’s inventory consists of finished goods, spare parts, work in process, and raw materials to support ongoing manufacturing operations and the Company’s large installed base of highly specialized oilfield equipment. The Company’s estimated carrying value of inventory depends upon demand largely driven by levels of oil and gas well drilling and remediation activity, which depends in turn upon oil and gas prices, the general outlook for economic growth worldwide, available financing for the Company’s customers, political stability and governmental regulation in major oil and gas producing areas, and the potential obsolescence of various types of equipment we sell, among other factors.  

The Company evaluates inventory quarterly using the best information available at the time to inform our assumptions and estimates about future demand and resulting sales volumes, and recognizes reserves as necessary to properly state inventory. The historically severe oil-industry downturn that started in late 2014 began to stabilize during the second half of 2016, and showed early signs of improvement in many areas in the fourth quarter of 2016 and the first quarter of 2017, before declining slightly in the second quarter of 2017. The fourth quarter of 2017 saw improvement in oil prices. These signs of improvement, including conversations with customers about their plans, as well as inquiries and orders for products, provided the Company information with which to assess and adjust assumptions about future demand and market conditions. We saw clear evidence that a market recovery will favor newer technology and the most efficient equipment, and that certain products across our portfolio, for both land and offshore environments, were less likely to be successful going forward as our customers find footing in their newly competitive landscape. 

Based on an update of our assumptions at each point in time related to estimates of future demand, during 2018, 2017, and 2016 we recorded charges for additions to inventory reserves of $49 million, $114 million, and $606 million, respectively, consisting primarily of obsolete and surplus inventories. At December 31, 2018 and 2017, inventory reserves totaled $644 million and $800 million, or 17.7% and 21.0% of gross inventory, respectively. 

Throughout the downturn the Company has continued to invest in developing and advancing products and technologies, contributing to the obsolescence of certain older products in a dramatically-shifted and more highly competitive recovering market, but also ensuring that the portfolio of products and services offered by the Company will meet customer needs in 2019 and beyond.  

42 

We will continue to assess our inventory levels and inventory offerings for our customers, which could require the Company to record additional allowances to reduce the value of its inventory. Such changes in our estimates or assumptions could be material under weaker market conditions or outlook. 

Impairment of Long-Lived Assets (Excluding Goodwill and Other Indefinite-Lived Intangible Assets) 

Long-lived assets, which include property, plant and equipment and identified intangible assets, comprise a significant amount of the Company’s total assets. The Company makes judgments and estimates in conjunction with the carrying value of these assets, including amounts to be capitalized, depreciation and amortization methods and estimated useful lives. 

The carrying values of these assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amounts may not be recoverable. An impairment loss is recorded in the period in which it is determined that the carrying amount is not recoverable based on estimated future undiscounted cash flows. We estimate the fair value of these intangible and fixed assets using an income approach. This requires the Company to make long-term forecasts of its future revenues and costs related to the assets subject to review. These forecasts require assumptions about demand for the Company’s products and services, future market conditions and technological developments. The forecasts are dependent upon assumptions regarding oil and gas prices, the general outlook for economic growth worldwide, available financing for the Company’s customers, political stability in major oil and gas producing areas, and the potential obsolescence of various types of equipment we sell, among other factors. The financial and credit market volatility directly impacts our fair value measurement through our income forecast. Changes to these assumptions, including, but not limited to: sustained declines in worldwide rig counts below current analysts’ forecasts, collapse of spot and futures prices for oil and gas, significant deterioration of external financing for our customers, higher risk premiums or higher cost of equity, or any other significant adverse economic news could require a provision for impairment in a future period. 

Goodwill and Other Indefinite-Lived Intangible Assets 

The Company has approximately $6.3 billion of goodwill and $0.4 billion of other intangible assets with indefinite lives as of December 31, 2018. Generally accepted accounting principles require the Company to test goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment at least annually or more frequently whenever events or circumstances occur indicating that goodwill or other indefinite-lived intangible assets might be impaired. Events or circumstances which could indicate a potential impairment include (but are not limited to) a significant sustained reduction in worldwide oil and gas prices or drilling; a significant sustained reduction in profitability or cash flow of oil and gas companies or drilling contractors; a sustained reduction in the market capitalization of the Company; a significant sustained reduction in capital investment by drilling companies and oil and gas companies; or a significant sustained increase in worldwide inventories of oil or gas.  

The discounted cash flow is based on management’s forecast of operating performance for each reporting unit. The two main assumptions used in measuring goodwill impairment, which bear the risk of change and could impact the Company’s goodwill impairment analysis, include the cash flow from operations from each of the Company’s individual reporting units and the weighted average cost of capital. The starting point for each of the reporting unit’s cash flow from operations is the detailed annual plan or updated forecast. Cash flows beyond the specific operating plans were estimated using a terminal value calculation, which incorporated historical and forecasted financial cyclical trends for each reporting unit and considered long-term earnings growth rates. The financial and credit market volatility directly impacts our fair value measurement through our weighted average cost of capital that we use to determine our discount rate. During times of volatility, significant judgment must be applied to determine whether credit changes are a short-term or long-term trend. 

While the Company primarily uses the discounted cash flow method to assess fair value, the Company uses the comparable companies and representative transaction methods to validate the discounted cash flow analysis and further support management’s expectations, where possible. The valuation techniques used in the annual test were consistent with those used during previous testing. The inputs used in the annual test were updated for current market conditions and forecasts.  

During the third quarter of 2016, market factors indicated a more prolonged downturn associated with newbuild offshore drilling rigs, and we reduced our forecast accordingly, which indicated a goodwill impairment in the Rig Offshore reporting unit was possible. Based on the Company’s step one interim goodwill impairment analysis as of  

43 

July 1, 2016, the Rig Offshore reporting unit had a calculated fair value below its carrying value, and required a step two analysis, which compares the implied fair value of goodwill of a reporting unit to the carrying value of goodwill for the reporting unit. The implied fair value of goodwill is determined by deducting the fair value of a reporting unit’s identifiable assets and liabilities from the fair value of that reporting unit as a whole. Consistent with the step one analysis, fair value of the assets and liabilities was determined in accordance with ASC Topic 820. Based on the step two analysis performed for the Rig Offshore reporting unit, the Company recorded a $972 million write-down of goodwill during the third quarter of 2016. 

On July 1, 2017, the Company’s Wellbore Technologies segment reorganized three of its reporting units, moving various operations between them. The goodwill impairment analyses performed prior to and subsequent to the restructuring of the three reporting units, concluded that the calculated fair values of these reporting units were substantially in excess of their carrying value. The restructuring had no effect on Wellbore Technologies consolidated financial position and results of operations. 

The Company combined its Rig Systems and Rig Aftermarket reporting units into two different reporting units, Rig Equipment and Marine Construction, under a segment called Rig Technologies, effective October 1, 2017. The restructuring better aligns operations with the current and anticipated market environments, reduces administrative burden, and eliminates reported intercompany transactions between Rig Technologies’ capital equipment and aftermarket operations. The Company tested the Rig Systems and Rig Aftermarket reporting units for impairment prior to combining, and the two, new reporting units under the Rig Technologies segment for impairment after combining, and concluded all fair values of the reporting units were substantially in excess of their carrying values. 

In 2017, based on the Company’s annual impairment test performed as of October 1, the calculated fair values for all of the Company’s reporting units were substantially in excess of the respective reporting unit’s carrying value. Additionally, the fair value for all of the Company’s intangible assets with indefinite lives were substantially in excess of the respective asset carrying values.  

In 2018, based on the annual impairment test, the calculated fair values for all of the Company’s reporting units were substantially in excess of the respective reporting unit’s carrying value with the exception of the Company’s Floating Production Systems business unit. Further deterioration in the offshore turret mooring systems and topside process modules market could lead to an impairment. This business unit has approximately $277 million in goodwill. 

Purchase Price Allocation of Acquisitions 

The Company allocates the purchase price of an acquired business to its identifiable assets and liabilities based on estimated fair values. The excess of the purchase price over the amount allocated to the assets and liabilities, if any, is recorded as goodwill. The Company uses all available information to estimate fair values including quoted market prices, the carrying value of acquired assets, and widely accepted valuation techniques such as discounted cash flows. The Company engages third-party appraisal firms to assist in fair value determination of inventories, identifiable intangible assets, and any other significant assets or liabilities when appropriate. The judgments made in determining the estimated fair value assigned to each class of assets acquired and liabilities assumed, as well as asset lives, could materially impact the Company’s results of operations. 

Service and Product Warranties 

The Company provides service and warranty policies on certain of its products. The Company accrues liabilities under service and warranty policies based upon specific claims and a review of historical warranty and service claim experience. Adjustments are made to accruals as claim data and historical experience change. In addition, the Company incurs discretionary costs to service its products in connection with product performance issues and recognizes them when they are incurred. At December 31, 2018 and 2017, service and product warranty accruals totaled $105 million and $135 million, respectively. 

Income Taxes 

The Company is U.S. registered and is subject to income taxes in the U.S. The Company operates through various subsidiaries in a number of countries throughout the world. Income taxes have been recorded based upon the tax laws and rates of the countries in which the Company operates and income is earned. 

44 

The Company’s annual tax provision is based on taxable income, statutory rates and tax planning opportunities available in the various jurisdictions in which it operates. The determination and evaluation of the annual tax provision and tax positions involves the interpretation of the tax laws in the various jurisdictions in which the Company operates. It requires significant judgment and the use of estimates and assumptions regarding significant future events such as the amount, timing and character of income, deductions and tax credits. Changes in tax laws, regulations, and treaties, foreign currency exchange restrictions or the Company’s level of operations or profitability in each jurisdiction could impact the tax liability in any given year. The Company also operates in many jurisdictions where the tax laws relating to the pricing of transactions between related parties are open to interpretation, which could potentially result in aggressive tax authorities asserting additional tax liabilities with no offsetting tax recovery in other countries. 

The Company maintains liabilities for estimated tax exposures in jurisdictions of operation. The annual tax provision includes the impact of income tax provisions and benefits for changes to liabilities that the Company considers appropriate, as well as related interest. Tax exposure items primarily include potential challenges to intercompany pricing and certain operating expenses that may not be deductible in foreign jurisdictions. These exposures are resolved primarily through the settlement of audits within these tax jurisdictions or by judicial means. The Company is subject to audits by federal, state and foreign jurisdictions which may result in proposed assessments. The Company believes that an appropriate liability has been established for estimated exposures under the guidance in ASC Topic 740 “Income Taxes” (“ASC Topic 740”). However, actual results may differ materially from these estimates. The Company reviews these liabilities quarterly and to the extent audits or other events result in an adjustment to the liability accrued for a prior year, the effect will be recognized in the period of the event. 

The Company currently has recorded valuation allowances that the Company intends to maintain until it is more likely than not the deferred tax assets will be realized. Income tax expense recorded in the future will be reduced to the extent of decreases in the Company’s valuation allowances. The realization of remaining deferred tax assets is primarily dependent on future taxable income. Any reduction in future taxable income including but not limited to any future restructuring activities may require that the Company record an additional valuation allowance against deferred tax assets. An increase in the valuation allowance would result in additional income tax expense in such period and could have a significant impact on future earnings. 

The Company has not provided for deferred taxes on the unremitted earnings of certain subsidiaries that are permanently reinvested. Should the Company make a distribution from the unremitted earnings of these subsidiaries, the Company may be required to record additional taxes. Unremitted earnings of these subsidiaries were $3,254 million at December 31, 2018. The Company makes a determination each period whether to permanently reinvest these earnings. If, as a result of these reassessments, the Company distributes these earnings in the future, additional tax liabilities would result. 

Recently Issued and Recently Adopted Accounting Standards  

See Note 2 – Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Part IV, Item 15 of this Form 10-K) for further discussion. 

Forward–Looking Statements 

Some of the information in this document contains, or has incorporated by reference, forward-looking statements. Statements that are not historical facts, including statements about our beliefs and expectations, are forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements typically are identified by use of terms such as “may,” “will,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “estimate,” and similar words, although some forward-looking statements are expressed differently. All statements herein regarding expected merger synergies are forward looking statements. You should be aware that our actual results could differ materially from results anticipated in the forward-looking statements due to a number of factors, including but not limited to changes in oil and gas prices, customer demand for our products and worldwide economic activity. You should also consider carefully the statements under “Risk Factors” which address additional factors that could cause our actual results to differ from those set forth in the forward-looking statements. Given these uncertainties, current or prospective investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on any such forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to update any such factors or forward-looking statements to reflect future events or developments. 

45 

ITEM 7A.