ITEM 7A.  

QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK 

We are exposed to changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. Additional information concerning each of these matters follows: 

Foreign Currency Exchange Rates 

We have extensive operations in foreign countries. The net assets and liabilities of these operations are exposed to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, although such fluctuations generally do not affect income since their functional currency is typically the local currency. These operations also have net assets and liabilities not denominated in the functional currency, which exposes us to changes in foreign currency exchange rates that impact income. During the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, the Company reported foreign currency losses of $52 million, $3 million and $10 million, respectively. Gains and losses are primarily due to exchange rate fluctuations related to monetary asset balances denominated in currencies other than the functional currency and adjustments to our hedged positions as a result of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Currency fluctuations may create losses in future periods to the extent we maintain net assets and liabilities not denominated in the functional currency of our subsidiaries using the local currency as their functional currency. 

Some of our revenues in foreign countries are denominated in U.S. dollars, and therefore, changes in foreign currency exchange rates impact our earnings to the extent that costs associated with those U.S. dollar revenues are denominated in the local currency. Similarly, some of our revenues are denominated in foreign currencies, but have associated U.S. dollar costs, which also give rise to foreign currency exchange rate exposure. In order to mitigate that risk, we may utilize foreign currency forward contracts to better match the currency of our revenues and associated costs. We do not use foreign currency forward contracts for trading or speculative purposes. 

The Company had other financial market risk sensitive instruments denominated in foreign currencies for transactional exposures totaling $24 million and translation exposures totaling $157 million as of December 31, 2018, excluding trade receivables and payables, which approximate fair value. These market risk sensitive instruments consisted of cash balances and overdraft facilities. The Company estimates that a hypothetical 10% movement of all applicable foreign currency exchange rates on the transactional exposures financial market risk sensitive instruments could affect net income by $2 million and the translational exposures financial market risk sensitive instruments could affect the future fair value by $16 million. 

The counterparties to forward contracts are major financial institutions. The credit ratings and concentration of risk of these financial institutions are monitored on a continuing basis. In the event that the counterparties fail to meet the terms of a foreign currency contract, our exposure is limited to the foreign currency rate differential. 

Interest Rate Risk 

At December 31, 2018, long term borrowings consisted of $1,394 million in 2.60% Senior Notes and $1,088 million in 3.95% Senior Notes, no commercial paper borrowings and no borrowings against our revolving credit facility. Occasionally a portion of borrowings under our credit facility could be denominated in multiple currencies which could expose us to market risk with exchange rate movements. These instruments carry interest at a pre-agreed upon percentage point spread from either LIBOR, NIBOR or CDOR, or at the U.S. prime rate. Under our credit facility, we may, at our option, fix the interest rate for certain borrowings based on a spread over LIBOR, NIBOR or CDOR for 30 days to six months. Our objective is to maintain a portion of our debt in variable rate borrowings for the flexibility obtained regarding early repayment without penalties and lower overall cost as compared with fixed-rate borrowings. 

ITEM 8.