ITEM 7A.QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

We are subject to market risk on our debt instruments primarily due to fluctuations in interest rates. We utilize both fixed-rate and variable-rate debt. For fixed-rate debt, changes in interest rates generally affect the fair value of the debt instrument but not our earnings or cash flows. Conversely, for variable-rate debt, changes in interest rates generally do not affect the fair value of the debt instrument but could affect our earnings and cash flows. Except in very limited circumstances, we do not have an obligation to prepay our debt prior to maturity. As a result, interest rate risk and changes in fair value should not have a significant impact on our fixed-rate debt until we are required or elect to refinance or repurchase such debt.

The following tables set forth the principal cash flows by scheduled maturity, weighted-average interest rates, and estimated fair value of our debt obligations as of December 31, 2018 and 2017 ($000’s omitted).

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a) Includes the Pulte Mortgage Repurchase Agreement. There were no amounts outstanding under our Revolving Credit Facility at either December 31, 2018 or 2017.

Derivative instruments and hedging activities

Pulte Mortgage is exposed to market risks from commitments to lend, movements in interest rates, and canceled or modified commitments to lend. A commitment to lend at a specific interest rate (an interest rate lock commitment) is a derivative financial instrument (interest rate is locked to the borrower). The interest rate risk continues through the loan closing and until the loan is sold to an investor. We are generally not exposed to variability in cash flows of derivative instruments for more than approximately 60 days. In periods of rising interest rates, the length of exposure will generally increase due to customers locking in an interest rate sooner as opposed to letting the interest rate float. In periods of low or decreasing interest rates, the length of exposure will also generally increase as customers desire to lock before the possibility of rising rates. 

 40

In order to reduce these risks, we use other derivative financial instruments, principally cash forward placement contracts on mortgage-backed securities and whole loan investor commitments, to economically hedge the interest rate lock commitment. We generally enter into one of the aforementioned derivative financial instruments upon accepting interest rate lock commitments. Changes in the fair value of interest rate lock commitments and the other derivative financial instruments are recognized in Financial Services revenues. We do not use any derivative financial instruments for trading purposes. 

At December 31, 2018 and 2017, residential mortgage loans available-for-sale had an aggregate fair value of $461.4 million and $570.6 million, respectively. At December 31, 2018 and 2017, we had aggregate interest rate lock commitments of $285.0 million and $210.9 million, respectively, which were originated at interest rates prevailing at the date of commitment. Unexpired forward contracts totaled $511.0 million and $522.0 million at December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively, and whole loan investor commitments totaled $187.8 million and $203.1 million, respectively, at such dates. Hypothetical changes in the fair values of our financial instruments arising from immediate parallel shifts in long-term mortgage rates would not be material to our financial results due to the offsetting nature in the movements in fair value of our financial instruments.

SPECIAL NOTES CONCERNING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

As a cautionary note, except for the historical information contained herein, certain matters discussed in Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk, are “forward-looking” statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause our actual results, performance, prospects or opportunities, as well as those of the markets we serve or intend to serve, to differ materially from those expressed in, or implied by, these statements. You can identify these statements by the fact that they do not relate to matters of a strictly factual or historical nature and generally discuss or relate to forecasts, estimates or other expectations regarding future events. Generally, the words “believe,” “expect,” “intend,” “estimate,” “anticipate,” “plan,” “project,” “may,” “can,” “could,” “might,” "should", “will” and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements, including statements related to the impairment charge with respect to certain land parcels and the impacts or effects thereof, expected operating and performing results, planned transactions, planned objectives of management, future developments or conditions in the industries in which we participate and other trends, developments and uncertainties that may affect our business in the future. 

Such risks, uncertainties and other factors include, among other things: interest rate changes and the availability of mortgage financing; competition within the industries in which we operate; the availability and cost of land and other raw materials used by us in our homebuilding operations; the impact of any changes to our strategy in responding to the cyclical nature of the industry, including any changes regarding our land positions and the levels of our land spend; the availability and cost of insurance covering risks associated with our businesses; shortages and the cost of labor; weather related slowdowns; slow growth initiatives and/or local building moratoria; governmental regulation directed at or affecting the housing market, the homebuilding industry or construction activities; uncertainty in the mortgage lending industry, including revisions to underwriting standards and repurchase requirements associated with the sale of mortgage loans; the interpretation of or changes to tax, labor and environmental laws, including, but not limited to the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act which could have a greater impact on our effective tax rate or the value of our deferred tax assets than we anticipate; economic changes nationally or in our local markets, including inflation, deflation, changes in consumer confidence and preferences and the state of the market for homes in general; legal or regulatory proceedings or claims; our ability to generate sufficient cash flow in order to successfully implement our capital allocation priorities; required accounting changes; terrorist acts and other acts of war; and other factors of national, regional and global scale, including those of a political, economic, business and competitive nature. See Item 1A – Risk Factors for a further discussion of these and other risks and uncertainties applicable to our businesses. We undertake no duty to update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or changes in our expectations. 

 41

 ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA