PART I

ITEM 1.BUSINESS

General

Pioneer is a large independent oil and gas exploration and production company that explores for, develops and produces oil, NGLs and gas within the United States, with operations primarily in the Permian Basin in West Texas. The Company is a Delaware corporation, and its common stock has been listed and traded on the NYSE under the ticker symbol "PXD" since its formation in 1997.

The Company's principal executive office is located at 5205 N. O'Connor Blvd., Suite 200, Irving, Texas 75039. The Company also maintains an office in Midland, Texas and field offices in its areas of operation. 

At December 31, 2018, Pioneer had 3,177 employees, 1,006 of whom were employed in field and plant operations and 618 of whom were employed in vertical integration activities.

Available Information

Pioneer files or furnishes annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other documents with the SEC under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act"). The SEC maintains a website (www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers, including Pioneer, that file electronically with the SEC. 

The Company makes available free of charge through its website (www.pxd.com) its Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and, if applicable, amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after it electronically files such material with, or furnishes it to, the SEC. In addition to the reports filed or furnished with the SEC, Pioneer publicly discloses information from time to time in its press releases, investor presentations posted on its website and in publicly accessible conferences. Such information, including information posted on or connected to the Company's website, is not a part of, or incorporated by reference in, this Report or any other document the Company files with or furnishes to the SEC.

Mission and Strategies

The Company's mission is to be America's leading independent energy company, focused on value, safety, the environment, technology and our greatest asset, our people. The Company's long-term growth strategy is centered around the following strategic objectives:

•maintaining a strong balance sheet to ensure financial flexibility; 

•delivering economic production and reserve growth; 

•enhancing drilling, completion and production activities by utilizing the Company's scale and technology advancements to reduce costs and improve efficiency;

•developing and training employees and contractors to perform their jobs in a safe manner; and

•stewarding the environment through industry leading sustainable development efforts.

The Company's long-term strategy is primarily anchored by the Company's interests in the long-lived Spraberry/Wolfcamp oil field located in the Permian Basin in West Texas, which has an estimated remaining productive life in excess of 40 years. Underlying the Spraberry/Wolfcamp field is 93 percent of the Company's total proved oil and gas reserves as of December 31, 2018. 

In February 2018, the Company announced its intention to divest its properties in the South Texas, Raton Basin and West Panhandle fields and focus its efforts and capital resources on its Permian Basin assets. In 2018, the Company completed the following divestitures:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

6
PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

The Company continues to actively market its remaining South Texas assets (Eagle Ford Shale gas and liquids field and Edwards gas field). No assurance can be given that the remaining planned divestitures will be completed in accordance with the Company's plans or on terms and at prices acceptable to the Company.

Business Activities

Pioneer's purpose is to competitively and profitably explore for, develop and produce oil and gas reserves. In so doing, the Company sells homogeneous oil, NGL and gas units that, except for geographic and relatively minor quality differences, cannot be significantly differentiated from units offered for sale by the Company's competitors. The Company's portfolio of resources and opportunities are primarily located in the Spraberry/Wolfcamp oil field, and provide long-lived, dependable production and lower-risk exploration and development opportunities. 

Petroleum industry. Over the past several years, the oil price environment has been characterized by high volatility. During 2018, Brent oil prices rose to a high of $86.29 per barrel in early October 2018, only to fall late in the fourth quarter to a low of $50.47 per barrel due to concerns over a worldwide oversupply of oil, in large part resulting from dramatic increases in U.S. shale oil production. Additionally, concerns about the potential for slower growth in U.S. and global gross domestic products, which would likely be accompanied by lower oil demand, has contributed to the downward pressure. Recently, the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries ("OPEC") members and some nonmembers, including Russia, have renewed pledges to reduce planned production in an effort to draw down a global oversupply and to rebalance supply and demand. Geopolitical factors may also be price-supportive, with the United States having issued sanctions against Iran, although the impact of those sanctions has been muted by waivers. The Company expects ongoing oil price volatility as compliance with the output reduction agreements, changes in oil inventories, extensions to Iranian waivers and actual demand growth is reported.

The growth of unconventional shale drilling in the United States has substantially increased the supply of gas and NGLs, resulting in a significant decline in related prices as the supply of these products has grown. While the industry has invested in initiatives designed to increase takeaway capacity, such as the construction of liquefied natural gas ("LNG") and NGL export facilities, the supply of these products has increased at a faster pace than the overall United States and international demand for these commodities. NGL products and gas supplies are expected to continue to increase during 2019 and prices are expected to remain volatile.

Significant factors that are likely to affect 2019 commodity prices include: the effect of U.S. energy, monetary and trade policies; fiscal challenges facing the United States federal government; the pace of economic growth in the U.S. and throughout the world, including the potential for macro weakness; geopolitical and economic developments in the U.S. and globally; the extent to which members of OPEC and other oil exporting nations adhere to and agree to extend the agreed oil production cuts; the supply and demand fundamentals for NGLs in the United States and the pace at which export capacity grows; and overall North American gas supply and demand fundamentals, including incremental LNG export capacity additions. Because the global economic and political outlook and commodity price environment are uncertain, the Company endeavors to maintain a strong financial liquidity position to support its financial flexibility.

Pioneer enters into pipeline capacity commitments in order to secure available oil, NGL and gas transportation capacity from the Company's areas of production with the objective of transporting a portion of the Company's oil and gas sales to higher priced markets. Specifically, the Company has entered into purchase transactions with third parties and separate sale transactions with third parties to diversify a portion of the Company's oil sales to the Gulf Coast refinery or international export markets and to satisfy unused gas pipeline capacity commitments. These marketing activities provided incremental cash flow of $458 million in 2018, compared to cash outlays of $31 million and $64 million in 2017 and 2016, respectively. Additionally the Company uses commodity derivative contracts to mitigate the effect of commodity price volatility on the Company's net cash provided by operating activities and its net asset value. The Company has entered into derivative contracts for only a small portion of its forecasted 2019 production; consequently, if commodity prices decline, the Company could realize lower prices for volumes not protected by the Company's derivative activities and could see a reduction in derivative contract prices available on additional volumes in the future. As a result, the Company's internal cash flows will be negatively impacted by a reduction in commodity prices or to the extent that sales prices do not cover the third-party purchase price and cost of transportation for that portion of volumes transported to other markets. See "Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk" and Note 5 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" for additional information.

Liquidity. The Company's primary needs for cash are for (i) capital expenditures, (ii) acquisitions of oil and gas properties, (iii) payments of contractual obligations, including debt maturities, (iv) dividends and share repurchases and (v) working capital obligations. Funding for these cash needs may be provided by any combination of the Company's primary sources of liquidity including: (i) cash and cash equivalents, (ii) net cash provided by operating activities, (iii) sales of short-term and long-term investments, (iv) proceeds from divestitures, (iv) unused borrowing capacity under its credit facility, (v) issuances of debt or equity securities and (vi) other sources, such as sales of nonstrategic assets. Although the Company expects that these sources of funding 

7
PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

will be adequate to fund its 2019 capital expenditures, dividend payments and provide adequate liquidity to fund other needs, including stock repurchases, no assurance can be given that such funding sources will be adequate to meet the Company's future needs. 

Production. The Company focuses its efforts towards maximizing its average daily production of oil, NGLs and gas through development drilling, production enhancement activities and acquisitions of producing properties, while minimizing controllable costs associated with production activities. For the year ended December 31, 2018, the Company's production of 117 MMBOE, excluding field fuel usage, represented a 17 percent increase compared to production during 2017. See "Item 2. Properties — Selected Oil and Gas Information — Production, price and cost data" for additional information.

Drilling activities. The Company believes that its current property base provides a substantial inventory of prospects for future reserve, production and cash flow growth. 

Development activities. The Company seeks to increase its proved oil and gas reserves, production and cash flow through development drilling and by conducting other production enhancement activities, such as well recompletions. The Company's proved reserves as of December 31, 2018 include proved undeveloped reserves and proved developed non-producing reserves of 55 MMBbls of oil, 24 MMBbls of NGL and 142 Bcf of gas. The timing of the development of these proved reserves will be dependent upon commodity prices, drilling and operating costs and the Company's expected operating cash flows and financial condition. During the three years ended December 31, 2018, the Company drilled 801 gross (701 net) exploration and development wells, with 98 percent of the wells (99 percent of net wells) being successfully completed as productive wells, at a total drilling cost (net to the Company's interest) of $8.2 billion, including infrastructure capital.

Exploratory activities. The Company has devoted significant efforts and resources to hiring and developing a highly skilled geoscience, engineering and land staff as well as acquiring a significant portfolio of lower-risk exploration opportunities that are expected to be evaluated and tested over the next decade and beyond. Exploratory and extension drilling involve greater risks of dry holes or failure to find commercial quantities of hydrocarbons than development drilling or enhanced recovery activities.

Acquisition activities. The Company regularly seeks to acquire or trade for properties that complement its operations, provide exploration and development opportunities, increase the lateral length of future horizontal wells and potentially provide superior returns on investment. The Company periodically evaluates and pursues acquisition and acreage trade opportunities (including opportunities to acquire particular oil and gas assets or entities owning oil and gas assets and opportunities to engage in mergers, consolidations or other business combinations with such entities) and at any given time may be in various stages of evaluating such opportunities. Such stages may take the form of internal financial analyses, oil and gas reserve analyses, due diligence, the submission of indications of interest, preliminary negotiations, negotiations of letters of intent or negotiations of definitive agreements. The success of any acquisition or acreage trade is uncertain and depends on a number of factors, some of which are outside the Company's control.

During 2018, 2017 and 2016, the Company spent $65 million, $136 million and $446 million, respectively, primarily to purchase undeveloped acreage for future exploitation and exploration activities in the Spraberry/Wolfcamp field of the Permian Basin. See Note 3 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" for additional information. 

Integrated Services. The Company continues to utilize its integrated services to control well costs and operating costs in addition to supporting the execution of its drilling and production activities. The Company owns field service equipment that supports its drilling and production operations, including pulling units, fracture stimulation tanks, water transport trucks, hot oilers, blowout preventers, construction equipment and fishing tools. 

The Company continues to construct a field-wide water distribution system to reduce the cost of water for drilling and completion activities and to secure adequate supplies of water to support the Company's long-term growth plan for the Spraberry/Wolfcamp field. During 2018, the Company expanded its mainline system, subsystems and frac ponds to efficiently deliver water to Pioneer's drilling locations. The Company is purchasing approximately 120 thousand barrels per day of effluent water from the City of Odessa and has signed an agreement with the City of Midland to upgrade the city's wastewater treatment plant in return for a dedicated long-term supply of water from the plant. Once the upgrade to the wastewater treatment plant is complete, the Company expects to receive approximately two billion barrels of low-cost, non-potable water over a 28-year contract period (up to 240 thousand barrels per day) to support its drilling and completion activities.

In November 2018, the Company announced plans to close its sand mine located in Brady, Texas and transition its proppant supply requirements to West Texas sand sources. During 2018, the Company recorded $443 million of accelerated depreciation and $7 million of employee-related charges associated with the pending shutdown.

8
PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

Asset divestitures. The Company regularly reviews its asset base to identify nonstrategic assets, the disposition of which would increase capital resources available for other activities, create organizational and operational efficiencies and further the Company's objective of maintaining a strong balance sheet to ensure financial flexibility. 

Oil and gas activities. In February 2018, the Company announced its intention to divest its properties in the South Texas, Raton Basin and West Panhandle fields and focus its efforts and capital resources on its Permian Basin assets. 

In December 2018, the Company completed the sale of approximately 2,900 net acres in the Sinor Nest (Lower Wilcox) oil field in South Texas to an unaffiliated third party for cash proceeds of $105 million, after normal closing adjustments. During 2018, the Company recorded a gain of $54 million associated with the sale.

In August 2018, the Company completed the sale of its assets in the West Panhandle gas and liquids field to an unaffiliated third party for net cash proceeds of $170 million, after normal closing adjustments. The assets sold represent all of the Company's interests in the field, including all of its producing wells and the associated infrastructure. During 2018, the Company recorded a gain of $127 million and employee-related charges of $7 million associated with sale. 

In July 2018, the Company completed the sale of its gas field assets in the Raton Basin to an unaffiliated third party for net cash proceeds of $54 million, after normal closing adjustments. The Company recorded a noncash impairment charge of $77 million in June 2018 to reduce the carrying value of its Raton Basin assets to their estimated fair value less costs to sell as the assets were considered held for sale. During 2018, the Company recorded a gain of $2 million associated with this divestiture. The Company also recorded divestiture-related charges of $117 million, including $111 million of deficiency charges related to certain firm transportation contracts retained by the Company and employee-related charges of $6 million.

In April 2018, the Company completed the sale of approximately 10,200 net acres in the West Eagle Ford Shale gas and liquids field to an unaffiliated third party for net cash proceeds of $100 million, after normal closing adjustments. During 2018, the Company recorded a gain of $75 million associated with the sale. 

In April 2017, the Company completed the sale of approximately 20,500 acres in the Martin County region of the Permian Basin, with net production of approximately 1,500 BOEPD, to an unaffiliated third party for net cash proceeds of $264 million. The sale resulted in a gain of $194 million.

The Company continues to actively market its remaining South Texas assets (Eagle Ford Shale gas and liquids field and Edwards gas field) and will continue to review its acreage in the Permian Basin and negotiate with other operators in the area to sell or trade nonstrategic properties to achieve operating efficiencies and to improve profitability. No assurance can be given that these divestitures or trades will be completed in accordance with the Company's plans or on terms and at prices acceptable to the Company. See Note 3 and Note 4 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" for additional information. 

Integrated services activities. In December 2018, the Company completed the sale of its pressure pumping assets to ProPetro Holding Corp. ("ProPetro") in exchange for total consideration of $282 million, comprised of $110 million of short-term receivables to be paid by ProPetro during the first quarter of 2019 and 16.6 million shares of ProPetro's common stock. The Company recorded a gain of $30 million, employee-related charges of $19 million, contract termination charges of $13 million and other divestiture-related charges of $6 million associated with the sale. 

Marketing of Production

General. Production from the Company's properties is marketed using methods that are consistent with industry practices. Sales prices for oil, NGL and gas production are negotiated based on factors normally considered in the industry, such as an index or spot price, price regulations, distance from the well to the pipeline, commodity quality and prevailing supply and demand conditions. See "Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk" for additional information.

Seasonal nature of business. Generally, but not always, the demand for gas decreases during the summer months and increases during the winter months. Seasonal anomalies such as mild winters or hot summers may impact general seasonal changes in demand. 

Significant purchasers. During 2018, the Company's significant purchasers of oil, NGL and gas produced by the Company were Sunoco Logistics Partners L.P. (28 percent), Occidental Energy Marketing Inc. (17 percent) and Plains Marketing L.P. (15 percent). The loss of a significant purchaser or an inability to secure adequate pipeline, gas plant and NGL fractionation infrastructure for its Permian Basin production could have a material adverse effect on the Company's ability to produce and sell its oil, NGL and gas production. 

9
PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

During 2018, the Company's significant purchaser of oil and gas purchased from third parties was Occidental Energy Marketing Inc. (34 percent). No other purchaser of oil or gas purchased by the Company from third parties exceeded ten percent during 2018. The loss of a significant purchaser of purchased oil and gas would not be expected to have a material adverse effect on the Company's ability to sell commodities it purchases from third parties.

See Note 12 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" for additional information.

Derivative risk management activities. The Company primarily utilizes commodity swap contracts, collar contracts and collar contracts with short puts that are intended to (i) reduce the effect of price volatility on the commodities the Company produces and sells or consumes, (ii) support the Company's annual capital budgeting and expenditure plans and (iii) reduce commodity price risk associated with certain capital projects. From time to time, the Company also utilizes interest rate derivative contracts intended to reduce the effect of interest rate volatility on the Company's indebtedness. 

The Company enters into pipeline capacity commitments in order to secure available oil, NGL and gas transportation capacity from the Company's areas of production. The Company enters into purchase transaction with third parties and separate sale transactions with third parties to diversify a portion of the Company's oil sales to the Gulf Coast refinery or international export markets and to satisfy unused gas pipeline capacity commitments. 

See "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," "Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk" and Note 5 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" for additional information.

Competition, Markets and Regulations

Competition. The oil and gas industry is highly competitive in the exploration for and acquisition of reserves, the acquisition of oil and gas leases, marketing of oil, NGL and gas production and the obtaining of equipment and services and the hiring and retention of staff necessary for the identification, evaluation, operation and acquisition and development of such properties. The Company's competitors include a large number of companies, including major integrated oil and gas companies, other independent oil and gas companies, and individuals engaged in the exploration for and development of oil and gas properties. To a lesser extent, the Company also faces competition from companies that supply alternative sources of energy, such as wind and solar power.

Competitive advantage is gained in the oil and gas exploration and development industry by employing well-trained and experienced personnel who make prudent capital investment decisions based on management direction, embrace technological innovation and are focused on price and cost management. The Company has a team of dedicated employees who represent the professional disciplines and sciences that the Company believes are necessary to allow Pioneer to maximize the long-term profitability and net asset value inherent in its physical assets. 

See "Item 1A. Risk Factors - The Company faces significant competition and some of its competitors have resources in excess of the Company's available resources" for additional information.

Markets. The Company's ability to produce and market oil, NGL and gas profitably depends on numerous factors beyond the Company's control. The effect of these factors cannot be accurately predicted or anticipated. Although the Company cannot predict the occurrence of events that may affect commodity prices or the degree to which commodity prices will be affected, the prices for any commodity that the Company produces will generally approximate current market prices in the geographic region of the production unless the Company effectively enhances margins through marketing and derivative arrangements.

Securities regulations. Enterprises that sell securities in public markets are subject to regulatory oversight by agencies such as the SEC and the NYSE. This regulatory oversight imposes on the Company many requirements, including the responsibility for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting, and ensuring that the financial statements and other information included in submissions to the SEC do not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made in such submissions not misleading. Failure to comply with the rules and regulations of the SEC could subject the Company to litigation from public or private plaintiffs. Failure to comply with the rules of the NYSE could result in the de-listing of the Company's common stock, which would have an adverse effect on the market price and liquidity of the Company's common stock. Compliance with some of these rules and regulations is costly, and regulations are subject to change or reinterpretation.

 Environmental and occupational health and safety matters. The Company's operations are subject to stringent federal, state and local laws and regulations governing worker health and safety, the discharge of materials into the environment and environmental protection. Numerous governmental entities, including the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (the "EPA"), the U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Administration ("OSHA") and analogous state agencies, have the power to enforce 

10
PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

compliance with these laws and regulations and the permits issued under them, which may cause the Company to incur significant capital expenditures or take costly actions to achieve and maintain compliance. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the assessment of sanctions, including administrative, civil and criminal penalties, imposition of investigatory remedial or corrective action of obligations, the occurrence of delays or restrictions in permitting or the performance of projects and the issuance of orders enjoining the Company from conducting certain operations in a particular area. While the Company's environmental compliance costs have historically not had a material adverse effect on its results of operations, there can be no assurance that such costs will not be material in the future, or that new or more stringently applied laws and regulations will not materially increase the cost of doing business.

The following is a summary of the more significant environmental and worker health and safety laws, as amended from time to time, to which the Company's business operations are or may be subject and with which compliance or the failure to maintain compliance may have a material adverse effect on the Company's capital expenditures, results of operations or financial position.

Hazardous wastes and substances. The federal Resource Conservation and Recovery Act ("RCRA") and comparable state statutes regulate the generation, transportation, treatment, storage, disposal and cleanup of hazardous and non-hazardous wastes. Under the authority delegated by the EPA, the individual states administer some or all of the provisions of RCRA, sometimes in conjunction with their own, more stringent requirements. The Company generates some amounts of ordinary industrial wastes that may be regulated as RCRA hazardous wastes. RCRA currently excludes from the definition of hazardous waste drilling fluids, produced waters and certain other wastes associated with the exploration, development and production of oil or gas. These wastes are instead regulated under RCRA's less stringent non-hazardous waste provisions. There have been efforts from time to time to remove this exclusion, which removal could have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations and financial position, and it is possible that certain oil and gas exploration and production wastes now classified as non-hazardous could be classified as hazardous waste in the future. 

The federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act ("CERCLA"), also known as the Superfund law, and analogous state laws impose joint and several liability, without regard to fault or legality of conduct, on classes of persons who are considered to be responsible for the release of a "hazardous substance" into the environment. These persons include the current and past owner or operator of the site where the release occurred, and anyone who disposed or arranged for the disposal of a hazardous substance released at the site. Under CERCLA, such persons may be subject to joint and several liability for the costs of cleaning up the hazardous substances that have been released into the environment, for damages to natural resources and for the costs of certain health studies. CERCLA also authorizes the EPA and, in some instances, third parties to act in response to threats to public health or the environment and to seek to recover from the responsible classes of persons the costs they incur. It is not uncommon for neighboring landowners and other third-parties to file claims for personal injury and property damage allegedly caused by the hazardous substances released into the environment. The Company generates materials in the course of its operations that may be regulated as CERCLA hazardous substances.

See "Item 1A. Risk Factors - The nature of the Company's assets and production operations may impact the environment or cause environmental contamination, which could result in material liabilities to the Company" for additional information.

Water use, surface discharges and discharges into underground formations. The federal Water Pollution Control Act, also known as the Clean Water Act (the "CWA"), and analogous state laws impose restrictions and strict controls with respect to the discharge of pollutants, including spills and leaks of oil and hazardous substances, into waters of the United States and state waters. Spill prevention, control and countermeasure plan requirements imposed under the CWA require appropriate containment berms and similar structures to help prevent the contamination of navigable waters in the event of a petroleum hydrocarbon spill, rupture or leak. Additionally, the CWA and analogous state laws require individual permits or coverage under general permits for discharges of stormwater runoff from certain types of facilities. The CWA also prohibits the discharge of dredge and fill material into regulated waters, including wetlands, unless authorized by an appropriately issued permit. Federal and state regulatory agencies can impose administrative, civil and criminal penalties, as well as require remedial or mitigation measures, for noncompliance with discharge permits or other requirements of the CWA and analogous state laws. 

The federal Oil Pollution Act ("OPA") sets minimum standards for prevention, containment and cleanup of oil spills into waters of the United States. Under OPA, responsible parties, including owners and operators of onshore facilities, such as exploration and production facilities, may be held strictly liable for oil spill cleanup costs and natural resource damages as well as a variety of public and private damages that may result from oil spills. OPA amends the CWA and thus noncompliance with OPA could result in civil and criminal penalties under the CWA.

The Company may dispose of produced water from oil and gas activities in underground wells, which are designed and permitted to place the water into non-productive geologic formations that are isolated from fresh water sources. The Underground Injection Control ("UIC") program established under the federal Safe Drinking Water Act ("SDWA") requires issuance of permits 

11
PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

from the EPA or an analogous state agency for the construction and operation of disposal wells. Additionally, the UIC program establishes minimum standards for disposal well operations and restricts the types and quantities of fluids that may be disposed. Because some states have become concerned that the disposal of produced water into underground formations could contribute to seismicity, they have adopted or are considering adopting additional regulations governing such disposal. Should future onerous regulations or bans relating to underground wells be placed in effect in areas where the Company has significant operations, there could be an adverse impact on the Company's ability to operate. 

See "Item 1A. Risk Factors - The Company's operations are subject to stringent environmental, oil and gas-related and occupational safety and health laws and regulations that could cause it to delay, curtail or cease its operations or expose it to material costs and liabilities" and "Item 1A. Risk Factors - The Company's operations are substantially dependent upon the availability of water and its ability to dispose of produced water gathered from drilling and production activities. Restrictions on the Company's ability to obtain water or dispose of produced water may have a material adverse effect on its financial condition, results of operations and cash flows" for additional information.

Hydraulic fracturing. Hydraulic fracturing is an important and common practice to stimulate production of oil and gas from dense subsurface rock formations. The process involves the injection of water, sand and additives under pressure into targeted subsurface formations to fracture the surrounding rock and stimulate oil and gas production. The Company routinely conducts hydraulic fracturing in its drilling and completion programs. The process is typically regulated by state oil and gas commissions, but, in recent years, several federal, state and local agencies have asserted regulatory authority over certain aspects of the process. Additionally, from time to time, the U.S. Congress has considered legislation that would provide for federal regulation of hydraulic fracturing and disclosure of chemicals used in the fracturing process but, to date, no such federal legislation has been adopted. The Company participates in FracFocus, a national publicly accessible internet-based registry that provides the public access to Company-reported information on the additives it uses in the hydraulic fracturing process on wells the Company operates. In the event federal, state or local restrictions are adopted in areas where the Company is currently conducting operations, or in the future plans to conduct operations, the Company may incur additional costs to comply with such requirements that may be significant in nature, experience delays, curtailment or a cessation in the pursuit of exploration, development or production activities, and be limited or precluded in the drilling of wells or the volume that the Company is ultimately able to produce from its reserves.

See "Item 1A. Risk Factors - Laws and regulations regarding hydraulic fracturing, as well as governmental reviews of such activities, could result in increased costs and additional operating restrictions, delays or cancellations and have a material adverse effect on the Company's production" and "Item 1A. Risk Factors - The Company's sand mining operations and hydraulic fracturing may result in silica-related health issues and litigation that could have a material adverse effect on the Company" for additional information.

Air emissions. The federal Clean Air Act (the "CAA") and comparable state laws regulate emissions of various air pollutants through air emissions permitting programs and the imposition of other compliance requirements. Such laws and regulations could require a facility to obtain pre-approval for construction or modification projects expected to produce new air pollutant emissions or result in the increase of existing air pollutant emissions. Additionally, these legal requirements could impose stringent air permit conditions or utilize specific emission control technologies to limit emissions of certain air pollutants. Federal and state regulatory agencies can also impose administrative, civil and criminal penalties for noncompliance with air permits or other requirements of the CAA and associated state laws and regulations. 

See "Item 1A. Risk Factors - The Company's operations are subject to stringent environmental, oil and gas-related and occupational safety and health laws and regulations that could cause it to delay, curtail or cease its operations or expose it to material costs and liabilities" for additional information.

Climate change. Climate change continues to attract considerable public, political and scientific attention. As a result, numerous proposals have been made, and are likely to continue to be made, at the international, national, regional and state levels of government to monitor and limit emissions of GHGs. These efforts have included consideration of cap-and-trade programs, carbon taxes, GHG reporting and tracking programs, and regulations that directly limit GHG emissions from certain sources. The adoption and implementation of any federal or state legislation or regulations that require reporting of GHGs or otherwise restrict emissions of GHGs from the Company's equipment and operations could require the Company to incur increased operating costs, such as costs to purchase and operate emissions control systems, acquire emissions allowances or comply with new regulatory or reporting requirements. 

See "Item 1A. Risk Factors - Climate change legislation and regulatory initiatives restricting emissions of GHGs could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for the oil, NGL and gas the Company produces, while the potential physical effects of climate change could disrupt the Company's production and cause it to incur significant costs" for additional information.

12
PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

Endangered species. The federal Endangered Species Act (the "ESA") and analogous state laws regulate activities that could have an adverse effect on species listed as threatened or endangered under the ESA. Some of the Company's operations are conducted in areas where protected species or their habitats are known to exist. In these areas, the Company may be obligated to develop and implement plans to avoid potential adverse effects to protected species and their habitats, and the Company may be delayed, restricted or prohibited from conducting operations in certain locations or during certain seasons, such as breeding and nesting seasons, when the Company's operations could have an adverse effect on the species. It is also possible that a federal or state agency could order a complete halt to drilling activities in certain locations if it is determined that such activities may have a serious adverse effect on a protected species. 

See "Item 1A. Risk Factors - Laws and regulations pertaining to protection of threatened and endangered species or to critical habitat, wetlands and natural resources could delay, restrict or prohibit the Company's operations and cause it to incur substantial costs that may have a material adverse effect on the Company's development and production of reserves" for additional information. 

Activities on federal lands. Oil and gas exploration, development and production activities on federal lands are subject to the National Environmental Policy Act ("NEPA"). NEPA requires federal agencies, including the federal Bureau of Land Management (the "BLM"), to evaluate major agency actions having the potential to significantly impact the environment. In the course of such evaluations, an agency will prepare an Environmental Assessment that assesses the potential direct, indirect and cumulative impacts of a proposed project and, if necessary, will prepare a more detailed Environmental Impact Statement that may be made available for public review and comment. Currently, the Company has minimal exploration and production activities on federal lands. However, for those current activities, as well as for future or proposed exploration and development plans on federal lands, governmental permits or authorizations that are subject to the requirements of NEPA are required. This process has the potential to delay or limit, or increase the cost of, the development of some of the Company's oil and gas projects. Authorizations under NEPA are also subject to protest, appeal or litigation, any or all of which may delay or halt projects. Moreover, depending on the mitigation strategies recommended in the Environmental Assessments, the Company could incur added costs, which could be substantial.

Occupational health and safety. The Company's operations are subject to the requirements of the federal Occupational Safety and Health Act and comparable state statutes. These laws and the implementing regulations issued by OSHA strictly govern the protection of the health and safety of employees. The OSHA hazard communication standard, the EPA community right-to-know regulations under Title III of CERCLA and similar state statutes require that the Company organize or disclose information about hazardous materials used or produced in the Company's operations. 

Additionally, the Company's sand mining operations are subject to mining safety regulation. The U.S. Mining Safety and Health Administration (the "MSHA") is the primary regulatory organization that regulates quarries, surface mines, underground mines and the industrial mineral processing facilities associated with and located at quarries and mines. The Company's sand mining operations are subject to the Federal Mine Safety and Health Act of 1977, as amended by the Mine Improvement and New Emergency Response Act of 2006, which imposes stringent health and safety standards on numerous aspects of mineral extraction and processing operations, including the training of personnel, operating procedures, operating equipment and other matters.

OSHA amended its legal requirements in 2016, publishing a final rule that established a more stringent permissible exposure to respirable crystalline silica and provides other provisions to protect employees. This final rule required compliance with most applicable requirements by various industry sectors, including the hydraulic fracturing sector, by June 2018. Respirable silica is a known health hazard for workers exposed over long periods. The MSHA has considered the adoption of similar rules, but thus far no such rulemaking has been issued. If any new rule were issued by the MSHA that significantly lowered the workplace exposure limit to respirable crystalline silica, the Company could experience significantly higher costs for sand and pressure pumping services.

See "Item 1A. Risk Factors - The Company's operations are subject to stringent environmental, oil and gas-related and occupational safety and health laws and regulations that could cause it to delay, curtail or cease its operations or expose it to material costs and liabilities" and "Item 1A. Risk Factors - The Company's sand mining operations and hydraulic fracturing may result in silica-related health issues and litigation that could have a material adverse effect on the Company" for additional information.

Other regulation of the oil and gas industry. The oil and gas industry is regulated by numerous federal, state and local authorities. Legislation affecting the oil and gas industry is under constant review for amendment or expansion, frequently increasing the regulatory burden. Also, numerous federal and state departments and agencies are authorized by statute to issue rules and regulations that are binding on the oil and gas industry and its individual members, some of which carry substantial penalties for failure to comply. Although the regulatory burden on the oil and gas industry may increase the Company's cost of doing business by increasing the cost of production, the Company believes that these burdens generally do not affect the Company any differently 

13
PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

or to any greater or lesser extent than they affect other companies in the industry with similar types, quantities and locations of production.

Development and production. Development and production operations are subject to various types of regulation at the federal, state and local levels. These types of regulation include requiring permits for the drilling of wells, the posting of bonds in connection with various types of activities and filing reports concerning operations. Most states, and some counties and municipalities, in which the Company operates also regulate one or more of the following:

•the location of wells;

•the method of drilling and casing wells;

•the method and ability to fracture stimulate wells;

•the surface use and restoration of properties upon which wells are drilled;

•the plugging and abandoning of wells; and

•notice to surface owners and other third parties.

State laws regulate the size and shape of drilling and spacing units or proration units governing the pooling of oil and gas properties. Some states allow forced pooling or integration of tracts to facilitate development, while other states rely on voluntary pooling of lands and leases. In some instances, forced pooling or unitization may be implemented by third parties and may reduce the Company's interest in the unitized properties. In addition, state conservation laws establish maximum rates of production from oil and gas wells, generally prohibit the venting or flaring of gas and impose requirements regarding production rates. These laws and regulations may limit the amount of oil and gas the Company can produce from the Company's wells or limit the number of wells or the locations that the Company can drill. Moreover, each state generally imposes a production or severance tax with respect to the production and sale of oil, NGL and gas within its jurisdiction. States do not regulate wellhead prices or engage in other similar direct regulation, but there can be no assurance that they will not do so in the future. The effect of such future regulations may limit the amounts of oil and gas that may be produced from the Company's wells, negatively affect the economics of production from these wells or limit the number of locations the Company can drill.

Regulation of transportation and sale of gas. The availability, terms and cost of transportation significantly affect sales of gas. Federal and state regulations govern the price and terms for access to gas pipeline transportation. Intrastate gas pipeline transportation activities are subject to various state laws and regulations, as well as orders of state regulatory bodies. The interstate transportation and sale of gas is subject to federal regulation, including regulation of the terms, conditions and rates for interstate transportation, storage and various other matters, primarily by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission ("FERC"). FERC endeavors to make gas transportation more accessible to gas buyers and sellers on an open-access and non-discriminatory basis.

Pursuant to the Energy Policy Act of 2005 ("EPAct 2005") it is unlawful for any entity, such as the Company, to use any deceptive or manipulative device or contrivance in connection with the purchase or sale of gas or transportation services subject to regulation by FERC, in contravention of rules prescribed by FERC. The EPAct 2005 also gives FERC authority to impose civil penalties of up to $1 million per day, subject to annual inflation adjustment, for each violation of the Natural Gas Act ("NGA"), the Natural Gas Policy Act of 1978 and related regulations.

Under FERC Order 704, which regulates annual gas transaction reporting requirements, any market participant, including a producer such as the Company, that engages in wholesale sales or purchases of gas that equal or exceed 2.2 million MMBtus of physical gas in the previous calendar year must annually report such sales and purchases to FERC on Form No. 552 by May 1 of the year following the calendar year when such sales and purchases occurred. Form No. 552 contains aggregate volumes of wholesale gas purchased or sold in the prior calendar year to the extent such transactions utilize, contribute to or may contribute to the formation of price indices. Order 704 is intended to increase the transparency of the wholesale gas markets and to assist FERC in monitoring those markets and in detecting market manipulation.

Intrastate gas pipeline transportation rates are subject to regulation by state regulatory commissions. The basis for intrastate gas pipeline regulation, and the degree of regulatory oversight and scrutiny given to intrastate gas pipeline rates, vary from state to state. Additional proposals and proceedings that might affect the gas industry are considered from time to time by the U.S. Congress, FERC, state legislatures, state regulatory bodies and the courts. The Company cannot predict when or if any such proposals might become effective or their effect, if any, on its operations. The Company believes that the regulation of intrastate gas pipeline transportation rates will not affect its operations in any way that is materially different from the effects on its similarly situated competitors.

See additional information in "Item 1A. Risk Factors - The Company may not be able to obtain access on commercially reasonable terms or otherwise to pipelines and storage facilities, gathering systems and other transportation, processing, fractionation, refining and export facilities to market its oil, NGL and gas production; the Company relies on a limited number of purchasers for a majority of its products" and "Item 1A. Risk Factors - The Company's transportation of gas, sales and purchases 

14
PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

of oil, NGL, gas or other energy commodities, and any derivative activities related to such energy commodities, expose the Company to potential regulatory risks."

Gas processing. The Company's gas processing operations are generally not subject to FERC or state regulation with respect to rates or terms and conditions of service. 

See "Item 1A. Risk Factors - The Company's gas processing operations are subject to operational and regulatory risks, which could result in significant damages and the loss of revenue" for additional information.

Gas gathering. Section 1(b) of the NGA exempts gas gathering facilities from FERC jurisdiction. While the Company owns or operates some gas gathering facilities, the Company also depends on gathering facilities owned and operated by third parties to gather production from its properties, and therefore the Company is affected by the rates charged by these third parties for gathering services. To the extent that changes in federal or state regulation affect the rates charged for gathering services, the Company also may be affected by these changes. The Company does not anticipate that the Company would be affected any differently than similarly situated gas producers.

See "Item 1A. Risk Factors - The Company may not be able to obtain access on commercially reasonable terms or otherwise to pipelines and storage facilities, gathering systems and other transportation, processing, fractionation, refining and export facilities to market its oil, NGL and gas production; the Company relies on a limited number of purchasers for a majority of its products" for additional information.

Regulation of transportation and sale of oil and NGL. Intrastate liquids pipeline transportation rates, terms and conditions are subject to regulation by numerous federal, state and local authorities and, in a number of instances, the ability to transport and sell such products on interstate pipelines is dependent on pipelines that are also subject to FERC jurisdiction under the Interstate Commerce Act (the "ICA"). The Company does not believe these regulations affect it any differently than other producers.

The ICA requires that pipelines maintain a tariff on file with the FERC. The tariff sets forth the established rates as well as the rules and regulations governing the service. The ICA requires, among other things, that rates and terms and conditions of service on interstate common carrier pipelines be "just and reasonable." Such pipelines must also provide jurisdictional service in a manner that is not unduly discriminatory or unduly preferential. Shippers have the power to challenge new and existing rates and terms and conditions of service before the FERC.

Rates of interstate liquids pipelines are currently regulated by the FERC, primarily through an annual indexing methodology, under which pipelines increase or decrease their rates in accordance with an index adjustment specified by the FERC. For the five-year period beginning in July 2016, the FERC established an annual index adjustment equal to the change in the producer price index for finished goods plus 1.23 percent. This adjustment is subject to review every five years. Under the FERC's regulations, a liquids pipeline can request a rate increase that exceeds the rate obtained through application of the indexing methodology by using a cost-of-service approach, but only after the pipeline establishes that a substantial divergence exists between the actual costs experienced by the pipeline and the rates resulting from application of the indexing methodology. Increases in liquids transportation rates may result in lower revenue and cash flows for the Company. 

In addition, due to common carrier regulatory obligations of liquids pipelines, capacity must be prorated among shippers in an equitable manner in the event there are nominations in excess of capacity by current shippers or capacity requests are received from a new shipper. Therefore, new shippers or increased volume by existing shippers may reduce the capacity available to the Company. Any prolonged interruption in the operation or curtailment of available capacity of the pipelines that the Company relies upon for liquids transportation could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. However, the Company believes that access to liquids pipeline transportation services generally will be available to it to the same extent, if not better given the Company's firm transportation contracts, as to its similarly situated competitors.

In November 2009, the Federal Trade Commission (the "FTC") issued regulations pursuant to the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007 intended to prohibit market manipulation in the petroleum industry. Violators of the regulations face civil penalties of up to $1 million per violation per day, subject to annual inflation adjustment. The Commodity Futures Trading Commission (the "CFTC") has also issued anti-manipulation rules that subject violators to a civil penalty of up to the greater of $1 million per violation, subject to annual inflation adjustment, or triple the monetary gain to the person for each violation. 

See "Items 1A. Risk Factors - The Company's transportation of gas, sales and purchases of oil, NGL, gas or other energy commodities, and any derivative activities related to such energy commodities, expose the Company to potential regulatory risks."

Energy commodity prices. Sales prices of oil, condensate, NGL and gas are not currently regulated and sales are made at market prices. Although prices of these energy commodities are currently unregulated, the U.S. Congress historically has been 

15
PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

active in their regulation. The Company cannot predict whether new legislation to regulate oil and gas might actually be enacted by the U.S. Congress or the various state legislatures, and what effect, if any, the proposals might have on the Company's operations.

Transportation of hazardous materials. The federal Department of Transportation has adopted regulations requiring that certain entities transporting designated hazardous materials develop plans to address security risks related to the transportation of hazardous materials. The Company does not believe that these requirements will have an adverse effect on the Company or its operations. The Company cannot provide any assurance that the security plans required under these regulations would protect against all security risks and prevent an attack or other incident related to the Company's transportation of hazardous materials.

ITEM 1A.RISK FACTORS