ITEM 7.MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Financial and Operating Performance

Pioneer's financial and operating performance for 2018 included the following highlights:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•a $489 million increase in net revenue generated by purchases and sales of oil and gas, primarily related to the Company's firm transportation agreements that provide opportunities for enhanced margins by moving oil and gas from the Company's areas of production to price advantaged markets;[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•a $27 million decrease in interest expense, primarily due to the repayment of the Company's 6.875% senior notes, which matured in May 2018.

Partially offset by:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•a $333 million increase in total oil and gas production costs and production and ad valorem taxes as a result of the adoption of new revenue recognition rules, which had the effect of increasing production costs by $207 million in 2018 and the aforementioned increases in commodity prices and sales volumes;

•a $192 million increase in derivative net losses, primarily as a result of changes in forward commodity prices and the cash settlement of derivative positions in accordance with their terms;[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•a $55 million increase in general and administrative expense, primarily due to an increase in compensation costs, including benefits expense, as a result of an increase in headcount due to the Company's continued growth and costs associated with the implementation of a new enterprise resource planning system.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

51
PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

First Quarter 2019 Outlook

Based on the Company's ongoing South Texas divestiture process, it is only providing Permian Basin specific estimates for production, production costs and DD&A expense for the quarter ending March 31, 2019. All other operating and financial results for the quarter ending March 31, 2019 provided below reflect the expected results of the total Company. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

2019 Capital Budget

The Company's capital budget for 2019 is expected to be in the range of $3.1 billion to $3.4 billion, consisting of $2.8 billion to $3.1 billion for drilling and completion related activities, including additional tank batteries and saltwater disposal facilities, and $300 million for gas processing facilities, water infrastructure, well services and vehicles. The 2019 capital budget excludes acquisitions, asset retirement obligations, capitalized interest and geological and geophysical general and administrative expense and corporate facilities. 

The 2019 capital budget is expected to be funded from a combination of operating cash flow, cash and cash equivalents on hand, sales of short-term and long-term investments and, if necessary, proceeds from planned asset divestitures or borrowings under the Company's credit facility.

Divestitures

In February 2018, the Company announced its intention to divest its properties in the South Texas, Raton Basin and West Panhandle fields and focus its efforts and capital resources on its Permian Basin assets. 

In December 2018, the Company completed the sale of its pressure pumping assets to ProPetro in exchange for total consideration of $282 million, comprised of $110 million of short-term receivables to be paid by ProPetro during the first quarter of 2019 and 16.6 million shares of ProPetro's common stock. On January 1, 2019, ProPetro became a strategic long-term service provider to the Company of pressure pumping and related services. The Company recorded a gain of $30 million, employee-related charges of $19 million, contract termination charges of $13 million and other divestiture-related charges of $6 million associated with the sale.

In December 2018, the Company completed the sale of approximately 2,900 net acres in the Sinor Nest (Lower Wilcox) oil field in South Texas to an unaffiliated third party for cash proceeds of $105 million, after normal closing adjustments. During 2018, the Company recorded a gain of $54 million associated with the sale.

In August 2018, the Company completed the sale of its assets in the West Panhandle gas and liquids field to an unaffiliated third party for net cash proceeds of $170 million, after normal closing adjustments. The assets sold represent all of the Company's interests in the field, including all of its producing wells and the associated infrastructure. During 2018, the Company recorded a gain of $127 million and employee-related charges of $7 million associated with sale. 

52
PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

In July 2018, the Company completed the sale of its gas field assets in the Raton Basin to an unaffiliated third party for net cash proceeds of $54 million, after normal closing adjustments. The Company recorded a noncash impairment charge of $77 million in June 2018 to reduce the carrying value of its Raton Basin assets to their estimated fair value less costs to sell as the assets were considered held for sale. The Company recorded a gain of $2 million associated with this divestiture. The Company also recorded divestiture-related charges of $117 million, including $111 million of deficiency charges related to certain firm transportation contracts retained by the Company and employee-related charges of $6 million.

In April 2018, the Company completed the sale of approximately 10,200 net acres in the West Eagle Ford Shale gas and liquids field to an unaffiliated third party for net cash proceeds of $100 million, after normal closing adjustments. The Company recorded a gain of $75 million associated with the sale. 

In April 2017, the Company completed the sale of approximately 20,500 acres in the Martin County region of the Permian Basin, with net production of approximately1,500 BOEPD, to an unaffiliated third party for cash proceeds of $264 million. The sale resulted in a gain of $194 million. 

See Note 3 and Note 4 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" for additional information.

Decommissioning Activities

In November 2018, the Company announced plans to close its sand mine located in Brady, Texas and transition its proppant supply requirements to West Texas sand sources. During 2018, the Company recorded $443 million of accelerated depreciation and $7 million of employee-related charges associated with the pending shutdown.

See Note 3 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" for additional information.

Results of Operations

Oil and gas revenues. Oil and gas revenues totaled $5.0 billion, $3.5 billion and $2.4 billion for 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively.

The increase in 2018 oil and gas revenues relative to 2017 is primarily due to increases of 20 percent, 16 percent and 12 percent in oil, NGL and gas sales volumes, respectively, and increases of 19 percent and 55 percent in oil and NGL prices, respectively, with a decrease of 19 percent in gas prices.

The increase in 2017 oil and gas revenues relative to 2016 is primarily due to increases of 19 percent, 26 percent and four percent in oil, NGL and gas sales volumes, respectively, and increases of 22 percent, 43 percent and 25 percent in oil, NGL and gas prices, respectively. 

Average daily sales volumes in 2018 and 2017 increased by 17 percent and 16 percent, respectively, as compared to the average daily sales volumes in the respective prior years, principally due to the Company's successful Spraberry/Wolfcamp horizontal drilling program, which more than offset the loss of production associated with the Company's 2018 divestitures.

Average daily sales volumes are as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

_____________________

(a)Gas production excludes gas produced and used as field fuel.

The oil, NGL and gas prices reported by the Company are based on the market prices received for the commodities. The average prices are as follows: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Sales of purchased oil and gas. The Company enters into pipeline capacity commitments in order to secure available oil, NGL and gas transportation capacity from the Company's areas of production. The Company also enters into purchase transactions with third parties and separate sale transactions with third parties to (i) diversify a portion of the Company's oil sales to the Gulf Coast refinery or international export markets and (ii) satisfy unused gas pipeline capacity commitments. Revenues and expenses from these transactions are presented on a gross basis as the Company acts as a principal in the transaction by assuming both the risk and rewards of ownership, including credit risk, of the commodities purchased and the responsibility to deliver the commodities sold. The transportation costs associated with these transactions are presented on a net basis in purchased oil and gas expense. The net effect of third party purchases and sales of oil and gas for the year ended December 31, 2018 was earnings of $458 million, as compared to a loss of $31 million and a loss of $64 million for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. Firm transportation payments on excess pipeline capacity are included in other expense in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations. See Note 15 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" for additional information.

53
PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

Interest and other income. The Company's interest and other income was $38 million for the year ended December 31, 2018, as compared to $53 million and $32 million for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. The decrease in interest and other income for 2018 as compared to 2017 was primarily due to (i) a decrease of $3 million in interest income from short-term and long-term investments and (ii) a decrease of $12 million in severance, sales and property tax refunds. The increase in interest and other income for 2017 as compared to 2016 was primarily due to an increase of $11 million in severance, sales and property tax refunds and an increase of $10 million in interest income on short-term and long-term investments. See Note 14 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" for additional information.

Derivative gains (losses), net. The Company utilizes commodity swap contracts, option contracts and collar contracts with short puts to (i) reduce the effect of price volatility on the commodities the Company produces and sells or consumes, (ii) support the Company's annual capital budgeting and expenditure plans and (iii) reduce commodity price risk associated with certain capital projects. During the year ended December 31, 2018, the Company recorded $292 million of derivative net losses, compared to $100 million and $161 million of derivative net losses for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively, on commodity price, marketing and interest rate derivatives. For the year ended December 31, 2018, the Company made net cash payments of $562 million related to its derivative activities, as compared to net cash receipts of $74 million and $690 million for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. 

Commodity derivatives and the relative price impact (per Bbl or Mcf) are as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

_____________________[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The Company's open derivative contracts are subject to continuing market risk. See "Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk" and Note 5 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" for additional information.

Gain on disposition of assets, net. The Company recorded net gains on the disposition of assets of $290 million, $208 million and $2 million for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively. For the year ended December 31, 2018, the Company substantially carried out its plan to divest of its properties in the South Texas, Raton Basin and West Panhandle fields and focus its efforts and capital resources on its Permian Basin assets. 

During 2018, the Company completed the following divestitures:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

For the year ended December 31, 2017, the Company's gain on disposition of assets is primarily due to a gain of $194 million recorded on the sale of approximately 20,500 acres in the Martin County region of the Permian Basin. 

54
PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

See Note 3 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" for additional information .

Oil and gas production costs. The Company recorded oil and gas production costs of $855 million, $591 million and $581 million for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively. Lease operating expenses and workover expenses represent the components of oil and gas production costs over which the Company has management control. Current year gathering, processing and transportation charges are inclusive of the effect of the adoption of ASC 606 as described in Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data."

Net natural gas plant/gathering charges represent the net costs to gather and process the Company's gas, reduced by net revenues earned from gathering and processing of third party gas in Company-owned facilities.

Total production costs per BOE are as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Total oil and gas production costs per BOE for the year ended December 31, 2018 increased 23 percent and eight percent compared to 2017 and 2016, respectively. Lease operating expense per BOE decreased for the year ended December 31, 2018, as compared to the 2017 and 2016 due to a greater proportion of the Company's production coming from horizontal wells in Spraberry/Wolfcamp area, which have lower per BOE lease operating costs. The adoption of ASC 606 had the effect of increasing gathering, processing and transportation charges by $1.78 per BOE over what would have been reported if these changes were accounted for under ASC 605. Th decline in gathering, processing and transportation expenses from 2016 to 2017 is primarily attributable to lower aggregate gathering fees in the Eagle Ford field due to declining production. The net natural gas plant income per BOE is primarily reflective of increased earnings on third party volumes that are processed in the Company-owned facilities due to higher NGL prices. The increase in workover costs per BOE was primarily due to an increase in Permian vertical well workover activity due to the improvement in oil and NGL prices.

Production and ad valorem taxes. The Company recorded production and ad valorem taxes of $284 million for 2018, as compared to $215 million and $136 million for 2017 and 2016, respectively. In general, production taxes and ad valorem taxes are directly related to commodity price changes; however, Texas ad valorem taxes are based upon prior year commodity prices, whereas production taxes are based upon current year commodity prices. The increase in production and ad valorem taxes per BOE for the year ended December 31, 2018 as compared to 2017 and 2016, is primarily due to the increase in oil and NGL prices during 2017 and 2018 and, for ad valorem tax purposes, the higher valuation attributable to the Company's successful Spraberry/Wolfcamp horizontal drilling program. 

Production and ad valorem taxes per BOE are as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

 Depletion, depreciation and amortization expense. The Company's total DD&A expense was $1.5 billion ($13.13 per BOE), $1.4 billion ($14.08 per BOE) and $1.5 billion ($17.29 per BOE) for 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively. Depletion expense on oil and gas properties, the largest component of DD&A expense, was $12.52, $13.61 and $16.77 per BOE for 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively.

Year over year depletion expense on oil and gas properties per BOE for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 decreased eight percent and 19 percent, respectively. The decrease was primarily due to (i) additions to proved reserves attributable to the Company's successful Spraberry/Wolfcamp horizontal drilling program and (ii) commodity price increases and cost reduction initiatives, both of which had the effect of adding proved reserves by lengthening the economic lives of the Company's producing wells.

55
PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

Impairment of oil and gas properties and other long-lived assets.The Company performs assessments of its long-lived assets to be held and used, including oil and gas properties, whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying values of those assets may not be recoverable. 

As a result of the Company's impairment assessments, the Company recorded noncash impairment charges to reduce the carrying values of its oil and gas properties as follows:

•2018: Raton Basin gas field assets ($77 million);

•2017: Raton Basin gas field assets ($285 million); and 

•2016: West Panhandle gas and liquids field ($32 million).

See Note 2 and Note 4 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" for additional information.

Exploration and abandonments expense. Geological and geophysical costs, exploratory dry holes expense and leasehold abandonments and other exploration expense are as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The increase in exploration and abandonments expense of $8 million for the year ended December 31, 2018, as compared to 2017, was primarily due to a $13 million increase in exploratory well costs related to the abandonment of seven drilled but not completed exploration wells in South Texas as a result of the Company's decision to focus capital spending on its Permian Basin assets, partially offset by a decrease in leasehold abandonments expense and other of $6 million. The decrease in exploration and abandonments expense of $13 million for the year ended December 31, 2017, as compared to 2016, was primarily due to a decrease in leasehold abandonments and other of $29 million, partially offset by an increase in unsuccessful exploration wells of $9 million. Leasehold abandonments and other in 2016 included $32 million associated with unproved acreage in Alaska in which the Company held an overriding royalty interest.

During 2018, 2017 and 2016, the Company completed and evaluated 261, 224, and 215 exploration/extension wells, respectively, and 96 percent, 99 percent, and 100 percent, respectively, were successfully completed as discoveries.

General and administrative expense. General and administrative expense totaled $381 million ($3.26 per BOE), $326 million ($3.28 per BOE) and $325 million ($3.80 per BOE) for 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively. The increase in general and administrative expense for the year ended December 31, 2018, as compared to 2017 and 2016, was primarily due to an increase in compensation costs, including benefits expense, as a result of an increase in headcount due to the Company's continued growth and costs associated with the implementation of a new enterprise resource planning system.

Accretion of discount on asset retirement obligations. Accretion of discount on asset retirement obligations was $14 million, $19 million and $18 million for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively. See Note 9 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" for additional information.

Interest expense. Interest expense was $126 million, $153 million and $207 million for 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively. The decrease in interest expense for the year ended December 31, 2018, as compared to 2017, was primarily due to the repayment of the Company's 6.875% Senior Notes, which matured in May 2018. The decrease in interest expense for the year ended December 31, 2017, as compared to 2016, was primarily due to the repayment of both the Company's 6.65% Senior Notes, which matured in March 2017, and the Company's 5.875% Senior Notes, which matured in July 2016. The weighted average interest rate on the Company's indebtedness for the year ended December 31, 2018 was 5.4 percent, as compared to 5.6 percent and 6.0 percent for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively.

See Note 7 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" for additional information.

Other expense. Other expense was $849 million for 2018, as compared to $244 million for 2017 and $288 million for 2016. The $605 million increase in other expense for 2018, as compared to 2017, was primarily due to accelerated depreciation of $443 

56
PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

million related to the decommissioning of the Company's Brady, Texas sand mine and other divestiture-related charges of $173 million associated with the Company's 2018 asset divestitures.

The $44 million decrease in other expense for 2017, as compared to 2016, was primarily due to (i) a decrease of $64 million in idle drilling and well service equipment charges and (ii) a decrease of $37 million in net losses from Company-provided fracture stimulation and related service operations that are provided to third party working interest owners, partially offset by (iii) an increase of $58 million in unused firm transportation costs. 

The Company expects to continue to incur charges associated with excess firm gathering and transportation commitments until the contractual obligations expire. 

See Note 2, Note 10 and Note 15 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" for additional information.

Income tax (provision) benefit. The Company recorded an income tax provision attributable to earnings of $276 million during 2018, as compared to an income tax benefit of $524 million and $403 million during 2017 and 2016, respectively. The increase of $800 million in the income tax provision recorded in 2018 as compared to the income tax benefit recorded in 2017 is primarily attributable to a $625 million income tax benefit recorded during 2017 as a result of the enactment of the December 22, 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the "Tax Reform Legislation"). 

The Company's effective tax rate on earnings, excluding income from noncontrolling interest, for 2018, 2017 and 2016 was 22 percent, (170) percent and 42 percent, respectively, as compared to the combined United States federal and state statutory rates of 22 percent for 2018 and 36 percent for years prior to 2018. 

The Company's effective tax rate for 2017 differs from the combined statutory rate primarily due to the enactment of the Tax Reform Legislation, which made significant changes to the U.S. federal income tax law. The most significant change affecting the Company was a reduction in the federal corporate income tax rate to 21 percent beginning January 1, 2018. This rate change resulted in a $625 million income tax benefit for 2017, primarily associated with the remeasurement of the Company's deferred tax liabilities at the new corporate tax rate as of December 31, 2017. Excluding the effects of the Tax Reform Legislation, the Company's effective tax rate for 2017 would have been 33 percent.

The effective tax rate for 2016 differs from the combined statutory rate primarily due to recognizing research and experimental expenditures credits of $72 million during 2016 and, to a lesser extent, state income tax apportionments and nondeductible expenses.

See Note 16 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" for additional information.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

Liquidity. The Company's primary sources of short-term liquidity are (i) cash and cash equivalents, (ii) net cash provided by operating activities, (iii) sales of short-term and long-term investments, (iv) proceeds from divestitures, (iv) unused borrowing capacity under its credit facility (the "Credit Facility"), (v) issuances of debt or equity securities and (vi) other sources, such as sales of nonstrategic assets. 

The Company's primary needs for cash are for (i) capital expenditures, (ii) acquisitions of oil and gas properties, (iii) payments of contractual obligations, including debt maturities, (iv) dividends and share repurchases and (v) working capital obligations. Funding for these cash needs may be provided by any combination of the Company's sources of liquidity. Although the Company expects that its sources of funding will be adequate to fund its 2019 capital expenditures, dividend payments and provide adequate liquidity to fund other needs, including stock repurchases, no assurance can be given that such funding sources will be adequate to meet the Company's future needs. 

2019 capital budget. The Company' capital budget for 2019 is expected to be in the range of $3.1 billion to $3.4 billion, consisting of $2.8 billion to $3.1 billion for drilling and completion related activities, including additional tank batteries and saltwater disposal facilities, and $300 million for gas processing facilities, water infrastructure, well services and vehicles. The 2019 capital budget excludes acquisitions, asset retirement obligations, capitalized interest, geological and geophysical general and administrative expense and corporate facilities. 

Capital resources. Cash flows from operating, investing and financing activities are summarized below.

As of December 31, 2018, the Company had no outstanding borrowings under its Credit Facility, leaving $1.5 billion of unused borrowing capacity. The Company was in compliance with all of its debt covenants as of December 31, 2018. The Company also had cash on hand of $825 million, short-term investments of $443 million and long-term investments of $125 million as of December 31, 2018.

Operating activities. Net cash provided by operating activities for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 was $3.2 billion, $2.1 billion and $1.5 billion, respectively. The increase in net cash flow provided by operating activities in 2018, as compared to 2017, was primarily due to increases in the Company's oil and gas revenues in 2018 as a result of increases in commodity prices and sales volumes, partially offset by a $627 million reduction in cash available from commodity derivative activities. The increase in net cash flow provided by operating activities in 2017, as compared to 2016, was primarily due to increases in the Company's oil and gas revenues in 2017 as a result of increases in commodity prices and sales volumes, partially offset by a $613 million reduction in cash provided by commodity derivatives. 

57
PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

Investing activities. Net cash used in investing activities during 2018 was $2.6 billion, as compared to net cash used in investing activities of $1.8 billion and $3.8 billion during 2017 and 2016, respectively. 

The increase of $818 million in net cash flow used in investing activities during 2018, as compared to 2017, is primarily due an increase of $1.2 billion in additions to oil and gas properties offset by a decrease of $235 million in purchases of investments (commercial paper, corporate bonds and time deposits) and a $117 million increase in net cash proceeds from the disposition of assets. The Company's investing activities during the year ended December 31, 2018 were primarily funded by net cash provided by operating activities.

The decrease of $2.0 billion in net cash flow used in investing activities during 2017, as compared to 2016, is primarily due to (i) a decrease of $1.8 billion in purchases of investments (commercial paper, corporate bonds and time deposits), (ii) a $562 million increase in proceeds from investments and (iii) the purchase of 28,000 net acres in the Permian Basin for $428 million in 2016, partially offset by (iv) a $508 million increase in additions to oil and gas properties, (v) a $155 million decrease in net cash proceeds from the disposition of assets and (v) a $135 million increase in additions to other property and equipment. 

Net cash proceeds received from the Company's significant divestitures are as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

______________________[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

See Note 3 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" for additional information.

Financing activities. Net cash used in financing activities during 2018 was $703 million, as compared to $529 million during 2017 and net cash provided by financing activities of $2.0 billion during 2016. The Company's significant financing activities are as follows:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

See Note 7 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" for additional information.

Dividends/distributions. During the year ended December 31, 2018, the Company's board of directors declared semiannual dividends of $0.16 per common share, compared to semiannual dividends of $0.04 per common share during each of the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016. The Company paid $55 million, $14 million and $13 million, respectively, of aggregate dividends. In addition, in February 2019, the board of directors declared a cash dividend of $0.32 per share on Pioneer's outstanding common stock, payable April 12, 2019 to stockholders of record at the close of business on March 29, 2019. Future dividends are at the discretion of the Company's board of directors, and, if declared, the board of directors may change the dividend amount based on the Company's liquidity and capital resources at that time.

58
PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

Off-balance sheet arrangements. From time to time, the Company enters into arrangements and transactions that can give rise to material off-balance sheet obligations of the Company. As of December 31, 2018, the material off-balance sheet arrangements and transactions that the Company had entered into included (i) operating lease agreements (primarily related to contracted drilling rigs, equipment and office facilities), (ii) firm purchase, transportation and fractionation commitments, (iii) open purchase commitments and (iv) contractual obligations for which the ultimate settlement amounts are not fixed and determinable. The contractual obligations for which the ultimate settlement amounts are not fixed and determinable include (i) derivative contracts that are sensitive to future changes in commodity prices or interest rates, (ii) gathering, processing (primarily treating and fractionation) and transportation commitments on uncertain volumes of future throughput, (iii) open purchase commitments and (iv) indemnification obligations following certain divestitures. Other than the off-balance sheet arrangements described above, the Company has no transactions, arrangements or other relationships with unconsolidated entities or other persons that are reasonably likely to materially affect the Company's liquidity or availability of or requirements for capital resources. The Company expects to enter into similar contractual arrangements in the future, including incremental derivative contracts and additional firm purchase, transportation and fractionation arrangements, in order to support the Company's business plans. See "Contractual obligations" below and Note 10 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" for additional information.

Contractual obligations. The Company's contractual obligations include long-term debt, operating leases (primarily related to contracted drilling rigs, equipment and office facilities), capital funding obligations, derivative obligations, firm transportation and fractionation commitments, minimum annual gathering, processing and transportation commitments and other liabilities (including postretirement benefit obligations). Other joint owners in the properties operated by the Company could incur portions of the costs represented by these commitments.

Contractual obligations are estimated as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]_____________________

(a)The amounts included in the table above represent principal maturities only. See "Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk" and Note 7 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" for additional information. [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(d)Open purchase commitments primarily represent expenditure commitments for inventories, materials and other property and equipment ordered, but not received, as of December 31, 2018.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(f)Firm purchase, gathering, processing, transportation and fractionation commitments represent take-or-pay agreements, which include (i) contractual commitments to purchase sand and water for use in the Company's drilling operations and 

59
PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

(ii) estimated fees on production throughput commitments and demand fees associated with volume delivery commitments. The Company does not expect to be able to fulfill all of its short-term and long-term volume delivery obligations from projected production of available reserves; consequently, the Company plans to purchase third party volumes to satisfy its commitments if it is economic to do so; otherwise, it will pay demand fees for any commitment shortfalls. See "Item 2. Properties" and Note 10 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" for additional information.

Debt ratings. The Company is rated as mid-investment grade by three credit rating agencies. The Company receives debt credit ratings from several of the major ratings agencies, which are subject to regular reviews. The Company believes that each of the rating agencies considers many factors in determining the Company's ratings, including: (i) production growth opportunities, (ii) liquidity, (iii) debt levels, (iv) asset composition and (v) proved reserve mix. A reduction in the Company's debt ratings could increase the interest rates that the Company incurs on Credit Facility borrowings and could negatively impact the Company's ability to obtain additional financing or the interest rate, fees and other terms associated with such additional financing. 

Book capitalization and current ratio. The Company's net book capitalization at December 31, 2018 was $13.0 billion, consisting of cash and cash equivalents of $825 million, short-term and long-term investments of $568 million, debt of $2.3 billion and equity of $12.1 billion. The Company's net debt to book capitalization increased to seven percent at December 31, 2018 from five percent at December 31, 2017, primarily due to funding the Company's oil and gas drilling and other property investments with cash flow from operations and a portion of the Company's cash and cash equivalents. The Company's ratio of current assets to current liabilities remained consistent between periods at 1.42:1 at December 31, 2018, as compared to 1.41:1 at December 31, 2017.

Critical Accounting Estimates

The Company prepares its consolidated financial statements for inclusion in this Report in accordance with GAAP. See Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" for additional information. The following is a discussion of the Company's most critical accounting estimates, judgments and uncertainties that are inherent in the Company's application of GAAP.

Asset retirement obligations. The Company has significant obligations to remove tangible equipment and facilities and to restore the land at the end of oil and gas production operations. The Company's removal and restoration obligations are primarily associated with plugging and abandoning wells. Estimating the future restoration and removal costs is difficult and requires management to make estimates and judgments because most of the removal obligations are many years in the future and contracts and regulations often have vague descriptions of what constitutes removal. Asset removal technologies and costs are constantly changing, as are regulatory, political, environmental, safety and public relations considerations.

Inherent in the present value calculation are numerous assumptions and judgments including the ultimate settlement amounts, credit-adjusted discount rates, timing of settlement and changes in the legal, regulatory, environmental and political environments. To the extent future revisions to these assumptions impact the present value of the existing asset retirement obligations, a corresponding adjustment is generally made to the oil and gas property or other property and equipment balance. See Note 9 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" for additional information.

Successful efforts method of accounting. The Company utilizes the successful efforts method of accounting for oil and gas producing activities as opposed to the alternate acceptable full cost method. In general, the Company believes that net assets and net income are more conservatively measured under the successful efforts method of accounting for oil and gas producing activities than under the full cost method, particularly during periods of active exploration. The critical difference between the successful efforts method of accounting and the full cost method is as follows: under the successful efforts method, exploratory dry holes and geological and geophysical exploration costs are charged against earnings during the periods in which they occur; whereas, under the full cost method of accounting, such costs and expenses are capitalized as assets, pooled with the costs of successful wells and charged against the earnings of future periods as a component of depletion expense. During 2018, 2017 and 2016, the Company recorded exploration and abandonments expense of $114 million, $106 million and $119 million, respectively.

Proved reserve estimates. Estimates of the Company's proved reserves included in this Report are prepared in accordance with GAAP and SEC guidelines. The accuracy of a reserve estimate is a function of:

•the quality and quantity of available data;

•the interpretation of that data;

•the accuracy of various mandated economic assumptions; and

•the judgment of the persons preparing the estimate.

60
PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

The Company's proved reserve information included in this Report as of December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 was prepared by the Company's engineers and audited by independent petroleum engineers with respect to the Company's major properties. Estimates prepared by third parties may be higher or lower than those included herein.

Because these estimates depend on many assumptions, all of which may substantially differ from future actual results, proved reserve estimates will be different from the quantities of oil and gas that are ultimately recovered. In addition, results of drilling, testing and production after the date of an estimate may justify, positively or negatively, material revisions to the estimate of proved reserves.

It should not be assumed that the Standardized Measure included in this Report as of December 31, 2018 is the current market value of the Company's estimated proved reserves. In accordance with SEC requirements, the Company based the 2018 Standardized Measure on a twelve month average of commodity prices on the first day of each month in 2018 and prevailing costs on the date of the estimate. Actual future prices and costs may be materially higher or lower than the prices and costs utilized in the estimate. See "Item 2. Properties" and Unaudited Supplementary Information included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" for additional information.

The Company's estimates of proved reserves materially impact depletion expense. If the estimates of proved reserves decline, the rate at which the Company records depletion expense will increase, reducing future net income. Such a decline may result from lower commodity prices, which may make it uneconomical to drill for and produce higher cost fields. In addition, a decline in proved reserve estimates may impact the outcome of the Company's assessment of its proved properties and goodwill for impairment.

Impairment of proved oil and gas properties. The Company reviews its proved properties to be held and used whenever management determines that events or circumstances indicate that the recorded carrying value of the properties may not be recoverable. Management assesses whether or not an impairment provision is necessary based upon estimated future recoverable proved and risk-adjusted probable and possible reserves, Management's Price Outlooks, production and capital costs expected to be incurred to recover the reserves, discount rates commensurate with the nature of the properties and net cash flows that may be generated by the properties. Proved oil and gas properties are reviewed for impairment at the level at which depletion of proved properties is calculated. See Note 4 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" for additional information.

Impairment of unproved oil and gas properties. At December 31, 2018, the Company carried unproved property costs of $601 million. Management assesses unproved oil and gas properties for impairment on a project-by-project basis. Management's impairment assessments include evaluating the results of exploration activities, Management's Price Outlooks and planned future sales or expiration of all or a portion of such projects.

Suspended wells. The Company suspends the costs of exploratory wells that discover hydrocarbons pending a final determination of the commercial potential of the discovery. The ultimate disposition of these well costs is dependent on the results of future drilling activity and development decisions. If the Company decides not to pursue additional appraisal activities or development of these fields, the costs of these wells will be charged to exploration and abandonment expense.

The Company does not carry the costs of drilling an exploratory well as an asset in its consolidated balance sheets following the completion of drilling unless both of the following conditions are met:

(i)The well has found a sufficient quantity of reserves to justify its completion as a producing well; and

(ii)The Company is making sufficient progress assessing the reserves and the economic and operating viability of the project.

Due to the capital intensive nature and the geographical location of certain projects, it may take an extended period of time to evaluate the future potential of an exploration project and economics associated with making a determination on its commercial viability. In these instances, the project's feasibility is not contingent upon price improvements or advances in technology, but rather the Company's ongoing efforts and expenditures related to accurately predicting the hydrocarbon recoverability based on well information, gaining access to other companies' production, transportation or processing facilities and/or getting partner approval to drill additional appraisal wells. These activities are ongoing and being pursued constantly. Consequently, the Company's assessment of suspended exploratory well costs is continuous until a decision can be made that the well has found proved reserves to sanction the project or is noncommercial and is impaired. See Note 6 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" for additional information.

Deferred tax asset valuation allowances. The Company continually assesses both positive and negative evidence to determine whether it is more likely than not that its deferred tax assets will be realized prior to their expiration. Pioneer monitors Company-specific, oil and gas industry and worldwide economic factors and based on that information, along with other data, 

61
PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

reassesses the likelihood that the Company's net operating loss carryforwards and other deferred tax attributes in each jurisdiction will be utilized prior to their expiration. There can be no assurance that facts and circumstances will not materially change and require the Company to establish deferred tax asset valuation allowances in certain jurisdictions in a future period. 

Uncertain tax positions. The Company recognizes the tax benefit from an uncertain tax position only if it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained upon examination by the taxing authorities, based upon the technical merits of the position. The Company had unrecognized tax benefits resulting from research and experimental expenditures related to horizontal drilling and completion innovations. If all or a portion of the unrecognized tax benefit is sustained upon examination by the taxing authorities, the tax benefit will be recognized as a reduction to the Company's deferred tax liability and will affect the Company's effective tax rate in the period it is recognized. See Note 16 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" for additional information.

Goodwill impairment. The Company reviews its goodwill for impairment at least annually. During the third quarter of 2018, the Company performed a qualitative assessment of goodwill to assess whether it was more likely than not that the fair value of the Company's reporting unit was less than its carrying amount as a basis for determining whether it was necessary to record a noncash impairment charge. The Company determined that it was more likely than not that the Company's goodwill was not impaired. There is considerable judgment involved in estimating fair values, particularly in determining the valuation methodologies to utilize, the estimation of proved reserves as described above and the weighting of different valuation methodologies applied. 

Litigation and environmental contingencies. The Company makes judgments and estimates in recording liabilities for ongoing litigation and environmental remediation. Actual costs can vary from such estimates for a variety of reasons. The costs to settle litigation can vary from estimates based on differing interpretations of laws and opinions and assessments on the amount of damages. Similarly, environmental remediation liabilities are subject to change because of changes in laws and regulations, developing information relating to the extent and nature of site contamination and improvements in technology. A liability is recorded for these types of contingencies if the Company determines the loss to be both probable and reasonably estimable. See Note 10 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" for additional information.

Valuation of stock-based compensation. The Company calculates the fair value of stock-based compensation using various valuation methods. The valuation methods require the use of estimates to derive the inputs necessary to determine fair value. The Company utilizes (i) the Black-Scholes option pricing model to measure the fair value of stock options, (ii) the closing stock price on the day prior to the date of grant for the fair value of restricted stock awards, (iii) the closing stock price on the balance sheet date for restricted stock awards that are expected to be settled wholly or partially in cash on their vesting date and (iv) the Monte Carlo simulation method for the fair value of performance unit awards. See Note 8 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" for additional information.

Valuation of other assets and liabilities at fair value. The Company periodically measures and records certain assets and liabilities at fair value. The assets and liabilities that the Company measures and records at fair value on a recurring basis include trading securities, commodity derivative contracts and interest rate contracts. Other assets are not measured at fair value on an ongoing basis, but are subject to fair value adjustments in certain circumstances. The assets and liabilities that the Company measures and records at fair value on a nonrecurring basis include inventories, proved and unproved oil and gas properties, assets acquired and liabilities assumed in business combinations and other long-lived assets that are written down to fair value when they are determined to be impaired or held for sale. The Company also measures and discloses certain financial assets and liabilities at fair value, such as long-term debt and investments. The valuation methods used by the Company to measure the fair values of these assets and liabilities may require considerable management judgment and estimates to derive the inputs necessary to determine fair value estimates, such as future prices, credit-adjusted risk-free rates and current volatility factors. See Note 4 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" for additional information.

New Accounting Pronouncements

The effects of new accounting pronouncements are discussed in Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data."

62
PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

ITEM 7A.QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK