ITEM 7A.QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

In the normal course of business, the Company's financial position is routinely subject to a variety of risks, including market risks associated with changes in commodity prices, interest rate movements on outstanding debt and credit risks. These risks are mitigated through the Company's risk management program, which includes the use of derivative instruments. The following quantitative and qualitative information is provided about financial instruments to which the Company was a party as of December 31, 2018, and from which the Company may incur future gains or losses from changes in commodity prices or interest rates. The Company does not enter into any financial instruments, including derivatives, for speculative or trading purposes.

Interest rate risk. As of December 31, 2018 the Company had no variable rate debt outstanding under its credit facility and therefore no related exposure to interest rate risk. As of December 31, 2018, the Company had $2.3 billion of fixed rate long-term debt outstanding with an weighted average interest rate of 5.4 percent. Although changes in interest rates may affect the fair value of the Company's fixed rate long-term debt, any changes would not expose the Company to the risk of earnings or cash flow losses. The Company has no interest rate derivative instruments outstanding; however, it may enter into such instrument in the future to mitigate interest rate risk. See Note 4 and Note 7 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" for additional information.

Commodity price risk. The Company's primary market risk exposure is in the price it receives from the sale of its oil, NGL and gas production. Realized pricing is volatile and is determined by market prices that fluctuate with changes in supply and demand for these products throughout the world. The price the Company receives for its production depends on many factors outside of the control of the Company, including differences in commodity pricing at the point of sale versus various index prices. Reducing the Company's exposure to price volatility helps secure funds to be used in its capital program. The Company mitigates its commodity price risk through the use of derivative financial instruments and sales of purchased oil and gas. 

Derivative financial instruments. The Company's decision on the quantity and price at which it executes derivative contracts is based in part on its view of current and future market conditions. The Company may choose not to enter into derivative positions for expected production if the price environment for certain time periods is deemed to be unfavorable. Additionally, the Company may choose to liquidate existing derivative positions prior to the expiration of their contractual maturity in order to monetize gain positions for the purpose of funding its capital program. While derivative positions limit the downside risk of adverse price movements, it also limits future revenues from upward price movements. The Company manages commodity price risk with the following types of derivative contracts:

•Swaps. The Company receives a fixed price and pays a floating market price to the counterparty on a notional amount of sales volumes, thereby fixing the price for the commodity sold. 

•Collars. Collar contracts provide minimum ("floor" or "long put") and maximum ("ceiling") prices on a notional amount of sales volumes, thereby allowing some price participation if the relevant index price closes above the floor price but below the ceiling price. 

•Collar contracts with short put options. Collar contracts with short put options differ from other collar contracts by virtue of the short put option price, below which the Company's realized price will exceed the variable market prices by the long put-to-short put price differential.

•Basis swaps. Basis swap contracts fix the basis differentials between the index price at which the Company sells its production and the index price used in swap or collar contracts.

•Options. Selling individual call options can enhance the market price by the premium received or the premium received can be utilized to improve swap or collar contract prices. Purchased put options establish a minimum floor price (less any premiums paid) and allows participation in higher prices when prices close above the floor price. 

 The Company has entered into derivative contracts for only a small portion of its forecasted 2019 production; consequently, if commodity prices decline, the Company could realize lower prices for volumes not protected by the Company's derivative activities and could see a reduction in derivative contract prices on additional volumes in the future. As a result, the Company's internal cash flows will be negatively impacted by a reduction in commodity prices. 

63
PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

The average forward prices based on December 31, 2018 market quotes are as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The average forward prices based on February 21, 2019 market quotes are as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

___________________

(a)Based on market quotes for basis differentials between Permian Basin index prices and the NYMEX Henry Hub index price. The Company currently has no Permian Basin index swap contracts covering the fourth quarter of 2019.

(b)Based on market quotes for basis differentials between Permian Basin index prices and southern California index prices.

See Note 4 and Note 5 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" for a description of the Company's open derivative positions and additional information.

Sales of purchased oil and gas. The Company enters into pipeline capacity commitments in order to secure available oil, NGL and gas transportation capacity from the Company's areas of production. The Company also enters into purchase transactions with third parties and separate sale transactions with third parties to (i) diversify a portion of the Company's oil sales to the Gulf Coast refinery or international export markets and (ii) satisfy unused gas pipeline capacity commitments. 

Credit risk. The Company's primary concentration of credit risks are associated with the collection of receivables resulting from the sale of oil and gas production and purchased oil and gas and the risk of a counterparty's failure to meet its obligations under derivative contracts with the Company.

The Company's oil and gas is sold to various purchasers who must be prequalified under the Company's credit risk policies and procedures. The Company monitors exposure to counterparties primarily by reviewing credit ratings, financial criteria and payment history. Where appropriate, the Company obtains assurances of payment, such as a guarantee by the parent company of the counterparty or other credit support. Historically, the Company's credit losses on oil and gas receivables have not been material.

The Company uses credit and other financial criteria to evaluate the credit standing of, and to select, counterparties to its derivative instruments. Although the Company does not obtain collateral or otherwise secure the fair value of its derivative instruments, associated credit risk is mitigated by the Company's credit risk policies and procedures.

The Company has entered into International Swap Dealers Association Master Agreements ("ISDA Agreements") with each of its derivative counterparties. The terms of the ISDA Agreements provide the Company and the counterparties with right of set off upon the occurrence of defined acts of default by either the Company or a counterparty to a derivative contract, whereby the party not in default may set off all derivative liabilities owed to the defaulting party against all derivative asset receivables from the defaulting party. See Note 5 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" for additional information.

64
ITEM 8.FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA