ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, including statements that involve expectations, plans or intentions (such as those relating to future business, future results of operations or financial condition, new or planned features or services, or management strategies). These forward-looking statements can be identified by words such as “may,” “will,” “would,” “should,” “could,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “believe,” “estimate,” “intend,” “strategy,” “future,” “opportunity,” “plan,” “project,” “forecast,” and other similar expressions. These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results and financial condition to differ materially from those expressed or implied in our forward-looking statements. Such risks and uncertainties include, among others, those discussed in “Item 1A. Risk Factors” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, as well as in our consolidated financial statements, related notes, and the other information appearing elsewhere in this report and our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). We do not intend, and undertake no obligation except as required by law, to update any of our forward-looking statements after the date of this report to reflect actual results or future events or circumstances. Given these risks and uncertainties, readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements. You should read the following “Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and the related notes that appear elsewhere in this report. Unless otherwise expressly stated or the context otherwise requires, references to “we,” “our,” “us,” “the Company” and “PayPal” refer to PayPal Holdings and its consolidated subsidiaries.

39
Business Environment 

We are a leading technology platform and digital payments company that enables digital and mobile payments on behalf of consumers and merchants worldwide. PayPal is committed to democratizing financial services and empowering people and businesses to join and thrive in the global economy. Our goal is to enable our consumers and merchants to manage and move their money anywhere in the world, anytime, on any platform, and using any device. We also facilitate person-to-person (“P2P”) payments through our PayPal, Venmo and Xoom products. Our combined payment solutions, including our PayPal, PayPal Credit, Braintree, Venmo, Xoom, and iZettle products, compose our proprietary Payments Platform.

We operate globally and in a rapidly evolving regulatory environment characterized by a heightened regulatory focus on all aspects of the payments industry. That focus continues to become even more heightened as regulators on a global basis focus on such important issues as countering terrorist financing, anti-money laundering, privacy, cybersecurity, and consumer protection. Some of the laws and regulations to which we are subject were enacted recently, and the laws and regulations applicable to us, including those enacted prior to the advent of digital and mobile payments, are continuing to evolve through legislative and regulatory action and judicial interpretation. New or changing laws and regulations, including how such laws and regulations are interpreted and implemented, as well as increased penalties and enforcement actions related to non-compliance, could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Therefore, we monitor these areas closely to design compliant solutions for our customers who depend on us.

Information security risks for global payments and technology companies like us have significantly increased in recent years. We are not immune to these risks and there can be no assurance that we will not suffer such losses in the future. For additional information regarding our information security risks, see “Item 1A. Risk Factors” under the caption—“Cyberattacks and security vulnerabilities could result in serious harm to our reputation, business and financial condition.”

The United Kingdom (“U.K.”) held a referendum in June 2016 in which a majority of voters approved an exit from the European Union (“EU”) (commonly referred to as “Brexit”). In March 2017, the U.K. government initiated the exit process under Article 50 of the Treaty on European Union, which commenced a two-year period expiring on March 29, 2019, after which time the U.K. is expected to leave the EU in the absence of any effective extension to the Article 50 period. Political negotiations are underway; however, there is a significant lack of clarity over the terms of the U.K.'s exit from the EU and the terms of the U.K.'s future relationship with the EU. The U.K.'s financial service regulators are implementing Temporary Permission Regimes (“TPR”) that are expected to be put in place by the U.K.'s government to support European Economic Area (“EEA”) financial service firms in continuing to conduct business in the U.K. should the U.K. exit the EU without an agreement. The final TPR rules are expected to be published in the first quarter of 2019 and will come into effect when the U.K. leaves the EU. Accordingly, we may need to adjust our business to comply with additional legal and regulatory requirements if accessing the TPR. We are currently unable to determine the impact that Brexit will have on our business, as any impact will depend, in part, on the outcome of tariff, trade, regulatory, and other negotiations. For additional information on how Brexit could affect our business, see “Item 1A. Risk Factors” under the caption—“The United Kingdom’s departure from the EU could adversely affect us.” 

Brexit could adversely affect U.K., regional (including European) and worldwide economic and market conditions, and could contribute to instability in global financial and foreign exchange markets, including volatility in the value of the British Pound and Euro. We have foreign exchange exposure management programs designed to help reduce the impact from foreign currency rate movements. 

In 2018, 2017, and 2016, net revenues generated from our U.K. operations constituted 11%, 11% and 12%, respectively, of total net revenues. In 2018, 2017, and 2016, net revenues generated from the EU (excluding the U.K.) constituted less than 20% of total net revenues. Approximately 31% and 30% of our gross loans and interest receivables as of December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively, were generated from our U.K. operations. Approximately 7% and 5% of our gross loans and interest receivables as of December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively, were generated from the EU (excluding the U.K.) operations. 

40
Overview of Results of Operations

The following table provides a summary of our consolidated GAAP financial measures for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017, and 2016:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

All amounts in tables are rounded to the nearest million, except as otherwise noted. As a result, certain amounts may not recalculate using the rounded amounts provided.

** Not Meaningful

Net revenues increased $2.4 billion, or 18%, in 2018 and $2.3 billion, or 21%, in 2017. The increase was primarily driven by growth in TPV (as defined below under “Net Revenues”) of 27% in 2018 and 27% in 2017. Net revenues from our acquisitions completed in 2018 and 2017 collectively contributed approximately one percentage point to the growth rate in 2018. The increase from the impact of acquisitions was offset by a decrease in interest and fee income due to the sale of our U.S. consumer credit receivables portfolio to Synchrony Bank in July 2018, which resulted in a negative impact of approximately four percentage points to the net revenues growth rate in 2018. In 2017, net revenues from our acquisitions of TIO and Swift were not material.

Total operating expenses increased $2.3 billion, or 21%, in 2018 and $1.7 billion, or 18%, in 2017. The increase in 2018 was due primarily to an increase in transaction expense, general and administrative, transaction and loan loss, sales and marketing, and restructuring and other expenses. Operating expenses related to our acquisitions completed in 2018 and 2017 collectively contributed approximately three percentage points to the growth rate in total operating expenses in 2018. In March 2018, management decided to wind down TIO's operations. The increase in total operating expense in 2017 was due primarily to an increase in transaction expense, sales and marketing, general and administrative, product development, and restructuring and other charges. Operating expenses related to TIO and Swift collectively contributed one percentage point to the 2017 growth rate. 

Operating income increased $67 million, or 3%, in 2018 and increased $541 million, or 34% in 2017. Operating income increased in 2018 and 2017 due primarily to the increase in net revenues, offset by the growth in operating expenses. Our acquisitions completed in 2018 and 2017 collectively had a negative impact of approximately seven percentage points to the 2018 growth rate in operating income. Our acquisitions in 2017 collectively had a negative impact of four percentage points on our 2017 growth rate in operating income. Our operating margin was 14%, 16%, and 15% in 2018, 2017, and 2016, respectively. Operating margin in 2018 was negatively impacted by growth in our transaction expense, which increased 26% in 2018, compared to net revenues, which increased 18% in the same period, as well as the negative impact of acquisitions. These impacts in 2018 were partially offset by operating efficiencies in our business. Operating margin in 2017 was negatively impacted by growth in our transaction expense, which increased 32% in 2017, compared to net revenues, which increased 21% in the same period, as well as restructuring expense of $40 million incurred in 2017. These impacts in 2017 were offset by operating efficiencies in our business, and a one-time benefit of $322 million pertaining to reversal of allowances related to loans and interest receivables due to the designation as held for sale of our U.S. consumer credit portfolio in November 2017. 

Net income increased by $262 million, or 15%, in 2018 and $394 million, or 28%, in 2017. The increase in net income in 2018 was attributable to an increase in operating income of $67 million and an increase in other income (expense), net of $109 million, which was driven by unrealized gains on equity investments and an increase in interest income, partially offset by an increase in interest expense. The increase in net income was further impacted by a decrease in income tax expense of $86 million, primarily driven by a reduction in net tax expense recognized with respect to the Tax Act, partially offset by an increase in tax expense due to the increase in operating income and other income (expense), net. The increase in net income in 2017 was attributable to an increase in operating income of $541 million and an increase in other income (expense), net of $28 million, partially offset by an increase in income tax expense of $175 million. 

41
Non-GAAP financial measures

The following table provides a summary of our consolidated non-GAAP financial measures for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017, and 2016:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

All amounts in tables are rounded to the nearest million, except as otherwise noted. As a result, certain amounts may not recalculate using the rounded amounts provided.

** Not Meaningful

(1) The year ended December 31, 2018 includes a positive impact of approximately $1.4 billion due to the completion of the sale of our US consumer credit receivables portfolio in July 2018. The year ended December 31, 2017 includes a negative impact of approximately $1.3 billion due to the change in presentation of the U.S. consumer credit receivables portfolio subsequent to its designation as held for sale in November 2017.

Non-GAAP net revenues, non-GAAP operating income, non-GAAP operating margin, non-GAAP income tax expense, non-GAAP net income, non-GAAP net income per diluted share, and free cash flow are not financial measures prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”). For information on how we compute these non-GAAP financial measures and a reconciliation to the most directly comparable financial measures prepared in accordance with GAAP, please refer to “Non-GAAP Financial Information” below.

Impact of Foreign Currency Exchange Rates

We have significant international operations that are denominated in foreign currencies, primarily the British Pound, Euro, Australian Dollar, and Canadian Dollar, subjecting us to foreign currency risk which may adversely impact our financial results. The strengthening or weakening of the U.S. dollar versus the British Pound, Euro, Australian Dollar, and Canadian Dollar, as well as other currencies in which we conduct our international operations, impacts the translation of our net revenues and expenses generated in these foreign currencies into the U.S. dollar. In 2018, 2017, and 2016, we generated approximately 46%, 46% and 47% of our net revenues from customers domiciled outside of the United States, respectively. Because we have generated substantial net revenues internationally in recent periods, including during the periods presented, we are subject to the risks of doing business in countries outside of the U.S. as discussed under “Item 1A. Risk Factors—Risk Factors That May Affect Our Business, Results of Operations and Financial Condition.” 

We calculate the year-over-year impact of foreign currency movements on our business using prior period foreign currency exchange rates applied to current period transactional currency amounts. While changes in foreign currency exchange rates affect our reported results, we have a foreign currency exchange exposure management program whereby we designate certain foreign currency exchange contracts as cash flow hedges intended to reduce the impact on earnings from foreign currency exchange rate movements. Gains and losses from these foreign currency exchange contracts are recognized as a component of transaction revenues in the same period the forecasted transactions impact earnings.

42
In the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, the year-over-year foreign currency movements relative to the U.S. dollar had the following impact on our reported results:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

While we enter into foreign currency exchange contracts to help reduce the impact on earnings from foreign currency exchange rate movements, it is impossible to predict or eliminate the total effects of this exposure. 

Additionally, in connection with our services that are paid for in multiple currencies, we generally set our foreign currency exchange rates daily, and may face financial exposure if we incorrectly set our foreign currency exchange rates or as a result of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates between the times that we set our foreign currency exchange rates. Given that we also have foreign currency exchange risk on our assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of our subsidiaries, we have an additional foreign currency exchange exposure management program whereby we use foreign currency exchange contracts to offset the impact of foreign currency exchange rate movements on our assets and liabilities. The foreign currency exchange gains and losses on our assets and liabilities are recorded in other income (expense), net, and are offset by the gains and losses on the foreign currency exchange contracts. These foreign currency exchange contracts reduce, but do not entirely eliminate, the impact of foreign currency exchange rate movements on our assets and liabilities. 

Financial Results

Net revenues

Due to the diversification of PayPal’s business through strategic partnerships, new products, and acquisitions, in the first quarter of 2018, we updated our definitions of “active accounts” and “total payment volume (TPV)” as described below.

Active Accounts: An active account is an account registered directly with PayPal or a platform access partner that has completed a transaction on our Payments Platform, not including gateway-exclusive transactions, within the past 12 months. The definition of active accounts has been expanded to include payments made or outstanding balances held on our co-branded credit card program. The definition has also been expanded to include accounts from our platform access partners. A platform access partner is a third party whose customers are provided access to PayPal’s Payments Platform through such third party’s login credentials. This expanded definition captures uniquely identifiable accounts for which PayPal receives economic benefits for completed transactions processed on behalf of customers who have established a relationship with PayPal.

Total Payment Volume: The value of payments, net of reversals, successfully completed on our Payments Platform or enabled by PayPal via a partner payment solution, not including gateway-exclusive transactions. The definition of TPV has been expanded to include PayPal’s diversification into new partner payment solutions such as certain tokenized transactions and contextual commerce which expand our opportunities for growth.

The revised definition also captures TPV from our merchant debit card program. Due to their inclusion in TPV, revenues from these transactions were reclassified from “other value added services” to “transaction revenues” with no change to “total net revenues.”

These revisions also impacted previously reported results for other non-financial key performance metrics, including number of payment transactions and payment transactions per active account. Prior period metrics have been revised in this filing to conform to the new definitions.

43
Our revenues are classified into the following two categories:

•Transaction revenues: Net transaction fees charged to merchants and consumers on a transaction basis primarily based on the volume of activity, or TPV, completed on our Payments Platform. Growth in TPV is directly impacted by the number of payment transactions that we enable on our Payments Platform. Payment transactions are the total number of payments, net of payment reversals, successfully completed through our Payments Platform, or enabled by PayPal via a partner payment solution not including gateway-exclusive transactions. We earn additional fees on transactions settled in foreign currencies when we enable cross-border transactions (i.e., transactions where the merchant or consumer are in different countries).

•Other value added services: Net revenues derived primarily from revenue earned through partnerships, subscription fees, gateway fees, and other services we provide to our merchants and customers. We also earn revenues from interest and fees earned primarily on our PayPal credit portfolio of loans receivable, gain on sale of participation interest in certain loans and advances, and interest earned on certain PayPal customer account balances.

Our revenues can be significantly impacted by the following:

•The mix of merchants, products, and services;

•The mix between domestic and cross-border transactions;

•The geographic region or country in which a transaction occurs; and

•The amount of our credit loans receivable outstanding with merchants and consumers.

Net revenues analysis

The components of our net revenue for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 were as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Amounts in the prior period were reclassified to conform to current period presentation.

Transaction revenues

Transaction revenues increased by $2.2 billion, or 19%, in 2018 compared to 2017, and by $1.9 billion, or 20%, in 2017 compared to 2016. The increase in transaction revenues in 2018 and 2017 was due primarily to the growth in TPV, mainly from our PayPal and Braintree products, and in the number of payment transactions, both of which resulted primarily from an increase in our active accounts. Current year acquisitions did not have a material impact on the growth rate of transaction revenues; however, they contributed approximately 2.9 million new active accounts during the year. Net losses from our foreign currency exchange contracts recognized as a component of transaction revenues in 2018 were $23 million, compared to net gains of $17 million in 2017. Refer to “Note 10—Derivative Instruments” to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information on our foreign currency exposure management program. 

44
The following table provides a summary of our active accounts, number of payment transactions, TPV and related metrics:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

All amounts in tables are rounded to the nearest million except as otherwise noted. As a result, certain amounts may not recalculate using the rounded amounts provided.

(1) Prior period amounts were revised to reflect updated definitions of active accounts and TPV discussed above.

(2) Reflects active accounts as of the end of the applicable period. An active account is an account registered directly with PayPal or a platform access partner that has completed a transaction on our Payments Platform, not including gateway-exclusive transactions, within the past 12 months.

(3) Number of payment transactions are the total number of payments, net of payment reversals, successfully completed on our Payments Platform or enabled by PayPal via a partner payment solution, not including gateway-exclusive transactions.

(4) Number of payment transactions per active account reflects the total number of payment transactions within the previous 12 month period, divided by active accounts at the end of the period.

(5) TPV is the value of payments, net of reversals, successfully completed on our Payments Platform or enabled by PayPal via a partner payment solution, not including gateway-exclusive transactions. 

** Not meaningful

Transaction revenues grew more slowly than both TPV and number of payment transactions in 2018 due to a higher proportion of P2P transactions (primarily from our PayPal and Venmo products) from which we earn lower fees and a lower proportion of cross border transactions. Transaction revenues grew more slowly than both TPV and the number of payment transactions in 2017 due primarily to a higher proportion of P2P transactions, primarily from our PayPal and Venmo products. The impact of increases or decreases in prices charged to our customers did not significantly impact transaction revenue growth in 2018 or 2017.

Other value added services

Net revenues from other value added services increased by $149 million, or 9%, in 2018 compared to 2017, and by $336 million, or 27%, in 2017 compared to 2016. Growth in net revenues from other value-added services in 2018 and 2017 was due primarily to interest and fee income earned on our loans receivable portfolio. In 2018, net revenue from other value added services was also positively impacted by growth in interest earned on customer balances. The completion of the sale of our U.S. consumer credit receivables portfolio in July 2018 resulted in lower interest and fee income in the second half of 2018, partially offset by an increase in revenue share with Synchrony Bank and approximately $109 million of revenue earned from transition servicing activities. Swift revenues contributed approximately nine percentage points and three percentage points to the 2018 and 2017 growth rates, respectively.The total consumer and merchant loans receivable balance, including loans and receivables, held for sale, as of December 31, 2018, 2017, and 2016 was $2.7 billion, $7.8 billion, and $5.7 billion, respectively, which reflected a year-over-year decrease of 66% in 2018 compared to 2017, and an increase of 37% in 2017 compared to 2016. The decline in 2018 was primarily driven by the completion of the sale of U.S. consumer credit receivables portfolio. 

In November 2017, we reached an agreement to sell our U.S. consumer credit receivables portfolio to Synchrony Bank to free up balance sheet capacity and cash flow for other uses and mitigate balance sheet risk. Historically, this portfolio was reported as outstanding principal balances, net of any participation interest sold and pro rata allowances, including unamortized deferred origination costs and estimated collectible interest and fees. Upon approval by our Board of Directors of the decision to sell these receivables, the portfolio was reclassified as held for sale, and recorded at the lower of cost or fair value. Due to the designation as held for sale, the associated allowance for this portfolio was reversed, resulting in an increase of approximately $39 million in revenue from other value added services in 2017. 

45
Following the closing of this transaction in July 2018, Synchrony Bank became the exclusive issuer of the PayPal Credit online consumer financing program in the U.S., and we no longer hold an ownership interest in the receivables generated through the program (other than receivables that have been or are designated to be charged off and are fully reserved). The transaction was accounted for as a true sale, and following the completion of the sale, the receivables are no longer reported on our consolidated financial statements. Subsequent to the sale, we earn a revenue share on the portfolio of consumer receivables owned by Synchrony Bank, which is recorded in net revenues from other value added services. We expect this transaction to negatively impact other value-added services revenue growth for the first two quarters of 2019. The corresponding negative impact on total net revenue growth rate for each of those quarters is expected to be between 6% and 8%, although this estimate is subject to various uncertainties and the actual impact may be different.

Operating Expenses

The following table summarizes our operating expenses and related metrics we use to assess the trend in each:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED](1) Transaction expense rate is calculated by dividing transaction expense by TPV. Prior year rates were revised to reflect updated TPV definition, as discussed above.

(2) Transaction and loan loss rate is calculated by dividing transaction and loan losses by TPV. Prior year rates were revised to reflect updated TPV definition, as discussed above.

** Not Meaningful

Transaction expense

Transaction expense is primarily composed of the costs we incur to accept a customer’s funding source of payment. These costs include fees paid to payment processors and other financial institutions in order to draw funds from a customer’s credit or debit card, bank account, or other funding source they have stored in their digital wallet. Transaction expense also includes fees paid to disbursement partners to enable a transaction. We refer to the allocation of funding sources used by our consumers as our “funding mix.” The cost of funding a transaction with a credit or debit card is generally higher than the cost of funding a transaction from a bank or through internal sources such as a PayPal account balance or PayPal Credit. As we expand the availability and presentation of alternative funding sources to our customers, our funding mix may change, which could increase or decrease our transaction expense rate. The cost of funding a transaction is also impacted by the geographic region or country in which a transaction occurs because we generally pay lower rates for transactions funded with credit cards outside the U.S. than in the U.S. 

Transaction expense increased by $1.2 billion, or 26%, in 2018 compared to 2017, and increased by $1.1 billion, or 32%, in 2017 compared to 2016. The increase in transaction expense in 2018 was primarily attributable to an increase in TPV of 27%. The increase in transaction expense in 2017 was primarily attributable to an increase in TPV of 27% and higher assessments charged by payment processors and other financial institutions.

The transaction expense rate in 2018 remained relatively consistent with the transaction expense rate for 2017. The increase in our transaction expense rate in 2017 compared to 2016 was due primarily to higher assessments charged by payment processors and other financial institutions. For the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017, and 2016, approximately 2% of TPV was funded with PayPal Credit. For the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017, and 2016, approximately 43%, 43%, and 44% of TPV, respectively, was generated outside of the U.S. 

46
Transaction and loan losses

Transaction losses include the expense associated with our buyer and seller protection programs, fraud, and chargebacks. Loan losses include the losses associated with our merchant and consumer loans receivable portfolio, except loans and interest receivable, held for sale. Our transaction and loan losses fluctuate depending on many factors, including TPV, macroeconomic conditions, changes to our customer protection programs, the impact of regulatory changes, and the credit quality of loans receivable arising from transactions funded with our credit products for consumers and loans and advances to merchants. 

The components of our transaction and loan losses for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017, and 2016 were as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Transaction loss rate is calculated by dividing transaction losses by TPV. Prior year rates were revised to reflect updated TPV definition, as discussed above.

Transaction and loan losses increased by $263 million, or 26%, in 2018 compared to 2017, and decreased by $77 million, or 7%, in 2017 compared to 2016. 

Transaction losses increased by $236 million, or 29%, in 2018 compared to 2017, and increased by $168 million, or 26%, in 2017 compared to 2016, due primarily to higher TPV. Our transaction loss rate remained flat in 2018, 2017, and 2016. 

Loan losses increased by $27 million, or 14%, in 2018 compared to 2017 and decreased by $245 million, or 57%, in 2017 compared to 2016. The increase in loan losses in 2018 was primarily due to the increase in our merchant loans and advances receivable balances, partially offset by a decline resulting from the sale of our U.S. consumer credit receivables portfolio in the third quarter of 2018 and the portfolio's designation as held for sale during the first two quarters of 2018. The decrease in loan losses in 2017 was due primarily to the reversal of approximately $283 million of allowance on loans receivable due to the designation of our U.S. consumer credit portfolio as held for sale. 

The consumer loans receivable balance as of December 31, 2018, 2017, and 2016 was $704 million, $326 million, and $5.1 billion, respectively, reflecting a year-over-year increase of 116% from 2017 to 2018 and a decrease of 94% from 2016 to 2017. The increase in consumer loan receivables in 2018 was due to growth in international markets. Approximately 93% of our consumer loans receivables outstanding as of December 31 2018 and December 31, 2017 were due from consumers in the U.K. The decrease in consumer loan receivables in 2017 was due to the designation of U.S. consumer credit portfolio as held for sale. 

The following table provides information regarding the credit quality of our consumer loans and interest receivable balance: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Represents percentage of balances which are 90 days past the billing date to the consumer.

(2) Net charge off rate is the annual ratio of net credit losses on consumer loans receivables as a percentage of the average daily amount of consumer loans and interest receivables balance during the year. 

47
We offer business financing solutions to certain small- and medium-sized merchants. Total merchant loans, advances, and interest and fees receivable outstanding as of December 31, 2018, 2017, and 2016, net of participation interest sold, were $1.9 billion, $1.0 billion, and $558 million, respectively, reflecting a year-over-year increase of 85% from 2017 to 2018 and an increase of 81% from 2016 to 2017. The increase in merchant receivables in 2018 was due to growth in our PayPal Business Loan (“PPBL”) portfolio and an increase in the availability of our PayPal Working Capital (“PPWC”) product. Approximately 87% and 10% of our merchant receivables outstanding as of December 31 2018 were due from merchants in the U.S. and U.K. as compared to 83% and 13% as of December 31, 2017, respectively. The increase in merchant receivables in 2017 was due to the acquisition of Swift, which included their pre-existing loan receivables portfolio, and an increase in the availability of our PPWC product domestically and internationally.

The following table provides information regarding the credit quality of our merchant receivables:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Excludes $30 million of loan receivables related to iZettle merchant receivables.

Modifications to the acceptable risk parameters of our PayPal credit products for the periods presented did not have a material impact on our loans and interest receivables. For additional information, see “Note 11—Loans and Interest Receivable” in the notes to the consolidated financial statements, and “Item 1A. Risk Factors” under the caption—“Some of our credit products expose us to additional risks.” included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Customer support and operations

Customer support and operations expenses include costs incurred to provide 24-hour call support to our customers, our site operations, and other infrastructure costs incurred to support our Payments Platform, costs to support our trust and security programs protecting our merchants and consumers, and other costs incurred related to the delivery of our products.

Customer support and operations costs increased $118 million, or 9%, in 2018 compared to 2017 and increased $97 million, or 8%, in 2017 compared to 2016. The increase in 2018 was primarily attributable to an increase in employee-related expenses and platform infrastructure expenses to support the growth in our active accounts and the number of payment transactions occurring on our Payments Platform, partially offset by a decrease in contractor and consulting expenses. Our acquisitions completed in 2018 and 2017 collectively contributed approximately one percentage point to the growth rate in 2018. The increase in 2017 was due primarily to an increase in network infrastructure expenses and contractor and employee related expenses to support the growth in our active accounts and the number of payment transactions occurring on our Payments Platform. 

Sales and marketing

Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of customer acquisition, business development, advertising, marketing programs, and employee compensation and contractor costs to support these programs. 

Sales and marketing expenses increased $185 million, or 16%, in 2018 compared to 2017 and increased $159 million, or 16%, in 2017 compared to 2016. The increase in 2018 and 2017 was due primarily to higher employee-related expense and higher spend on external marketing campaigns. Our acquisitions completed in 2018 and 2017 collectively contributed approximately seven percentage points to the growth rate in 2018. 

Product development

Product development expenses consist primarily of employee compensation and contractor costs that are incurred in connection with the development of our Payments Platform, new products, and the improvement of our existing products. Product development expenses exclude software and website development costs that are capitalized. The amortization of developed technology is included in depreciation and amortization expense.

48
Product development expenses increased $118 million, or 12%, in 2018 compared to 2017 and increased $119 million, or 14%, in 2017 compared to 2016. The increase in 2018 and 2017 was due primarily to an increase in employee-related expenses. The increase in 2018 was also attributable to an increase in contractor and consulting expenses. Our acquisitions completed in 2018 and 2017 collectively contributed approximately two percentage points to the growth rate in 2018. 

General and administrative

General and administrative expenses consist primarily of costs incurred to provide support to our business, including legal, human resources, finance, risk and compliance, executive, and other support operations. Our legal expenses, including those related to ongoing legal and regulatory proceedings, settlements, judgments, and fines, may fluctuate substantially from period to period.

General and administrative expenses increased $296 million, or 26%, in 2018 compared to 2017 and increased $127 million, or 12%, in 2017 compared to 2016. The increase in 2018 was due primarily to an increase in employee-related expenses, professional service expenses, and facilities cost. Additional expenses incurred to support our mergers and acquisitions and the sale of our U.S. consumer credit receivables portfolio also contributed to the growth rate in 2018. Our acquisitions completed in 2018 and 2017 collectively contributed approximately five percentage points to the growth rate in 2018. The increase in 2017 was due primarily to an increase in employee-related expenses and professional service expenses, and continued investments in compliance programs. 

Depreciation and amortization

The primary components of our depreciation and amortization expenses include the depreciation and amortization of software, including the amortization of capitalized software and website development costs, depreciation of equipment used to deliver our services, and amortization of acquired intangible assets. 

Depreciation and amortization expenses decreased $29 million, or 4%, in 2018 compared to 2017, and increased $81 million, or 11%, in 2017 compared to 2016. The decrease in 2018 was primarily attributable to fully depreciated assets partially offset by an increase in amortization of acquired intangibles due to acquisitions completed in 2018 and 2017, which contributed seven percentage points to the growth rate. The increase in 2017 was due primarily to additional depreciation expenses associated with investments in our technology platform. Additionally, the increase in depreciation and amortization in 2017 was partially attributable to an impairment charge of $30 million related to a portion of our acquired TIO customer-related intangible assets. For additional information, see “Note 5—Goodwill and Intangible Assets” to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Restructuring and other charges

Restructuring and other charges primarily consist of restructuring expenses and cost adjustments related to our loans and receivables, held for sale portfolio. Restructuring and other charges increased by $177 million in 2018 compared to 2017 due to an increase of $152 million in cost adjustments, which were primarily driven by charge-offs against loans and interest receivables, held for sale portfolio, prior to its sale in July 2018, and a net loss of $40 million incurred at the conclusion of this sale. Restructuring and other charges increased by $132 million in 2017 compared to 2016 due to restructuring charges of $40 million and cost adjustments of $92 million, which were driven by charge-offs against our U.S. consumer credit receivables portfolio subsequent to its designation as held for sale in November 2017.

In the first quarter of 2018 and 2017, management approved strategic reductions of the existing global workforce, which resulted in restructuring charges of $25 million and $40 million, respectively. The reduction approved in the first quarter of 2018 also included restructuring charges related to the decision to wind down TIO operations. We incurred employee and severance benefits expenses under both the 2018 and 2017 strategic reductions, which were substantially completed by the end of 2018 and 2017, respectively. No restructuring expenses were recognized in 2016.

49
Other income (expense), net

Other income (expense), net increased $109 million, or 149%, in 2018 compared to 2017, and increased $28 million, or 62%, in 2017 compared to 2016. The increase in 2018 was primarily driven by net unrealized gains on equity investments due to the favorable impact of observable price changes, which contributed $86 million (including $55 million in the fourth quarter). Additionally, the increase was attributable to growth in interest income of $83 million due to higher interest rates and increase in corporate cash, partially offset by an increase of $70 million in interest expense associated with higher amounts of notes payable outstanding under our credit agreements. The increase in 2017 was primarily driven by an increase in interest income.

Income tax expense 

On December 22, 2017, the U.S. government enacted the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the “Tax Act”). The Tax Act included significant changes to the U.S. corporate income tax system including: a federal corporate rate reduction from 35% to 21%; limitations on the deductibility of interest expense and executive compensation; creation of new minimum taxes such as the base erosion anti-abuse tax (“BEAT”) and Global Intangible Low Taxed Income (“GILTI”) tax; and the transition of U.S. international taxation from a worldwide tax system to a modified territorial tax system, which resulted in a one time U.S. tax liability on those earnings which have not previously been repatriated to the U.S. (the “Transition Tax”).

In connection with our initial analysis of the impact of the Tax Act, we recorded a provisional estimate of discrete net tax expense of $180 million for the period ended December 31, 2017. This discrete expense consisted of provisional estimates of $1,468 million net expense for the Transition Tax payable in installments over eight years, $1,295 million net benefit for the decrease in our deferred tax liability on unremitted foreign earnings, and $7 million net expense for remeasurement of our deferred tax assets/liabilities for the corporate rate reduction and changes in our valuation allowance.

During the year ended December 31, 2018, we completed our accounting for the income tax effects of the Tax Act. We recognized additional discrete net tax expense of $20 million to the provisional amounts recorded at December 31, 2017 for the enactment-date effects of the Tax Act, for a total of $200 million of discrete net tax expense. The $200 million of total discrete net expense consists of $1,490 million of net federal and state Transition Tax, the majority of which is payable in installments over eight years, $1,295 million net benefit for the decrease in our deferred tax liability on unremitted foreign earnings, and $5 million net expense for remeasurement of our deferred tax assets and liabilities for the corporate rate reduction and changes in our valuation allowance. We elected to account for GILTI as a current-period expense when incurred. Legislation and clarifying guidance is expected to continue to be issued by the U.S. Treasury and various states in 2019, which could have a material adverse impact on the value of our U.S. deferred tax assets, result in significant changes to currently computed income tax liabilities for past and current tax periods, and increase our future U.S. tax expense. 

Our effective tax rate was 13% in 2018, 18% in 2017, and 14% in 2016. The decrease in our effective tax rate in 2018 was primarily due to a favorable shift in earnings and discrete net tax expense recorded for U.S. tax reform in 2017, partially offset by reduced tax benefits for U.S. expenses in 2018 due to the lower U.S. tax rate. The increase in our effective tax rate in 2017 was primarily due to discrete net tax expense recorded for U.S. tax reform, partially offset by the adoption of the new stock-based compensation accounting standard in 2017. See “Note 16—Income Taxes” to the consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for more information on our effective tax rate.

Non-GAAP Financial Information

Non-GAAP financial information is defined as a numerical measure of a company’s performance that excludes or includes amounts that create differences between the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”). Pursuant to the requirements of Regulation S-K, the following portion of this “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” includes a reconciliation of certain non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures. The presentation of non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for our financial results prepared in accordance with GAAP.

We present non-GAAP financial measures to enhance an investor’s evaluation of our operating results and to facilitate meaningful comparisons of our results between periods. Management uses these non-GAAP financial measures to, among other things: evaluate our operations, for internal planning and forecasting purposes, and in the calculation of performance-based compensation.

We exclude the following items from non-GAAP net income, non-GAAP net income per diluted share, non-GAAP operating income, non-GAAP operating margin and non-GAAP effective tax rate: 

50
•Stock-based compensation expense and related employer payroll taxes. This consists of expenses for equity awards under our equity incentive plans. We exclude stock-based compensation expense from our non-GAAP measures primarily because they are non-cash expenses. The related employer payroll taxes are dependent on our stock price and the timing and size of exercises and vesting of equity awards, over which management has limited to no control, and as such management does not believe it correlates to the operation of our business.

•Amortization or impairment of acquired intangible assets, impairment of goodwill, and transaction expenses from the acquisition or disposal of a business. We incur amortization or impairment of acquired intangible assets and goodwill in connection with acquisitions and may incur significant gains or losses or transactional expenses from the acquisition or disposal of a business and therefore exclude these amounts from our non-GAAP measures. We exclude these items because management does not believe they are reflective of our ongoing operating results.

•Restructuring. These consist of expenses for employee severance and other exit and disposal costs. We exclude restructuring charges primarily because management does not believe they are reflective of our ongoing operating results.

•Certain other significant gains, losses, benefits, or charges that are not indicative of our core operating results. These are significant gains, losses, benefits, or charges during a period that are the result of isolated events or transactions which have not occurred frequently in the past and are not expected to occur regularly in the future. We exclude these amounts from our non-GAAP results because management does not believe they are indicative of our ongoing operating results. 

•Tax effect of non-GAAP adjustments. This adjustment is made to present stock-based compensation and the other amounts described above on an after-tax basis consistent with the presentation of non-GAAP net income. 

The following tables provide reconciliations of our consolidated non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017, and 2016:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Elimination of allowance on interest receivable due to the U.S. consumer credit portfolio designation as held for sale.   

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Includes $30 million impairment related to a portion of acquired TIO customer-related intangible assets in 2017. 

(2) Includes net loss ($40 million) related to the sale of our U.S. consumer credit receivables portfolio for the year ended December 31, 2018. Includes elimination of allowance on loans receivable ($283 million), allowance on interest receivable ($39 million) due to the designation of the U.S. consumer credit portfolio as held for sale, certain fees associated with the sale of the portfolio ($5 million), and impairment of an investment in an intellectual property fund ($15 million) for the year ended December 31, 2017. 

51
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 include tax expense related to the Tax Act ($20 million and $180 million, respectively) and intra-entity transfer of intellectual property ($23 million and $44 million, respectively).  

In addition to the non-GAAP measures discussed above, we also use free cash flow to assess our performance. Free cash flow represents cash flows from operating activities less purchases of property and equipment. We consider free cash flow to be a liquidity measure that provides useful information to management and investors about the amount of cash generated by the business after the purchases of property and equipment, and investments in our Payments Platform, which can then be used to, among other things, invest in our business, make strategic acquisitions, and repurchase stock. A limitation of the utility of free cash flow as a measure of financial performance is that it does not represent the total increase or decrease in our cash balance for the period. A reconciliation of free cash flow to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure is presented below:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) The year ended December 31, 2018 includes a positive impact of approximately $1.4 billion due to the completion of the sale of our US consumer credit receivables portfolio in July 2018. The year ended December 31, 2017 includes a negative impact of approximately $1.3 billion due to the change in presentation of the U.S. consumer credit receivables portfolio subsequent to its designation as held for sale in November 2017.

52
Liquidity and Capital Resources

We require liquidity and access to capital to fund our global operations, including customer protection programs, our credit products, capital expenditures, investments in our business, potential acquisitions, working capital, and other cash needs. The following table summarizes the cash, cash equivalents, and investments as of December 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Excludes assets related to customer accounts of $20.1 billion and $18.2 billion at December 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively.

(2) Excludes total restricted cash of $77 million and $81 million at December 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively, and equity investments of $293 million and $88 million as of December 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively.

Foreign Cash, Cash Equivalents and Investments

Cash, cash equivalents and investments held by our foreign subsidiaries were $8.7 billion as of December 31, 2018 and $6.1 billion at December 31, 2017, or 89% and 81% of our total cash, cash equivalents, and investments as of those respective dates. At December 31, 2018, all of our cash, cash equivalents, and investments held by foreign subsidiaries were subject to U.S. taxation under Subpart F, GILTI, or the one-time Transition Tax as further discussed in “Note 16—Income Taxes” to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Subsequent repatriations will not be taxable from a U.S. federal tax perspective, but may be subject to state or foreign withholding tax. A significant aspect of our global cash management activities involves meeting our customers' requirements to access their cash while simultaneously meeting our regulatory financial ratios commitments in various jurisdictions. Our global cash balances are required not only to provide operational liquidity to our businesses, but also to support our global regulatory requirements across our regulated subsidiaries. As such, not all of our cash is available for general corporate purposes.

Credit Facilities 

In the fourth quarter of 2017, we entered into a credit agreement (“2017 Credit Agreement”) that provided for an unsecured $3.0 billion, 364-day delayed-draw term loan credit facility, which was available in up to three borrowings. In the fourth quarter of 2018, we entered into an amended credit agreement (“Amended Credit Agreement”) which amends and restates in its entirety the 2017 Credit Agreement. The Amended Credit Agreement provides for an unsecured $5.0 billion, 364-day delayed-draw term loan credit facility, which is available in up to four separate borrowings. Funds borrowed under the Amended Credit Agreement may be used to repurchase equity securities from shareholders, to repay intercompany debt, and for other general corporate purposes of the Company and our subsidiaries. Amounts available under the Amended Credit Agreement may be borrowed until April 2019, subject to customary borrowing conditions, and the Amended Credit Agreement will terminate in November 2019.

In the first quarter of 2018, we effected two drawdowns aggregating to $2.0 billion under the 2017 Credit Agreement, which were in addition to the outstanding balance of $1.0 billion as of December 31, 2017. In the second quarter of 2018, we repaid $1.0 billion of the borrowings outstanding under the 2017 Credit Agreement. The borrowings outstanding as of December 31, 2018 and 2017 bore interest at LIBOR of one month plus a margin of 1.125% resulting in a weighted average interest rate of 3.34% and 2.78%, respectively. As of December 31, 2018, $2.0 billion was outstanding under the Amended Credit Agreement. Accordingly, at December 31, 2018, $3.0 billion of borrowing capacity was available in up to four drawdowns for the purposes permitted by the Amended Credit Agreement, subject to customary conditions to borrowing.

In 2015, we entered into a credit agreement (“2015 Credit Agreement” and, collectively with the Amended Credit Agreement, the “Credit Agreements”) that provides for an unsecured $2.0 billion, five-year revolving credit facility that includes a $150 million letter of credit sub-facility and a $150 million swingline sub-facility, with available borrowings under the revolving credit facility reduced by the amount of any letters of credit and swingline borrowings outstanding from time to time. We may, subject to the agreement of the applicable lenders, increase the commitments under the revolving credit facility by up to $500 million. Funds borrowed under the 2015 Credit Agreement may be used for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes. The 2015 Credit Agreement will terminate in July 2020.

53
During the third quarter of 2017, we drew down $800 million under the 2015 Credit Agreement, which was repaid during the fourth quarter of 2017. The borrowing bore interest at LIBOR of one month plus a margin of 1.125% resulting in a weighted-average interest rate of 2.36%. As of December 31, 2018, no borrowings or letters of credit were outstanding under the 2015 Credit Agreement. Accordingly, at December 31, 2018, $2.0 billion of borrowing capacity was available for the purposes permitted by the 2015 Credit Agreement, subject to customary conditions to borrowing.

We also maintain uncommitted credit facilities in various regions throughout the world, with borrowing capacity of approximately $300 million in the aggregate. Interest rate terms for these facilities vary by region and reflect prevailing market rates for companies with strong credit ratings. As of December 31, 2018, no amounts were outstanding under these facilities, and therefore, approximately $300 million of borrowing capacity was available, subject to customary conditions to borrowing.

For additional information regarding the terms of our credit facilities, refer to “Note 12—Notes Payable” to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

We have a cash pooling arrangement with a financial institution for cash management purposes. The arrangement allows for cash withdrawals from the financial institution based upon our aggregate operating cash balances held within the financial institution (“Aggregate Cash Deposits”). The arrangement also allows us to withdraw amounts exceeding the Aggregate Cash Deposits up to an agreed-upon limit. The net balance of the withdrawals and the Aggregate Cash Deposits are used by the financial institution as a basis for calculating our net interest expense or income under these arrangements. As of December 31, 2018, we had a total of $4.3 billion in cash withdrawals offsetting our $4.3 billion in Aggregate Cash Deposits held within the financial institution under the cash pooling arrangement.

Liquidity for Credit Portfolio Growth 

Growth in the portfolio of loan receivables increases our liquidity needs and any failure to meet those liquidity needs could adversely affect our business. We continue to evaluate partnerships and third party sources of funding of our credit portfolio. In June 2018, the Luxembourg Commission de Surveillance du Secteur Financier (the “CSSF”) agreed that PayPal’s management may designate up to 35% of European customer balances held in our Luxembourg banking subsidiary to be used to extend credit for European and U.S. credit activities. As of December 31, 2018, the cumulative amount approved by management to be designated for credit activities aggregated to $1.5 billion and represented approximately 26% of European customer balances potentially available for corporate use by us at that date as determined by applying financial regulations maintained by the CSSF. No additional amount has been designated for corporate usage by management during the year ended December 31, 2018. We may periodically seek to designate additional amounts of customer balances, if necessary, based on utilization of the approved funds and anticipated credit funding requirements. Our objective is to expand the availability of our credit products with capital from external sources, although there can be no assurance that we will be successful in achieving that goal. Under certain exceptional circumstances, corporate liquidity could be called upon to meet our obligations related to our European customer balances.

In November 2017, we reached an agreement to sell our U.S. consumer credit receivables portfolio to Synchrony Bank. Historically, this portfolio was reported as outstanding principal balances, net of any participation interest sold and pro rata allowances including, unamortized deferred origination costs and estimated collectible interest and fees. In July 2018, we completed the transaction for total consideration of $6.9 billion, which includes cash consideration of $6.5 billion and a long-term receivable in the amount of $426 million, which was recorded at that time at its present value of $261 million. Following the closing of this transaction, Synchrony Bank became the exclusive issuer of the PayPal credit online consumer financing program in the U.S., and we no longer hold an ownership interest in the receivables generated through the program (other than charged off or designated to be charged off receivables).

Credit Ratings

As of December 31, 2018, we continue to be rated investment grade by Standard and Poor's Financial Services, LLC and Fitch Ratings, Inc. We expect that these credit rating agencies will continue to monitor our performance, including our capital structure and results of operations. Our goal is to be rated investment grade, but as circumstances change, there are factors that could result in our credit ratings being downgraded or put on a watch list for possible downgrading. If that were to occur, it could increase our borrowing rates, including the interest rate on loans under the Credit Agreements.

54
Risk of Loss

The risk of losses from our buyer and seller protection programs are specific to individual customers, merchants and transactions, and may also be impacted by regional variations in, and changes or modifications to, the programs, including as a result of changes in regulatory requirements. For the periods presented in these consolidated financial statements included in this report, our transaction loss rates, calculated by dividing transaction loss by TPV, was 0.18% of TPV. Historical trends may not be an indication of future results. 

Acquisitions and Stock Repurchases

In July 2018, we completed our acquisition of Simility for approximately $107 million in cash. We acquired Simility to enhance our ability to deliver fraud prevention and risk management solutions to merchants globally.

In September 2018, we completed our acquisition of iZettle for approximately $2.1 billion in cash (net of cash acquired of $103 million) and $22 million in equity. We acquired iZettle to expand our in-store presence and strengthen our Payments Platform to help small businesses around the world grow and thrive in an omnichannel retail environment.

In November 2018, we completed our acquisition of Hyperwallet for approximately $399 million in cash. We acquired Hyperwallet to enhance our payout capabilities and improve our ability to provide an integrated suite of payment solutions to ecommerce platforms and marketplaces around the world. 

During the year ended December 31, 2018, we repurchased approximately $2.5 billion of our common stock through open market repurchases and approximately $1.0 billion pursuant to an accelerated share repurchase agreement under our stock repurchase programs. As of December 31, 2018, a total of approximately $11.5 billion remained available for future repurchases of our common stock under our stock repurchase programs. During the year ended December 31, 2017, we repurchased approximately $1.0 billion of our common stock under our stock repurchase programs. As of December 31, 2017, a total of approximately $5.0 billion remained available for future repurchases of our common stock under our stock repurchase programs. Our programs are intended to offset the impact of dilution from our equity compensation programs and, subject to market conditions and other factors, may also be used to make opportunistic repurchases of our common stock to reduce outstanding share count. Any share repurchases under our stock repurchase programs may be made through open market transactions, block trades, privately negotiated transactions including accelerated share repurchase agreements or other means at times and in such amounts as management deems appropriate, and will be funded from cash from operations or other financing alternatives. Moreover, any stock repurchases are subject to market conditions and other uncertainties and we cannot predict if or when any stock repurchases will be made. We may terminate our stock repurchase programs at any time without notice. 

Other Considerations

Our liquidity, access to capital, and borrowing costs could be adversely impacted by declines in our credit rating, our financial performance and global credit market conditions, as well as a broad range of other factors. In addition, our liquidity, access to capital, and borrowing costs could also be negatively impacted by the outcome of any of the legal or regulatory proceedings to which we are a party. See “Item 1A. Risk Factors—Risk Factors That May Affect Our Business, Results of Operations and Financial Condition” and “Note 13—Commitments and Contingencies” to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional discussion of these and other risks facing our business.

We believe that our existing cash, cash equivalents, and investments, cash expected to be generated from operations, and our expected access to capital markets, together with potential external funding through third party sources, will be sufficient to fund our operating activities, anticipated capital expenditures, and our credit products for the foreseeable future. Depending on market conditions, we may from time to time issue debt, including in private or public offerings, to fund our operating activities, finance acquisitions, repurchase shares under our share repurchase programs, or reduce our cost of capital.

55
Cash Flows

The following table summarizes our consolidated statements of cash flows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Operating Activities

Cash flows from operating activities includes net income adjusted for certain non-cash expenses, timing differences between expenses recognized for provision for transaction and loan losses and actual cash transaction losses incurred, and changes in other assets and liabilities. Significant non-cash expenses for the period include depreciation and amortization and stock-based compensation. The cash impact from actual transaction losses incurred during a period is reflected as a negative impact to changes in other assets and liabilities in cash from operating activities. The expenses recognized during the period for provision for loan losses are estimates of probable incurred losses on our consumer and merchant credit products (excluding the U.S. consumer credit portfolio from and after November 2017). Actual charge-offs of receivables related to our consumer and merchant credit products (excluding the U.S. consumer credit portfolio from and after November 2017) have no impact on cash from operating activities.

We generated cash from operating activities of $5.5 billion in 2018 primarily due to operating income of approximately $2.2 billion and the positive impact of $1.4 billion of changes in the loans and interest receivable, held for sale, net following the sale of our U.S. consumer credit receivables portfolio. Adjustments for non-cash expenses of depreciation and amortization and stock-based compensation were approximately $1.6 billion during 2018. Adjustments for non-cash expenses related to the provision for transaction and loan losses were approximately $1.3 billion and cost basis adjustments to loans and interest receivable held for sale were $244 million during 2018. The cash generated from operating activities was negatively impacted by changes in other assets and liabilities of $708 million, primarily related to actual cash transaction losses incurred during the period.

We generated cash from operating activities of $2.5 billion in 2017 due primarily to operating income of approximately $2.1 billion. Adjustments for non-cash expenses of depreciation and amortization and stock-based compensation were approximately $1.5 billion during 2017. Adjustments for non-cash expenses related to the provision for transaction and loan losses were approximately $1.0 billion during 2017. The cash generated from operating activities was negatively impacted by adjustments for non-cash expenses related to deferred income taxes of approximately $1.3 billion during 2017. The cash generated from operating activities was also negatively impacted by changes in working capital primarily related to loans and interest receivable held for sale, net of $1.3 billion due to changes in the presentation of originations and collections on loans within the U.S. consumer credit portfolio subsequent to its designation as held for sale in November 2017, which were presented in operating activities instead of investing activities, offset by changes in other assets and liabilities of $634 million. Collections on the U.S. consumer credit portfolio for originations that occurred prior to November 2017 will continue to be reflected in investing activities.

We generated cash from operating activities of $3.2 billion in 2016 due primarily to operating income of approximately $1.6 billion. Adjustments for non-cash expenses of depreciation and amortization and stock-based compensation (including excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation) were approximately $1.1 billion during 2016. Adjustments for non-cash expenses related to the provision for transaction and loan losses were approximately $1.1 billion during 2016. The cash generated from operating activities was negatively impacted by changes in working capital primarily related to transaction loss allowance for cash losses, net. 

Cash paid for income taxes in 2018, 2017, and 2016 was $328 million, $117 million, and $48 million, respectively.

Investing Activities

Cash flows from investing activities includes purchases, maturities and sales of investments, cash paid for acquisitions, purchases and sales of property and equipment, changes in principal loans receivable, and funds receivable. 

56
We generated cash from investing activities of $840 million in 2018 due primarily to maturities and sales of investments of $21.9 billion, changes in principal loans receivable, net of $3.1 billion, and changes in funds receivable from customers of $1.1 billion. These cash inflows were offset by purchases of investments of $22.4 billion, acquisitions of $2.1 billion (net of cash and restricted cash acquired), and purchases of property and equipment of $823 million.

The net cash used in investing activities of $4.5 billion in 2017 was due primarily to purchases of investments of $19.4 billion, an increase in funds receivable of $1.6 billion (including the reclassification of $700 million of European customer balances held in our Luxembourg banking subsidiary as cash and cash equivalents), changes in principal loans receivable portfolio (net of collections) originated through our consumer and merchant credit products (excluding originations and collections pertaining to the U.S. consumer credit portfolio from and after November 2017 which are presented in operating activities), of $920 million, acquisitions, net of cash acquired of $323 million, and purchases of property and equipment of $667 million. These net cash outflows were offset by maturities and sales of investments of $18.4 billion. Collections on the U.S. consumer credit portfolio for originations that occurred prior to November 2017 will continue to be reflected in investing activities.

The net cash used in investing activities of $5.9 billion in 2016 was due primarily to purchases of investments of $21.0 billion, increases in our loan receivable portfolio (net of collections) originated through our PayPal credit products of $1.5 billion, purchases of property and equipment of $669 million and net increases in funds receivable of $1.1 billion, including the reclassification of $800 million of European customer balances held in our Luxembourg banking subsidiary as cash and cash equivalents. These net cash outflows were offset by maturities and sales of investments of $18.4 billion. 

Financing Activities

Cash flows from financing activities includes proceeds from issuance of common stock, purchases of treasury stock, tax withholdings related to net share settlements of equity awards, borrowings and repayments under financing arrangements, funds payable and amounts due to customers, and excess tax benefits from stock based compensation (for periods prior to 2017). 

The net cash used in financing activities of $1.3 billion in 2018 was due primarily to the repurchase of $3.5 billion of our common stock under our stock repurchase programs, repayments of borrowings under financing arrangements of $1.1 billion, and tax withholdings related to net share settlement of equity awards of $419 million, partially offset by cash inflows from borrowings under financing arrangements of $2.1 billion and changes in funds payable and amounts due to customers of $1.6 billion. 

The net cash provided by financing activities of $4.1 billion in 2017 was due primarily to increases in funds payable and amounts due to customers of $4.3 billion and borrowings of $1.8 billion. These cash inflows were partially offset by repayments of borrowings of $980 million (including a loan of $170 million assumed in connection with our acquisition of Swift), the repurchase of $1.0 billion of our common stock under our stock repurchase programs, and tax withholdings related to net share settlement of equity awards of $166 million.

The net cash provided by financing activities of $2.0 billion in 2016 was due primarily to increases in funds payable and amounts due to customers of $3.0 billion, offset in part by the repurchase of $995 million of our common stock under our stock repurchase programs.

Free Cash Flow

We define free cash flow as cash flows from operating activities less purchases of property and equipment. 

Free cash flow was $4.7 billion in 2018, an increase of $2.8 billion from 2017. The increase in free cash flow during the period was due to an increase in cash generated from operating activities of $3.0 billion, which was primarily impacted by changes in the loans and interest receivable held for sale, net, due to the completion of the sale of that portfolio, partially offset by purchases of property and equipment, which were $156 million higher compared to the prior year. Free cash flow generated during 2018 was used for repurchasing our common stock under our stock repurchase programs, funding our credit portfolio, acquisitions, and general business purposes. 

Free cash flow was $1.9 billion in 2017, a decrease of $625 million from 2016. The decrease in free cash flow during the period was primarily due to lower cash generated from operating activities of $627 million, which was impacted by the change in presentation from investing activities to operating activities of originations and collections on the U.S. consumer credit portfolio subsequent to its designation as held for sale in November 2017. Free cash flow generated during 2017 was used for repurchasing our common stock under our stock repurchase programs, funding our credit portfolio, acquisitions, and general business purposes. 

57
Free cash flow is a non-GAAP financial measure. See “Non-GAAP Financial Information” for a reconciliation to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure. 

Effect of Exchange Rates on Cash, Cash Equivalents, and Restricted Cash

We had a negative effect of currency exchange rates on cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash during 2018 of $113 million, due to the strengthening of the U.S. dollar against certain foreign currencies, primarily the Australian dollar and to a lesser extent, the Euro. The positive effect of currency exchange rates on cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash during 2017 of $36 million was due to the weakening of the U.S. dollar against certain foreign currencies, primarily the Euro. Currency exchange rates did not have a material impact on cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash in 2016. 

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

As of December 31, 2018 and 2017, we had no off-balance sheet arrangements that have, or are reasonably likely to have, a current or future material effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures, or capital resources.

Future Liquidity and Obligations

As of December 31, 2018, approximately $1.8 billion of unused credit was available to PayPal Credit account holders compared to $26.4 billion of unused credit as of December 31, 2017. While this amount represents the total unused credit available, we have not experienced, and do not anticipate, that all our PayPal Credit account holders will access their entire available credit at any given point in time. In addition, the individual lines of credit that make up this unused credit are subject to periodic review and termination based on, among other things, account usage and customer creditworthiness. The decrease in unused credit in 2018 as compared to 2017 was due to the sale of our U.S. consumer credit portfolio.

Prior to the completion of the sale of our U.S. consumer credit receivables portfolio in July 2018, when a consumer funded a purchase in the U.S. using a PayPal credit product issued by a chartered financial institution, the chartered financial institution extended credit to the consumer, funded the extension of credit at the point of sale, and advanced funds to the merchant. We purchased the receivables related to the consumer loans extended by the chartered financial institution and, as a result of such purchase, bore the risk of loss in the event of loan defaults. Although the chartered financial institution continued to own each customer account, we owned the related receivable (excluding participation interests sold) and were responsible for all servicing functions related to the account. Subsequent to the completion of the sale of our U.S. consumer credit receivables portfolio in July 2018, we no longer purchase the receivables related to U.S. consumer loans extended by the chartered financial institution.

We have certain fixed contractual obligations and commitments that include future estimated payments for general operating purposes. Changes in our business needs, contractual cancellation provisions, fluctuating interest rates, and other factors may result in actual payments differing from the estimates. We cannot provide certainty regarding the timing and amounts of these payments. The following table summarizes our obligations as of December 31, 2018 that are expected to impact liquidity and cash flow in future periods. We believe we will be able to fund these obligations through our existing cash and investment portfolio and cash expected to be generated from operations. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The significant assumptions used in our determination of amounts presented in the above table are as follows:

58
•Purchase obligation amounts include minimum purchase commitments for advertising, capital expenditures (computer equipment, software applications, engineering development services and construction contracts), and other goods and services entered into in the ordinary course of business.

•Operating lease amounts include minimum rental payments under our non-cancelable operating leases primarily for office and data center facilities. The amounts presented are consistent with contractual terms and are not expected to differ significantly from actual results under our existing leases, unless a substantial change in our headcount needs requires us to expand our occupied space or exit an office facility early.

•Transition Tax represents the one-time mandatory tax on previously deferred foreign earnings under the Tax Act, as further discussed in “Note 16—Income Taxes” to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

As we are unable to reasonably predict the timing of settlement of liabilities related to unrecognized tax benefits, net, the table above does not include $615 million of such non-current liabilities included in deferred and other tax liabilities recorded on our consolidated balance sheets as of December 31, 2018.

Seasonality

The Company does not experience meaningful seasonality with respect to net revenues. No individual quarter in 2018, 2017, or 2016 accounted for more than 30% of annual net revenue.

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates

The application of U.S. GAAP requires us to make estimates and assumptions about certain items and future events that directly affect our reported financial condition. We have established detailed policies and control procedures to provide reasonable assurance that the methods used to make estimates and assumptions are well controlled and are applied consistently from period to period. The accounting estimates and assumptions discussed in this section are those that we consider to be the most critical to our financial statements. An accounting estimate is considered critical if both (a) the nature of the estimate or assumption is material due to the levels of subjectivity and judgment involved, and (b) the impact within a reasonable range of outcomes of the estimate and assumption is material to our financial condition. Senior management has discussed the development, selection, and disclosure of these estimates with the Audit, Risk, and Compliance Committee of our Board of Directors. Our significant accounting policies, including recent accounting pronouncements, are described in “Note 1—Overview and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” to the consolidated annual financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

A quantitative sensitivity analysis is provided where that information is reasonably available, can be reliably estimated, and provides material information to investors. The amounts used to assess sensitivity are included to allow users of this report to understand a general direction cause and effect of changes in the estimates and do not represent management’s predictions of variability. For all of these estimates, it should be noted that future events rarely develop exactly as forecasted, and estimates require regular review and adjustment.

Transaction and loan losses

Transaction and loan losses include the expense associated with our customer protection programs, fraud, chargebacks, and credit losses associated with our loans receivable balances. Our transaction and loan losses fluctuate depending on many factors, including: total TPV, macroeconomic conditions, changes to our customer protection programs, the impact of regulatory changes, and the credit quality of loans receivable arising from transactions funded with our credit products, which include our PayPal Credit consumer product and merchant loans and advances arising from our PPWC and PPBL products.

We establish allowances for estimated transaction losses arising from processing customer transactions, such as chargebacks for unauthorized credit card use and merchant-related chargebacks due to non-delivery of goods or services, ACH returns, buyer protection program claims, account takeovers, and account overdrafts. Additions to the allowance, in the form of provisions, are reflected in transaction and loan losses in our consolidated statements of income. The allowances are monitored regularly and are updated based on actual claims data. The allowances are based on known facts and circumstances, internal factors including experience with similar cases, historical trends involving loss payment patterns, and the mix of transaction and loss types.

59
We also establish an allowance for loans receivable, which represents our estimate of probable incurred loan losses inherent in our merchant loans and advances and consumer loans receivable. Increases to the allowance for loans receivable are reflected as transaction and loan losses in our consolidated financial statements. This evaluation process is subject to numerous estimates and judgments. In connection with the sale of our U.S. consumer credit receivables portfolio to Synchrony Bank, and the designation of that portfolio as held for sale in November 2017, we released corresponding allowances against those loans and interest receivable balances. No allowances were established on any newly originated U.S. consumer loan receivables from and after November 2017. Adjustments to the cost basis of this portfolio, which are primarily driven by charge offs, are recorded in restructuring and other charges in our consolidated statements of income. For our consumer loan receivables not subject to the sale agreements with Synchrony Bank, consisting primarily of our international consumer receivables, the allowance is primarily based on forecasted principal balance delinquency rates (“roll rates”). Roll rates are the percentage of balances which we estimate will migrate from one stage of delinquency to the next based on our historical experience, as well as external factors such as estimated bankruptcies and levels of unemployment. Roll rates are applied to the principal amount of our consumer loan receivables for each stage of delinquency, from current to 180 days past the payment due date, in order to estimate the principal loans which have incurred losses and are probable to be charged off. For merchant loans and advances receivable the allowance is primarily based on principal balances, forecasted delinquency rates, and recoveries through the use of a vintage-based loss forecasting model.

The allowance for loss against the interest receivable is primarily determined by applying historical average customer account roll rates to the interest receivable balance in each stage of delinquency to project the value of accounts that have incurred losses and are probable to be charged off. The allowance for fees receivable is primarily based on fee balances, forecasted delinquency rates, and recoveries through the use of a vintage-based loss forecasting model. Increases to the allowance for interest receivable are reflected as a reduction of net revenues in our consolidated statements of income. Increases to the allowance for fees receivable are recognized as a reduction in deferred revenues included in other current liabilities in our consolidated balance sheets.

Determining appropriate allowances for these losses is an inherently uncertain process and ultimate losses may vary from the current estimates. We regularly update our allowance estimates as new facts become known and events occur that may impact the settlement or recovery of losses. The allowances are maintained at a level we deem appropriate to adequately provide for losses incurred at the balance sheet date. Based on our results for the year ended December 31, 2018, an aggregate ten percent increase in our transaction and loan loss rate would negatively impact transaction and loan losses by approximately $127 million.

Accounting for Income Taxes 

Our annual tax rate is based on our income, statutory tax rates, and tax planning opportunities available to us in the various jurisdictions in which we operate. Tax laws are complex and subject to different interpretations by the taxpayer and respective government taxing authorities. Significant judgment is required in determining our tax expense and in evaluating our tax positions, including evaluating uncertainties. We review our tax positions quarterly and adjust the balances as new information becomes available. Our income tax rate is significantly affected by the tax rates that apply to our foreign earnings. In addition to local country tax laws and regulations, our income tax rate depends on the extent that our foreign earnings are taxed by the U.S. through new provisions under the Tax Act such as the new GILTI tax and BEAT or as a result of our indefinite reinvestment assertion. Indefinite reinvestment is determined by management’s judgment about, and intentions concerning, our future operations. 

Deferred tax assets represent amounts available to reduce income taxes payable on taxable income in future years. Such assets arise because of temporary differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities, as well as from net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. We evaluate the recoverability of these future tax deductions and credits by assessing the adequacy of future expected taxable income from all sources, including reversal of taxable temporary differences, forecasted operating earnings, and available tax planning strategies. These sources of income rely heavily on estimates that are based on a number of factors, including our historical experience and short-range and long-range business forecasts. To the extent deferred tax assets are not expected to be realized, we record a valuation allowance.

We recognize and measure uncertain tax positions in accordance with U.S. GAAP, pursuant to which we only recognize the tax benefit from an uncertain tax position if it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained on examination by the taxing authorities, based on the technical merits of the position. The tax benefits recognized in the financial statements from such positions are then measured based on the largest benefit that has a greater than 50 percent likelihood of being realized upon ultimate settlement. We report a liability for unrecognized tax benefits resulting from uncertain tax positions taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. U.S. GAAP further requires that a change in judgment related to the expected ultimate resolution of uncertain tax positions be recognized in earnings in the quarter in which such change occurs. We recognize interest and penalties, if any, related to unrecognized tax benefits in income tax expense.

60
We file annual income tax returns in multiple taxing jurisdictions around the world. A number of years may elapse before an uncertain tax position is audited by the relevant tax authorities and finally resolved. While it is often difficult to predict the final outcome or the timing of resolution of any particular uncertain tax position, we believe that our reserves for income taxes are adequate such that we reflect the benefits more likely than not to be sustained in an examination. We adjust these reserves, as well as the related interest, where appropriate in light of changing facts and circumstances. Settlement of any particular position could require the use of cash.

Based on our results for the year ended December 31, 2018, a one-percentage point increase in our effective tax rate would have resulted in an increase in our income tax expense of approximately $24 million.

Loss Contingencies

We are currently involved in various claims, legal proceedings, and investigations of potential operating violations by regulatory oversight authorities. We regularly review the status of each significant matter and assess our potential financial exposure. If the potential loss from any claim, legal proceeding, or potential regulatory violation is considered probable and the amount can be reasonably estimated, we accrue a liability for the estimated loss. Significant judgment is required in both the determination of probability and whether an exposure is reasonably estimable. Our judgments are subjective based on the status of the legal or regulatory proceedings, the merits of our defenses, and consultation with in-house and outside legal counsel. Because of uncertainties related to these matters, accruals are based only on the best information available at the time. As additional information becomes available, we reassess the potential liability related to pending claims, litigation, or other violation and may revise our estimates. Due to the inherent uncertainties of the legal and regulatory process in the multiple jurisdictions in which we operate, our judgments may be materially different than the actual outcomes.

Revenue Recognition

Application of the accounting principles in U.S. GAAP related to the measurement and recognition of revenue requires us to make judgments and estimates. Complex arrangements with nonstandard terms and conditions may require significant contract interpretation to determine the appropriate accounting. Specifically, the determination of whether we are a principal to a transaction (gross revenue) or an agent (net revenue) can require considerable judgment. Further, we provide incentive payments to consumers and merchants, which require judgment to determine whether the payments should be recorded as a reduction to gross revenue. Changes in judgments with respect to these assumptions and estimates could impact the amount of revenue recognized. 

Valuation of Goodwill and Intangibles

The valuation of assets acquired in a business combination and asset impairment reviews require the use of significant estimates and assumptions. The acquisition method of accounting for business combinations requires us to estimate the fair value of assets acquired, liabilities assumed, and any non-controlling interest in an acquired business to properly allocate purchase price consideration between assets that are depreciated and amortized from goodwill. Impairment testing for assets, other than goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets, requires the allocation of cash flows to those assets or group of assets and if required, an estimate of fair value for the assets or group of assets. Our estimates are based upon assumptions believed to be reasonable, but which are inherently uncertain and unpredictable. These valuations require the use of management’s assumptions, which do not reflect unanticipated events and circumstances that may occur.

We evaluate goodwill and intangible assets for impairment on an annual basis, or sooner if indicators of impairment exist. Under U.S. GAAP, the evaluation of indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment allows for a qualitative assessment to be performed, which is similar to the U.S. GAAP for evaluating goodwill for impairment. In performing these qualitative assessments, we consider relevant events and conditions, including but not limited to: macroeconomic trends, industry and market conditions, overall financial performance, cost factors, company-specific events, legal and regulatory factors, and our market capitalization. If the qualitative assessments indicate that it is more likely than not that the fair value of the reporting unit or indefinite-lived intangible assets are less than their carrying amounts, we must perform a quantitative impairment test.

Under the quantitative impairment test, if the carrying amount of the reporting unit goodwill or indefinite-lived intangible asset exceeds the implied fair value of the respective reporting unit goodwill or indefinite-lived intangible asset, an impairment loss is recorded in the statement of income. Measurement of the fair value of a reporting unit is based on one or more of the following fair value measures: amounts at which the unit as a whole could be bought or sold in a current transaction between willing parties, present value techniques of estimated future cash flows, valuation techniques based on multiples of earnings or revenue, or a similar performance measure.

61
ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK