ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

Market risk is the potential for economic losses to be incurred on market risk sensitive instruments arising from adverse changes in market factors such as interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, and investment risk. Management establishes and oversees the implementation of policies governing our investing, funding, and foreign currency derivative activities in order to mitigate market risks. We monitor risk exposures on an ongoing basis. 

Interest Rate Risk

We are exposed to interest rate risk relating to our investment portfolio and from interest-rate sensitive assets underlying the customer balances we hold on our consolidated balance sheets as customer accounts. 

As of December 31, 2018 and 2017, approximately 78% and 39%, respectively, of our total cash, cash equivalents, and investment portfolio was held in cash and cash equivalents. The assets underlying the customer balances we hold on our consolidated balance sheets as customer accounts are maintained in interest and non-interest bearing bank deposits, time deposits, U.S. and foreign government and agency securities, and corporate debt securities. We seek to preserve principal while holding eligible liquid assets, as defined by applicable regulatory requirements and commercial law in the jurisdictions where we operate, equal to at least 100% of the aggregate amount of all customer balances. We do not pay interest on amounts due to customers.

In the fourth quarter of 2017, we entered into an unsecured $3.0 billion, 364 day delayed-draw term loan credit facility, which was available in up to three borrowings (“2017 Credit Agreement”). In the fourth quarter of 2018, we entered into an amended and restated credit agreement (“Amended Credit Agreement”), which provides for an unsecured $5.0 billion, 364-day delayed-draw term loan credit facility, which is available in up to four separate borrowings. In the third quarter of 2015, we entered into a $2.0 billion senior unsecured credit facility maturing in 2020 (“2015 Credit Agreement”). We also maintain uncommitted credit facilities in various regions throughout the world with borrowing capacity of approximately $300 million in the aggregate. 

Borrowings under the Amended Credit Agreement and 2015 Credit Agreement, if any, bear interest at floating rates. As a result, we are exposed to fluctuations in interest rates to the extent of our borrowings. As of December 31, 2018, we had $2.0 billion of borrowings outstanding under the Amended Credit Agreement at a weighted average interest rate of 3.34%. Accordingly, at December 31, 2018, $3.0 billion of borrowing capacity was available for the purposes permitted by the Amended Credit Agreement, subject to customary conditions to borrowing. As of December 31, 2018, no borrowings or letters of credit were outstanding under the 2015 Credit Agreement or our uncommitted credit facilities.

Interest rates may also adversely impact our customers’ spending levels and ability and willingness to pay outstanding amounts owed to us. Higher interest rates often lead to higher payment obligations by customers of our credit products to us, or to lenders under mortgage, credit card, and other consumer and merchant loans, which may reduce our customers’ ability to remain current on their obligations to us and therefore lead to increased delinquencies, charge-offs, and allowance for loan and interest receivable, which could have an adverse effect on our net income. 

A 100 basis point increase in interest rates would not have had a material impact on our financial assets or liabilities at December 31, 2018 and 2017. 

Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk

We have significant operations internationally that are denominated in foreign currencies, primarily the British Pound, Euro, Australian Dollar, and Canadian Dollar, subjecting us to foreign currency exchange rate risk which may adversely impact our financial results. We transact business in various foreign currencies and have significant international revenues and costs. In addition, we charge our international subsidiaries for their use of intellectual property and technology and for certain corporate services. Our cash flows, results of operations, and certain of our intercompany balances that are exposed to foreign exchange rate fluctuations may differ materially from expectations, and we may record significant gains or losses due to foreign currency fluctuations and related hedging activities. We are generally a net receiver of foreign currencies and therefore benefit from a weakening of the U.S. dollar, and are adversely affected by a strengthening of the U.S. dollar, relative to foreign currencies.

We have a foreign currency exchange exposure management program designed to identify material foreign currency exposures, manage these exposures, and reduce the potential effects of currency fluctuations on our reported consolidated cash flows and results of operations through the execution of foreign currency exchange contracts. These foreign currency exchange contracts are accounted for as derivative instruments; for additional details related to our foreign currency exchange contracts, please see “Note 10—Derivative Instruments” to the consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

62
We use foreign currency exchange forward contracts to protect our forecasted U.S. dollar-equivalent earnings from adverse changes in foreign currency exchange rates. These hedging contracts reduce, but do not entirely eliminate, the impact of adverse currency exchange rate movements. We designate these contracts as cash flow hedges for accounting purposes. The derivative’s gain or loss is initially reported as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income (“AOCI”) and subsequently reclassified into the financial statement line item in which the hedged item is recorded in the same period the forecasted transaction affects earnings. If we elect to discontinue our cash flow hedges and it is probable that the original forecasted transaction will occur, we continue to report them in AOCI until the forecasted transaction affects earnings at which point we also reclassify the de-designated hedges into earnings. Gains and losses on derivatives held after we discontinue our cash flow hedges and gains and losses on derivative instruments that are not designated as cash flow hedges are recorded in the same financial statement line item to which the derivative relates.

We considered the historical trends in currency exchange rates and determined that it was reasonably possible that changes in exchange rates of 20% for all currencies could be experienced in the near term. If the U.S. dollar weakened by 20% at December 31, 2018 and 2017, the amount recorded in AOCI related to our foreign currency exchange forward contracts, before taxes, would have been approximately $707 million and $536 million lower, respectively. If the U.S. dollar strengthened by 20% at December 31, 2018 and 2017, the amount recorded in AOCI related to our foreign currency exchange forward contracts, before taxes, would have been approximately $707 million and $536 million higher, respectively.

We have an additional foreign currency exchange management program whereby we use foreign currency exchange contracts to offset the foreign currency exchange risk on our assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of our subsidiaries. These contracts are not designated as hedging instruments and reduce, but do not entirely eliminate, the impact of currency exchange rate movements on our assets and liabilities. The foreign currency exchange gains and losses on our assets and liabilities are recorded in other income (expense), net, and are offset by the gains and losses on the foreign currency exchange contracts.

Adverse changes in exchange rates of 20% for all currencies would have resulted in an adverse impact on income before income taxes of approximately $295 million and $243 million at December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively, without considering the offsetting effect of hedging. Foreign currency exchange contracts in place as of December 31, 2018 would have positively impacted income before income taxes by approximately $308 million, resulting in a net positive impact of approximately $13 million. Foreign currency exchange contracts in place as of December 31, 2017 would have positively impacted income before income taxes by approximately $211 million, resulting in a net negative impact of approximately $32 million. These reasonably possible adverse changes in exchange rates of 20% were applied to total monetary assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the functional currencies of our subsidiaries at the balance sheet dates to compute the adverse impact these changes would have had on our income before income taxes in the near term.

Investment Risk

As of December 31, 2018 and 2017, our equity investments totaled $293 million and $88 million, respectively, which represented approximately 3% and 1% of our total cash and investment portfolio at those dates, respectively, and were related to minority equity interests in companies that are not publicly traded. As of December 31, 2018 and 2017, we did not hold any marketable equity instruments. We review our investments for impairment when events and circumstances indicate a decline in fair value of such assets below carrying value. Our analysis includes a review of recent operating results and trends, recent sales and acquisitions of the securities in which we have invested, and other publicly available data.

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA