ITEM 7A.QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

We are exposed to the impact of interest rate changes, foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations and changes in the market value of our investments.

Interest rate risk

Our exposure to market rate risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our investment portfolio. The primary objective of our investment activities is to preserve principal and liquidity while at the same time maximizing yields without significantly increasing risk. To achieve this objective, we maintain our portfolio of short- and long-term investments in a variety of available-for-sale fixed- and floating-rate debt securities, including both government and corporate obligations and money market funds. Investments in both fixed-rate and floating-rate interest earning instruments carry a degree of interest rate risk. Fixed rate securities may have their fair value adversely impacted due to a rise in prevailing interest rates, while floating-rate securities may produce less income than expected if interest rates fall. Due in part to these factors, our future investment income related to these securities may fall short of expectations due to changes in interest rates, or we may suffer losses in principal if forced to sell securities that have declined in market value due to changes in interest rates or perceived credit risk related to the securities’ issuers. A hypothetical one-half percentage point change in interest rates, assuming a parallel shift of all interest rates, would result in an approximate $0.4 million change in annual interest income derived from investments in our portfolio as of February 28, 2019. For further discussion related to our investments as of February 28, 2019 and February 28, 2018, see NOTE 2—Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and NOTE 21—Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Recurring Basis to our Consolidated Financial Statements.

Investment risk

The fair value of our available-for-sale investment portfolio is subject to interest rate risk. Based on a sensitivity analysis performed on this investment portfolio, a hypothetical one percentage point increase in prevailing interest rates would result in an approximate $4.3 million decrease in the fair value of our available-for-sale investment securities as of February 28, 2019. For further discussion related to our investments as of February 28, 2019 and February 28, 2018, see NOTE 2—Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and NOTE 21—Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Recurring Basis to our Consolidated Financial Statements.

Credit risk

Investments in debt and equity securities

The fair values of our investment portfolio and cash balances are exposed to counterparty credit risk. Accordingly, while we periodically review our portfolio in an effort to mitigate counterparty risk, the principal values of our cash balances, money market accounts and investments in available-for-sale securities could suffer a loss of value.

Accounts receivable

As of February 28, 2019 we had one customer whose accounts receivable balance individually represented 10% of total accounts receivable. As of February 28, 2018, no individual customer accounted for 10% or more of our total accounts receivable.

Foreign currency risk

Approximately 45.3% of our revenue for fiscal 2019 was produced by sales outside the U.S. We are exposed to significant risks of foreign currency fluctuation primarily from receivables denominated in foreign currency and are subject to transaction gains and losses, which are recorded as a component of net income. The income statements of our non-U.S. operations are translated into U.S. dollars at the average exchange rates for each applicable month in a period. To the extent the U.S. dollar weakens against foreign currencies, the translation of these foreign currency statements results in increased revenue and operating expenses for our non-U.S. operations. Similarly, our revenue and operating expenses for our non-U.S. operations decrease if the U.S. dollar strengthens against foreign currencies.

We have operations in Argentina and our functional currency for these operations was the Argentine peso. Argentina’s economy is now considered hyperinflationary. While we still continue to conduct our operations in Argentina in Argentine pesos, the functional currency was changed to U.S. dollars effective September 1, 2018 for our financial reporting in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The change in functional currency to U.S. dollars is currently not expected to have a material impact on our financial position, operating results or cash flows.

64
Using the average foreign currency exchange rates from fiscal 2018, our revenue and operating expenses from non-U.S. operations for fiscal 2019 would have been higher than we reported by approximately $19.6 million and $22.9 million, respectively, which would have resulted in income from operations being lower by $3.3 million.

Convertible notes

In October 2014, we issued $805.0 million of 0.25% convertible notes due October 2019. The convertible notes have a fixed annual interest rate of 0.25%, and, therefore, we do not have economic interest-rate exposure on the convertible notes. However, the fair value of the convertible notes is exposed to interest rate risk. Generally, the fair value of the convertible notes will increase as interest rates fall and decrease as interest rates rise. For further discussion regarding the fair value of the convertible notes, see NOTE 12—Convertible Notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements.

In connection with the sale of the convertible notes, we entered into convertible note hedge transactions and warrant transactions. The convertible note hedge transactions are expected to offset, to the extent that the market price per share of our common stock does not exceed $101.65 strike price of the warrants, which is subject to adjustments upon the occurrence of certain events, the potential dilution with respect to shares of our common stock upon any conversion of the convertible notes and/or offset any cash payments that we are required to make in excess of the principal amount of the converted notes, as the case may be. The warrant transactions will have a dilutive effect with respect to our common stock to the extent that the market price per share of our common stock, as measured under the terms of the warrant transactions, exceeds the applicable strike price of the warrants. However, subject to certain conditions, we may elect to settle all of the warrants in cash. The initial strike price of the warrants is $101.65 per share. The number of shares of our common stock underlying the warrants is 10,965,630 shares, subject to anti-dilution adjustments. The convertible note hedge and warrants are both considered indexed to our common stock and classified as equity; therefore, the convertible note hedge and warrants are not accounted for as derivative instruments.

Derivative instruments

We transact business in various foreign countries and are, therefore, subject to risk of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. From time to time we enter into forward contracts to economically hedge transactional exposure associated with commitments arising from trade accounts receivable, trade accounts payable and fixed purchase obligations denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the respective operating entity. All derivative instruments are recorded in the Consolidated Balance Sheets at their respective fair values. We generally elect not to prepare and maintain the documentation required to qualify our forward contracts for hedge accounting treatment and, therefore, changes in fair value are recorded in our Consolidated Statements of Operations. However, during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018, we repatriated cash from certain of our foreign subsidiaries and entered into a foreign currency forward contract designated as a net investment hedge. As a result of this designation, changes in fair value of the forward contract were recognized as a charge included in Other comprehensive income—change in foreign currency translation adjustment. For further discussion related to our management of foreign currency risk, see NOTE 10—Derivative Instruments to our Consolidated Financial Statements.

The aggregate notional amount of outstanding forward contracts at February 28, 2019 was $75.6 million. The fair value of these outstanding contracts at February 28, 2019 was a gross asset less than $0.1 million and a gross $0.2 million liability, and is recorded in Other current assets and Accounts payable and accrued expenses, respectively, on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. The forward contracts generally expire within three months of the period ended February 28, 2019. The forward contracts will settle in Euros, Hong Kong dollars, Japanese yen, and Singapore dollars. 

The aggregate notional amount of outstanding forward contracts at February 28, 2018 was $62.3 million. The fair value of these outstanding contracts at February 28, 2018 was a gross $0.3 million asset and a gross $0.3 million liability, and is recorded in Other current assets and Accounts payable and accrued expenses, respectively, on our Consolidated Balance Sheets.

65
ITEM 8.FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA