ITEM 7.MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

OVERVIEW

We are a leading global provider of open source software solutions, using a community-powered approach to develop and offer reliable and high-performing operating system, virtualization, management, middleware, cloud and storage technologies.

On October 28, 2018, we entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the “Merger Agreement”) with International Business Machines Corporation, a New York corporation (“IBM”), and Socrates Acquisition Corp., a Delaware corporation and a wholly owned subsidiary of IBM (“Sub”), pursuant to which IBM has agreed to acquire us (the “Merger”) for $190.00 per share in an all-cash transaction valued at approximately $34.62 billion. Our Board of Directors and the Board of Directors of IBM each approved the Merger, and our stockholders approved the adoption of the Merger Agreement at a special meeting of stockholders on January 16, 2019. The transaction is expected to close in the latter half of 2019, subject to certain conditions, including receipt of regulatory approvals. We have incurred merger-related costs of $33.7 million, which are included in General and administrative expenses in our Consolidated Statement of Operations for the fiscal year ended February 28, 2019. See NOTE 1—Company and Merger Agreement to our Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Open source software is an alternative to proprietary software and represents a different model for the development and licensing of commercial software code than that typically used for proprietary software. Because open source software code, generally, is freely shared, there are customarily no licensing fees for the use of open source software. Therefore, we do not recognize revenue from the licensing of the code itself. We provide value to our customers through the development, aggregation, integration, testing, certification, delivery, maintenance, enhancement and support of our Red Hat technologies, and by providing a level of performance, scalability, flexibility, reliability and security for the technologies we package and distribute. Moreover, because communities of developers not employed by us assist with the creation of our open source offerings, opportunities for further innovation of our offerings are supplemented by these communities.

We market our offerings primarily to customers in the form of annual or multi-year subscriptions, and we recognize revenue over the period of the subscription agreements with our customers. Our technologies are also offered by certified cloud and service providers (“CCSPs”) as a service available on demand, and this revenue is recognized by us upon delivery.

We derive our revenue and generate cash from customers primarily from two sources: (i) subscription revenue and (ii) training and services revenue. These arrangements typically involve subscriptions to Red Hat technologies. Our revenue is affected by, among other factors, corporate, government and consumer spending levels. In evaluating the performance of our business, we consider a number of factors, including total revenue, deferred revenue, operating income, operating margin and cash flows from operations. The arrangements with our customers that produce this revenue and cash are explained in further detail in this Part II, Item 7 under “Critical Accounting Estimates” and in NOTE 2—Summary of Significant Accounting Policies to our Consolidated Financial Statements. We adopted ASC 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, effective March 1, 2018, using the full retrospective transition method. All amounts and disclosures set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K have been updated to comply with the new standard and such information is designated “as adjusted.”

We believe our success is influenced by: (i) our ability to utilize the innovation derived from software developed by an open source community and make it consumable for enterprise customers, (ii) the extent to which we can expand the breadth and depth of our offerings, (iii) strategic business combinations and acquisitions of technical talent and technologies, (iv) our ability to enhance the value of our offerings through frequent and continuing innovation while maintaining platforms designed to be stable and secure over multi-year periods, (v) the extent to which adoption of our emerging technology offerings and software development processes such as CI/CD (continuous integration and continuous deployment) and DevOps increases, (vi) our involvement and leadership in key open source communities and projects, which enable us to develop, enhance and maintain our offerings, (vii) our corporate culture, which we believe fosters innovation, creativity and collaboration, (viii) our ability to generate increasing revenue directly and through partners and other strategic relationships, including CCSPs, distributors, embedded technology partners, independent hardware vendors, independent software vendors, original equipment manufacturers (“OEMs”), systems integrators and value added resellers, (ix) our ability to generate new and recurring revenue for our offerings, (x) the widespread and increasing deployment of open source technologies globally, (xi) our software, hardware, application and cloud service certification programs, which are intended to create an ecosystem of technologies that are compatible with our offerings and supported by us, (xii) our ability to provide customers with consulting and training services that generate additional subscription revenue, and (xiii) our ability to provide greater subscription value, enhance the experience of our customers and promote customer loyalty by focusing on ways in which we can help our customers succeed. 

43
In fiscal 2020, we expect to focus on, among other things: (i) driving the widespread adoption of our offerings, (ii) investing in the development of open source technologies and promoting the use of our technologies by software developers globally, (iii) pursuing strategic acquisitions and alliances, and (iv) promoting a range of services to help our customers derive additional value.

Non-GAAP disclosures

In accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. (“U.S. GAAP”), the income statements of our non-U.S. operations are translated into U.S. dollars using the average exchange rates for each month in an applicable period. To the extent the U.S. dollar weakens against foreign currencies, the translation of transactions denominated in foreign currencies results in increased revenue, as stated in U.S. dollars, for our non-U.S. operations. Similarly, revenue, as stated in U.S. dollars, for our non-U.S. operations decreases if the U.S. dollar strengthens against foreign currencies. In this Part II, Item 7, we disclose non-GAAP amounts and growth rates that exclude the impact of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations for fiscal 2019 in an effort to provide a comparable framework for assessing how our business performed when compared to fiscal 2018. To compute the non-GAAP impact of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, we translate amounts from our non-U.S. operations for fiscal 2019 using the average foreign currency exchange rate for the twelve months ended February 28, 2018. 

Revenue

The growth rates of subscription revenue by offering type, training and services revenue and total revenue, as reported and excluding the impact of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, for fiscal 2019 versus fiscal 2018 are as follows (in thousands):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

44
Subscription revenue

Our enterprise technologies are delivered primarily under subscription agreements. These agreements typically have a one- or three-year subscription period. A subscription generally entitles a customer to, among other things, a specified level of support, as well as security updates, fixes, functionality enhancements, upgrades to the technologies, each if and when available, and compatibility with an ecosystem of certified hardware and software. Subscription revenue increased sequentially for each quarter of fiscal 2019, fiscal 2018 and fiscal 2017 and was driven primarily by the increased use of our offerings by customers and our expansion of sales channels and geographic footprint during these periods.

Subscription revenue increased 14.6%, or $374.9 million, for fiscal 2019 compared to fiscal 2018. Excluding the impact of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, subscription revenue increased by 15.1% for fiscal 2019. The increase in subscription revenue is driven primarily by additional subscriptions related to our Red Hat Enterprise Linux, Red Hat Middleware and certain emerging technology offerings: Ansible, OpenShift and OpenStack. The increase is, in part, a result of the continued migration of enterprises in industries such as financial services, government and telecommunications to our open source solutions from proprietary technologies. We believe revenue growth for subscriptions related to our Red Hat Enterprise Linux offerings has moderated primarily due to certain deals renewing in prior years with terms that extend beyond fiscal 2019. Additionally, we believe revenue growth in our Middleware portfolio has moderated as customers shift their workloads from traditional Java deployments to containerized environments with middleware-as-a-service on OpenShift. We believe this transition will impact the revenue growth of the Middleware portfolio into fiscal 2020.

Training and services revenue

Training and services revenue increased 19.3%, or $66.7 million, for fiscal 2019 as compared to fiscal 2018. Excluding the impact of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, training and services revenue increased by 21.3%. The increase is driven primarily by customer interest in new products and increased demand for consulting projects supporting Ansible and OpenShift solutions.

Deferred revenue, billings proxy, seasonality and backlog

Deferred revenue

Our deferred revenue, current and long-term, balance at February 28, 2019 was $2.98 billion. Total deferred revenue increased 14.9%, or $387.3 million at February 28, 2019 from $2.60 billion at February 28, 2018. Excluding the impact of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, total deferred revenue increased by 17.9%, or $463.8 million, from February 28, 2018 to February 28, 2019, which is the change in deferred revenue reported in our Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows.

Below is a summary of our deferred revenue, as reported and excluding the impact of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, for February 28, 2019 and February 28, 2018 (in thousands):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

45
Billings proxy 

We approximate our annual billings by adding revenue recognized in our Consolidated Statements of Operations to the change in total deferred revenue reported in our Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. We use the change in deferred revenue as reported in our Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows because the amount has been adjusted for the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates used to translate deferred revenue balances from our foreign subsidiaries’ functional currencies into U.S. dollars.

Below is a summary of our billings proxy for fiscal 2019 and fiscal 2018 (in thousands):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Seasonality

Our fourth fiscal quarter has historically been our strongest quarter for new billings and renewals. This pattern has become more pronounced over time as the number of customers with renewal dates occurring in the last half of our fiscal year has continued to increase. Furthermore, our quarterly sales cycles are frequently weighted toward the end of the quarter, with an increased volume of sales completed in the last weeks of each quarter. The year-over-year compounding effect of this seasonality in billing patterns and overall new business and renewal activity causes the value of invoices making up our billings that we generate in the last half of our fiscal year to continually increase in proportion to the value of our invoices making up our billings in the first half of our fiscal year. 

Below is a summary of our billings (approximated as described above by adding revenue for the period with the change in deferred revenue as reported in our Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the same period) by quarter for fiscal 2019, fiscal 2018, fiscal 2017, fiscal 2016 and fiscal 2015 (in thousands):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Backlog

Our total backlog as of February 28, 2019 was approximately $4.1 billion and includes amounts already billed to customers and recognized as current and long-term deferred revenue in our Consolidated Balance Sheet of $2.16 billion and $821.2 million, respectively, plus the value of non-cancellable subscription agreements not yet billed or reflected in our financial statements and the value of services agreements not yet billed or reflected in our financial statements that we believe to be firm (“off-balance sheet backlog”), which was in excess of $1.0 billion. Our total backlog as of February 28, 2018 was approximately $3.4 billion, including current and long-term deferred revenue of $1.85 billion and $741.5 million, respectively, plus off-balance sheet backlog in excess of $775 million. The increase in total backlog from approximately $3.4 billion as of February 28, 2018 to approximately $4.1 billion as of February 28, 2019 demonstrates increased customer commitment to our open source technologies. 

46
We report our off-balance sheet backlog as a conservative approximation, often describing the amount as “in excess of,” primarily because the value of underlying contracts was derived from data not yet subjected to the complete application of our revenue recognition policies. For example, the value of the service agreements included as a part of off-balance sheet backlog is less than the stated value of such agreements because in certain instances customers are not contractually required to purchase the stated value of such services (e.g., when the services are to be billed on a time and materials basis and the service agreement’s stated value is merely an estimate of the aggregate value of the services to be provided). Historically, the impact on off-balance sheet backlog resulting from the difference in the amount of services billed and the service agreements’ stated value has not been material. We endeavor to derive the value of our off-balance sheet backlog in a consistent manner year over year and, therefore, believe the amounts are comparable.

Revenue by geography

In fiscal 2019, approximately 45.3%, or $1.52 billion, of our revenue was generated outside the U.S. compared to approximately 43.6%, or $1.27 billion, for fiscal 2018. Excluding the impact of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, our revenue generated outside the U.S. would have been 45.7%, or $1.54 billion, of our total revenue in fiscal 2019. Our international operations are expected to grow as our international sales force and channels become more mature and as we enter new locations outside the U.S. or expand our presence in existing international locations. As of February 28, 2019, we had offices in more than 105 locations throughout the world.

We operate our business in three geographic regions: the Americas (U.S., Canada and Latin America); EMEA (Europe, Middle East and Africa); and Asia Pacific (principally Australia, China, India, Japan, Singapore and South Korea). Revenue, as reported and excluding the impact of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations and related year-over-year (“YoY”) revenue growth rates generated by the Americas, EMEA and Asia Pacific were as follows (in thousands):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

As we expand further within each region, we anticipate revenue growth rates in local currencies to become more similar among our geographic regions due to the similarity of products and services offered and the similarity in customer types or classes.

Gross profit margin

Gross profit margin remained constant at 85.2% for fiscal 2019 and fiscal 2018 and decreased from 85.3% for fiscal 2017. The decrease from fiscal 2017 was primarily driven by a higher mix of training and services revenue relative to subscription revenue. Training and services revenue as a percentage of total revenue was 12.3%, 11.9% and 11.4% for fiscal 2019, fiscal 2018 and fiscal 2017, respectively.

Gross profit margin by geography

Gross profit margins by our geographic regions were as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

____________[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

47
Regional year-over-year variations in gross profit margins are primarily due to slight product mix shifts between subscriptions and services. 

As we continue to expand our sales and support services within our geographic regions, we expect gross profit margins across geographic regions to further converge over the long run due to the similarity of products and services offered, similarity in production and distribution methods and the similarity in customer types or classes. These geographic profit margins exclude the impact of share-based compensation expense, which was not allocated to our geographic regions.

Income from operations

Operating income was 15.2%, 16.3% and 13.9% of total revenue for fiscal 2019, fiscal 2018 and fiscal 2017, respectively. Operating expenses as a percent of revenue increased to 69.9% for fiscal 2019 from 68.9% for fiscal 2018 due primarily to investments and enhancements in our sales and marketing and research and development functions in addition to merger-related costs. In comparison, operating expenses as a percent of revenue decreased in fiscal 2018 to 68.9% from 71.5% for fiscal 2017 due to improved sales productivity as well as efficiencies in our marketing and general administrative support areas of the business.

Income from operations by geography

Operating income as a percentage of revenue generated by our geographic regions was as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

____________[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(2) As adjusted to reflect the impact of the retrospective application of ASC 606. See NOTE 2—Summary of Significant Accounting Policies to our Consolidated Financial Statements for detailed information on adoption of ASC 606. 

Cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash, investments in debt and equity securities and cash flow from operations

Cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash and short-term and long-term available-for-sale investments in debt and equity securities balances at February 28, 2019 totaled $2.42 billion. Cash generated from operating activities for fiscal 2019 totaled $1.01 billion, which represents a 9.7% increase in operating cash flow as compared to fiscal 2018. This increase is due to higher operating income, billings and collections.

Our significant cash and investment balances give us a measure of flexibility to take advantage of opportunities, such as acquisitions and increasing investment in our international operations.

Foreign currency exchange rates’ impact on results of operations

Approximately 45.3% of our revenue for fiscal 2019 came from sales outside the U.S. We are exposed to significant risks of foreign currency fluctuation primarily from receivables denominated in foreign currency and are subject to transaction gains and losses, which are recorded as a component of net income. The income statements of our non-U.S. operations are translated into U.S. dollars at the average exchange rates for each applicable month in a period. To the extent the U.S. dollar weakens against foreign currencies, the translation of these foreign-currency-denominated transactions results in increased revenue and operating expenses from operations for our non-U.S. operations. Similarly, our revenue and operating expenses will decrease for our non-U.S. operations if the U.S. dollar strengthens against foreign currencies.

Using the average foreign currency exchange rates from fiscal 2018, our revenue from non-U.S. operations for fiscal 2019 would have been higher than we reported by approximately $19.6 million and operating expenses from non-U.S. operations for fiscal 2019 would have been higher than we reported by approximately $22.9 million, which would have resulted in income from operations being lower by $3.3 million.

48
Business combinations

Noobaa

On November 27, 2018, we acquired all of the shares of Y.G. Noobaa Ltd. (“Noobaa”), an early stage company developing software for managing data storage services, for approximately $11.8 million. The technologies of Noobaa complement and enhance our portfolio of hybrid cloud technologies, including Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform, Red Hat OpenShift Container Storage and Red Hat Ceph Storage. Together, these technologies are designed to provide users with a set of powerful, consistent and cohesive capabilities for managing application, compute, storage and data resources across public and private infrastructures. 

CoreOS

On January 30, 2018, we acquired all of the shares of CoreOS, Inc. (“CoreOS”), a Linux and container-focused company, for approximately $238.7 million. The addition of CoreOS, a provider of Kubernetes and container-native solutions, is expected to further enable our customers to build and deploy any application in any environment with the flexibility afforded by open source. By combining CoreOS’s complementary capabilities with our Kubernetes and container-based portfolio, including Red Hat OpenShift, we aim to further accelerate adoption and development of our hybrid cloud platform for modern application workloads.

Permabit

On July 31, 2017, we acquired the assets and technology of Permabit Technology Corporation (“Permabit”) for approximately $49.8 million. Permabit is a provider of software for data deduplication, compression and thin provisioning technology. Adding Permabit’s data deduplication and compression capabilities to our Red Hat Enterprise Linux platform will better enable enterprise digital transformation through more efficient storage options.

Codenvy

On June 1, 2017, we completed our acquisition of all of the shares of Codenvy S.A. (“Codenvy”) for approximately $34.2 million. Codenvy is a provider of cloud-native development tools that enable developers to more easily create modern container-based and cloud-native applications. By adding Codenvy to our existing portfolio of developer tools and application platforms, including Red Hat Middleware and Red Hat OpenShift, we continue our efforts to provide solutions that enable developers to create applications for hybrid cloud environments. We plan to make Codenvy an integral part of OpenShift.io, our hosted development environment for building hybrid cloud services on OpenShift.

3scale

On June 24, 2016, we completed our acquisition of all of the shares of 3scale, Inc. (“3scale”) for approximately $29.1 million. 3scale is a provider of application programming interface (“API”) management technology. By adding 3scale to our existing portfolio, including Red Hat Middleware and Red Hat OpenShift, we strengthened our enablement of the API economy with simplified cloud integration and microservices-based architectures. 

Transaction costs

We incurred transaction costs, including legal and accounting fees, relating to these acquisitions, which have been expensed as incurred and included in General and administrative expense in our Consolidated Statements of Operations. For fiscal 2019, transaction costs relating to the Noobaa acquisition totaled approximately $0.2 million; for fiscal 2018, transaction costs relating to the CoreOS, Permabit and Codenvy acquisitions totaled approximately $2.0 million; and for fiscal 2017, transaction costs relating to the 3scale acquisition totaled approximately $1.8 million.

49
CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES

We prepare our consolidated financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Our significant accounting policies are disclosed in NOTE 2—Summary of Significant Accounting Policies to our Consolidated Financial Statements and describe our methods for applying U.S. GAAP in areas such as revenue recognition, deferred selling costs, fair value measurements, and foreign currency translation among other areas deemed significant. In applying certain significant accounting policies, we have to make estimates and assumptions that affect our reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses, as well as related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. In some cases, changes in the accounting estimates are reasonably likely to occur from period to period. Accordingly, actual results could differ materially from our estimates. To the extent that there are material differences between these estimates and actual results, our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be adversely affected. We base our estimates on past experience and other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances, and we evaluate these estimates on an ongoing basis. We refer to accounting estimates of this type as critical accounting estimates, which we discuss further below. Critical accounting estimates are applied in the following areas:

•Revenue recognition;

•Goodwill and other long-lived assets;

•Share-based compensation;

•Income taxes; and

•Loss contingencies.

Revenue recognition

Application of accounting principles related to the measurement and recognition of revenue requires judgment. For example, in transactions that include multiple performance obligations, we must exercise judgment in determining the stand-alone selling price (“SSP”) for each distinct performance obligation. We typically determine SSP based on the observable price when we sell the subscriptions or training and services separately, taking into consideration the geographical region of the customer, type of offering and sales channel. In instances where SSP is not directly observable, we determine SSP either from the renewal rate paid for the performance obligation to the extent it is the same rate as stipulated in the initial customer contract, or by using the expected-cost-plus-margin approach. Changes to the SSP for each distinct performance obligation could materially affect the amount of earned and unearned revenue.

In addition, determining whether products and services are considered distinct performance obligations that should be accounted for separately versus together may require significant judgment.

We also derive a portion of our revenue from CCSPs that provide public clouds with computing resources that allow users to consume such resources as a service. We use our historical cloud-usage data to estimate the amount of revenue earned and recognized each period and adjust to actual amounts earned upon receipt of usage reports from the CCSPs in the following period.

Goodwill and other long-lived assets

We make judgments about the recoverability of goodwill, identifiable intangible assets and other long-lived assets, including capitalized software purchased or developed for internal use. The assumptions and estimates used to determine recoverability of goodwill, identifiable intangible assets and other long-lived assets are complex and subjective. They can be affected by various factors, including external factors, such as industry and economic trends, and internal factors, such as changes in our business strategy and our internal, multi-year forecasts for our subscription and services offerings, which often include emerging technologies. Changes in any of these various factors could materially impact our financial condition and results of operations.

50
Share-based compensation

We are required to make estimates and assumptions with regards to the number of share-based awards that we expect will ultimately vest and the amount of tax benefits we expect will ultimately be realized, among other things.

Share-based awards expected to vest

With respect to performance-based awards that we grant to certain executive officers and senior management, we estimate the number of shares expected to vest based primarily on our most current reported financial results relative to a defined peer group’s most recent reported financial results. Because past or current financial trends may not be predictive of future financial performance, our estimate of the number of shares expected to vest may differ materially from the number of shares that actually vest. The maximum number of potential performance-based shares available to vest as of February 28, 2019 totaled 1.3 million, of which approximately 0.9 million shares are expected to vest with associated compensation expense of $31.7 million. If all of the potential performance-based shares were to vest, we would be required to recognize additional expense of approximately $17.0 million. See NOTE 19—Share-based Awards to our Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion related to awards outstanding and expected to vest.

Income tax benefits related to share-based awards

We recognize share-based compensation expense based on an award’s grant date fair value over the performance period and/or requisite service period. Because we do not know the actual amount of tax benefits an award will generate until such award is exercised (or vested), we assume that the amount ultimately recognized for tax purposes will be the same amount we recognized in our operating results, that is for “book” purposes. Consequently, our deferred tax asset related to share-based compensation expense, which totaled $24.5 million as of February 28, 2019, is based on each qualifying award’s grant date fair value rather than the award’s to-be-determined exercise date intrinsic value (or vesting date fair value).

Historically, the difference between the grant date fair value and the exercise date intrinsic value has been significant. As a result of such differences, for fiscal 2019, fiscal 2018 and fiscal 2017, we realized net excess tax benefits related to share-based awards totaling $17.4 million, $27.0 million and $15.8 million, respectively.

If the share price for our common stock were to depreciate for a sustained period of time, we could be required to recognize a tax benefit shortfall. Such shortfalls could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows and financial results. For further discussion, see NOTE 2—Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, NOTE 11—Income Taxes and NOTE 19—Share-based Awards to our Consolidated Financial Statements.

Income taxes

As described in NOTE 2—Summary of Significant Accounting Policies to our Consolidated Financial Statements, we account for income taxes using the asset and liability method. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax consequences attributable to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases and tax credit carryforwards. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. 

We continue to assess the realizability of our deferred tax assets, which primarily consist of share-based compensation expense deductions (described above), tax credit carryforwards and deferred revenue. In assessing the realizability of these deferred tax assets, management considers whether it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will be realized. As of February 28, 2019, deferred tax assets totaled $183.0 million, of which $3.3 million was offset by a valuation allowance. For further discussion regarding deferred income taxes, see NOTE 2—Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and NOTE 11—Income Taxes to our Consolidated Financial Statements.

Because tax laws are complex and subject to different interpretations, significant judgment is required. As a result, we make certain estimates and assumptions in (i) calculating our income tax expense, deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities, (ii) determining any valuation allowance recorded against deferred tax assets and (iii) evaluating the amount of unrecognized tax benefits, as well as the interest and penalties related to such uncertain tax positions. Our estimates and assumptions may differ significantly from tax benefits ultimately realized. For further discussion regarding uncertain tax positions, see NOTE 11—Income Taxes to our Consolidated Financial Statements.

51
Loss contingencies

We are subject to the possibility of various losses arising in the course of conducting our business, including losses related to legal proceedings and claims brought against us. We consider the likelihood of loss or impairment of an asset or the incurrence of a liability, as well as our ability to reasonably estimate the amount of loss, in determining loss contingencies. An estimated loss contingency is accrued when it is probable that an asset has been impaired or a liability has been incurred and the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated.

Significant judgment is required in evaluating both the likelihood and the estimated amount of a potential loss. Until the final resolution of a matter, there may be an exposure to loss in excess of the amount recorded, and such amount could be material. Should any of our estimates or assumptions change or prove to have been incorrect, it could materially adversely impact on our business, financial condition, operating results or cash flows.

52
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Fiscal years ended February 28, 2019 and February 28, 2018 

The following table is a summary of our results of operations (in thousands):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

____________

(1) As adjusted to reflect the impact of the retrospective application of ASC 606. See NOTE 2—Summary of Significant Accounting Policies to our Consolidated Financial Statements for detailed information on adoption of ASC 606.

(2) See NOTE 11—Income Taxes to our Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion.

53
Revenue

Subscription revenue

Subscription revenue, which is primarily comprised of direct and indirect sales of Red Hat offerings, increased by 14.6%, or $374.9 million, to $2.95 billion for fiscal 2019 from $2.57 billion for fiscal 2018. 

Revenue derived from the sale of subscriptions supporting our Infrastructure-related offerings increased by 9.3%, or $182.2 million, to $2.13 billion for fiscal 2019 from $1.95 billion for fiscal 2018. The increase in subscription revenue is primarily due to increases in volumes sold, including additional subscriptions attributable to geographic expansion and the continued migration of customers to our open source Linux platform from proprietary operating systems. 

Revenue derived from the sale of subscriptions supporting our Application Development-related and other emerging technology offerings increased by 30.9%, or $192.6 million, to $816.4 million for fiscal 2019 from $623.8 million for fiscal 2018. The increase is primarily driven by additional subscriptions for Red Hat Middleware and certain emerging technology offerings: Ansible, OpenShift and OpenStack. We expect the growth rate of revenue derived from our Application Development-related and other emerging technology offerings to exceed the growth rate of revenue derived from our Infrastructure-related offerings as our Application Development-related and other emerging technology offerings continue to gain broader market acceptance in the enterprise IT environment.

Training and services revenue

Training revenue includes fees paid by our customers for delivery of educational materials and instruction. Services revenue includes fees received from customers for consulting services regarding our offerings, deployment of Red Hat technologies and for delivery of added functionality to Red Hat technologies for our major customers and OEM partners. Total training and services revenue increased by 19.3%, or $66.7 million, to $413.0 million for fiscal 2019 from $346.3 million for fiscal 2018. Training revenue increased by 15.1%, or $12.1 million, as a result of increased revenue generated from our Red Hat Learning Subscription (“RHLS”) offerings and increased consumption of training courses or units related to our emerging technology offerings. Services revenue increased by 20.5%, or $54.6 million, as a result of an increase in consulting engagements driven by increased demand for our open source cloud enabling solutions such as Ansible and OpenShift. We expect services revenue to continue growing, though at a slower pace than subscription revenue, as we continue to expand our reach by enabling our channel partners to provide consulting services on our behalf. Combined training and services revenue as a percentage of total revenue was 12.3% and 11.9% for fiscal 2019 and fiscal 2018, respectively.

Cost of revenue

Cost of subscription revenue

The cost of subscription revenue primarily consists of expenses we incur to support, distribute, and package Red Hat offerings. These costs include labor-related costs to provide technical support, security updates and fixes, as well as costs for fulfillment. Cost of subscription revenue increased by 15.4%, or $28.5 million, to $213.8 million for fiscal 2019 from $185.3 million for fiscal 2018. The overall increase is primarily due to employee compensation expense, which increased $15.4 million, due to the expansion of our technical staff in order to meet the demands of our growing subscriber base for support, security updates and fixes, especially with respect to the increase in demand for our emerging technology offerings. The remaining expense increase is primarily related to $15.7 million higher expense associated with facility and technology infrastructure enhancements. As the number of open source technology subscriptions continues to increase, we expect associated support costs will continue to increase, although we anticipate this will occur at an overall slower rate than that of subscription revenue growth due to economies of scale. Gross profit margin on subscriptions decreased to 92.7% for fiscal 2019 from 92.8% for fiscal 2018. 

Cost of training and services revenue

Cost of training and services revenue is mainly comprised of personnel and third-party consulting costs for the design, development and delivery of custom engineering, training courses and professional services provided to various types of customers. Cost of training and services revenue increased by 15.4%, or $38.0 million, to $284.4 million for fiscal 2019 from $246.5 million for fiscal 2018. The increase in cost to deliver training and services includes $24.8 million increased employee compensation expenses and increased outside contractor fees of $9.0 million. The increase in employee compensation expense and outside contractor fees is due to the expansion of our professional consulting teams needed to meet the growing demand for services related to our emerging technology offerings. The remaining increase in cost to deliver training and services includes $4.5 million travel-related expenses. Total costs to deliver training and services as a percentage of training and services revenue decreased to 68.9% for fiscal 2019 from 71.2% for fiscal 2018.

54
Gross profit margin

Gross profit margin remained constant at 85.2% for fiscal 2019 and fiscal 2018. Training and services revenue as a percentage of total revenue was 12.3% for fiscal 2019 as compared to 11.9% for fiscal 2018. 

Operating expenses

Sales and marketing

Sales and marketing expense consists primarily of salaries and other related costs for sales and marketing personnel, sales commissions, travel, public relations and marketing materials and trade shows. Sales and marketing expense increased by 15.3%, or $183.0 million, to $1.38 billion for fiscal 2019 from $1.20 billion for fiscal 2018. This increase was primarily due to a $137.2 million increase in selling costs, which includes $108.7 million, $15.9 million and $7.7 million of additional employee compensation-, event- and travel-related, and facilities-related expenses, respectively, the majority of which is attributable to the expansion of our sales force from the prior year. The remaining increase relates to marketing costs, which grew by 15.4%, or $45.8 million for fiscal 2019 as compared to fiscal 2018 and includes incremental employee compensation expense, marketing program costs, facility costs and outside contractor costs of $26.7 million, $9.4 million, $3.8 million and $3.0 million, respectively. As a result of investments made to expand the breadth of our global sales coverage and depth of our product sales coverage, sales and marketing expense increased as a percentage of revenue to 41.0% for fiscal 2019 from 40.9% for fiscal 2018.

Research and development

Research and development expense consists primarily of personnel and related costs for development of software technologies and systems management offerings. Research and development expense increased by 15.6%, or $90.2 million, to $668.5 million for fiscal 2019 from $578.3 million for fiscal 2018. The increase in research and development costs primarily resulted from the expansion of our engineering group through both direct hires and business acquisitions as we continue investing in Application Development-related and other emerging technologies. Employee compensation expense increased by $77.1 million. The remaining increase in research and development costs relates primarily to process and technology infrastructure enhancements, which increased by $10.4 million. Research and development expense was 19.9% of total revenue for fiscal 2019 compared to 19.8% for fiscal 2018.

General and administrative

General and administrative expense consists primarily of personnel and related costs for general corporate functions, including information systems, finance, accounting, legal, human resources and facilities expense. General and administrative expense increased by 27.3%, or $65.5 million, to $304.8 million for fiscal 2019 from $239.3 million for fiscal 2018. The increase in general and administrative expense primarily resulted from merger-related costs of $33.7 million related to the pending Merger with IBM, increased employee compensation expenses of $17.7 million and $18.5 million higher expense associated with facility and technology infrastructure enhancements, partially offset by a decrease of $9.4 million in outside contractor costs. General and administrative expense as a percentage of revenue was 9.1% and 8.2% for fiscal 2019 and fiscal 2018, respectively. 

Interest income

Interest income increased by 65.1%, or $12.0 million, for fiscal 2019 as compared fiscal 2018. The increase in interest income for fiscal 2019 is attributable to higher yields earned on cash and investment balances.

Interest expense

Interest expense decreased by $4.7 million for fiscal 2019 as compared to fiscal 2018. Interest expense is primarily attributable to the interest on the Company’s 0.25% Convertible Senior Notes due 2019 (the “convertible notes”). See NOTE 12—Convertible Notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion.

Other (expense) income, net

Other (expense) income, net is primarily due to net losses recognized from the settlement of foreign currency transactions during fiscal 2019, partially offset by realized gains of $1.3 million on the sale of certain strategic equity investments.

55
Income taxes

The effective tax rate for fiscal 2019 of 16.2% differed from the U.S. federal statutory rate of 21.0% primarily due to excess tax benefits from share-based compensation, research tax credits and the impact from the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the “Tax Act”), which was enacted in December 2017. The effective tax rate for fiscal 2018 of 45.2% differed from the U.S. federal statutory rate of 32.7% primarily due to the impact from the Tax Act, excess tax benefits from share-based compensation, foreign income taxed at lower rates, research tax credits and the domestic production activities deduction. Tax expense for fiscal 2019 and fiscal 2018 included a one-time tax charge of $18.0 million and $122.7 million, respectively, related to the Tax Act. Further included in tax expense for fiscal 2019 and fiscal 2018 was a net discrete tax benefit of $17.4 million and $27.0 million, respectively, primarily related to net excess tax (charges) benefits from share-based compensation. For further discussion regarding our income taxes, see NOTE 11—Income Taxes to our Consolidated Financial Statements.

56
Fiscal years ended February 28, 2018 and February 28, 2017 

The following table is a summary of our results of operations (in thousands):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

____________

(1) As adjusted to reflect the impact of the retrospective application of ASC 606. See NOTE 2—Summary of Significant Accounting Policies to our Consolidated Financial Statements for detailed information on adoption of ASC 606.

(2) See NOTE 11—Income Taxes to our Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion.

57
Revenue

Subscription revenue

Subscription revenue increased by 20.5%, or $438.4 million, to $2.57 billion for fiscal 2018 from $2.14 billion for fiscal 2017.

Revenue derived from the sale of subscriptions supporting our Infrastructure-related offerings increased by 15.0%, or $254.0 million, to $1.95 billion for fiscal 2018 from $1.70 billion for fiscal 2017 and is primarily due to increases in volumes sold, including additional subscriptions attributable to geographic expansion and the continued migration of customers to our open source Linux platform from proprietary operating systems.

Revenue derived from the sale of subscriptions supporting our Application Development-related and other emerging technology offerings increased by 42.0%, or $184.4 million, to $623.8 million for fiscal 2018 from $439.3 million for fiscal 2017. The increase is primarily due to additional subscriptions for Red Hat Middleware offerings and certain emerging technology offerings: Ansible, OpenShift and OpenStack. 

Training and services revenue

Total training and services revenue increased by 25.5%, or $70.3 million, to $346.3 million for fiscal 2018 from $276.0 million for fiscal 2017. Training revenue increased 18.4%, or $12.5 million, primarily as a result of increased revenue generated from our RHLS offerings and increased consumption of training related to our emerging technology offerings. Our services revenue increased by 27.8%, or $57.7 million, as a result of an increase in consulting engagements driven by increased demand for our open source cloud enabling solutions such as Ansible and OpenShift. Combined training and services revenue as a percentage of total revenue was 11.9% and 11.4% for fiscal 2018 and fiscal 2017, respectively.

Cost of revenue

Cost of subscription revenue

Cost of subscription revenue increased by 16.6%, or $26.4 million, to $185.3 million for fiscal 2018 from $159.0 million for fiscal 2017. Employee-related expenses increased $20.9 million for fiscal 2018 as compared to fiscal 2017, due to the expansion of our technical staff in order to meet the demands of our growing subscriber base for support, security updates and fixes, especially with respect to the increase in demand for our emerging technology offerings. The remaining expense increase is related to $5.3 million higher expense associated with facility and technology infrastructure enhancements. Gross profit margin on subscriptions was 92.8% and 92.6% for fiscal 2018 and fiscal 2017, respectively.

Cost of training and services revenue

Cost of training and services revenue increased by 26.1%, or $51.1 million, to $246.5 million for fiscal 2018 from $195.4 million for fiscal 2017. Costs of training and services revenue increased by 26.1%, or $51.1 million, to $246.5 million for fiscal 2018. The increase in costs to deliver training and services includes $24.5 million increased employee compensation expenses and increased outside contractor fees of $20.0 million. The increase in employee compensation expense and outside contractor fees is due to the expansion of our professional consulting teams needed to meet the growing demand for services related to our emerging technology offerings. The remaining increase in cost to deliver training and services includes $3.2 million travel-related expenses and $2.6 million expense associated with facilities and technology infrastructure. Total costs to deliver training and services as a percentage of training and services revenue increased to 71.2% for fiscal 2018 from 70.8% for fiscal 2017.

Gross profit

Gross profit margin decreased to 85.2% for fiscal 2018 from 85.3% for fiscal 2017. This decrease was driven by a higher mix of training and services revenue relative to subscription revenue. Training and services revenue as a percentage of total revenue was 11.9% for fiscal 2018 as compared to 11.4% for fiscal 2017.

58
Operating expenses

Sales and marketing

Sales and marketing expense increased by 15.6%, or $161.1 million, to $1.20 billion for fiscal 2018 from $1.03 billion for fiscal 2017. Selling costs increased by 14.3%, or $112.2 million, for fiscal 2018 as compared to fiscal 2017 and include $82.1 million, $14.4 million and $8.7 million of additional employee-, facilities- and travel-related expenses, respectively, the majority of which is attributable to the expansion of our sales force from the prior year. The remaining increase relates to marketing costs, which grew by 19.7%, or $48.9 million, for fiscal 2018 as compared to fiscal 2017 and includes incremental employee compensation expense and marketing program costs of $28.1 million and $14.1 million, respectively. Sales and marketing expense as a percentage of revenue decreased to 40.9% for fiscal 2018 from 42.9% for fiscal 2017.

Research and development

Research and development expense increased by 20.3%, or $97.7 million, to $578.3 million for fiscal 2018 from $480.7 million for fiscal 2017. Employee compensation increased by $74.9 million primarily from the expansion of our engineering group through both direct hires and business acquisitions as we continued investing in Application-Development-related and other emerging technologies. The remaining increase in research and development costs relates primarily to process and technology infrastructure enhancements, which increased by $16.2 million. Research and development expense was 19.8% and 19.9% of total revenue for fiscal 2018 and fiscal 2017, respectively.

General and administrative

General and administrative expense increased by 14.8%, or $30.8 million, to $239.3 million for fiscal 2018 from $208.5 million for fiscal 2017. The increase in general and administrative expenses primarily resulted from increased employee compensation expenses of $13.5 million and $15.1 million higher expense associated with facility and technology enhancements. General and administrative expense decreased as a percentage of revenue to 8.2% for fiscal 2018 from 8.6% for fiscal 2017.

Interest income

Interest income increased by 32.8%, or $4.6 million, to $18.5 million for fiscal 2018 from $13.9 million for fiscal 2017. The increase is attributable to higher yields earned on larger cash and investment balances.

Interest expense

Interest expense increased by $0.7 million to $24.6 million for fiscal 2018 as compared to $23.8 million for fiscal 2017. The increase in interest expense is attributable to our convertible notes.

Other income (expense), net

Other income (expense), net is primarily due to realized gains of $13.4 million on the sale of certain strategic equity investments during fiscal 2018, partially offset by net losses recognized from the settlement of foreign currency transactions.

Income taxes

The effective tax rate for fiscal 2018 of 45.2% differed from the U.S. federal statutory rate of 32.7% primarily due to the impact from the Tax Act, excess tax benefits from share-based compensation, foreign income taxed at lower rates, research tax credits and the domestic production activities deduction. The effective tax rate for fiscal 2017 differed from the U.S. federal statutory rate of 35% primarily due to the impact from the excess tax benefits from share-based compensation, foreign income taxed at lower rates and research tax credits. Tax expense for fiscal 2018 included a one-time tax charge of $122.7 million related to the Tax Act. Further included in tax expense for fiscal 2018 and fiscal 2017 was a net discrete tax benefit of $27.0 million and $15.8 million, respectively, primarily related to net excess tax benefits from share-based compensation.

59
LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

We derive our liquidity and operating capital primarily from cash flows from operations. Historically, we also received cash from the sale of equity securities, including private sales of preferred stock and the sale of common stock in our initial and follow-on public offerings, and the issuance of convertible notes, including our issuance of convertible notes described in detail in NOTE 12—Convertible Notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements. At February 28, 2019, we had total cash and investments of $2.42 billion, which was comprised of $1.88 billion in cash and cash equivalents, $293.4 million of short-term investments and $248.5 million of long-term fixed-income investments. This compares to total cash and investments of $2.47 billion at February 28, 2018.

On October 28, 2018, we entered into the Merger Agreement with IBM and Sub, pursuant to which IBM has agreed to acquire us for $190.00 per share in an all-cash transaction valued at approximately $34.62 billion. We have agreed to various customary covenants and agreements, including, among others, agreements to conduct our business in the ordinary course during the period between the execution of the Merger Agreement and the Effective Time. In addition, without the consent of IBM, we may not take, authorize, agree or commit to do certain actions outside of the ordinary course of business, including acquiring businesses or incurring capital expenditures above specified thresholds, issuing additional debt facilities, and repurchasing outstanding shares of our common stock. We do not believe these restrictions will prevent us from meeting convertible note obligations, ongoing costs of operations, working capital needs, or capital expenditure requirements for the next 12 months.

The Merger Agreement contains certain termination rights for IBM and us. Upon termination of the Merger Agreement under specified circumstances, we may be required to pay IBM a termination fee of $975.0 million.

Convertible note conversions

For at least 20 trading days during the 30 consecutive trading days ending on the last trading day of the fiscal quarters ended August 31, 2017 through February 28, 2019, our common stock traded at a price exceeding 130% of the conversion price of the convertible notes. Accordingly, the convertible notes remained convertible at the holders’ option until March 29, 2019. Effective April 1, 2019, holders may convert their convertible notes at any time until the close of business on the second scheduled trading day immediately preceding the maturity date of the convertible notes. To the extent we receive notices of conversion on or after April 1, 2019, the principal amount of the convertible notes will be settled in cash. Total settled conversions through February 28, 2019 amounted to $498.4 million aggregate principal amount of the convertible notes. We expect to settle conversions of $116.2 million in principal amount of the convertible notes in the first quarter of fiscal 2020 by paying cash for the principal amount and issuing shares of common stock for the excess conversion value. We continue to receive conversion requests and as of April 22, 2019, such incremental requests totaled $3.5 million in principal amount of the convertible notes, of which $3.0 million is scheduled to settle on June 3, 2019, and the remainder at the maturity date of the convertible notes. The aggregate principal amount of the convertible notes remaining is expected to be $186.9 million after the expected conversion settlements as discussed above and the incremental conversion requests received as of April 22, 2019.

Fiscal year ended February 28, 2019 

Cash flows—overview

At February 28, 2019, cash and cash equivalents totaled $1.88 billion, an increase of $159.0 million as compared to February 28, 2018. The increase in cash and cash equivalents for fiscal 2019 is primarily the result of cash provided by operations, which generated $1.01 billion, and net sales and maturities of available-for-sale debt securities of $193.4 million, partially offset by repayments of convertible notes of $438.4 million, the repurchase of 2,786,879 shares of our common stock for $412.8 million and payments made in return for shares of our common stock received from employees to satisfy employees’ minimum tax withholding obligations related to share awards vesting of $131.9 million. Net cash provided by operating activities and net cash used in investing activities and financing activities is further described below.

Cash flows from operations

Cash provided by operations of $1.01 billion during fiscal 2019 includes net income of $434.0 million, adjustments to exclude the impact of non-cash income and expenses, which totaled a $265.8 million net source of cash, and changes in operating assets and liabilities, which totaled a $313.0 million net source of cash. Non-cash income and expenses include the portion of repayments of convertible notes that are attributable to debt discount, which totaled $60.0 million, classified as operating cash flows due to our adoption of ASU 2016-15, Statement of Cash Flows (Topic 230): Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments. Cash provided by changes in operating assets and liabilities for fiscal 2019 was primarily the result of an increase in our deferred revenue, which generated operating cash flow of $463.8 million. The increase in deferred revenue was due to growth in billings as we generally bill our customers in advance of subscription periods. 

60
Cash flows from investing

Cash provided by investing activities of $110.0 million for fiscal 2019 includes net sales and maturities of available-for-sale debt securities of $193.4 million offset by investments in property and equipment of $61.3 million, which primarily relate to information technology infrastructure and leasehold improvements, the acquisition of Noobaa for $11.6 million, net of working capital and purchase price adjustments, and investments in intangible assets, primarily patents, which totaled $10.5 million. 

Cash flows from financing

Cash used in financing activities of $919.9 million for fiscal 2019 includes repayments of convertible notes of $438.4 million, $412.8 million to repurchase 2,786,879 shares of our common stock and $131.9 million of payments made in return for shares of our common stock received from employees to satisfy employees’ minimum tax withholding obligations related to employee share awards vesting during fiscal 2019. Partially offsetting these uses of cash were proceeds of $62.1 million from our employee stock purchase plan.

Fiscal year ended February 28, 2018

Cash flows—overview

At February 28, 2018, cash and cash equivalents totaled $1.72 billion, an increase of $633.3 million as compared to February 28, 2017. The increase in cash and cash equivalents for fiscal 2018 is the result of cash provided by operating activities, which totaled $923.1 million, and net sales and maturities of available-for-sale debt securities of $325.9 million. Partially offsetting cash provided by operating activities was cash used for business acquisitions of $315.1 million and the repurchase of 2,318,584 shares of our common stock for $237.0 million. Net cash generated by operating activities and net cash used for investing activities and financing activities is further described below.

Cash flows from operations

Cash provided by operations of $923.1 million during fiscal 2018 includes net income of $261.9 million, adjustments to exclude the impact of non-cash income and expenses, which totaled a $290.0 million net source of cash, and changes in operating assets and liabilities, which totaled a $371.3 million net source of cash. Cash provided by changes in operating assets and liabilities for fiscal 2018 was primarily the result of an increase in our deferred revenue, which generated operating cash flow of $432.2 million. The increase in deferred revenue was due to growth in billings as we generally bill our customers in advance of subscription periods. 

Cash flows from investing

Cash used in investing activities of $76.9 million for fiscal 2018 includes acquisitions of CoreOS, Permabit and Codenvy for $315.1 million, net of $6.9 million cash acquired, and investments in property and equipment of $85.0 million, which primarily relate to information technology infrastructure and leasehold improvements. Partially offsetting these uses of cash were proceeds from net sales and maturities of available-for-sale debt securities of $325.9 million.

Cash flows from financing

Cash used in financing activities of $273.1 million for fiscal 2018 includes $237.0 million to repurchase 2,318,584 shares of our common stock and payments made in return for shares of our common stock received from employees to satisfy employees’ minimum tax withholding obligations related to employee share awards vesting during fiscal 2018 of $89.5 million. Partially offsetting financing activities using cash were proceeds from our employee stock purchase plan, which totaled $50.1 million.

Investments in debt securities

Our investments in debt securities are comprised primarily of available-for-sale fixed-income investments recorded at their fair values, of which $293.4 million are classified as short-term and $248.5 million are classified as long-term in the Consolidated Balance Sheet at February 28, 2019. The vast majority of our investments were priced with the assistance of pricing vendors. These pricing vendors use the most recent observable market information in pricing these securities or, if specific prices are not available for these securities, use other observable inputs. In the event observable inputs are not available, we assess other factors to determine the securities’ fair values, including broker quotes or model valuations. Independent price verifications of all of our holdings are performed by the pricing vendors, which we review. In the event a price fails a pre-established tolerance check, it is researched so that we can assess the cause of the variance to determine what we believe is the appropriate fair value.

61
We presently do not intend to liquidate our short- and long-term investments in debt securities prior to their scheduled maturity dates. However, in the event that we liquidate these investments prior to their scheduled maturities and there are adverse changes in market interest rates or the overall economic environment, we could be required to recognize a realized loss on those investments when we liquidate these investments. At February 28, 2019 and February 28, 2018, net accumulated unrealized net losses on our available-for-sale debt securities totaled $2.4 million and $5.3 million, respectively. 

Capital requirements

Our capital requirements during fiscal 2020 will depend on numerous factors, including the amount of resources we devote to:

•funding the continued development of our technology offerings;

•improving and extending our services and the technologies used to market and deliver these services to our customers and support our business;

•pursuing strategic acquisitions and alliances;

•investing in or acquiring businesses, products and technologies; and

•investing in enhancements to the systems we use to run our business and the expansion of our office facilities.

We have utilized, and will continue from time to time to utilize, cash and investments to fund, among other potential uses, purchases of our common stock, purchases of fixed assets, purchases of intangible assets (primarily patents), and mergers and acquisitions. Given our historically strong operating cash flow and the $2.42 billion of cash and investments held at February 28, 2019, we believe our cash balances totaling $1.88 billion, together with our ability to generate additional cash from operations, should be sufficient to satisfy our cash requirements for the next twelve months and for the foreseeable future. However, we may take advantage of favorable capital market conditions that may arise from time to time to raise additional capital.

We believe that our ability to generate additional cash from operations will continue; however, there can be no assurances that we will be able to generate cash from operations at a level equal to the current rate or that such cash flows will be adequate to fund other investments or acquisitions that we may choose to make or that cash may be located in or generated in the appropriate geographic region where we can effectively use such cash. We may choose to accelerate the expansion of our business from our current plans, which may require us to raise additional funds through the sale of equity or debt securities or through other financing means. There can be no assurances that any such financing would occur in amounts or on terms favorable to us, if at all.

As of February 28, 2019, $1.26 billion of our total cash and investments were held outside the U.S. Our intent has been to reinvest the earnings of foreign subsidiaries indefinitely outside the U.S. to fund both organic growth and acquisitions. The Tax Act includes a provision to move the U.S. to a territorial tax system by imposing a transition tax on historic foreign earnings whether or not such earnings are repatriated to the U.S. In light of the new territorial tax system, we no longer consider earnings from certain foreign subsidiaries to be indefinitely reinvested. As of February 28, 2019, cumulative undistributed foreign earnings totaled $397.5 million, of which $86.6 million is considered indefinitely reinvested. For further discussion, see NOTE 11—Income Taxes to our Consolidated Financial Statements.

Off-balance sheet arrangements

As of February 28, 2019 and February 28, 2018, we have no off-balance sheet financing arrangements and do not utilize any “structured debt,” “special purpose” or similar unconsolidated entities for liquidity or financing purposes.

62
Contractual obligations

The following table summarizes our principal contractual obligations at February 28, 2019 (in thousands):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Obligations under contracts that we may cancel without significant penalty are not included in the table above. In addition, because we are unable to reasonably estimate the timing of settlements and any future payments related to uncertain tax positions, such liabilities are not included in the above table. However, as of February 28, 2019, we have recognized a total of $179.9 million related to such liabilities, which are included in Other long-term obligations in our Consolidated Balance Sheet.

RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS

For discussion of accounting pronouncements recently adopted and accounting pronouncements being evaluated, and the impact of such pronouncements on our consolidated financial statements, see NOTE 2—Summary of Significant Accounting Policies to our Consolidated Financial Statements.

63
ITEM 7A.QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK