ITEM 7A.   

QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK  

The primary objective of the following information is to provide forward-looking quantitative and qualitative information about our potential exposure to market risks. The term “market risk” refers to the risk of loss arising from adverse changes in natural gas, NGLs and oil prices and interest rates. The disclosures are not meant to be precise indicators of expected future losses, but rather indicators of reasonably possible losses. This forward-looking information provides indicators of how we view and manage our ongoing market-risk exposure. All of our market-risk sensitive instruments were entered into for purposes other than trading. All accounts are U.S. dollar denominated.  

Market Risk  

We are exposed to market risks related to the volatility of natural gas, NGLs and oil prices as the volatility of these prices continues to impact our industry. We expect commodity prices to remain volatile and unpredictable in the future. We employ various strategies, including the use of commodity derivative instruments, to manage the risks related to these price fluctuations. These derivative instruments apply to a varying portion of our production and provide only partial price protection. These arrangements limit the benefit to us of increases in prices but offer protection in the event of price declines. Further, if our counterparties defaulted, this protection might be limited as we might not receive the benefits of the derivatives. We are at risk for changes in the fair value of all of our derivative instruments; however, such risk should be mitigated by price changes related to the underlying commodity transaction. While the use of derivative instruments could materially affect our results of operations in a particular quarter or annual period, we believe that the use of these instruments will not have a material adverse effect on our financial position or liquidity. Realized prices are primarily driven by worldwide prices for oil and spot market prices for North American natural gas production. Natural gas and oil prices have been volatile and unpredictable for many years. Natural gas prices affect us more than oil prices because approximately 67% of our December 31, 2018 proved reserves were natural gas. We are also exposed to market risks related to changes in interest rates. These risks did not change materially from December 31, 2017 to December 31, 2018.  

69 

Commodity Price Risk  

We use commodity-based derivative contracts to manage exposures to commodity price fluctuations. We do not enter into these arrangements for speculative or trading purposes. At times, certain of our derivatives are swaps where we receive a fixed price for our production and pay market prices to the counterparty. Our derivatives program may also include collars, which establish a minimum floor price and a predetermined ceiling price. We have also entered into combined natural gas derivative instruments containing a fixed price swap and a sold option to extend or double the volume (which we refer to as a swaption). The swap price is a fixed price determined at the time of the swaption contract. If the option is exercised, the contract will become a swap treated consistently with our fixed-price swaps. At December 31, 2018, our derivatives program includes swaps, swaptions and collars. These contracts expire monthly through December 2020. Their fair value, represented by the estimated amount that would be realized upon immediate liquidation as of December 31, 2018, approximated a net derivative asset of $80.9 million compared to a net derivative asset of $13.6 million at December 31, 2017. This change is primarily related to the settlements of derivative contracts during 2018 and to the natural gas, NGLs and oil futures prices as of December 31, 2018 in relation to the new commodity derivative contracts we entered into during 2018 for 2019 and 2020. At December 31, 2018, the following commodity derivative contracts were outstanding, excluding our basis swaps which are discussed below: 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

(1) Contains a combined derivative instrument consisting of a fixed price swap and a sold option to extend or double the volume. In 2019, we also have swaps in place for 150,000 Mmbtu per day on which the counterparty can elect to extend the contract through December 2020 at a weighted average price of $2.81. In 2020, if the counterparty elects to double the volume, we would have additional swaps covering 80,000 Mmbtu per day at a weighted average price of $2.77. 

In the future, we expect our NGLs production to continue to increase. In our Marcellus Shale operations, propane is a large product component of our NGLs production and we believe NGLs prices are somewhat seasonal. Therefore, the percentage of NGLs prices to NYMEX WTI (or West Texas Intermediate) will vary due to product components, seasonality and geographic supply and demand. We sell NGLs in several regional and international markets.  

Currently, the Appalachian region has limited local demand and infrastructure to accommodate ethane. We have previously announced agreements wherein we have contracted to either sell or transport ethane from our Marcellus Shale area, two of which began operations in late 2013. Our Mariner East transportation agreement and our terminal/storage arrangement at Sunoco’s Marcus Hook Industrial Complex facility near Philadelphia began operations in early 2016. If we are not able to sell a portion of our ethane, we may be required to curtail production which will adversely affect our revenues and cash flow. However, as we have done in the past, we also may be able to purchase or divert natural gas to blend with our rich residue gas. 

Other Commodity Risk  

We are impacted by basis risk as natural gas transaction prices are frequently based on industry reference prices that may vary from prices experienced in local markets. If commodity price changes in one region are not reflected in other regions, derivative commodity instruments may no longer provide the expected hedge, resulting in increased basis risk. In addition to the swaps above, we have entered into natural gas basis swap agreements. The price we receive for our natural gas production can be more or less than the NYMEX price because of adjustments for delivery location (“basis”), relative quality and other factors; therefore, we have entered  

70 

into basis swap agreements that effectively lock in the basis adjustments. The fair value of the natural gas basis swaps, which expire monthly through October 2021, was a net derivative asset of $4.8 million at December 31, 2018 and the volumes are for 70,940,000 Mmbtu. 

As of December 31, 2018, we also had propane spread swap contracts which lock in the differential between Mont Belvieu and international propane indices. These contracts settle monthly in January through June and October through December 2019 and the fair value of these contracts was a net derivative asset of $117,000 on December 31, 2018. 

In connection with our international propane swaps, at December 31, 2018, we had freight swap contracts which lock in the freight rate for a specific trade route on the Baltic Exchange. These contracts settle monthly through December 2019 and cover 10,000 metric tons per month with a fair value net derivative liability of $561,000 on December 31, 2018. 

Commodity Sensitivity Analysis  

The following table shows the fair value of our swaps and basis swaps and the hypothetical change in fair value that would result from a 10% and a 25% change in commodity prices at December 31, 2018. We remain at risk for possible changes in the market value of commodity derivative instruments; however, such risks should be mitigated by price changes in the underlying physical commodity (in thousands): 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Counterparty Risk 

Our commodity-based contracts expose us to the credit risk of non-performance by the counterparty to the contracts. Our exposure is diversified among major investment grade financial institutions and commodity traders and we have master netting agreements with the majority of our counterparties that provide for offsetting payables against receivables from separate derivative contracts. Our derivative contracts are with multiple counterparties to minimize our exposure to any individual counterparty. At December 31, 2018, our derivative counterparties include twenty financial institutions, of which all but four are secured lenders in our bank credit facility. Counterparty credit risk is considered when determining the fair value of our derivative contracts. While counterparties are major investment grade financial institutions and large commodity traders, the fair value of our derivative contracts have been adjusted to account for the risk of non-performance by certain of our counterparties, which was immaterial. Our propane sales from the Marcus Hook facility near Philadelphia are short-term and are to a single purchaser. Ethane sales from Marcus Hook are to a single international customer bearing a credit rating similar to Range. 

Interest Rate Risk  

We are exposed to interest rate risk on our bank debt. We attempt to balance variable rate debt, fixed rate debt and debt maturities to manage interest costs, interest rate volatility and financing risk. This is accomplished through a mix of fixed rate publicly traded debt and variable rate bank debt. At December 31, 2018, we had $3.8 billion of debt outstanding. Of this amount, $2.9 billion bears interest at a fixed rate averaging 5.2%. Bank debt totaling $943.0 million bears interest at floating rates, which was 4.1% at December 31, 2018. On December 31, 2018, the 30-day LIBOR rate was 2.5%. A 1% increase in short-term interest rates on the floating-rate debt outstanding at December 31, 2018 would cost us approximately $9.4 million in additional annual interest expense.  

71 

The fair value of our senior and subordinated debt is based on year-end December 2018 quoted market prices. The following table presents information on these fair values (in thousands):  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

72 

Item 8. financial statements and supplementary data