Item 7A.  

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk  

Market Risk Management  

Market risk refers to the risk of loss arising from adverse changes in stock prices, interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. We are exposed to market risks primarily due to our international operations, and our ongoing investing and financial activities. The risk of loss can be assessed from the perspective of adverse changes in our future earnings, cash flows, fair values, and financial condition. Our exposure to market risk includes our credit facilities, derivative instruments, cash, cash equivalents, short term and long term marketable securities, accounts receivable, intercompany receivables/payables, accounts payable and deferred merchant payables denominated in foreign currencies. We have established policies, procedures and internal processes governing our management of market risks and the use of financial instruments to manage and attempt to mitigate our exposure to such risks.  

Interest Rates  

As of December 31, 2018, our primary exposure to changes in interest rates relates primarily to our investment portfolio. Changes in interest rates affect the amount of interest earned on our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities, and the fair value of those securities. Our interest income and expense is most sensitive to fluctuations in U.S. interest rates and Libor.  

We currently invest our excess cash in cash deposits at major global banks, money market funds, and marketable securities. Our investment policy and strategy are focused on preservation of capital and supporting our liquidity requirements. We invest in highly-rated securities, and our investment policy limits the amount of credit exposure to any one issuer. Our investment policy requires our investments to be investment grade, with the primary objective of minimizing the potential risk of principal loss.  

In order to provide a meaningful assessment of the interest rate risk associated with our investment portfolio, we performed a sensitivity analysis to determine the impact a change in interest rates would have on the value of our current investment portfolio assuming a 100 basis point parallel shift in the yield curve. Based on our investment positions as of December 31, 2018, a hypothetical 100 basis point increase in interest rates across all maturities would not result in a material decline in the fair value of the portfolio. In addition, such losses would only be realized if we sold the investments prior to maturity. Refer to “Note 7: Financial Instruments and Fair Value Measurements” in the notes to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 on this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information on our investment portfolio and other financial instruments. As of December 31, 2018, we had no outstanding borrowings under our 2015 Credit Facility. 

We currently do not hedge our interest rate risk; however, we are continually evaluating the interest rate market, and if we become increasingly exposed to potentially volatile movements in interest rates, and if these movements are material, this could cause us to adjust our financing strategy. We did not experience any material financial impact from changes in interest rates for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 or 2016.  

Foreign Currency Exchange Rates  

We conduct business in certain international markets, primarily the European Union, including the United Kingdom, and also Singapore and Australia. Because we operate in international markets, we have exposure to different economic climates, political arenas, tax systems and regulations that could affect foreign currency exchange rates.  

Some of our subsidiaries maintain their accounting records in their respective local currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Consequently, changes in foreign currency exchange rates may impact the translation of those subsidiary’s financial statements into U.S. dollars. As a result, we face exposure to adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates as the financial results of our non-U.S. dollar operations are translated from local currency, or functional currency, into U.S. dollars upon consolidation. If the U.S. dollar weakens against the functional currency, the translation of these foreign-currency-denominated balances will result in increased net assets, revenue, operating expenses, operating income and net income. Similarly, our net assets, revenue, operating expenses,  

61 

operating income and net income will decrease if the U.S. dollar strengthens against the functional currency. The effect of foreign currency exchange on our business historically has varied from quarter to quarter and may continue to do so, potentially materially. In order to provide a meaningful assessment of the foreign currency exchange rate risk associated with our consolidated financial statements, we performed a sensitivity analysis. A hypothetical 10% decrease of the foreign currency exchange rates relative to the U.S. dollar, or strengthening of the U.S. dollar, would generate an unrealized loss of approximately $27 million related to a decrease in our net assets as of December 31, 2018, which would initially be recorded to accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) on our consolidated balance sheet.  

In addition, foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations on transactions denominated in currencies other than the functional currency result in transactional gains and losses. We recognize these transactional gains and losses (primarily Euro currency transactions) in our consolidated statements of operations and have recorded a foreign currency exchange loss of $6 million for the year ended December 31, 2018, gain of $1 million for the year ended December 31, 2017, and a loss of $6 million for the year ended December 31, 2016, respectively, in “Interest income and other, net” on our consolidated statements of operations. Future transactional gains and losses are inherently difficult to predict as they are reliant on how the multiple currencies in which we transact fluctuate in relation to the U.S. dollar and other functional currencies, and the relative composition and denomination of monetary assets and liabilities each period. 

We currently manage our exposure to foreign currency risk through internally established policies and procedures. To the extent practicable, we minimize our foreign currency exposures by maintaining natural hedges between our current assets and current liabilities in similarly denominated foreign currencies, as well as, using derivative financial instruments. We use foreign currency forward exchange contracts to manage certain short-term foreign currency risk to try and reduce the effects of fluctuating foreign currency exchange rates on our cash flows denominated in foreign currencies. We do not use financial instruments for trading purposes and are not a party to any leveraged derivatives. Our objective is to hedge only those foreign currency exposures that can be confidently identified and quantified and that may result in significant impacts to our cash or the consolidated statement of operations. Our policy does not allow speculation in derivative instruments for profit or execution of derivative instrument contracts for which there are no underlying exposures.  

Our foreign currency forward exchange contracts, to date, have principally addressed foreign currency exchange fluctuation risk between the Euro and the U.S. dollar. We have accounted for our derivative instruments to date, which have not been designated as hedges under GAAP, as either assets or liabilities and carry them at fair value. We had two outstanding forward currency contracts as of December 31, 2018 with a total notional value of $13 million. These outstanding forward currency contracts were not designated as hedges and had maturities of less than 90 days. We had no outstanding derivative contracts as of December 31, 2017. We recognize gains and losses from our derivative contracts in our consolidated statement of operations and have recorded net losses of $3 million and $1 million for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively, and a net gain of $2 million for the year ended December 31, 2016, in “Interest income and other, net” on our consolidated statements of operations. Refer to “Note 7: Financial Instruments and Fair Value Measurements” in the notes to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 on this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further detail on our derivative instruments.  

As we increase our operations in international markets, our exposure to potentially volatile movements in foreign currency exchange rates increases. The economic impact to us of foreign currency exchange rate movements is linked to variability in real growth, inflation, interest rates, governmental actions, and other factors. These changes, if material, could cause us to adjust our foreign currency risk strategies. For example, Brexit has caused significant volatility in currency exchange rates, especially between the U.S. dollar and the British pound. Continued uncertainty regarding Brexit may result in future exchange rate volatility. Since the terms of the United Kingdom’s exit from the European Union are uncertain, we are unable to predict the effect Brexit will have on our business and results of operations related to foreign currency and other market risks.  

62 

Item 8.