ITEM 7A.QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

Our primary market risks are exposures to changes in interest rates that impact our investment income and interest expense and the fair value of certain of our fixed-rate investments and debt, as well as foreign currency exchange rate risk of the U.S. dollar primarily to the Brazilian real and Chilean peso.

As of December 31, 2018, we had $14 billion of financial assets on which the interest rates received vary with market interest rates, which may materially impact our investment income. Also as of December 31, 2018, $9 billion of our financial liabilities, which include commercial paper, debt and deposit liabilities, were at interest rates that vary with market rates, either directly or through the use of related interest rate swap contracts.

The fair value of certain of our fixed-rate investments and debt also varies with market interest rates. As of December 31, 2018, $30 billion of our investments were fixed-rate debt securities and $32 billion of our debt was non-swapped fixed-rate term debt. An increase in market interest rates decreases the market value of fixed-rate investments and fixed-rate debt. Conversely, a decrease in market interest rates increases the market value of fixed-rate investments and fixed-rate debt.

We manage exposure to market interest rates by diversifying investments across different fixed-income market sectors and debt across maturities, as well as by endeavoring to match our floating-rate assets and liabilities over time, either directly or through the use of interest rate swap contracts. Unrealized gains and losses on investments in available-for-sale securities are reported in comprehensive income.

36
The following tables summarize the impact of hypothetical changes in market interest rates across the entire yield curve by 1% point or 2% points as of December 31, 2018 and 2017 on our investment income and interest expense per annum and the fair value of our investments and debt (in millions, except percentages):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a)Given the low absolute level of short-term market rates on our floating-rate assets and liabilities as of December 31, 2017, the assumed hypothetical change in interest rates does not reflect the full 200 basis point reduction in interest income or interest expense in 2017, as the rate cannot fall below zero.

(b)As of December 31, 2018 and 2017, some of our investments had interest rates below 2% so the assumed hypothetical change in the fair value of investments does not reflect the full 200 basis point reduction.

We have an exposure to changes in the value of foreign currencies, primarily the Brazilian real and the Chilean peso, to the U.S. dollar in translation of UnitedHealthcare Global’s operating results at the average exchange rate over the accounting period, and UnitedHealthcare Global’s assets and liabilities at the spot rate at the end of the accounting period. The gains or losses resulting from translating foreign assets and liabilities into U.S. dollars are included in equity and comprehensive income. 

An appreciation of the U.S. dollar against the Brazilian real or Chilean peso reduces the carrying value of the net assets denominated in those currencies. For example, as of December 31, 2018, a hypothetical 10% and 25% increase in the value of the U.S. dollar against those currencies would have caused a reduction in net assets of approximately $600 million and $1.4 billion, respectively. We manage exposure to foreign currency earnings risk primarily by conducting our international business operations in their functional currencies.

As of December 31, 2018, we had $2.0 billion of investments in equity securities, consisting of investments in non-U.S. dollar fixed-income funds; employee savings plan related investments; and dividend paying stocks. Valuations in non-U.S. dollar funds are subject to foreign exchange rates. 

37
ITEM 8.FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA