ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

The following discussion should be read together with the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements thereto included in Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” Readers are cautioned that the statements, estimates, projections or outlook contained in this report, including discussions regarding 

24
financial prospects, economic conditions, trends and uncertainties contained in this Item 7, may constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the PSLRA. These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause our actual results to differ materially from the expectations expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements. A description of some of the risks and uncertainties can be found further below in this Item 7 and in Part I, Item 1A, “Risk Factors.”

EXECUTIVE OVERVIEW 

General

UnitedHealth Group is a diversified health care company dedicated to helping people live healthier lives and helping make the health system work better for everyone. Through our diversified family of businesses, we leverage core competencies in data analytics and health information; advanced technology; and clinical expertise. These core competencies are deployed within our two distinct, but strategically aligned, business platforms: health benefits operating under UnitedHealthcare and health services operating under Optum.

We have four reportable segments across our two business platforms, UnitedHealthcare and Optum:

•UnitedHealthcare, which includes UnitedHealthcare Employer & Individual, UnitedHealthcare Medicare & Retirement, UnitedHealthcare Community & State and UnitedHealthcare Global;

•OptumHealth;

•OptumInsight; and

•OptumRx.

Further information on our business and reportable segments is presented in Part I, Item 1, “Business” and in Note 13 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.”

Business Trends

Our businesses participate in the United States, South America and certain other international health markets. In the United States, health care spending has grown consistently for many years and comprises 18% of gross domestic product (GDP). We expect overall spending on health care to continue to grow in the future, due to inflation, medical technology and pharmaceutical advancement, regulatory requirements, demographic trends in the population and national interest in health and well-being. The rate of market growth may be affected by a variety of factors, including macro-economic conditions and regulatory changes, which have impacted and could further impact our results of operations.

Pricing Trends. To price our health care benefit products, we start with our view of expected future costs. We frequently evaluate and adjust our approach in each of the local markets we serve, considering relevant factors, such as product positioning, price competitiveness and environmental, competitive, legislative and regulatory considerations, including minimum MLR thresholds. We will continue seeking to balance growth and profitability across all of these dimensions. 

The commercial risk market remains highly competitive in both the small group and large group segments. We expect broad-based competition to continue as the industry adapts to individual and employer needs amid reform changes. The ACA included an annual, nondeductible insurance industry tax (Health Insurance Industry Tax) to be levied proportionally across the insurance industry for risk-based health insurance products. A provision in the 2018 federal budget imposed a one year moratorium for 2019 on the collection of the Health Insurance Industry Tax. Pricing for contracts that cover a portion of calendar year 2019 reflected the impact of the moratorium. The industry has continued to experience favorable medical cost trends due to moderated utilization, which has impacted the competitive pricing environment. 

Medicare Advantage funding continues to be pressured, as discussed below in “Regulatory Trends and Uncertainties.” 

We expect continued Medicaid revenue growth due to anticipated changes in mix and increases in the number of people we serve; we also believe that the payment rate environment creates the risk of downward pressure on Medicaid margin percentages. We continue to take a prudent, market-sustainable posture for both new business and maintenance of existing relationships. We continue to advocate for actuarially sound rates that are commensurate with our medical cost trends and we remain dedicated to partnering with those states that are committed to the long-term viability of their programs.

Medical Cost Trends. Our medical cost trends primarily relate to changes in unit costs, health system utilization and prescription drug costs. We endeavor to mitigate those increases by engaging physicians and consumers with information and helping them make clinically sound choices, with the objective of helping them achieve high-quality, affordable care.

25
Delivery System and Payment Modernization. The health care market continues to change based on demographic shifts, new regulations, political forces and both payer and patient expectations. Health plans and care providers are being called upon to work together to close gaps in care and improve overall care quality, improve the health of populations and reduce costs. We continue to see a greater number of people enrolled in plans with underlying incentive-based care provider payment models that reward high-quality, affordable care and foster collaboration. We work together with clinicians to leverage our data and analytics to provide the necessary information to close gaps in care and improve overall health outcomes for patients.

We are increasingly rewarding care providers for delivering improvements in quality and cost-efficiency. As of December 31, 2018, we served nearly 17 million people through some form of aligned contractual arrangement, including full-risk, shared-risk and bundled episode-of-care and performance incentive payment approaches. As of December 31, 2018, our contracts with value-based elements totaled $74 billion in annual spending, including $18 billion through risk-transfer agreements.

This trend is creating needs for health management services that can coordinate care around the primary care physician, including new primary care channels, and for investments in new clinical and administrative information and management systems, which we believe provide growth opportunities for our Optum business platform. 

Regulatory Trends and Uncertainties

Following is a summary of management’s view of the trends and uncertainties related to some of the key provisions of the ACA and other regulatory matters. For additional information regarding the ACA and regulatory trends and uncertainties, see Part I, Item 1 “Business - Government Regulation” and Item 1A, “Risk Factors.”

Medicare Advantage Rates. Final 2019 Medicare Advantage rates resulted in an increase in industry base rates of 3.4%, short of the industry forward medical cost trend, which creates continued pressure in the Medicare Advantage program. 

The ongoing pressure on Medicare Advantage funding places continued importance on effective medical management and ongoing improvements in administrative efficiency. There are a number of adjustments we have made to partially offset these rate pressures and reductions. In some years, these adjustments will impact the majority of the seniors we serve through Medicare Advantage. For example, we seek to intensify our medical and operating cost management, make changes to the size and composition of our care provider networks, adjust members' benefits and implement or increase the member premiums that supplement the monthly payments we receive from the government. Additionally, we decide annually on a county-by-county basis where we will offer Medicare Advantage plans.

As Medicare Advantage payments change, other products may become relatively more attractive to Medicare beneficiaries and increase the demand for other senior health benefits products, such as our market-leading Medicare Supplement and stand-alone Medicare Part D insurance offerings. 

Our Medicare Advantage rates are currently enhanced by CMS quality bonuses in certain counties based on our local plans’ Star ratings. The level of Star ratings from CMS, based upon specified clinical and operational performance standards, will impact future quality bonuses. 

Tax Reform. Tax Reform was enacted by the U.S federal government in December 2017, changing existing United States tax law, including reducing the U.S. corporate income tax rate. In 2018, the impact of Tax Reform was partially offset by the return of the nondeductible Health Insurance Industry Tax.

Health Insurance Industry Tax. After a moratorium in 2017, the industry-wide amount of the Health Insurance Industry Tax in 2018 was $14.3 billion, with our portion being $2.6 billion. The return of the tax impacted year-over-year comparability of our financial results, including revenues, the medical care ratio (MCR), operating cost ratio and effective tax rate. A one year moratorium is imposed on the collection of the Health Insurance Industry Tax in 2019.

SELECTED OPERATING PERFORMANCE ITEMS

The following represents a summary of select 2018 year-over-year operating comparisons to 2017.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•UnitedHealthcare’s addition of 2.2 million people through acquisition and 250,000 through organic growth was offset by 2.9 million fewer people served as a result of completion of its commitment under the TRICARE military health care program.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

26
RESULTS SUMMARY

The following table summarizes our consolidated results of operations and other financial information:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

(a)Medical care ratio is calculated as medical costs divided by premium revenue.

(b)Net earnings margin attributable to UnitedHealth Group shareholders.

(c)Return on equity is calculated as net earnings attributable to UnitedHealth Group common shareholders divided by average shareholders’ equity. Average shareholders’ equity is calculated using the shareholders’ equity balance at the end of the preceding year and the shareholders’ equity balances at the end of each of the four quarters of the year presented.

2018 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS COMPARED TO 2017 RESULTS

Consolidated Financial Results

Revenue

The increase in revenue was primarily driven by the increase in the number of individuals served through risk-based products across our UnitedHealthcare benefits businesses; pricing trends, including the Health Insurance Industry Tax in 2018; and growth across the Optum business, primarily due to expansion and growth in care delivery, pharmacy care services, managed services and advisory services.

Medical Costs and MCR

Medical costs increased due to growth in people served through risk-based products and medical cost trends. The MCR decreased due to the revenue effects of the Health Insurance Industry Tax, which more than offset business mix changes and a lower level of favorable reserve development.

27
Reportable Segments

See Note 13 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” for more information on our segments. The following table presents a summary of the reportable segment financial information:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

UnitedHealthcare

The following table summarizes UnitedHealthcare revenues by business:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

28
The following table summarizes the number of individuals served by our UnitedHealthcare businesses, by major market segment and funding arrangement:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The overall increase in people served through risk-based benefit plans in the commercial group market was due to growth in services to small groups. Fee-based commercial group business declined primarily due to customers converting their retirees to Medicare Advantage plans, as well as certain customers expanding the number of carriers and reconfiguring geographies served. Medicare Advantage increased year-over-year due to growth in people served through individual and employer-sponsored group Medicare Advantage plans. The decrease in people served through Medicaid was primarily driven by states adding new carriers to existing programs, reduced enrollment from state efforts to manage eligibility status and the sale of our New Mexico Medicaid plan. Medicare Supplement growth reflected strong customer retention and new sales. International growth was primarily driven by an acquisition in the first quarter.

UnitedHealthcare’s revenue and earnings from operations increased due to growth in the number of individuals served across its risk-based businesses, a higher revenue membership mix, rate increases for underlying medical cost trends and the impact of the return of the Health Insurance Industry Tax. UnitedHealthcare’s operating margin decreased slightly due to the performance of our traditional community-based TANF Medicaid business.

Optum

Total revenues and earnings from operations increased as each segment reported increased revenues and earnings from operations as a result of the factors discussed below, as well as productivity and overall cost management initiatives. 

The results by segment were as follows:

OptumHealth

Revenue and earnings from operations increased at OptumHealth primarily due to organic and acquisition-related growth in care delivery and behavioral health, digital consumer engagement and health financial services.

OptumInsight

Revenue and earnings from operations at OptumInsight increased primarily due to growth in data analytics product and service offerings and managed services as well as organic and acquisition-related growth in advisory services. 

OptumRx

Revenue and earnings from operations at OptumRx increased primarily due to growth in specialty pharmacy, home delivery services, and overall prescription growth. OptumRx fulfilled 1,343 million and 1,298 million adjusted scripts in 2018 and 2017, respectively.

29
2017 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS COMPARED TO 2016 RESULTS

Consolidated Financial Results

Revenue

The increase in revenue was primarily driven by organic growth in the number of individuals served across our UnitedHealthcare benefits businesses and growth across the Optum business. The increase was partially offset by revenue decreases due to the withdrawals of the ACA-compliant products in the individual market and the effects of the Health Insurance Industry Tax moratorium.

Medical Costs and MCR

Medical costs increased due to risk-based membership growth and medical cost trends. The MCR increased due to the effects of the Health Insurance Industry Tax moratorium, offset primarily by the reduction in individual ACA business, medical management initiatives and an increase in favorable medical cost reserve development.

Income Tax Rate

Our effective tax rate decreased primarily due to the impact of Tax Reform and the Health Insurance Tax moratorium. The provision for income taxes included a $1.2 billion benefit from the revaluation of net deferred tax liabilities.

Reportable Segments

UnitedHealthcare

UnitedHealthcare’s revenue increase was due to growth in the number of individuals served across its businesses and price increases for underlying medical cost trends, which were partially offset by the reduction of people served in ACA-compliant individual products and the impact of the Health Insurance Industry Tax moratorium.

The increase in UnitedHealthcare’s earnings from operations was led by diversified growth and increased operating margin. The 2016 results included losses in ACA-compliant individual products and guaranty fund assessments.

Optum

Total revenues and earnings from operations increased as each segment reported increased revenues and earnings from operations as a result of the factors discussed below. 

The results by segment were as follows:

OptumHealth

Revenue and earnings from operations increased at OptumHealth primarily due to organic and acquisition-related growth in care delivery.

OptumInsight

Revenue and earnings from operations at OptumInsight increased primarily due to growth in revenue management services and business process services. 

OptumRx

Revenue and earnings from operations at OptumRx increased primarily due to client and consumer growth. In 2017, OptumRx fulfilled 1.3 billion adjusted scripts compared to 1.2 billion in 2016.

LIQUIDITY, FINANCIAL CONDITION AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

Liquidity

Introduction

We manage our liquidity and financial position in the context of our overall business strategy. We continually forecast and manage our cash, investments, working capital balances and capital structure to meet the short-term and long-term obligations of our businesses while seeking to maintain liquidity and financial flexibility. Cash flows generated from operating activities are principally from earnings before noncash expenses. 

Our regulated subsidiaries generate significant cash flows from operations and are subject to financial regulations and standards in their respective jurisdictions. These standards, among other things, require these subsidiaries to maintain specified levels of 

30
statutory capital, as defined by each jurisdiction, and restrict the timing and amount of dividends and other distributions that may be paid to their parent companies.

In both 2018 and 2017, our U.S. regulated subsidiaries paid their parent companies dividends of $3.7 billion. See Note 10 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” for further detail concerning our regulated subsidiary dividends.

Our nonregulated businesses also generate significant cash flows from operations that are available for general corporate use. Cash flows generated by these entities, combined with dividends from our regulated entities and financing through the issuance of long-term debt as well as issuance of commercial paper or the ability to draw under our committed credit facilities, further strengthen our operating and financial flexibility. We use these cash flows to expand our businesses through acquisitions, reinvest in our businesses through capital expenditures, repay debt and return capital to our shareholders through shareholder dividends and/or repurchases of our common stock, depending on market conditions.

Summary of our Major Sources and Uses of Cash and Cash Equivalents

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

2018 Cash Flows Compared to 2017 Cash Flows

Increased cash flows provided by operating activities were primarily driven by higher net earnings in 2018 and the impact to 2017 cash flows from operating activities due to a change in net deferred tax liabilities from Tax Reform, partially offset by changes in working capital accounts.

Other significant changes in sources or uses of cash year-over-year included net issuances of debt in 2018 compared to net repayments in 2017, an increase in cash paid for acquisitions, increased share repurchases and a decrease in customer funds administered due to the timing of government payments.

2017 Cash Flows Compared to 2016 Cash Flows

Increased cash flows provided by operating activities were primarily driven by higher net earnings and changes in working capital accounts, partially offset by the change in net deferred tax liabilities driven by tax reform.

31
Other significant changes in sources or uses of cash year-over-year included net repayments of debt compared to 2016 net proceeds from debt issuances, which were partially offset by lower net purchases of investments. 

Financial Condition

As of December 31, 2018, our cash, cash equivalent, available-for-sale debt securities and equity securities balances of $44.7 billion included $10.9 billion of cash and cash equivalents (of which $925 million was available for general corporate use), $31.9 billion of debt securities and $2.0 billion of investments in equity securities. Given the significant portion of our portfolio held in cash equivalents, we do not anticipate fluctuations in the aggregate fair value of our financial assets to have a material impact on our liquidity or capital position. Other sources of liquidity, primarily from operating cash flows and our commercial paper program, which is supported by our bank credit facilities, reduce the need to sell investments during adverse market conditions. See Note 4 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” for further detail concerning our fair value measurements.

Our available-for-sale debt portfolio had a weighted-average duration of 3.3 years and a weighted-average credit rating of “Double A” as of December 31, 2018. When multiple credit ratings are available for an individual security, the average of the available ratings is used to determine the weighted-average credit rating.

Capital Resources and Uses of Liquidity

In addition to cash flows from operations and cash and cash equivalent balances available for general corporate use, our capital resources and uses of liquidity are as follows:

Commercial Paper and Bank Credit Facilities. Our revolving bank credit facilities provide liquidity support for our commercial paper borrowing program, which facilitates the private placement of senior unsecured debt through third-party broker-dealers, and are available for general corporate purposes. For more information on our commercial paper and bank credit facilities, see Note 8 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.”

Our revolving bank credit facilities contain various covenants, including covenants requiring us to maintain a defined debt to debt-plus-shareholders’ equity ratio of not more than 60%. As of December 31, 2018, our debt to debt-plus-shareholders’ equity ratio, as defined and calculated under the credit facilities, was 38%.

Long-Term Debt. Periodically, we access capital markets to issue long-term debt for general corporate purposes, such as, to meet our working capital requirements, to refinance debt, to finance acquisitions or for share repurchases. For more information on our debt, see Note 8 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.”

Credit Ratings. Our credit ratings as of December 31, 2018 were as follows: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The availability of financing in the form of debt or equity is influenced by many factors, including our profitability, operating cash flows, debt levels, credit ratings, debt covenants and other contractual restrictions, regulatory requirements and economic and market conditions. For example, a significant downgrade in our credit ratings or adverse conditions in the capital markets may increase the cost of borrowing for us or limit our access to capital.

Share Repurchase Program. As of December 31, 2018, we had Board authorization to purchase up to 94 million shares of our common stock. For more information on our share repurchase program, see Note 10 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.”

Dividends. In June 2018, our Board increased our annual cash dividend rate to shareholders to $3.60 per share from $3.00 per share. For more information on our dividend, see Note 10 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.”

32
CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS AND COMMITMENTS

The following table summarizes future obligations due by period as of December 31, 2018, under our various contractual obligations and commitments: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a)Includes interest coupon payments and maturities at par or put values. The table also assumes amounts are outstanding through their contractual term. See Note 8 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” for more detail. 

(b)Includes fixed or minimum commitments under existing purchase obligations for goods and services, including agreements that are cancelable with the payment of an early termination penalty and remaining capital commitments for venture capital funds and other funding commitments. Excludes agreements that are cancelable without penalty and excludes liabilities to the extent recorded in our Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2018. 

(c)Includes obligations associated with contingent consideration and payments related to business acquisitions, certain employee benefit programs, amounts accrued for guaranty fund assessments, unrecognized tax benefits, and various long-term liabilities. Due to uncertainty regarding payment timing, obligations for employee benefit programs, charitable contributions, future settlements, unrecognized tax benefits and other liabilities have been classified as “Thereafter.”

(d)Includes commitments for redeemable shares of our subsidiaries. When the timing of the redemption is indeterminable, the commitment has been classified as “Thereafter.”

Pending Acquisitions. In December 2017, we entered into an agreement to acquire a company in the health care sector for a total of approximately $4.3 billion, which is not reflected in the table above.

We do not have other significant contractual obligations or commitments that require cash resources. However, we continually evaluate opportunities to expand our operations, which include internal development of new products, programs and technology applications and may include acquisitions.

OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS

As of December 31, 2018, we were not involved in any off-balance sheet arrangements, which have or are reasonably likely to have a material effect on our financial condition, results of operations or liquidity.

RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING STANDARDS 

See Note 2 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” for a discussion of new accounting pronouncements that affect us.

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES

Critical accounting estimates are those estimates that require management to make challenging, subjective or complex judgments, often because they must estimate the effects of matters that are inherently uncertain and may change in subsequent periods. Critical accounting estimates involve judgments and uncertainties that are sufficiently sensitive and may result in materially different results under different assumptions and conditions. 

Medical Costs Payable

Medical costs and medical costs payable include estimates of our obligations for medical care services that have been rendered on behalf of insured consumers, but for which claims have either not yet been received or processed. Depending on the health care professional and type of service, the typical billing lag for services can be up to 90 days from the date of service. Approximately 90% of claims related to medical care services are known and settled within 90 days from the date of service and substantially all within twelve months. As of December 31, 2018, our days outstanding in medical payables was 50 days, calculated as total medical payables divided by total medical costs times the number of days in the period. 

33
In each reporting period, our operating results include the effects of more completely developed medical costs payable estimates associated with previously reported periods. If the revised estimate of prior period medical costs is less than the previous estimate, we will decrease reported medical costs in the current period (favorable development). If the revised estimate of prior period medical costs is more than the previous estimate, we will increase reported medical costs in the current period (unfavorable development). Medical costs in 2018, 2017 and 2016 included favorable medical cost development related to prior years of $320 million, $690 million and $220 million, respectively.

In developing our medical costs payable estimates, we apply different estimation methods depending on the month for which incurred claims are being estimated. For example, for the most recent two months, we estimate claim costs incurred by applying observed medical cost trend factors to the average per member per month (PMPM) medical costs incurred in prior months for which more complete claim data is available, supplemented by a review of near-term completion factors.

Completion Factors. A completion factor is an actuarial estimate, based upon historical experience and analysis of current trends, of the percentage of incurred claims during a given period that have been adjudicated by us at the date of estimation. Completion factors are the most significant factors we use in developing our medical costs payable estimates for periods prior to the most recent two months. Completion factors include judgments in relation to claim submissions such as the time from date of service to claim receipt, claim inventory levels and claim processing backlogs, as well as other factors. If actual claims submission rates from providers (which can be influenced by a number of factors, including provider mix and electronic versus manual submissions) or our claim processing patterns are different than estimated, our reserve estimates may be significantly impacted.

The following table illustrates the sensitivity of these factors and the estimated potential impact on our medical costs payable estimates for those periods as of December 31, 2018:  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Medical Cost Per Member Per Month Trend Factors. Medical cost PMPM trend factors are significant factors we use in developing our medical costs payable estimates for the most recent two months. Medical cost trend factors are developed through a comprehensive analysis of claims incurred in prior months, provider contracting and expected unit costs, benefit design and a review of a broad set of health care utilization indicators, including but not limited to, pharmacy utilization trends, inpatient hospital authorization data and influenza incidence data from the National Centers for Disease Control. We also consider macroeconomic variables such as GDP growth, employment and disposable income. A large number of factors can cause the medical cost trend to vary from our estimates, including: our ability and practices to manage medical and pharmaceutical costs, changes in level and mix of services utilized, mix of benefits offered, including the impact of co-pays and deductibles, changes in medical practices, catastrophes and epidemics. 

The following table illustrates the sensitivity of these factors and the estimated potential impact on our medical costs payable estimates for the most recent two months as of December 31, 2018: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

34
The completion factors and medical costs PMPM trend factors analyses above include outcomes that are considered reasonably likely based on our historical experience estimating liabilities for incurred but not reported benefit claims. 

Management believes the amount of medical costs payable is reasonable and adequate to cover our liability for unpaid claims as of December 31, 2018; however, actual claim payments may differ from established estimates as discussed above. Assuming a hypothetical 1% difference between our December 31, 2018 estimates of medical costs payable and actual medical costs payable, excluding AARP Medicare Supplement Insurance and any potential offsetting impact from premium rebates, 2018 net earnings would have increased or decreased by approximately $140 million. 

For more detail related to our medical cost estimates, see Note 2 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” 

Revenues 

We derive a substantial portion of our revenues from health care insurance premiums. We recognize premium revenues in the period eligible individuals are entitled to receive health care services. Customers are typically billed monthly at a contracted rate per eligible person multiplied by the total number of people eligible to receive services. 

Our Medicare Advantage and Medicare Part D premium revenues are subject to periodic adjustment under the CMS risk adjustment payment methodology. The CMS risk adjustment model provides higher per member payments for enrollees diagnosed with certain conditions and lower payments for enrollees who are healthier. We estimate risk adjustment revenues based upon the data submitted and expected to be submitted to CMS. As a result of the variability of factors that determine such estimations, the actual amount of CMS’ retroactive payments could be materially more or less than our estimates. This may result in favorable or unfavorable adjustments to our Medicare premium revenue and, accordingly, our profitability. For more detail on premium revenues, see Note 2 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” Risk adjustment data for our plans is subject to review by the federal and state governments, including audit by regulators. See Note 12 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” for additional information regarding these audits. Our estimates of premiums to be recognized are reduced by any expected premium minimum MLR rebates payable by us. 

Goodwill and Intangible Assets 

Goodwill. We evaluate goodwill for impairment annually or more frequently when an event occurs or circumstances change that indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. When testing goodwill for impairment, we may first assess qualitative factors to determine if it is more likely than not that the carrying value of a reporting unit exceeds its estimated fair value. During a qualitative analysis, we consider the impact of changes, if any, to the following factors: macroeconomic, industry and market factors, cost factors, changes in overall financial performance, and any other relevant events and uncertainties impacting a reporting unit. If our qualitative assessment indicates that goodwill impairment is more likely than not, we perform additional quantitative analyses. We may also elect to skip the qualitative testing and proceed directly to the quantitative testing. For reporting units where a quantitative analysis is performed, we perform a multi-step test measuring the fair values of the reporting units and comparing them to their aggregate carrying values, including goodwill. If the fair value is less than the carrying value of the reporting unit, then the implied value of goodwill would be calculated and compared to the carrying amount of goodwill to determine whether goodwill is impaired.

We estimate the fair values of our reporting units using discounted cash flows, which include assumptions about a wide variety of internal and external factors. Significant assumptions used in the impairment analysis include financial projections of free cash flow (including significant assumptions about operations, capital requirements and income taxes), long-term growth rates for determining terminal value beyond the discretely forecasted periods and discount rates. For each reporting unit, comparative market multiples are used to corroborate the results of our discounted cash flow test.

Forecasts and long-term growth rates used for our reporting units are consistent with, and use inputs from, our internal long-term business plan and strategies. Key assumptions used in these forecasts include:

•Revenue trends. Key revenue drivers for each reporting unit are determined and assessed. Significant factors include: customer and/or membership growth, medical trends and the impact and expectations of regulatory environments. Additional macro-economic assumptions relating to unemployment, GDP growth, interest rates and inflation are also evaluated and incorporated, as appropriate.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

35
•Operating productivity. We forecast expected operating cost levels based on historical levels and expectations of future operating cost levels.

•Capital levels. The operating and long-term capital requirements for each business are considered.

Discount rates are determined for each reporting unit and include consideration of the implied risk inherent in their forecasts. Our most significant estimate in the discount rate determinations involves our adjustments to the peer company weighted average costs of capital that reflect reporting unit-specific factors. We have not made any adjustments to decrease a discount rate below the calculated peer company weighted average cost of capital for any reporting unit. Company-specific adjustments to discount rates are subjective and thus are difficult to measure with certainty. The passage of time and the availability of additional information regarding areas of uncertainty with respect to the reporting units’ operations could cause these assumptions to change in the future. As of October 1, 2018, we completed our annual impairment tests for goodwill with all of our reporting units having fair values substantially in excess of their carrying values. 

Intangible Assets. Our finite-lived intangible assets are subject to impairment tests when events or circumstances indicate that an asset’s (or asset group’s) carrying value may exceed its estimated fair value. Consideration is given on a quarterly basis to a number of potential impairment indicators, including: changes in the use of the assets, changes in legal or other business factors that could affect value, experienced or expected operating cash-flow deterioration or losses, adverse changes in customer populations, adverse competitive or technological advances that could impact value and other factors. 

Our indefinite-lived intangible assets are tested for impairment on an annual basis, or more frequently if impairment indicators exist. To determine if an indefinite-lived intangible asset is impaired, we compare its estimated fair value to its carrying value. If the carrying value exceeds its estimated fair value, an impairment would be recorded for the amount by which the carrying value exceeds its estimated fair value. Intangible assets were not impaired in 2018.

LEGAL MATTERS

A description of our legal proceedings is presented in Note 12 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” 

CONCENTRATIONS OF CREDIT RISK

Investments in financial instruments such as marketable securities and accounts receivable may subject us to concentrations of credit risk. Our investments in marketable securities are managed under an investment policy authorized by our Board of Directors. This policy limits the amounts that may be invested in any one issuer and generally limits our investments to U.S. government and agency securities, state and municipal securities and corporate debt obligations that are investment grade. Concentrations of credit risk with respect to accounts receivable are limited due to the large number of employer groups and other customers that constitute our client base. As of December 31, 2018, there were no significant concentrations of credit risk.

ITEM 7A.QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK