PART I

Item 1. Business

Overview

We, Varian Medical Systems, Inc., are a Delaware corporation originally incorporated in 1948 as Varian Associates, Inc. We are the world’s leading manufacturer of medical devices and software for treating cancer and other medical conditions with radiotherapy, stereotactic radiosurgery, stereotactic body radiotherapy, brachytherapy and proton therapy. Through recent acquisitions, we now operate a hospital and a network of cancer centers in India and Sri Lanka; provide cancer care professional services to healthcare providers worldwide; and are a supplier of a broad portfolio of interventional solutions. 

Our vision is a world without fear of cancer. Our mission is to combine the ingenuity of people with the power of data and technology to achieve new victories against cancer. Our long-term growth and value creation strategy is to transform our company from the global leader in radiation therapy (also referred to as radiotherapy) to the global leader in multi-disciplinary, integrated cancer care solutions that leverage our strengths, technology, innovation and clinical experience. To achieve these long-term objectives, we are focused on driving growth through strengthening our leadership in radiation therapy, extending our global footprint and expanding into new markets and therapies.

We have two reportable operating segments: Oncology Systems and Proton Solutions. Our Interventional Solutions business is reflected in the "Other" category because it does not meet the criteria of a reportable operating segment. The operating segments were determined based on how our Chief Executive Officer, who is our Chief Operating Decision Maker (“CODM”), views and evaluates our operations. The CODM allocates resources to and evaluates the financial performance of each operating segment primarily based on operating earnings. We report revenues in three regions. The Americas region includes North America (primarily the United States and Canada) and Latin America. The EMEA region includes Europe, Russia, the Middle East, India and Africa. The APAC region primarily includes East and Southeast Asia and Australia. 

Our business is subject to various risks and uncertainties. You should carefully consider the factors described in Item 1A, “Risk Factors” in conjunction with the description of our business set forth below and the other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Oncology Systems 

Our Oncology Systems business designs, manufactures, sells and services hardware and software products for treating cancer with conventional radiotherapy, and advanced treatments such as fixed field intensity-modulated radiation therapy (“IMRT”), image-guided radiation therapy (“IGRT”), volumetric modulated arc therapy (“VMAT”), stereotactic radiosurgery (“SRS”), stereotactic body radiotherapy (“SBRT”) and brachytherapy, as well as associated quality assurance equipment. 

1

Our hardware products include linear accelerators, brachytherapy afterloaders, treatment accessories, artificial intelligence ("AI")-powered adaptive delivery systems and quality assurance software. Our software solutions include treatment planning, informatics, clinical knowledge exchange, patient care management, practice management and decision support for comprehensive cancer clinics, radiotherapy centers and medical oncology practices. Our products enable radiation oncology departments in hospitals and clinics to perform conventional radiotherapy treatments and advanced treatments such as IMRT, IGRT, VMAT, SRS and SBRT, as well as the treatment of patients using brachytherapy techniques, which involve the introduction or temporary insertion of radioactive sources. Our products are also used by surgeons and radiation oncologists to perform stereotactic radiosurgery. 

Our software products span the cancer care continuum, starting with pre-treatment multi-disciplinary tumor boards and cancer treatment planning, then onto the patient treatment and associated workflows, and ending with the collection of patient-reported outcomes in a post-treatment setting. Our clinical solutions software products are used primarily in radiation and medical oncology departments to manage patient treatments. Our software products help improve physician engagement and clinical knowledge-sharing, patient care management, clinical practice management and decision support. Our worldwide customers include university research and community hospitals, private and government institutions, healthcare agencies, physicians’ offices, medical oncology practices, radiotherapy centers and cancer care clinics.

We offer services ranging from hardware phone support, break/fix repair of linear accelerators, obsolescence protection of hardware, software support, software upgrades, hosting as a service, as well as clinical consulting services. 

As a result of our acquisition of Cancer Treatment Services International ("CTSI") in June 2019, we have expanded our services offerings to include clinical practice services that assist within the clinical workflow. These services focus on decision support and/or cancer care knowledge augmentation aimed to facilitate improved accessibility and affordability to care while maintaining a fundamental level of clinical quality. Examples of these services include radiation treatment planning and quality assurance as a service. In developing markets, our offering allows us to provide a range of clinical support services that improve the use of medical technology and standardized care delivery on a per patient basis, providing increased quality and reduced costs in understaffed geographies. Our services in these markets are expected to accelerate our hardware and software businesses through broader adoption of radiation therapy and drive the provision of advanced comprehensive cancer care. In developed markets, these services can augment the existing workforce of a clinic to support staffing fluctuations and clinical quality initiatives, and can provide a bridge to new technology implementation. Further, we operate nine multi-disciplinary cancer centers and one specialty hospital in India and one multi-disciplinary cancer center in Sri Lanka. In addition to expanding our services portfolio, we expect that the CTSI acquisition will enable us to innovate and incubate new solutions, such as technology-enabled services, and to develop additional technologies that incorporate artificial intelligence and machine learning capabilities, in an environment of data security and patient privacy integrity.

Proton Solutions 

Our Proton Solutions business develops, designs, manufactures, sells and services products and systems for delivering proton therapy, another form of external beam radiotherapy using proton beams for the treatment of cancer. Proton therapy is a preferred option for treating certain cancers, particularly tumors near critical structures such as the base of skull, spine, optic nerve, and most pediatric cancers. Our current focus is reducing the total cost of ownership for proton therapy and bringing our expertise in traditional radiation therapy to this treatment modality, thereby improving its clinical utility and reducing its cost of treatment per patient, in order for it to be more widely accepted and deployed. 

Interventional Solutions

In fiscal year 2019, we entered the interventional oncology market with our acquisitions of Endocare, Inc ("Endocare") and Alicon Pharmaceutical Technology Company. Ltd ("Alicon") in June 2019 and the acquisition of a drug-loadable embolics microspheres business from Boston Scientific in August 2019. Our Interventional Solutions business offers products for interventional oncology procedures and treatments, including cryoablation, microwave ablation and embolization. We also provide software and remote services for post treatment dose calculation for Yttrium-90 microspheres used in selective internal radiation therapy. Our goal is to offer a wide range of innovative products to the oncology market globally through a direct salesforce and a network of distributors.

Radiation Therapy and the Cancer Care Market

Radiation Therapy

Radiation therapy is the use of certain types of focused radiation to kill cancer cells, shrink tumors, and provide palliative treatment for symptoms such as pain. Occasionally, radiation can also be used to treat non-cancerous conditions such as 

2

arteriovenous malformations, keloids and trigeminal neuralgia. The use of radiation for treating cardiac disease is gaining interest in the medical community and is currently being investigated in a clinical trial setting. Radiation therapy is commonly used either alone or in combination with surgery, chemotherapy, immunotherapy or targeted drugs. One important advantage of radiation is that it tends to disproportionately kill cancer cells. The clinical goal in radiation oncology is to deliver a therapeutic dose directly to the tumor to kill cancerous cells while minimizing radiation exposure to surrounding healthy tissue in order to limit or avoid complications, side effects and secondary effects caused by the treatment. This goal has been the driving force in clinical care advancements in radiation oncology over the past two decades, from conventional radiotherapy to advanced forms of treatment such as IMRT, IGRT, VMAT, SRS, SBRT, AI-powered adaptive radiation therapy ("ART"), brachytherapy and proton therapy. 

The most common form of radiation oncology involves delivering X-ray beams from outside of the patient’s body, a process sometimes referred to as external beam radiotherapy. A device called a medical linear accelerator generates the high-energy X-ray beams and delivers the radiation to the patient lying on a treatment couch. The linear accelerator rotates around a patient by delivering a radiation beam that is conformed to the tumor shape from different angles. This concentrates radiation at the tumor while at the same time minimizing the dose delivered to the surrounding healthy tissue. Conventional radiotherapy typically involves multiple, or fractionated, treatments of a tumor in up to 50 treatment sessions. The linear accelerator may also deliver electron beams for the treatment of diseases closer to the body surface. 

IMRT is an advanced form of external beam radiotherapy in which the shape and intensity of the radiation beams are varied optimally (modulated) across the target region. IMRT allows the radiation dose to be more precisely conformed to the volume of the tumor, allowing physicians to deliver higher doses of radiation to the tumor than conventional radiation treatments, while limiting the radiation dose to nearby healthy tissue. In this way, clinicians can design and administer an individualized treatment plan for each patient, targeting the tumor within millimeters. IMRT can be used to treat head and neck, breast, prostate, pancreatic, lung, liver, gynecological and central nervous system cancers. IMRT has become a well-accepted standard of treatment for cancer, and every year additional treatment centers, from university hospitals to local community clinics, adopt IMRT for their treatments. We are a leading global provider of products that enable IMRT for the treatment of cancer.

VMAT is a significant further advancement in IMRT that allows physicians to control three parameters simultaneously: (i) the rate at which the linear accelerator gantry rotates around the patient, (ii) the beam-shaping aperture and (iii) the rate at which the radiation dose is delivered to the patient. This creates a finely-shaped IMRT dose distribution that more closely matches the size and shape of the tumor, with faster treatment times. Our RapidArc® radiotherapy products plan and deliver VMAT treatments.

Physicians, hospitals and clinics place additional value on radiotherapy equipment and treatments, such as VMAT, that enable shorter treatment times, increased quality of dose distributions and greater patient throughput. From the patient’s standpoint, reduced treatment times means that the patient is immobilized on the treatment couch for a shorter time period. Shorter treatment sessions decrease waiting times and, since treatments are delivered in fractions over the course of many days, can mean fewer disruptions to a patient’s daily routine. From the physicians’ and hospitals’ standpoint, shorter treatment times can lessen the chance of tumors moving during treatment and can increase patient throughput. Shorter treatment times and increased patient throughput can increase the number of treatments per day (which is a particular concern in countries with lower numbers of treatment machines per capita) and, as a result, can decrease the cost per treatment and allow greater access to advanced care for more patients.

IGRT is another advanced form of external beam radiotherapy complementing IMRT, VMAT, SRS, and SBRT to enhance treatments. While IMRT helps physicians more precisely conform the beam to the tumor, IGRT allows physicians to see how a tumor and normal tissue move or change during a course of treatment, thereby improving treatment accuracy. This allows clinicians to tighten the margin of certainty around the tumor and spare more of the surrounding healthy tissue, potentially improving outcomes. We believe IGRT has become an accepted standard for treatment in the radiation oncology community. Varian's latest state-of-the-art linear accelerator mandates that all fractions of radiation delivered have IGRT before the treatment is delivered. 

SRS and SBRT, often collectively referred to as radiosurgery, are advanced ablative radiation treatment procedures performed in a small number of treatment sessions with high doses of radiation. Radiosurgery typically incorporates advanced image-guidance to focus many small beams of radiation from many orientations precisely on the target and to minimize the dose to surrounding normal tissues. Radiation oncologists, surgeons and other oncology specialists increasingly recognize radiosurgery as a useful tool to treat cancerous and non-cancerous lesions anywhere in the body.

Adaptive radiation therapy is a clinical treatment approach that takes a patient’s treatment plan and adapts it to a patient’s

3

changing tumor volume and anatomy during the course of therapy. IMRT, VMAT, SRS, and SBRT all shape the radiation dose with increased levels of fidelity, and IGRT allows an image to be taken to verify how the patient should be re-positioned for the original treatment plan to be applied for therapy delivery. Adaptive radiation therapy re-creates the treatment plan based on changes in location of a tumor or surrounding anatomy during the course of therapy. These changes can manifest from tumor response, weight loss or anatomical deformation of internal structures. There are two types of adaptive radiation therapy - offline and online. In offline adaptive radiation therapy, adaptation of the treatment plan takes place between treatment visits and in online adaptive radiation therapy, adaptation takes place while the patient is on the treatment couch for each treatment. 

An alternative to external beam radiotherapy, brachytherapy involves the insertion of radioactive seeds, wires or ribbons directly into a tumor or body cavity near the tumor. These techniques tend to irradiate much less surrounding healthy tissue so that physicians can prescribe a higher total dose of radiation, typically over a shorter period of time. Brachytherapy is often used for cancers of the head and neck, breast, uterus, cervix, soft tissue, skin and prostate.

Proton therapy is another form of external beam radiotherapy that uses proton particles generated with a cyclotron rather than X-ray beams from a linear accelerator. A proton beam’s signature energy distribution curve, known as the “Bragg peak,” allows for greater precision in targeting tumor cells with an even lower dose to nearby healthy tissue than may be delivered with X-ray beams from a linear accelerator. This makes proton therapy a preferred option for treating certain cancers, particularly cancers in children and tumors near critical structures such as the spine. Pencil-beam scanning capability, which is an advanced way of delivering the proton beam, allows for greater sparing of healthy tissue compared to scattering and collimation of the proton beam. Pencil beam scanning treatments are often referred to as Intensity Modulated Proton Therapy ("IMPT").

With the advent of radiosurgery and stereotactic body radiotherapy, other mechanisms of killing cancer cells are also being explored, including immunotherapy technologies, which involve using radiation to stimulate the immune response to fight cancer growth.

Radiation Oncology Market

The radiation oncology market is growing globally due to a number of factors. According to the World Health Organization Global Cancer Observatory, there were approximately 18 million cancer cases diagnosed worldwide in 2018, and the number of new cancer cases diagnosed annually is projected to increase to almost 25 million by 2030. According to the September 2015 Lancet Oncology report compiled by the Global Task Force on Radiotherapy for Cancer Control, most of the increase is coming from low- and middle-income countries such as China and India. In addition, technological advancements have helped to improve the precision and applicability of radiotherapy and radiosurgery, potentially expanding the use of radiotherapy and radiosurgery equipment to treat a broader range of cases. Technological advances in hardware and software are also creating a market for replacing an aging installed base of machines that are unable to deliver new, higher standards of care.

The rise in cancer cases, together with the increase in sophistication of new treatment protocols, have created a demand for more automated products and services that can be integrated into clinically practical systems to make treatments more rapid and cost effective. Technology advances leading to improvements in patient care, the availability of more advanced, automated and efficient clinical tools in radiation therapy, the advent of more precise forms of radiotherapy treatment (such as IMRT, IGRT, VMAT, SRS, SBRT, brachytherapy and proton therapy), and innovative new technology and equipment (such as the Halcyon™, Ethos™, EDGE® and TrueBeam® systems) that enable treatments that reduce treatment times and increase patient throughput should drive the demand for our radiation therapy products and services.

International markets, in particular, are under-equipped to address the growing cancer incidence. Patients in many foreign countries must frequently endure long waits for radiotherapy. According to a peer-reviewed publication in the International Journal of Radiation Oncology Biology and Physics in 2014, radiotherapy is required in more than half of new cancer patients, particularly in low- and middle-income countries, and according to an article published in Seminars in Radiation Oncology in 2017, it is estimated that more than 12,000 additional treatment machines will be required by 2035 in these countries alone. For example, China, India and Brazil are estimated to require over 3,800, 1,200 and 400 additional machines, respectively, by 2035. The 12,000 linear accelerators necessary to meet the global demand for cancer care will require an estimated 150,000 trained clinicians to operate the machines. It is unlikely that existing clinical training programs will be able to train 150,000 new clinicians by 2035; therefore, we anticipate an increase in demand for Varian’s technology enabled services offered by CTSI. 

The ever-increasing incidences of cancer and the demand for additional treatment machines in these regions represent additional drivers for our continued growth in international markets.

4

Interventional Oncology Market

Interventional oncology is a field of interventional radiology that deals with the diagnosis and treatment of cancer using targeted minimally invasive procedures performed under image guidance. The interventional oncology market includes several categories of treatment modalities: ablation devices (cryoablation, microwave ablation and radiofrequency ablation), embolization devices (bland microspheres or particles, drug-loadable microspheres and radioembolic agents), and other support devices such as catheters and guidewires. In terms of cancer types, the interventional oncology market primarily includes treatment of liver, lung, kidney, breast, bone, and prostate.

We operate in some of the fastest-growing geographies with an accelerating burden of cancer. These markets generally are economically challenged to provide broad access to care for cancer patients. Given the low cost of ownership for our Interventional Solutions portfolio, these markets are significant opportunities to expand our global footprint with cost effective cancer fighting solutions. Our Interventional Solutions business intends to increase its market share through commercial expansion, additional regulatory clearances in new markets, and continued innovation in its product offerings. We believe that interventional oncology is quickly growing into the fourth pillar of cancer care worldwide, along with radiation oncology, surgical oncology and medical oncology. 

According to a market analysis conducted by an independent market analyst, the global interventional oncology market is expected to be approximately $1.1 billion by 2022, within the overall interventional radiology market. The primary users of ablation and embolization products are interventional radiologists and oncologists for the treatment of various cancer lesions. An increase in the elderly population, a rising cancer risk due to unhealthy habits and pollution, increased early detection, awareness and knowledge of cancer treatments, and rise in disposable income are factors fueling the growth of these products at an annual growth rate of 7%.

Products

Oncology Systems

Our Oncology Systems business is the leading provider of advanced hardware and software products for the treatment of cancer with conventional radiation therapy, and advanced treatments such as IMRT, IGRT, VMAT, SRS, SBRT and brachytherapy. Oncology Systems products address each major aspect of the radiotherapy process, including linear accelerators and accessory products for positioning the patient and delivering the X-ray beam; brachytherapy afterloaders for delivering radioactive implantable seeds; treatment planning software for planning treatment sessions and dose delivery; treatment accessories and quality assurance software for simulating and verifying treatment plans before treatment as well as verification of correct treatment delivery; and information management software for recording the history and results of treatments and other patient treatment information and data, including patient images. 

The focus of our Oncology Systems business is addressing the key concerns of the market for advanced cancer care systems; improving efficiency, precision, cost-effectiveness and ease of delivery of these treatments; and providing greater access to advanced treatments. A core element of our business strategy is to provide our customers with highly versatile, proven products that are interoperable and can be configured and integrated into automated systems that combine greater precision, shorter treatment times and greater cost effectiveness to improve the entire process of treating a patient. Our products and accessories for IMRT and IGRT allow clinicians to track and treat tumors using very precisely shaped beams, targeting the tumor as closely as currently possible and allowing the delivery of higher doses of radiation to the tumor while limiting exposure of nearby healthy tissue. Additionally, the precision and versatility of our products and technology make it possible to use radiotherapy to treat metastatic cancers. With our treatment planning, verification and information management software products, a patient’s treatment plans, treatment data and images are recorded and stored in a single database shared by each of our products, which enables better communication among products. Our products also allow multiple medical specialties such as, radiation oncology, neurosurgery, diagnostic radiology and medical oncology, as well as allowing clinicians in multiple locations to share equipment, resources and information in a more efficient, cost-effective manner. Furthermore, the ability of our products and technology to interoperate with each other and to interconnect into automated systems allows physicians to schedule and treat more patients within a set time period, which adds to the cost-effectiveness of our equipment. 

Hardware Products

Medical linear accelerators are the core device for delivering conventional external beam radiotherapy and advanced treatments such as IMRT, IGRT, VMAT, SRS, SBRT, and ART, and we produce versions of these devices to suit various clinical requirements. The TrueBeam and EDGE systems for image-guided radiotherapy and radiosurgery are fully-integrated high-energy linear accelerator systems designed from the ground up to treat a moving target with higher speed and accuracy. The Clinac® iX linear accelerators deliver high-energy X-ray beams and are designed for more streamlined and advanced treatment 

5

processes, including IMRT and IGRT. We also produce the Trilogy® linear accelerator, designed to be a versatile, cost-effective, precise high-energy device with a faster dose delivery rate and more precise isocenter compared to the Clinac iX. Our UNIQUE™ medical linear accelerator is a low-energy linear accelerator for the more price sensitive emerging markets, designed to meet the evolving needs of our IMRT and IGRT customers in these markets.

In September 2019, we introduced our Ethos™ therapy, an AI-Powered Adaptive Radiotherapy Treatment system. We received a CE Mark for Europe in August 2019 and are currently awaiting FDA 510(k) clearance in the United States. The first patient was treated on this system at Herlev Hospital, University of Copenhagen in September 2019. Ethos therapy is an AI-driven holistic solution that includes a linear accelerator and is designed to increase the capability, flexibility and efficiency of radiotherapy. This new solution is designed to deliver an entire online adaptive treatment in a typical 15-minute time slot, from patient setup through treatment delivery. Adaptive therapy provides the ability to alter the treatment plan based on tumor and anatomical changes. The goal is to better target the tumor, reduce the dose to healthy tissue and potentially improve overall outcomes. 

In May 2017, we introduced our Halcyon™ treatment system. We received a CE mark for the Halcyon system in May 2017 and FDA 510(k) clearance in June 2017. The Halcyon system has been designed on a platform of next generation technology including a full field ring gantry design that rotates at four times per minute, an innovative stacked and staggered multi-leaf collimator design, virtually silent magnetic drive motors and solid-state modulators. This new platform is the smallest footprint linear accelerator in our portfolio, uses less energy than our other radiation therapy treatment systems, and has been designed with a human centered user experience concept that benefits the patient and the health care practitioner for simplicity of treatment and use. 

Our Millennium™ series of multi-leaf collimators and High Definition 120 (“HD 120”) multi-leaf collimators are used with a linear accelerator to define the size, shape and intensity of the generated beams. PortalVision™, our electronic portal-imager, is used to verify a patient’s position while on the treatment couch, which is critical for accurate treatments and simplifies quality assurance of individual treatment plans. We also offer an innovative real-time patient position monitoring product, the Real-Time Patient Management™ ("RPM") respiratory gating system, which allows the linear accelerator to be synchronized with patient breathing to help compensate for tumor motion during treatment. In addition, we manufacture the Calypso® system (some features not approved for use in all markets), which can continuously track and monitor the position of implanted or surface-attached Beacon® transponders. This technology allows the clinician to easily locate the position of the tumor and aim the treatment beam precisely to deliver the full, prescribed dose to the tumor, and minimize exposure of surrounding healthy tissues. 

Our EDGE radiosurgery suite is comprised of a combination of products for performing advanced radiosurgery using new real-time tumor tracking technology and motion management capabilities. The EDGE radiosurgery suite includes the EDGE radiosurgery accelerator, the Calypso system with Dynamic Edge™ Gating, and the PerfectPitch™ couch with six degrees of freedom to accurately and precisely align the patient position. Our IGRT accessories include the On-Board Imager® (“OBI”) hardware accessory affixed to the linear accelerator that allows dynamic, real-time imaging of tumors while the patient is on the treatment couch and offers cone-beam computerized tomography (“CBCT”) imaging software capability to allow patient positioning based on soft-tissue anatomy. Using sophisticated image analysis tools, the CBCT scan can be compared with a reference computerized tomography scan to determine how the treatment couch should be adjusted to fine-tune and verify the patient’s treatment setup and positioning prior to delivery of the radiation. To deliver the most advanced forms of IGRT, our accelerators would typically have an OBI, CBCT, PortalVision and other IGRT-related hardware and software as accessories. 

Our RapidArc radiotherapy products are a proprietary implementation of VMAT that coordinate beam shaping, dose rate and gantry speed to deliver a highly conformal dose distribution to the target tumor. RapidArc products enable the planning and delivery of image-guided IMRT in a single continuous rotation of up to 360 degrees rather than as a series of fixed fields. Our RapidArc products enable faster delivery of radiation treatment with the possibility of reduced opportunity for tumor movement during treatment, as well as greater patient throughput and lower cost per patient for the hospital or clinic. We believe RapidArc represents a significant advancement in IMRT cancer treatment.

Our HyperArcTM high-definition radiotherapy product is designed to simplify, automate and improve the quality of intracranial SRS, making SRS accessible to more clinics and patients around the world. HyperArc received a CE mark in August 2017 and FDA 510(k) clearance in September 2017 and is currently available for sale in the United States and other global markets where a CE mark is applicable. We expect that HyperArc will significantly improve the quality and efficiency of sophisticated SRS procedures. HyperArc is available only on the TrueBeam and Edge platforms. 

We purchased Mobius Medical Systems ("Mobius") in February 2018. Mobius markets and sells quality assurance products to radiation oncology departments around the globe. We will continue to sell those products while expanding and integrating the 

6

technology for current and future applications. In July 2018, we acquired humediQ GmbH, which markets and sells the IDENTIFY ™ products that enable patient and accessory verification, patient setup position, and motion monitoring for radiation oncology treatments. We will continue to market and sell these products as we expand the regulatory clearance footprint around the globe and enhance and integrate the technology for current and future applications.

Brachytherapy products

Our brachytherapy operations design, manufacture, sell and service advanced brachytherapy products, including VariSource™ HDR and GammaMedplus™ iX HDR/PDR afterloaders, BrachyVision™ brachytherapy treatment planning system, applicators and accessories. We also develop and market the VariSeed™ LDR prostate treatment planning system and the Vitesse™ software for real-time treatment planning for HDR prostate brachytherapy.

Our Bravos™, brachytherapy treatment delivery system, is now available in over 100 countries where CE Mark and 510(k) clearance are applicable. Bravos is an integrated system designed to improve the patient and clinic experience by simplifying brachytherapy treatment and providing greater workflow efficiency. It is compatible with our full range of applicators and integrates with BrachyVision for treatment planning. BrachyVision fully integrates with the ARIA oncology information system that coordinates care from end to end, scheduling appointments, orchestrating the clinical workflow, delivering the plan to the afterloader, updating the patient's electronic record, and capturing clinical data for analytics.

Software Products

Our software products enhance and enable the delivery of advanced radiotherapy treatments, from the initial treatment planning and plan quality assurance verification to the post-treatment recording of data and storing of patient information, as well as help improve physician engagement and clinical knowledge-sharing, patient care management and clinical practice management of cancer clinics, radiotherapy centers and oncology practices for better performance. Prior to any treatment, physicians must prescribe, or plan, the course of radiation delivery for the patient. We offer a range of treatment planning products that assist physicians in designing this treatment plan. Our Eclipse™ treatment planning system provides physicians with 3D image viewing, treatment simulation, radiation dosage calculation and verification and other tools for generating treatment delivery plans for the patient. The Eclipse software utilizes a sophisticated technique known as inverse planning to enable physicians to rapidly develop optimal treatment plans based on a desired radiation dose outcome to the tumor and surrounding tissue. Our RapidPlan® knowledge-based planning tool creates a new category for artificial intelligence applied to treatment planning systems in which machine learned statistical models can be used to predict the achievable quality of an IMRT treatment from a patient’s anatomy. RapidPlan is designed to streamline the planning process by using shared clinical knowledge embedded in its statistical plan models. Clinics may use plan models included with Eclipse or can create models based on their own treatment methods and protocols. 

We continue to enhance our treatment planning software products and have integrated multi-criteria optimization radiotherapy treatment planning algorithms licensed from the Fraunhofer Institute that enable clinicians to quickly navigate solution space to find the ideal treatment plan for each patient. We have incorporated this technology along with other treatment planning software tools to enhance both treatment planning efficiency and quality. 

Our ARIA® information system is a comprehensive oncology information system spanning radiation therapy and chemotherapy treatments and departmental workflow management. ARIA offers a real-time information management system and database that records and verifies radiotherapy treatments carried out on the linear accelerator, records and stores patient data relating to radiation therapy, provides oncology flowsheets, performs patient charting and manages patient information and patient image data. This gives clinics and hospitals the ability to manage treatment and patient information across radiation oncology and medical oncology procedures. Also, because ARIA is an electronic medical record, it can enable users to operate filmless and paperless oncology departments and cancer clinics. ARIA is a (ONC-Health IT) 2015 Edition Health IT Module and supports the ICD-10 billing codes. Our FullScale™ oncology-specific information technology solutions take advantage of virtualization or cloud technologies to deploy our ARIA oncology information and Eclipse treatment planning systems in a way that enables treatment centers to take advantage of economies of scale. We have from time to time entered into agreements with a variety of companies to increase the capabilities of our ARIA information systems software. Our software product offerings also include Varian Treatment™, which connects ARIA® oncology information management system (“ARIA”) to third-party linear accelerators and expands our software support of third-party manufacturers.

Our Insightive™ analytics software solution aggregates clinical and operational data and allows for improved decision making and practice management. Insightive enables oncology administrators and clinicians to use real-time information to discover patterns and trends through interactive dashboards and visualizations. We also created an interactive online group on the 

7

OncoPeer™ platform for clinicians to share knowledge-based cancer treatment models that can improve the efficiency and quality of cancer care across multiple institutions. The OncoPeer cloud community is a platform where oncologists, clinicians and other oncology professionals can publish knowledge, share data, exchange treatment techniques and discuss best practices within a professional oncology network. 

Our Velocity™ software provides solutions at the clinical process level to aggregate unstructured treatment and imaging data from diverse systems. It allows for a more comprehensive view of a patient’s diagnostic imaging and treatment history and helps clinicians make more informed treatment decisions. 

360 Oncology® is a care management platform designed to integrate and coordinate key elements of cancer care, so patients and their cancer teams can collaborate on achieving the best outcomes. In a single platform, 360 Oncology brings together radiation, medical and surgical oncology, social services, primary care physicians, as well as the patient, to facilitate true collaborative and coordinated care. It enables tumor boards to more effectively coordinate patient care among the numerous specialists involved in cancer treatment. With Varian 360 Oncology care management, a clinic’s data, records and patient information are connected through a single platform, enabling the entire cancer-fighting team to coordinate care.

Qumulate™ is our cloud-based software technology that collects and analyzes machine performance data in a radiation therapy department and allows users to compare their machine performance data and trends against a community of users’ data.

Our Noona® software application is a smart, cloud-based patient-reported outcomes solution. Through the capture and analysis of structured, real-time symptom information, Noona helps clinicians better manage patient symptoms and improve treatment outcomes. Noona is designed to support the everyday work of nurses and physicians in cancer care, helping to increase clinical efficiency and reduce workloads through comprehensive communications tools.

Partnerships

In addition to offering our own suite of equipment and software products for planning and delivering radiotherapy treatments, we have partnered with selected leaders in certain segments of the radiation therapy and radiosurgery market. We have a strategic agreement with McKesson Corp. ("McKesson") to supply its US Oncology Network and Vantage Oncology affiliated sites of care with treatment delivery systems and planning, service and radiotherapy information system solutions. Under the agreement, we are collaborating with McKesson to establish interoperability between our ARIA product and McKesson IT solutions which we anticipate will facilitate access to our ARIA, Eclipse and Velocity products at its sites that do not currently utilize these solutions. We have a partnership agreement with Siemens AG (“Siemens”) through which, among other things, we represent Siemens diagnostic imaging products to radiation oncology clinics in the United States and agreed upon countries, and Siemens, represents our equipment and software products for radiotherapy and radiosurgery to its healthcare customers in agreed upon countries. Furthermore, we and Siemens have developed interfaces to enable ARIA and Eclipse to connect with Siemens linear accelerators and imaging systems, and are exploring opportunities to co-develop new imaging and treatment solutions. We have equity investments which include Grail, Inc., a life sciences company developing blood tests for early-stage cancer detection and Fusion Pharmaceuticals Inc., a clinical stage company focused on developing targeted alpha-particle radiotherapeutics for the treatment of cancer. 

CTSI

CTSI oncology solutions facilitates the use of clinical processes and technology solutions that ensure the delivery of precise, consistent and safe care to cancer patients worldwide. CTSI offers services ranging from treatment planning as a service, quality assurance as a service, linear accelerator commissioning, practice workflow optimization, oncology nursing training, clinical decision support, international tumor board and other multi-disciplinary services to improve care delivery. The range of services focus on participating in the clinical workflow to support the decisions of clinicians rather than the direct provision of care. CTSI services also include a full-service laboratory and pathology provider, and under our American Oncology Institute ("AOI") brand, we operate nine multi-disciplinary cancer centers and one specialty hospital in India and one multi-disciplinary cancer center in Sri Lanka.

Proton Solutions

Our ProBeam® system is capable of delivering precise intensity modulated proton therapy (“IMPT”) using pencil-beam scanning technology. The ProBeam® Compact product is our lower cost, single room proton therapy product launched in fiscal year 2014. During fiscal year 2016, we booked our first ProBeam Compact order. In October 2018, we introduced our new ProBeam® 360°proton therapy product, in a single-room configuration, with a 30 percent smaller footprint and 25 percent 

8

lower vault construction costs as compared to the ProBeam Compact. The new system has a 360-degree rotating gantry, iterative cone-beam CT imaging and high-definition pencil-beam scanning technology. The system can also provide a viable path to potential next generation treatments. In September 2019, we introduced the multi-room version of ProBeam 360°, which provides comparable space and cost savings as the single room version.

Due to the intrinsic physical properties of proton therapy, it is a preferred option for treating certain cancers, particularly tumors near critical structures such as the base of the skull, spine, optic nerve and most pediatric cancers. Although proton therapy has been in clinical use for more than four decades, it has not been widely deployed due to high capital cost. Proton therapy facilities are large-scale construction projects that are time consuming, involve significant customer investment and often complex project financing. Consequently, this business is vulnerable to general economic and market conditions, as well as country specific coverage and reimbursement rates. Customer decision-making cycles tend to be very long, and orders generally involve many contingencies. Credit markets for proton therapy projects have improved in recent years but the funding environment for large capital projects, such as proton therapy projects, is still challenging. 

At the end of fiscal year 2019, our proton therapy systems are in operation at eleven centers, which have a total of 41 operational rooms. During fiscal years 2019, 2018 and 2017, we recorded four, two and six proton therapy system orders, respectively.

In limited cases, we participate, along with other investors and at market terms, in the financing of proton therapy centers. See Note 15, "Proton Solutions Loans and Investment," of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion on our Proton Solutions financing arrangements.

Interventional Solutions

Our Interventional Solutions business offers products for interventional oncology procedures and treatments, including cryoablation, microwave ablation and embolic particles. We also provide software and remote services for post treatment dose calculation for Yttrium-90 microspheres, radioactive beads used in selective internal radiation therapy.

Ablation Products

Our CRYOCARE® ablation systems, acquired as part of the Endocare acquisition, are fully integrated planning, placement and treatment systems designed to simplify cryotherapy and to meet physician needs. Our ablation systems are used by customers primarily to treat liver, lung, kidney and prostate cancer. Our CRYOCARE CS ablation systems use argon and helium, which eliminates some of the issues associated with liquid nitrogen systems. 

Our microwave ablation device, also acquired through the Endocare acquisition, features the MICROTHERMX® ("MTX") generator and the specifically designed Synchronous Wave Alignment® technology antennas. The generator is a low-profile device with a small footprint which can be set up in less than two minutes. The generator uses a 915 MHz operating frequency and can power up to 180W (60W per channel/antenna) for optimized power delivery. The SynchroWave® antennas are designed to work in synchrony with one another to create large active heating and ablation volumes.

Embolization Therapy Products

Our Gelatin Sponge Particle and Polyvinyl Alcohol ("PVA") Particle products, acquired as part of the Alicon acquisition, comprise a range of calibrated particles used primarily for the treatment of liver cancers. Currently, these products are only offered outside of the United States. The Gelatin Sponge particles are degradable (resorbable), while the PVA particles are for permanent occlusion within a blood vessel.

Included in the drug-loadable embolics microspheres business acquired from Boston Scientific were Embozene®, Oncozene® and Tandem® microsphere products. The Tandem microsphere product is only offered outside of the United States. Embozene and Oncozene microspheres are intended for embolization of arteriovenous malformations and hypervascular tumors, including uterine fibroids and hepatoma, and for embolization of prostatic arteries for symptomatic benign prostatic hyperplasia. These products are available in a broad range of tightly calibrated sizes for greater embolization control.

Marketing and Sales

We employ a combination of a direct sales force and independent distributors or resellers for the marketing and sales of our products worldwide. Our gross orders and revenues reflect a growing percentage from international regions and particularly 

9

emerging markets. As a U.S.-based company, the competitiveness of our product pricing is influenced by the fluctuation of the U.S. Dollar against other currencies. A stronger U.S. Dollar against foreign currencies would make our product pricing more expensive and less competitive compared to products sold in non-U.S. Dollar currencies. A stronger U.S. Dollar against foreign currencies would also lower our international revenues and gross orders when measured in U.S. Dollars. In fiscal years 2019, 2018 and 2017, we did not have a single customer that represented 10% or more of our total revenues.

Oncology Systems 

Our Oncology Systems business sells direct in the United States and Canada and uses a combination of direct sales and independent distributors in international regions. 

We sell our Oncology Systems products primarily to university research and community hospitals, private and governmental institutions, healthcare agencies, physicians’ offices and cancer care clinics worldwide. These hospitals, institutes, agencies, physicians’ offices and clinics replace equipment and upgrade treatment capability as technology evolves. Sales cycles for many of our external beam radiotherapy products are typically quite lengthy because they are affected by capital equipment budgeting cycles. Our customers frequently fix capital budgets one or more years in advance. Through our strategic global partnership with Siemens, we represent Siemens diagnostic imaging products to radiation oncology clinics in the United States and some other small, select markets. Siemens represents our equipment and software products for radiotherapy and radiosurgery to its healthcare customers in agreed upon countries. 

Approximately half of Oncology Systems gross orders and revenues come from international markets, within which certain emerging markets typically have lower gross margins and longer installation cycles since many of these purchases are for new sites where treatment vaults need to be constructed. We have been investing a higher portion of our Oncology Systems research and development budget in software and software-related products, which have a higher gross margin than our hardware products. 

The radiation oncology market in North America is largely characterized by replacements of older machines, with periodic increases in demand driven by the introduction of new technologies. Reimbursement rates in the United States have generally supported a favorable return on investment for the purchase of new radiotherapy equipment and technologies. While we believe that improved product functionality, greater cost-effectiveness and prospects for better clinical outcomes with new capabilities such as IMRT, IGRT and VMAT tend to drive demand for radiotherapy products, large changes in reimbursement rates or reimbursement structure can affect customer demand and cause market shifts. We believe that growth of the radiation oncology market in the United States could be impacted as customers’ decision-making processes are complicated by the uncertainties surrounding reimbursement rates and models for radiotherapy and radiosurgery, such as the alternative payment model ("APM") pilot program for radiation oncology that was proposed by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services ("CMS") in July 2019. This pilot program is intended to test whether an episode-based payment structure would reduce Medicare expenditures. We believe that this uncertainty will likely continue in future fiscal years, and could impact transaction size, timing and purchasing processes, and also contribute to increased quarterly business variability. 

Proton Solutions

Our Proton Solutions business primarily uses direct sales specialists who collaborate with our Oncology Systems sales group globally on customer projects. Potential customers are government-sponsored hospitals, research institutions and research universities, which typically purchase products through public tenders, as well as private hospitals, clinics and private developers. While this market is still developing and has been highly variable over the last several years, we believe that this market has the potential to grow over the longer term mostly driven by institutions that wish to expand their clinical offerings and increase their profile in their respective communities. We will continue to invest resources to grow this business. Proton therapy facilities are large-scale construction projects that are time consuming and involve significant customer investment and often complex project financing. Consequently, this business is vulnerable to general economic and market conditions, as well as reimbursement rates. Customer decision-making cycles tend to be very long, and orders generally involve many contingencies. Credit markets for proton therapy projects have improved in recent years but the funding environment for large capital projects, such as proton therapy projects, is still challenging. 

Interventional Solutions

We sell our Interventional Solutions line of products in the United States primarily through a direct sales force and internationally through a combination of direct sales and distributors. We support our customers with customer service representatives, sales representatives, clinical specialists and market development managers. We focus our sales and marketing efforts on interventional radiologists, interventional oncologists and urologists.

10

Backlog

Backlog is the accumulation of all gross orders for which revenues have not been recognized but are still considered valid. Backlog is stated at historical foreign currency exchange rates and revenue is recognized from backlog at current exchange rates, with any difference recorded as a backlog adjustment. Orders may be revised as customers’ needs change and as our new products become available; consequently, it is difficult to predict with certainty the amount and timing of when backlog will result in revenues. Our backlog at the end of fiscal year 2019 was $3.4 billion, of which we expect to recognize approximately 40% to 46% as revenues in fiscal year 2020. Our backlog at the end of fiscal year 2018, was $3.2 billion, of which approximately $1.2 billion was recognized as revenues in fiscal year 2019. Our Oncology Systems backlog represented 93% of the total backlog at the end of both fiscal year 2019 and 2018.

Gross orders are defined as new orders recorded during the period and revisions to previously recorded orders. New orders are recorded for the total contractual amount, excluding certain pass-through items and service items which are recognized as the revenues are recognized, once a written agreement for the delivery of goods or provision of services is in place and, other than Proton Solutions, when shipment of the product is expected to occur within two years, so long as any contingencies are deemed perfunctory. For our Proton Solutions business, we record orders when construction of the related proton therapy treatment center is reasonably expected to start within two years, but only if any contingencies are deemed perfunctory. We will not record Proton Solutions orders if there are financing contingencies, if a substantial portion of the financing for the project is not reasonably assured or if customer board approval contingencies are pending. We perform a quarterly review to verify that outstanding orders remain valid. If an order is no longer expected to be converted to revenue, we record a backlog adjustment which reduces backlog but does not impact gross orders for the period.

Backlog adjustments are comprised of dormancies, cancellations, foreign currency exchange rate adjustments, backlog acquired from our acquisitions, and other adjustments. Gross orders do not include backlog adjustments. In fiscal years 2019, 2018 and 2017, our backlog adjustments were a net reduction of $136.6 million, $152.8 million and $154.5 million, respectively.

Competition

The markets for cancer treatment and services are characterized by rapidly evolving technology, intense competition and pricing pressure. We compete with companies worldwide, some of whom may have greater financial, marketing and other resources. Large amounts of resources are being invested in the research and development of new therapies for cancer. The successful development of alternative therapies for cancer, for example, immunotherapy, increased efficacy of new therapies or existing products, pricing decisions by competitors and the rate of market penetration by competitive products may render our products obsolete or noncompetitive. 

Our smaller competitors could be acquired by companies with greater financial strength, which could enable them to compete more aggressively. Some of our suppliers or distributors could also be acquired by competitors, which could disrupt these supply or distribution arrangements and result in less predictable and reduced revenues. New competitors and new technologies, such as radiosurgery, VMAT, MR-Linac and proton therapy, will compete directly with our products or will compete for customer budget allocation. We have directed substantial product development efforts into (i) increasing the interconnectivity of our products for more seamless operation within a system, (ii) enhancing the ease of use of our software products and (iii) reducing setup and treatment times and increasing patient throughput. We have also maintained an “open systems” approach that allows customers to “mix and match” our various individual products, incorporate products from other manufacturers, share information with other systems or products and use the equipment for offering various methods of radiation therapy treatment. We have done this based on our belief that such interconnectivity will increase the acceptance and adoption of IMRT, IGRT and VMAT and will stimulate demand for our products. There are competitive “closed-ended” dedicated-use systems, however, that place simplicity of use ahead of flexibility. If we have misjudged the importance to our customers of maintaining an “open systems” approach, or if we are unsuccessful in our efforts to sustain interconnectivity, enhance ease-of-use and reduce setup and treatment times, our revenues could suffer.

Our Oncology Systems customers’ equipment purchase considerations typically include: reliability, servicing, patient throughput, precision, price, payment terms, connectivity, clinical features, the ability to track patient referral patterns, long-term relationship and capabilities of customers’ existing equipment. We believe we compete favorably with our competitors based upon our strategy of providing a complete package solution of products and services in the field of radiation oncology and our continued commitment to global distribution and customer services, value-added manufacturing, technological leadership and new product innovation. To compete successfully, we must provide technically superior, clinically proven products that deliver more precise, cost effective, high quality clinical outcomes, together in a complete package of products and services, and do so ahead of our competitors. Since our Oncology Systems products are generally sold on a basis of total 

11

value to the customer, our business may suffer when purchase decisions are based solely upon price, which can happen if hospitals and clinics give purchasing decision authority to group purchasing organizations. Further, competitors may delay customer purchasing decisions as customers evaluate competitive product offerings, potentially extending our sales cycle and adversely affecting our gross orders.

We are the leading provider of medical linear accelerators and related accessories. In the radiotherapy and radiosurgery markets, we compete primarily with Elekta AB and Accuray Incorporated. Additionally, Elekta AB and ViewRay Incorporated have introduced MR-Linac devices that also compete with us for hospital budget allocations. Sun Nuclear Corporation and Standard Imaging have QA products that compete with our Mobius and Qumulate offerings. Vision RT, Brainlab and C-RAD have products that compete with our humediQ product line in the areas of patient monitoring and tracking during therapy. With our information and image management, simulation, treatment planning and radiosurgery products, we also compete with a number of other companies, such as Philips Medical Systems, RaySearch Laboratories AB, Brainlab AG and Best Theratronics, Ltd. We also encounter some competition from providers of enterprise hospital information systems. With respect to our brachytherapy solutions, our competitors are Elekta AB, MIM Software Inc. and Eckert & Ziegler BEBIG GmbH. In our Oncology Systems service and maintenance business, we compete with independent service organizations and our customers’ internal service organizations.

In addition, as a radiotherapy and radiosurgery equipment provider, we also face competition from other cancer treatment alternatives, such as traditional surgery, chemotherapy, robotic surgery and drug therapies, among others. To compete successfully, we need to demonstrate and convince our customers and cancer patients of the advantages of radiation therapy over or in addition to other cancer treatment alternatives. This may involve funding and, in some instances, sponsoring clinical research and studies relating to the efficacy, comparative effectiveness and safety of radiation therapy as compared to such other alternative treatments.

Our ARIA and 360 Oncology software competes with Elekta AB and large electronic medical record companies such as EPIC and CERNER, as well as multiple new competing products from established companies such as Roche (Navify and Flatiron), Philips etc., and emerging competitors such as Carevive Systems Inc, and Syapse, Inc. 

The proton therapy market is still developing and is characterized by rapidly evolving technology, high competition and pricing pressure. Our ability to compete successfully depends, in part, on our ability to lower our product costs, and develop and provide technically superior, clinically proven products that deliver more precise, cost-effective, high quality clinical outcomes, including integration of IGRT technologies such as integrated volumetric imaging. In the proton therapy market, we compete principally with Hitachi Heavy Industries, Ion Beam Applications S.A., and Mevion Medical Systems, Inc. There are a number of smaller competitors that are also developing proton therapy products. We are the only established company in the field of radiation therapy to enter the proton therapy market directly.

The interventional oncology market is highly competitive. We face significant competition from large to small competitors across our product lines and in each geographic region where our products are sold. Our primary competitors include: Boston Scientific Corporation; Cook Medical LLC; Medtronic plc; Merit Medical Systems, Inc.; Terumo Medical Corporation; AngioDynamics, Inc.; MedWaves, Inc.; and Johnson & Johnson. Our main competitive strengths are product innovation, having a broad line of quality products and expertise in the field of radiation oncology. 

Customer Services and Support

We warrant most of our Oncology Systems products for parts and labor for 12 months, and we offer a variety of post-warranty equipment service contracts and software support contracts to suit customers’ requirements. We have 28 service centers located in North America, EMEA and APAC. 

We also have field service personnel throughout the world for Oncology Systems customer support services. Key Oncology Systems education operations are located in Beijing, China; Cham, Switzerland; Las Vegas, Nevada; Mumbai, India; Tokyo, Japan; and Montreal, Canada. Our network of service engineers and customer support specialists provide installation, warranty, repair, training and support services, project management, site planning, and professional services. We also have a distributed service parts network of regional hubs and forward-stocking locations across all major geographic areas. We generate service revenues by providing our customers with time-and-materials services, replacement part sales, post-warranty equipment service contracts and software support contracts. Most of the field service engineers are our employees, but our products are serviced by employees of distributors and/or agents in a few foreign countries. Customers can access our extensive service network by calling any of our service centers.

12

We believe customer service and support are an integral part of our Oncology Systems competitive strategy. Growth in our service revenues has resulted from the increasing customer adoption of service contracts as the sophistication and installed base of our products increase. We also believe superior service plays an important role in marketing and selling medical products and systems, particularly as the products become more complex. Nevertheless, some of our customers use their own internal biomedical engineering organizations and/or independent service organizations to service equipment after the warranty period expires and therefore do not enter into agreements with us for extended service.

Our Proton Solutions business sells our proton therapy equipment generally with a 12-month warranty. Upon transfer of a treatment room to a customer, we generally begin generating service revenues by providing on-site proton therapy system technical operation and maintenance support services, which typically are for relatively long-term periods (e.g., a five-year term or longer). We believe customer service and support are an integral part of our Proton Solutions competitive strategy.

Our Interventional Solutions business sells cryoablation and microwave ablation systems with a 12-month warranty. Our cryoablation systems require annual preventive maintenance and our equipment servicing is handled by factory trained service personnel across the globe. Our product support department offers technical assistance and replacement parts to our authorized distributors and to those customers who choose to perform their own service.

Manufacturing and Supplies

We manufacture our medical linear accelerators in Palo Alto, California; Beijing, China; and Crawley, United Kingdom. We manufacture some of our accessory products in Crawley, United Kingdom; Baden, Switzerland; Helsinki, Finland; Toulouse, France; and Winnipeg, Canada. We manufacture our high dose rate brachytherapy systems in Haan, Germany and our brachytherapy treatment planning products in Baden, Switzerland; and Charlottesville, Virginia. We manufacture IDENTIFY in Germany. We manufacture Calypso components in Seattle, Washington. We manufacture components and sub-systems for our proton therapy products and systems in Troisdorf, Germany. These facilities employ state-of-the-art manufacturing techniques, and several have been honored by the press, governments and trade organizations for their commitment to quality improvement. These manufacturing facilities are certified under International Standards Organization (“ISO”) 13485 (for medical devices) and have other regulatory clearances in all markets served. 

Manufacturing processes at our various facilities include machining, fabrication, subassembly, system assembly and final testing. Our quality assurance program includes various quality control measures from inspection of raw materials, purchased parts and assemblies through online inspection. We outsource the manufacturing of many major subassemblies and perform system design, assembly and testing in house. We believe outsourcing enables us to reduce or maintain fixed costs and capital expenditures, while also providing us with the flexibility to increase production capacity. 

We purchase material and components from various suppliers that are either standard products or customized to our specifications. We obtain some of the components included in our products from a limited group of suppliers or from a single source supplier, such as: the radioactive sources for high dose afterloaders; klystrons for linear accelerators; and radiofrequency components, magnets, patient positioning systems and gantry hardware for proton therapy systems. We require certain raw materials such as tungsten, lead and copper for Oncology Systems; and high-grade steel, high-grade copper and iron for the Proton Solutions business. Worldwide demand, availability and pricing of these raw materials have been volatile, and we expect that availability and pricing will continue to fluctuate in the future.

We design and manufacture our cryoablation and microwave ablation products in our Austin, Texas facility. Our Austin manufacturing facility is certified under ISO 13485 (for medical devices). Our quality assurance program includes various quality control measures from inspection of raw materials, purchased parts and assemblies through online inspection. We purchase material and components from qualified suppliers that are either standard products or customized to our specifications. We outsource the manufacturing of some of our accessory microwave products to a third party in Colorado.

We design and manufacture our embolic particles (Gelatin and PVA particles) in China. The embolic microspheres (Embozene, Oncozene and Tandem) that we acquired from Boston Scientific in August 2019 are currently manufactured by Boston Scientific in their United States and Ireland facilities under a manufacturing agreement.

Research and Development

Developing products, systems and services based on advanced technology is essential to our ability to compete effectively in the marketplace. We maintain a research and development and engineering staff responsible for product design and engineering. 

13

Within Oncology Systems, our development efforts focus on enhancing the reliability and performance of existing products and developing new products. This development is conducted primarily in the United States, Switzerland, Canada, England, Finland, Germany, India and China. In addition, we support research and development programs at selected hospitals and clinics. Current areas for development within Oncology Systems include linear accelerator systems and accessories for medical applications, information systems, radiation treatment planning software, image processing software, imaging devices, patient positioning and equipment diagnosis and maintenance tools. Development for our high-energy linear accelerators is focused on improvements in accelerator technology, size, and mobility to address the needs of our customers in the market. Within Oncology Systems, we also have an Applied Research group, which focuses on disruptive technologies and new capability incubation.

Within Proton Solutions, our development efforts focus on accelerating treatment delivery, machine-learning based treatment planning, integrating patient set-up, motion management and remote service capabilities, as well as reducing the size and cost of our proton therapy system. We expect that, in order to realize the full potential of the Proton Solutions business, we will need to continue to invest substantial resources to continue to develop proton therapy technology.

Within Interventional Solutions, our development efforts focus on introducing new and innovative products and enhancing existing offerings. We achieve this through internal product development, acquisition, technology licensing and strategic alliances. We recognize the importance of continued investment in research and development efforts, guided by our strategic intent, key opinion leaders and global oncology community feedback.

Product and Other Liabilities

Our business exposes us to potential product liability claims that are inherent in the manufacture, sale, installation, servicing and support of medical devices and other devices that deliver radiation. Because our products are involved in the intentional delivery of radiation to the human body and other situations where people may come in contact with radiation, the collection and storage of patient treatment data for medical analysis and treatment delivery, the planning of radiation treatment and diagnostic imaging of the human body, and the diagnosis of medical problems, the possibility for significant injury and/or death exists. 

Our medical products operate within our customers’ facilities and network systems, and under quality assurance procedures established by the facilities that ultimately deliver treatments to patients. Human and other errors or accidents may arise from the operation of our products in complex environments, particularly with products from other vendors, where interoperability or data sharing protocol may not be optimized even though the equipment or system operates according to specifications. As a result, we may face substantial liability to patients, our customers and others for damages resulting from faulty, or allegedly faulty, design, manufacture, installation, servicing, support, testing or interoperability of our products with other products, or their misuse or failure, as well as liability related to the loss or misuse of private patient data, including resulting from unauthorized intrusion into our products. We may also be subject to claims for property damages or economic loss related to or resulting from any errors or defects in our products, or the installation, servicing and support of our products. Any accident or mistreatment could subject us to legal costs, litigation, adverse publicity and damage to our reputation, whether or not our products or services were a factor. In addition, if a product we design or manufacture were defective (whether due to design, labeling or manufacturing defects, improper use of the product or other reasons), or found to be so by a competent regulatory authority, we may be required to correct or recall the product and notify other regulatory authorities. We maintain limited product liability and healthcare professional liability insurance coverage and currently do not maintain any errors and omissions insurance.

Government Regulation

U.S. Regulations

Laws governing marketing a medical device. In the United States, our products and operations are subject to extensive regulation by federal governmental authorities, such as the FDA, Nuclear Regulatory Commission (“NRC”), and state and local regulatory agencies, such as the state of California and other U.S. states, to ensure the devices are safe and effective and comply with laws governing products which emit, produce or control radiation. Similar international regulations apply overseas. These regulations, which include the U.S. Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act (the “FDC Act”) and regulations promulgated by the FDA, govern, among other things, the design, development, testing, manufacturing, packaging, labeling, distribution, import/export, sale and marketing and disposal of medical devices, post market surveillance and reporting of serious injuries and death, repairs, replacements, recalls and other matters relating to medical devices, radiation emitting devices and devices utilizing radioactive by-product material. State regulations are extensive and vary from state to state. Our Oncology Systems and Interventional Solutions equipment and software, as well as proton therapy systems offered by our 

14

Proton Solutions business, constitute medical devices subject to these regulations. Under the FDC Act, each medical device manufacturer must comply with quality system regulations that are strictly enforced by the FDA.

Unless an exemption applies, the FDA requires that the manufacturer of a new medical device or a new indication for use of, or other significant change in, existing currently marketed medical device obtain either 510(k) premarket notification clearance or premarket approval (“PMA”) before it can market or sell those products in the United States. We do not manufacture any Class III medical devices, which require PMA. Certain of our products, like our radiation delivery systems manufactured by our Oncology Systems business and proton therapy systems manufactured by our Proton Solutions business, are Class II medical devices that require 510(k) clearance, while our other products are exempt from 510(k) clearance. Modifications or enhancements to a product that could significantly affect its safety or effectiveness, or that would constitute a major change in the intended use of the device, technology, materials, labeling, packaging, or manufacturing process may also require a new 510(k) clearance. Manufacturers make the initial determination whether a change to a cleared device requires a new 510(k) clearance, but the FDA can review any such decision. If the FDA disagrees with the manufacturer’s decision not to seek a new 510(k) clearance or PMA approval, as applicable, for a change, it may retroactively require the manufacturer to seek 510(k) clearance or PMA approval. The FDA can also require the manufacturer to cease marketing and selling the product in the United States and/or recall the product until 510(k) clearance or PMA approval is obtained. 

In 2011, the FDA issued a draft guidance that, if finalized and implemented, would have resulted in manufacturers needing to seek a significant number of new clearances for changes made to legally marketed devices. Since then, the FDA has withdrawn that guidance leading to a final guidance on changes issued in October 2017 that gives industry more flexibility than under the 2011 draft. Under the current guidance and applicable regulations, if we make a change to a current product, we must be able to show that the modified product is substantially equivalent to a legally marketed device. If we cannot do so, we must seek premarket approval for the changed product through a PMA application unless the FDA grants a request, under the “de novo” process, to reclassify the proposed product so that it does not require PMA. In that event, a premarket notification submission - or “510(k)” - or even no submission at all may be possible, depending on how the FDA views the risk associated with the proposed changed product. Under the PMA process, the applicant submits extensive supporting data, including, in most cases, data from clinical studies, in the PMA application to establish reasonable assurance of the safety and effectiveness of the product. This process typically takes at least one to two years from the date the PMA is accepted for filing, but can take significantly longer for the FDA to review. In addition, to secure PMA approval, an applicant must demonstrate, usually via an FDA inspection, that the medical device subject to the PMA conforms to FDA’s Quality Systems Regulations which implement Good Manufacturing Practice ("GMP") requirements.

Quality systems. Our manufacturing operations for medical devices, and those of our third-party suppliers, are required to comply with the FDA’s Quality System Regulation (“QSR”), as well as other federal and state regulations for medical devices and radiation emitting products. The QSR requires that each manufacturer establish a quality systems program by which the manufacturer monitors the manufacturing process and maintains records that show compliance with FDA regulations and the manufacturer’s written specifications and procedures relating to the devices. QSR compliance is necessary to receive and maintain FDA clearance or approval to market new and existing products. The FDA makes announced and unannounced periodic and on-going inspections of medical device manufacturers to determine compliance with the QSR. If in connection with these inspections, the FDA believes the manufacturer has failed to comply with applicable regulations and/or procedures, it may issue observations that would necessitate prompt corrective action. If FDA inspection observations are not addressed and/or corrective action taken in a timely manner and to the FDA’s satisfaction, the FDA may issue a Warning Letter (which would similarly necessitate prompt corrective action) and/or proceed directly to other forms of administrative and judicial enforcement actions. Failure to respond timely to FDA inspection observations, a Warning Letter or other notice of noncompliance and to promptly come into compliance could result in fines, injunctions, civil penalties, delays, suspension or withdrawal of clearances, seizures or recalls of products, operating restrictions, injunctions involving partial or total shutdown of production facilities, prohibition on export or import and criminal prosecution. Such actions may have further indirect consequences for the manufacturer both inside and outside of the United States and may adversely affect the reputation of the manufacturer and the product.

Radiation Control Regulations. Our products that use radioactive material, such as brachytherapy sources, are subject to the NRC clearance and approval requirements, and the manufacture and sale of these products are subject to federal and state regulations that vary from state to state and among regions. The manufacture, distribution, installation and service (and decommissioning and removal) of medical devices using radioactive material or emitting radiation also requires a number of licenses and certifications. Service of these products must also be done in accordance with a specific radioactive materials license. In addition, the handling and disposal of radioactive materials resulting from the manufacture, use or disposal of our products may impose significant requirements. Sites for the lawful disposal of materials generated by the manufacture, use or decommissioning of our products may no longer accept these materials in the future, or may accept them on unfavorable terms.

15

Regulations on Advertising and Promotions; Interactions with Healthcare Providers. The FDA and the Federal Trade Commission also regulate advertising and promotion of our products to ensure that the claims we make are consistent with our regulatory clearances, that there is competent and reliable scientific evidence to substantiate the claims, that our advertising fairly balances benefit and risk information, and that our promotional labeling and advertising is neither false nor misleading. We may not promote or advertise our products for uses not within the scope of our intended use statement in our clearances or approvals or make unsupported safety and effectiveness claims.

Additionally, we are members of AdvaMed, a global trade association of companies that develop, produce, manufacture and market Medical Technologies. Varian subscribes to the AdvaMed Code of Ethics on Interactions with U.S. Health Care Professionals. The AdvaMed Code provides companies with guidance on ethical interactions and relationships with Health Care Professionals. Also, we are subject to the Physician Payments Sunshine Act which requires medical product manufacturers to disclose annually any payments or other transfers of value made to U.S. physicians or teaching hospitals.

Electrical Safety and Environmental Regulations. It is also important that our products comply with electrical safety and environmental standards, such as those of Underwriters Laboratories, the Canadian Standards Association, and the International Electrotechnical Commission. In addition, the manufacture and distribution of medical devices utilizing radioactive material requires a specific radioactive material license. For the United States, manufacture and distribution of these radioactive sources and devices also must be in accordance with a model specific certificate issued by either the NRC or by a state regulatory authority. In essentially every country and state, installation and service of these products must be in accordance with a specific radioactive materials license issued by the applicable radiation control agency. We are also subject to a variety of additional environmental laws regulating our manufacturing operations and the handling, storage, transport and disposal of hazardous materials, and which impose liability for the cleanup of any contamination from these materials. For a further discussion of these laws and regulations, see “Critical Accounting Estimates” in MD&A, and Note 9, "Commitments and Contingencies," of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.”

Data Privacy Laws. Data protection legislation is becoming increasingly common in the United States at both the federal and state level. For example, in June 2018, the State of California enacted the California Consumer Privacy Act of 2018 ( “CCPA”), which will come into effect on January 1, 2020. Unless an exemption applies, the CCPA requires companies that process information on California residents to make new disclosures to consumers about their data collection, use and sharing practices, allows consumers to opt out of certain data sharing with third parties and provides a new cause of action for data breaches. Additionally, the Federal Trade Commission and many state attorney generals are interpreting federal and state consumer protection laws to impose standards for the online collection, use, dissemination and security of data. The compliance and other burdens imposed by the European Union ("EU") General Data Protection Regulation ("GDPR"), CCPA and similar privacy laws and regulations may be substantial since they are subject to differing interpretations and implementation among jurisdictions. The restrictions imposed by such laws and regulations may limit the use and adoption of our services, reduce overall demand for our services, require us to modify our data handling practices, slow the pace at which we close sales transactions and impose additional costs and burdens. 

Other United States Healthcare Laws. As a participant in the healthcare industry, we are also subject to federal and state laws and regulations pertaining to patient privacy and data security, fraud and abuse and physician payment transparency. The laws and regulations and their enforcement are constantly undergoing change, and we cannot predict what effect, if any, changes to these laws and regulations may have on our business. Government regulation also may cause considerable delay or even prevent the marketing and full commercialization of future products or services that we may develop. These healthcare laws include:

•The Medicare and Medicaid “anti-kickback” laws, and similar state laws, that prohibit payments or other remuneration intended to induce hospitals, physicians or others either to refer patients, or to purchase, lease or order, or arrange for or recommend the purchase, lease or order of healthcare products or services for which payment may be made under federal and state healthcare programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid. These laws affect our sales, marketing and other promotional activities by limiting the kinds of financial arrangements we may have with hospitals, physicians or other potential purchasers of our products. They particularly impact how we structure our sales offerings, including discount practices, customer support, education and training programs, physician consulting, research grants and other service arrangements. These laws are broadly written, and it is often difficult to determine precisely how these laws will be applied to specific circumstances.

•Federal and state “false claims” laws generally prohibit knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for payment from Medicare, Medicaid or other government payors that are false or fraudulent, or for items or services that were not provided as claimed. Although we do not submit claims directly to payors, 

16

manufacturers can be, and have been, held liable under these laws if they are deemed to “cause” the submission of false or fraudulent claims by providing inaccurate billing or coding information to customers, or through certain other activities, including promoting products for uses not approved or cleared by the FDA. 

•State and federal transparency laws, including laws in Massachusetts and Vermont, and the federal Physician Payment Sunshine Act, which require, among other things, the disclosure of equity ownership and payments to physicians, healthcare providers and hospitals.

From time to time, these laws and regulations may be revised or interpreted in ways that could make it more difficult for our customers to conduct their businesses, such as recent proposed revisions to the laws prohibiting physician self-referrals, and such revisions could have an adverse effect on the demand for our products, and therefore our business and results of operations.

Medicare and Medicaid Reimbursement

The federal and state governments of the United States establish guidelines and pay reimbursements to hospitals and free-standing clinics for diagnostic examinations and therapeutic procedures under Medicare at the federal level and Medicaid at the state level. Private insurers often establish payment levels and policies based on reimbursement rates and guidelines established by the government.

The federal government and the Congress review and adjust rates annually, and from time to time consider various Medicare and other healthcare reform proposals that could significantly affect both private and public reimbursement for healthcare services, including radiotherapy and radiosurgery, in hospitals and free-standing clinics. State government reimbursement for services is determined pursuant to each state’s Medicaid plan, which is established by state law and regulations, subject to requirements of federal law and regulations. In the past, we have seen our customers’ decision-making process complicated by the uncertainties surrounding reimbursement rates for radiotherapy and radiosurgery in the United States. In July 2019, the CMS proposed the APM pilot program for radiation oncology, intended to test whether an episode-based payment structure across a cohort of U.S. hospitals and freestanding cancer centers would reduce Medicare expenditures, while preserving or enhancing the quality of care. We expect that CMS will announce the APM rules in late 2019, although the exact timing and details of the APM are uncertain.

The provisions of the Affordable Care Act went into effect in 2012. Specifically, one of the components of the law is a 2.3% excise tax on sales of most medical devices, which include our Oncology Systems products, which started on January 1, 2013. In January 2018, President Trump signed into law a spending package that included a two-year moratorium on the medical device excise tax starting January 1, 2018 and ending December 31, 2019. This tax has had, and may continue to have, a negative impact on our gross margin when the moratorium expires. 

The Medicare Access and CHIP Reauthorization Act ("MACRA") became effective beginning January 1, 2017. MACRA made numerous changes to Medicare, Medicaid, and other healthcare related programs. These changes include new systems for establishing the annual updates to payment rates for physicians’ services in Medicare as well as certain electronic health record reporting requirements for providers. Any changes in reimbursement policies and other legislative initiatives aimed at or having the effect of reducing healthcare costs associated with Medicare and other government healthcare programs could impact our business.

Various healthcare reform proposals have also emerged at the state level, and we are unable to predict which, if any of these proposals will be enacted. We believe that the uncertainty created by healthcare reform in the United States has complicated our customers’ decision-making process and impacted our Oncology Systems and Proton Solutions businesses, and may continue to do so.

The sale of medical devices including radiotherapy products, the referral of patients for diagnostic examinations and treatments utilizing such devices, and the submission of claims to third-party payors (including Medicare and Medicaid) seeking reimbursement for such services, are subject to various federal and state laws pertaining to healthcare “fraud and abuse.” These laws include physician self-referral prohibitions, anti-kickback laws and false claims laws. Subject to enumerated exceptions, the federal physician self-referral law, also known as Stark II, prohibits a physician from referring Medicare or Medicaid patients to an entity with which the physician (or a family member) has a financial relationship, if the referral is for a “designated health service,” which is defined explicitly to include radiology and radiation therapy services. Anti-kickback laws make it illegal to solicit, induce, offer, receive or pay any remuneration in exchange for the referral of business, including the purchase of medical devices from a particular manufacturer or the referral of patients to a particular supplier of diagnostic 

17

services utilizing such devices. False claims laws prohibit anyone from knowingly and willfully presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for payment to third-party payors (including Medicare and Medicaid) that are false or fraudulent, for services not provided as claimed, or for medically unnecessary services. The Office of the Inspector General prosecutes violations of fraud and abuse laws and any violation may result in criminal and/or civil sanctions including, in some instances, imprisonment and exclusion from participation in federal healthcare programs such as Medicare and Medicaid. Varian needs to comply with all applicable laws related to federal healthcare programs in transactions with health care professionals.

Foreign Regulations

Our operations, sales and service of our products outside the United States are subject to regulatory requirements that vary from country to country and may differ significantly from those in the United States. In general, our products are regulated outside the United States as medical devices by foreign governmental agencies similar to the FDA.

Marketing a medical device internationally. In order for us to market our products internationally, we must obtain clearances or approvals, or registrations, for products and product modifications. We are required to affix the CE mark to our products in order to sell them in member countries of the European Economic Area (“EEA”). The CE mark is an international symbol of adherence to certain essential principles of safety and effectiveness, which once affixed enables a product to be sold in member countries of the EEA. The CE mark is also recognized in many countries outside the EEA, such as Switzerland and Australia, and can assist in the clearance process. In order to receive permission to affix the CE mark to our products, we must obtain Quality System certification, e.g., ISO 13485, and must otherwise have a quality management system that complies with the EU Medical Device Directive. The ISO promulgates standards for certification of quality assurance operations. We are certified as complying with ISO 13485 for our medical devices. The European Union ("EU") Commission published a new Medical Device Regulation in 2017, providing a three-year transition period until May 2020, at which time, the existing Directives will be repealed. The Medical Device Regulation will change multiple aspects of the existing regulatory framework, such as higher clinical evidence requirements and introduce several new requirements, such as Unique Device Identification and many other post-market obligations. Thus, the new Medical Device Regulation significantly modifies and intensifies the compliance requirements for the industry. 

Several Asian countries, including China and Japan, have adopted their own regulatory schemes. To import medical devices into Japan, the requirements of Japan’s Pharmaceutical New Medical Act Device Regulation must be met and a “shonin,” the approval to sell medical products in Japan, must be obtained. Similarly, in China a product registration license issued by the National Medical Product Administration are required to sell medical devices in that country. Obtaining such license approvals for our products can be time-consuming and burdensome and can cause us to delay marketing or sales of our products in such countries. Similarly, prior to selling a device in Canada, manufacturers of Class II, III and IV devices must obtain a medical device license. We sell Class II and Class III devices in Canada. Additionally, many countries have laws and regulations relating to radiation and radiation safety that also apply to our products. In most countries, radiological regulatory agencies require some form of licensing or registration by the facility prior to acquisition and operation of an X-ray generating device or a radiation source. The handling, transportation and the recycling of radioactive metals and source materials are also highly regulated.

A number of countries, including the members of the EU, have implemented or are implementing regulations that would require manufacturers to dispose, or bear certain disposal costs, of products at the end of a product’s useful life and restrict the use of some hazardous substances in certain products sold in those countries. 

CTSI operations. We are subject to laws and regulations in India and Sri Lanka in relation to the operation of a healthcare establishment. The laws apply to the governing, commissioning and operating of the centers; the practice and conduct of medical professionals; management of patients; sale and storage of drugs and safe medication; employment and management of manpower; the safety of patients, staff and the public; and environmental protection. In order to service our patients, we must obtain the relevant licenses and/or registrations, adhere to set standards and are subject to inspections required for the operations of our centers.

Data Privacy Laws. Laws and regulations related to the collection, processing, storage, transfer and use of personal data are evolving globally. The GDPR took effect in May 2018, and other foreign jurisdictions are also going through privacy reform. Particularly within Europe, data protection legislation is comprehensive and complex and there has been a recent trend toward more stringent enforcement of requirements regarding protection and confidentiality of personal data. The compliance and other burdens imposed by the GDPR and similar privacy laws and regulations may be substantial since they are subject to differing interpretations and implementation among jurisdictions. The restrictions imposed by such laws and regulations may limit the use and adoption of our services, reduce overall demand for our services, require us to modify our data handling practices, slow the pace at which we close sales transactions and impose additional costs and burdens. In addition, non-

18

compliance could result in proceedings against us by governmental entities or others, significant fines, could negatively impact our reputation and may otherwise adversely impact our business, financial condition and operating results. Particularly within Europe, data protection legislation is comprehensive and complex and there has been a recent trend toward more stringent enforcement of requirements regarding protection and confidentiality of personal data.

Other applicable international regulations. We are also subject to foreign laws and regulations that apply to manufacturers of radiation emitting devices and products utilizing radioactive materials, as well as laws and regulations of general applicability relating to matters such as environmental protection, safe working conditions, manufacturing practices and other matters. In addition, our sales of products in foreign countries are also subject to regulation of matters such as product standards, packaging requirements, labeling requirements, import restrictions, environmental and product recycling requirements, trade regulations, duties and tax requirements. In some countries, we rely on our foreign distributors and agents to assist us in complying with foreign regulatory requirements. These laws and regulations are often comparable to, if not more stringent than, the equivalent laws and regulations in the United States. In addition, sales overseas are also affected by regulation of matters such as product standards, packaging, labeling, environmental and product recycling requirements, import and export restrictions, tariffs, duties and taxes. In some countries, we rely on our foreign distributors and agents to assist us in complying with foreign regulatory requirements, and we cannot be sure that they will always do so.

We are also subject to international “fraud and abuse” laws and regulations, as well as false claims and misleading advertisement laws. From time to time, these laws and regulations may be revised or interpreted in ways that could make it more difficult for our customers to conduct their businesses, which could have an adverse effect on the demand for our products, and therefore our business and results of operations. The laws and regulations and their enforcement are constantly undergoing change, and we cannot predict what effect, if any, changes to these laws and regulations may have on our business.

Anti-Corruption Laws and Regulations

We are subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and anti-corruption laws, and similar laws in foreign countries, such as the U.K. Bribery Act of 2010 and the Law “On the Fundamentals of Health Protection in the Russian Federation.” In general, there is a worldwide trend to strengthen anti-corruption laws and their enforcement, and the healthcare industry and medical equipment manufacturers have been particular targets of these investigation and enforcement efforts. Any violation of these laws by us or our agents or distributors could create a substantial liability for us, subject our officers and directors to personal liability and cause a loss of reputation in the market. 

Transparency International’s 2016 Corruption Perceptions Index measured the degree to which public sector corruption is perceived to exist in 176 countries/territories around the world, and found that approximately sixty-nine percent of the countries in the index, including many that we consider to be high growth areas for our products, such as China, India, Russia and Brazil, scored below 50, on a scale from 100 (very clean) to 0 (highly corrupt). We currently operate in many countries where the public sector is perceived as being more or highly corrupt and our strategic business plans include expanding our business in regions and countries that are rated as higher risk for corruption activity by Transparency International. 

Increased business in higher risk countries could subject us and our officers and directors to increased scrutiny and increased liability. In addition, becoming familiar with and implementing the infrastructure necessary to comply with laws, rules and regulations applicable to new business activities and mitigating and protecting against corruption risks could be quite costly. Failure by us or our agents or distributors to comply with these laws, rules and regulations could delay our expansion into high-growth markets and could adversely affect our business. 

Patent and Other Proprietary Rights

We place considerable importance on obtaining and maintaining patent, copyright and trade secret protection for significant new technologies, products and processes, because of the length of time and expense associated with bringing new products through the development process and to the marketplace.

We generally rely upon a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secret and other laws, and contractual restrictions on disclosure, copying and transferring title, including confidentiality agreements with vendors, strategic partners, co-developers, employees, consultants and other third parties, to protect our proprietary rights in the developments, improvements and inventions that we have originated and which are incorporated in our products or that fall within our fields of interest. As of September 27, 2019, we owned 577 patents issued in the United States and 447 patents issued throughout the rest of the world and had 478 patent applications on file with various patent agencies worldwide. We intend to file additional patent applications as appropriate. We have trademarks, both registered and unregistered, that are maintained and enforced to 

19

provide customer recognition for our products in the marketplace. We also have agreements with third parties that provide for licensing of patented or proprietary technology, including royalty bearing licenses and technology cross licenses.

Environmental Matters

For a discussion of environmental matters, see “Critical Accounting Estimates” in MD&A and Note 9, "Commitments and Contingencies," of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, which discussions are incorporated herein by reference.

Tariff Measures

Between July 2018 and May 2019, the Trump Administration imposed a series of tariffs, ranging from 5% to 25%, on numerous products imported into the United States from China, including Varian’s radiotherapy systems manufactured in China and certain components used in our manufacturing and service activities. In July and August of 2018, China retaliated against the U.S. tariffs by imposing its own series of tariffs, ranging from 10% to 25%, on certain products imported into China from the United States, including Varian’s radiotherapy systems and certain manufacturing and service components. 

We participated in the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative (“USTR”) process to seek product-specific exclusions from the U.S. tariffs on Chinese imports. To date, USTR has granted tariff exclusions for four products: certain radiotherapy systems manufactured in China, as well as three key components of the radiation therapy systems that we manufacture in the United States: multi-leaf collimators, certain printed circuit board assemblies and tungsten shielding. We submitted an additional U.S. exclusion request in September 2019, in relation to a manufacturing component, which request is pending. 

In June and July 2019, Varian submitted formal requests to the Chinese government for exclusions from the Chinese retaliatory tariffs for manufacturing inputs, service parts and radiotherapy systems imported into China from the United States. In September 2019, the Chinese government granted a tariff exclusion for medical linear accelerators, including our radiotherapy systems, with retroactive effect. The other exclusion requests are still pending. 

The U.S. and Chinese government tariff exclusions are for one-year periods, with anticipated renewal processes. 

Employees

As of September 27, 2019, we had 10,062 full-time and part-time employees worldwide, including 3,438 in the United States and 6,624 in international locations. None of our employees based in the United States are unionized or subject to collective bargaining agreements. Employees based in some other countries may, from time to time, be represented by works councils or unions or subject to collective bargaining agreements. We consider our relations with our employees to be good.

Information About Our Executive Officers 

The biographical summaries of our executive officers, as of November 1, 2019, are as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

*Effective December 1, 2019, Gary E. Bischoping, Jr. will become President, Interventional Solutions, and J. Michael Bruff will succeed Mr. Bischoping as Senior Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer. Effective December 1, 2019, Mr. Bischoping will no longer be an executive officer and J. Michael Bruff will become one.

Dow R. Wilson was appointed President and Chief Executive Officer effective September 29, 2012. Mr. Wilson served as Corporate Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer from October 2011 through September 2012 and as Corporate Executive Vice President and President, Oncology Systems from August 2005 through September 2011. Mr. Wilson served as Corporate Vice President and President, Oncology Systems from January 2005 to August 2005. Prior to joining the Company in January 2005, Mr. Wilson was Chief Executive Officer of the Healthcare-Information Technologies business in General Electric (a diversified technology and services company), from 2003 to 2005. During the previous 18 years, Mr. Wilson held 

20

various management positions within General Electric. Mr. Wilson holds a B.A. degree in English from Brigham Young University and an M.B.A. degree from Dartmouth’s Amos Tuck School of Business. Mr. Wilson serves on the board of directors at Agilent, Inc. Mr. Wilson also serves on the board of directors of industry associations AdvaMed and the US-India Strategic Partner Forum. In 2015, Mr. Wilson was appointed by President Obama to serve on a Presidential Advisory Council ("Council") for doing business in Africa; he recently completed a second term on the Council. Mr. Wilson served on the board of directors of Varex Imaging Corporation, our former Imaging Components business segment, from January 2017 to January 2018. He also served on the board of directors of Saba Software, Inc. (an e-learning software provider) from August 2006 to March 2015 and as the lead independent director of that board from August 2011 to March 2013. Mr. Wilson was appointed to our Board of Directors in September 2012.

Kolleen T. Kennedy was appointed President of Proton Solutions and Chief Growth Officer effective October 2018. Ms. Kennedy served as Executive Vice President and President, Oncology Systems from September 2014 to September 2018, and was Senior Vice President and President, Oncology Systems from October 2011 to September 2014. From January 2006 through September 2011, Ms. Kennedy served as Vice President, Oncology Systems Customer Service and Support. Prior to that, Ms. Kennedy was the Company’s Vice President, Oncology Systems Marketing, Product Management and Engineering from September 2004 to January 2006. Prior to becoming Vice President, Ms. Kennedy served in various marketing management positions since she joined the Company in 1997. Ms. Kennedy holds a B.S. degree in Radiation Oncology and a B.S. degree in Psychology, both from Wayne State University, as well as an M.S. degree in Medical Physics from the University of Colorado.

Christopher A. Toth was appointed President of Oncology Systems effective October 2018. Mr. Toth joined Varian in 2001 and has held multiple cross-functional roles and executive positions during his tenure with the company. Prior to his appointment as President of Oncology Systems, Mr. Toth served as President of Global Commercial and Field Operations from January 2017 to September 2018, where he was responsible for global sales strategy and execution for Oncology Systems and Proton Solutions. Additionally, in this role, Mr. Toth was responsible for global field service, applications training, market access and regional marketing for the Oncology Systems business. From September 2014 to January 2017, Mr. Toth was President, Oncology Systems Americas and from April 2011 to September 2014, Vice President, Global Marketing. Mr. Toth holds a B.A. degree in Business Administration with a concentration in Marketing from the Lundquist College of Business at the University of Oregon.

Gary E. Bischoping, Jr. was appointed Senior Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer ("CFO") in May 2017. Effective December 1, 2019, Mr. Bischoping, Jr. will become President, Interventional Solutions and no longer serve as CFO. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Bischoping was with Dell Technologies for 17 years where he held several management roles including CFO of its Client Solutions Group from 2016 to 2017, CFO of Enterprise Solutions Group and Commercial Sales from 2013 to 2016, CFO of its Commercial Business from 2012 to 2013, and VP and Treasurer from 2008 to 2012. Before joining Dell, Mr. Bischoping worked in financial management consulting for Stern Stewart & Company, Xerox and the SK Group. Mr. Bischoping earned his M.B.A. degree from the Simon School of Business at the University of Rochester and a B.S. degree in Accounting from the State University of New York at Oswego. He passed the Certified Public Accountants examination in 1991. 

John W. Kuo was appointed Senior Vice President, in addition to being General Counsel and Corporate Secretary, in February 2012. Prior to that, he served as Corporate Vice President and General Counsel from July 2005 through January 2012 and as Corporate Secretary since February 2005. Mr. Kuo joined the Company as Senior Corporate Counsel in March 2003 and became Associate General Counsel in March 2004. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Kuo was General Counsel and Secretary at BroadVision, Inc. (an e-commerce software provider) and held senior legal positions at 3Com Corporation (a networking equipment provider). Mr. Kuo has previously been with the law firms of Gray Cary Ware & Freidenrich (now DLA Piper) and Fulbright & Jaworski. Mr. Kuo holds a B.A. degree from Cornell University and a J.D. degree from Berkeley Law at the University of California at Berkeley.

J. Michael Bruff, who currently serves as Senior Vice President, Finance and Investor Relations will succeed Mr. Bischoping as CFO effective December 1, 2019. Since joining the Company, Mr. Bruff served as Vice President of Investor Relations between August 2017 and February 2018 and has served as Senior Vice President, Finance and Investor Relations from February 2018 to the present. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Bruff worked for Dell Technologies for 19 years in both domestic and international roles, most recently as Senior Vice President of North America Sales Strategy & Planning. Previously, he served as Senior Vice President and CFO of Dell's Asia Pacific and Japan Commercial Business and Vice President and CFO of the Greater China Commercial Business. He also held several other finance leadership roles in commercial finance, financial planning and analysis, internal audit and Enterprise Solutions Group finance. In addition, Mr. Bruff was Vice President, Global Services Accounting and Finance at CA, Inc. and held a variety of finance and reporting roles at MCI Telecommunications. Mr. 

21

Bruff started his career in auditing and accounting at Deloitte & Touche. Mr. Bruff holds a B.S. degree in Accounting and a B.A degree in Economics from the University of Maryland.

Distribution 

On January 28, 2017 (the "Distribution Date"), we completed the separation and distribution (the "Distribution") of Varex Imaging Corporation ("Varex"), our former Imaging Components business segment. On the Distribution Date, each of our stockholders of record as of the close of business on January 20, 2017 (the "Record Date") received 0.4 of a share of Varex common stock for every one share of our common stock owned as of the Record Date. Varex is now an independent publicly traded company and is listed on The NASDAQ Global Select Market under the ticker symbol "VREX."

Information Available to Investors

As soon as reasonably practicable after our filing or furnishing the information to the SEC, we make the following available on the Investors page of our website http://www.varian.com: our annual reports on Form 10-K; quarterly reports on Form 10-Q; current reports on Form 8-K (including any amendments to those reports); and proxy statements. Our Code of Conduct, Corporate Governance Guidelines and the charters of the Audit Committee, Compensation and Management Development Committee, Ethics and Compliance Committee, Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee and Executive Committee are also available on the Investors page of our website. Investors and others should note that we announce material financial and operational information to our investors using our investor relations website (http://investors.varian.com/), press releases, SEC filings and public conference calls and webcasts. Please note that information on, or that can be accessed through, our website is not deemed “filed” with the SEC and is not to be incorporated by reference into any of our filings under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”), or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”). 

Item 1A. Risk Factors