ITEM 7.MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

OVERVIEW

We invest in scientific innovation to create transformative medicines for people with serious diseases. Our business is focused on developing and commercializing therapies for the treatment of cystic fibrosis, or CF, and advancing our research and development programs in other serious diseases. Our marketed products are SYMDEKO/SYMKEVI (tezacaftor in combination with ivacaftor), ORKAMBI (lumacaftor in combination with ivacaftor) and KALYDECO (ivacaftor), which are collectively approved to treat approximately half of the 75,000 CF patients in North America, Europe and Australia. Our triple combination regimens, if approved, would significantly increase the number of CF patients eligible for our products and could provide an improved treatment option for a majority of the patients currently eligible for our products. In November 2018, we reported positive data, including interim data, from the Phase 3 clinical trials evaluating the triple combination of VX-659, tezacaftor and ivacaftor in patients with a copy of the F508del mutation in their CFTR gene and a second mutation that results in minimal CFTR function, whom we refer to as F508del/Min patients; and who have two copies of the F508del mutation, whom we refer to as F508del homozygous patients. In the first quarter of 2019, we expect to report data from the Phase 3 clinical trials evaluating the triple combination of VX-445, tezacaftor and ivacaftor. We expect that this data in conjunction with the VX-659 data that was reported in November 2018 will enable us to choose the better of the two regimens to submit for regulatory approval. We expect to submit a New Drug Application, or NDA, to the United States Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, for a triple combination regimen no later than mid-2019. We also are developing drug candidates for the treatment of pain, beta-thalassemia, sickle cell disease and alpha-1 antitrypsin deficiency.

2018 Financial Highlights

Revenues:

In 2018, our CF net product revenues continued to increase due to the approval of our third CF medicine, SYMDEKO/SYMKEVI, and increasing KAYLDECO net product revenues. In 2019, we expect our CF net product revenues to continue to increase due to full-year revenues from SYMDEKO/SYMKEVI and further CF net product revenue growth will be dependent on if, and when, we are able to able to obtain approval to market a triple combination regimen for patients with CF.  

Expenses 

In 2018, combined R&D and SG&A expenses increased by 8% from $1.82 billion in 2017 to $1.97 billion in 2018. In 2018, cost of sales was approximately 13.5% of our CF net product revenues. 

Balance Sheet

Increased balance sheet strength driven by earnings. 

2018 Business Highlights

Cystic Fibrosis

•Announced positive data from two Phase 3 clinical trials evaluating the triple combination of VX-659, tezacaftor and ivacaftor in F508del/Min patients and F508del homozygous patients 12 years of age or older.

•Completed enrollment in two Phase 3 clinical trials evaluating the triple combination of VX-445, tezacaftor and ivacaftor in F508del/Min patients and F508del homozygous patients 12 years of age or older. Data from these clinical trials is expected in the first quarter of 2019.

44

•Obtained approval for SYMDEKO in the United States in the first quarter of 2018 for F508del homozygous patients 12 years of age or older.

•Successfully launched SYMDEKO in the United States. 

•Obtained approval for SYMKEVI in the European Union in the fourth quarter of 2018 for F508del homozygous patients 12 years of age or older.

•Obtained approvals from the FDA and EMA for label expansions for KALYDECO and ORKAMBI for younger patient groups.

•Entered into innovative long-term access agreements in ex-U.S markets, including Australia and Denmark.

•Initiated a Phase 1 clinical trial to evaluate VX-121, an additional next-generation CFTR corrector.

Expanding Pipeline

•Demonstrated proof-of-concept for VX-150, a NaV1.8 inhibitor, in acute and neuropathic pain and initiated a Phase 2b dosing ranging clinical trial.

•Initiated first clinical trials of CTX001, an investigational gene-editing treatment that we are evaluating as a potential treatment for beta-thalassemia and sickle cell disease.

•Initiated a Phase 1 clinical trial for a novel drug candidate for alpha-1 antitrypsin deficiency.

•Established a collaboration with Arbor Biotechnologies to enhance our ongoing efforts to develop innovative gene-editing therapies for a range of serious diseases.

Research 

We plan to continue investing in our research programs and fostering scientific innovation in order to identify and develop transformative medicines. In addition to continuing our research in CF, our current research programs include programs targeting pain, alpha-1 antitrypsin and focal segmental glomerulosclerosis. We believe that pursuing research in diverse areas allows us to balance the risks inherent in drug development and may provide drug candidates that will form our pipeline in future years. To supplement our internal research programs, we collaborate with biopharmaceutical and technology companies, leading academic research institutions, government laboratories, foundations and other organizations as needed to advance research in our areas of therapeutic interest and to access technologies needed to execute on our strategy. 

Drug Discovery and Development

Discovery and development of a new pharmaceutical product is a difficult and lengthy process that requires significant financial resources along with extensive technical and regulatory expertise. Potential drug candidates are subjected to rigorous evaluations, driven in part by stringent regulatory considerations, designed to generate information concerning efficacy, side-effects, proper dosage levels and a variety of other physical and chemical characteristics that are important in determining whether a drug candidate should be approved for marketing as a pharmaceutical product. Most chemical compounds that are investigated as potential drug candidates never progress into development, and most drug candidates that do advance into development never receive marketing approval. Because our investments in drug candidates are subject to considerable risks, we closely monitor the results of our discovery, research, clinical trials and nonclinical studies and frequently evaluate our drug development programs in light of new data and scientific, business and commercial insights, with the objective of balancing risk and potential. This process can result in abrupt changes in focus and priorities as new information becomes available and as we gain additional understanding of our ongoing programs and potential new programs, as well as those of our competitors.

If we believe that data from a completed registration program support approval of a drug candidate, we submit an NDA to the FDA requesting approval to market the drug candidate in the United States and seek analogous approvals from comparable regulatory authorities in jurisdictions outside the United States. To obtain approval, we must, among other things, demonstrate with evidence gathered in nonclinical studies and well-controlled clinical trials that the drug candidate is safe and effective for the disease it is intended to treat and that the manufacturing facilities, processes and controls for the manufacture of the drug candidate are adequate. The FDA and ex-U.S. regulatory authorities have substantial discretion in deciding whether or not a drug candidate should be granted approval based on the benefits and risks of the drug candidate in the treatment of a particular disease, and could delay, limit or deny regulatory approval. If regulatory delays are significant or regulatory approval is limited or denied altogether, our financial results and the commercial prospects for the drug candidate involved will be harmed.

45

Regulatory Compliance

Our marketing of pharmaceutical products is subject to extensive and complex laws and regulations. We have a corporate compliance program designed to actively identify, prevent and mitigate risk through the implementation of compliance policies and systems and through the promotion of a culture of compliance. Among other laws, regulations and standards, we are subject to various U.S. federal and state laws, and comparable laws in other jurisdictions, pertaining to health care fraud and abuse, including anti-kickback and false claims laws, and laws prohibiting the promotion of drugs for unapproved or off-label uses. Anti-kickback laws make it illegal for a prescription drug manufacturer to solicit, offer, receive or pay any remuneration to induce the referral of business, including the purchase or prescription of a particular drug that is reimbursed by a state or federal program. False claims laws prohibit anyone from knowingly or willfully presenting for payment to third-party payors, including Medicare and Medicaid, claims for reimbursed drugs or services that are false or fraudulent, claims for items or services not provided as claimed, or claims for medically unnecessary items or services. We are subject to laws and regulations that regulate the sales and marketing practices of pharmaceutical manufacturers, as well as laws such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which govern our international business practices with respect to payments to government officials. We expect to continue to devote substantial resources to maintain, administer and expand these compliance programs globally.

Reimbursement

Sales of our products depend, to a large degree, on the extent to which our products are reimbursed by third-party payors, such as government health programs, commercial insurance and managed health care organizations. We dedicate substantial management and other resources in order to obtain and maintain appropriate levels of reimbursement for our products from third-party payors, including governmental organizations in the United States and ex-U.S. markets. 

In the United States, we have worked successfully with third party-payors in order to promptly obtain appropriate levels of reimbursement for our CF medicines, and as such, more than 95% of patients across the U.S. have access to our medicines through their insurance plans. We continue to engage in discussions with numerous commercial insurers and managed health care organizations, along with government health programs that are typically managed by authorities in the individual states, to ensure that payors recognize the significant benefits that our medicines provide by treating the underlying cause of cystic fibrosis and continue to provide access to our current medicines. 

In Europe and other ex-U.S. markets, we seek government reimbursement for our medicines on a country-by-country basis. This is necessary for each new medicine, as well as label expansions for our current medicines in most countries. We successfully obtained reimbursement for KALYDECO in each significant ex-U.S. market within two years of approval. We are experiencing significant challenges in obtaining reimbursement for ORKAMBI in certain ex-U.S. markets. Specifically, we have been discussing potential reimbursement for ORKAMBI in the United Kingdom and France, which represent significant potential markets for our CF medicines, since its approval in 2015. In other ex-U.S. markets, including Australia, Denmark, Germany, Ireland, Sweden and Italy, we have reached pricing and reimbursement agreements for ORKAMBI. In some of these countries, we have innovative reimbursement arrangements that provide a pathway to access and rapid reimbursement for certain future CF medicines, including arrangements in Ireland, Denmark and Australia.

Collaboration Arrangements and Strategic Investments 

In-License Agreements

We have entered into collaborations with biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies in order to acquire rights or to license drug candidates or technologies that enhance our pipeline and/or our research capabilities. Over the last several years, we entered into collaboration agreements with:

•CRISPR Therapeutics AG, or CRISPR, pursuant to which we are collaborating on the discovery and development of potential new treatments aimed at the underlying genetic causes of human diseases using CRISPR-Cas9 gene editing technology;

•Arbor Biotechnologies, Inc., or Arbor, pursuant to which we are collaborating  on the discovery of novel proteins, including DNA endonucleases, to advance the development of new gene-editing therapies; and

•Moderna Therapeutics, Inc., or Moderna, pursuant to which we are seeking to identify and develop messenger ribonucleic acid, or mRNA, therapeutics for the treatment of CF.

Generally, when we in-license a technology or drug candidate, we make upfront payments to the collaborator, assume the costs of the program and agree to make contingent payments, which could consist of milestone, royalty and option payments. Depending on many factors, including the structure of the collaboration, the significance of the drug candidate that we license 

46

to the collaborator’s operations and the other activities in which our collaborators are engaged, the accounting for these transactions can vary significantly. 

For example, the upfront payments and expenses incurred in connection with our CRISPR and Moderna collaborations are being expensed as research expenses because the collaboration represents a small portion of each of these collaborator’s overall business. CRISPR and Moderna’s activities unrelated to our collaborations have no effect on our consolidated financial statements. In contrast, Parion Sciences, Inc., or Parion, and BioAxone Biosciences, Inc., or BioAxone, have historically been accounted for as variable interest entities, or VIEs, and historically have been included in our consolidated financial statements due to (i) the significance of the respective licensed programs to Parion and BioAxone as a whole, (ii) our power to control the significant activities of the entities under each collaboration and (iii) our obligation to absorb losses and right to receive benefits that potentially could be significant. In 2017 and 2018, we determined that the above conditions were no longer satisfied with respect to Parion and BioAxone, respectively. As a result, we deconsolidated Parion and BioAxone from our consolidated financial statements as of September 30, 2017 and December 31, 2018, respectively. 

A collaborator that we account for as a VIE may engage in activities unrelated to our collaboration. The revenues and expenses unrelated to the programs we in-license from our VIEs have historically been immaterial to our consolidated financial statements. With respect to each of Parion and BioAxone, the activities unrelated to our collaborations with these entities represented approximately 2% or less of our total revenues and total expenses on an annual basis during the periods that we consolidated these collaborators. As a result of these deconsolidations, these amounts decreased in 2018 compared to 2017 and we do not expect to have similar items in 2019 based on our current collaborations. For consolidated VIEs, we evaluated the fair value of the contingent payments payable by us on a quarterly basis. Changes in the fair value of these contingent future payments affected net income attributable to Vertex on a dollar-for-dollar basis, with increases in the fair value of contingent payments payable by us to a VIE resulting in a decrease in net income attributable to Vertex (or an increase in net loss attributable to Vertex) and decreases in the fair value of contingent payments payable by us to a VIE resulting in an increase in net income attributable to Vertex (or decrease in net loss attributable to Vertex). For additional information regarding our VIEs see Note B, “Collaborative Arrangements and Acquisitions,” and our critical accounting policies “Collaborations; Intangible Assets and Variable Interest Entities.”

Out-License Agreements

We also have out-licensed internally-developed programs to collaborators who are leading the development of these programs. These out-license arrangements include our collaboration agreements with:

•Janssen Pharmaceuticals, Inc., or Janssen, which is evaluating pimodivir in Phase 3 clinical trials for the treatment of influenza; and

•Merck KGaA, Darmstadt, Germany, which licensed oncology research and development programs from us in early 2017.

Pursuant to these out-licensing arrangements, our collaborators are responsible for the research, development and commercialization costs associated with these programs, and we are entitled to receive contingent milestone and/or royalty payments. As a result, we do not expect to incur significant expenses in connection with these programs and have the potential for future collaborative and royalty revenues resulting from these programs.

Strategic Investments

In connection with our business development activities, we have periodically made equity investments in our collaborators. As of December 31, 2018, we held strategic equity investments in CRISPR, a public company, and Moderna, which became a publicly traded company in December 2018, and certain private companies, and we may make additional strategic equity investments in the future. While we invest the majority of our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities in instruments with low risk that meet specific credit quality standards and limit our exposure to any one issue or type of instrument, our strategic investments are maintained and managed separately from our other cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities. 

Until December 31, 2017, changes in the fair value of these strategic investments were reflected on our consolidated balance sheet, but did not affect our net income until the related gains or losses were realized. As a result of new accounting guidance, effective January 1, 2018, any changes in the fair value of equity investments with readily determinable fair values (including publicly traded securities such as CRISPR and Moderna) are recorded to other income (expense), net in our consolidated statement of operations. For equity investments without readily determinable fair values (including private equity investments), each reporting period we are required to re-evaluate the carrying value of the investment, which may result in other income (expense). 

47

In 2018, we recorded within other income (expense), net an unrealized gain of $2.6 million related to changes in the fair value of our investments in CRISPR and Moderna, which are included in our net income. In 2018, income and expenses related to these investments did not have a material effect on our annual other income (expense), but had material effects on our quarterly other income (expense). To the extent that we continue to hold strategic investments and in particular strategic investments in publicly traded companies, we will record on a quarterly basis other income (expense) related to these strategic investments. Due to the high volatility of stocks in the biotechnology industry, we expect the value of these strategic investments to fluctuate and that the increases or decreases in the fair value of these strategic investments will continue to have material impacts on our net income (expense) and our profitability under GAAP on a quarterly and/or annual basis.

48

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Net Income (Loss) Attributable to Vertex

Comparison of Net Income Attributable to Vertex 2018 vs. 2017

Net income attributable to Vertex was $2.10 billion in 2018 as compared to $263.5 million in 2017. In the fourth quarter of 2018, we recorded a one-time non-cash benefit from income taxes of $1.56 billion when we released the valuation allowance on the majority of our net operating losses and other deferred tax assets. This one-time benefit is included in other items, net in the preceding table and substantially increased the net income attributable to Vertex in 2018.

Our total revenues increased in 2018 as compared to 2017 primarily due to an $872.8 million increase in CF net product revenues, partially offset by $230.0 million in one-time collaborative revenues recorded in 2017 related to an upfront payment from Merck KGaA, Darmstadt, Germany. 

Our operating costs and expenses increased in 2018 as compared to 2017 due to increased costs of sales related to our increased product revenues and increased expenses related to our ongoing research and development efforts. Our operating expenses in each of 2018 and 2017 were affected by expenses related to business development activities. In 2018, we incurred $111.6 million in research expenses primarily related to upfront payments for collaborations and license agreements that we entered into during 2018. In 2017, we incurred a $255.3 million impairment charge related to Parion’s pulmonary ENaC platform and $160.0 million in development expenses incurred in connection with our acquisition of VX-561 from Concert Pharmaceuticals, Inc., or Concert, each of which is included in operating costs and expenses in the preceding table.

Comparison of Net Income (Loss) Attributable to Vertex 2017 vs. 2016 

Net income attributable to Vertex was $263.5 million in 2017 as compared to a net loss attributable to Vertex of $(112.1) million in 2016. Our revenues increased in 2017 as compared to 2016 primarily due to increased ORKAMBI and KALYDECO net product revenues and $230.0 million in one-time collaborative revenues related to the strategic collaboration and license agreement we established with Merck KGaA, Darmstadt, Germany, in 2017. Our operating costs and expenses increased in 2017 as compared to 2016 primarily due to increases in our cost of sales related to our increased net product revenues, increases in our research and development expenses, which included $160.0 million in development expenses incurred in connection with the acquisition of VX-561 from Concert, increases in our sales and administrative expenses and a $255.3 million intangible asset impairment charge related to Parion’s pulmonary ENaC platform. Other items, net in 2017 primarily reflect a benefit from income taxes and certain other benefits associated with the impairment of Parion’s pulmonary ENaC platform, for which there were no comparable benefits in 2016, and a decrease in interest expense, net to $57.6 million. Other items, net in 2016 primary reflects interest expense, net of $81.4 million, a provision for income taxes of $16.7 million and net income attributable to noncontrolling interest of $28.0 million. 

Earnings Per Share

In 2018, 2017 and 2016, net income (loss) attributable to Vertex was $8.09, $1.04, $(0.46), respectively, per diluted share. The increase in our diluted earnings per share in 2018 compared to 2017 was due to, among other things, the increased net product revenues and the benefit from income taxes as a result of the release of our valuation allowance on the majority 

49

of our net operating losses and other deferred tax assets. The release of the valuation allowance increased net income attributable to Vertex by $6.03 per diluted share. 

In 2018, 2017 and 2016, the number of diluted shares used to calculate net income (loss) per common share was 259.2 million, 253.2 million and 244.7 million, respectively. The increase in diluted shares in each year was primarily due to our issuance of shares of common stock pursuant to our employee equity programs. 

Revenues

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Product Revenues, Net

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

In 2018, our total CF net product revenues increased by $872.8 million as compared to 2017. The increase in total CF net product revenues was due to the increasing number of patients being treated as a result of the approval of SYMDEKO in the U.S., label expansions for KALYDECO and ORKAMBI and expanded access in ex-U.S. markets. We believe that our total CF net product revenues will increase in 2019 due primarily to increases in SYMDEKO/SYMKEVI net product revenues and further CF net product revenue growth will be dependent on when, and if, we obtain approval for our triple combination regimens. Our net product revenues are also dependent on, if, and when, we obtain additional reimbursement agreements for our CF medicines in ex-U.S. markets, particularly in the United Kingdom and France. 

SYMDEKO/SYMKEVI

SYMDEKO/SYMKEVI net product revenues were $768.7 million in 2018. SYMDEKO was approved by the FDA in February 2018 and SYMKEVI was approved in the European Union in November 2018. In 2018, SYMDEKO net product revenues increased each quarter as new patients initiated treatment. We did not recognize significant net product revenues from sales of SYMKEVI during 2018. We expect SYMDEKO/SYMKEVI net product revenues to continue to increase in 2019 as compared to 2018 due to the full year impact of SYMDEKO sales in the United States and as patients begin to obtain access to SYMKEVI in ex-U.S. markets. 

ORKAMBI

The approval of SYMDEKO/SYMKEVI has had a negative effect on the net product revenues from ORKAMBI as a portion of the patients who were being treated with ORKAMBI switched to SYMDEKO/SYMKEVI. Due primarily to patients switching from ORKAMBI to SYMDEKO in the United States, ORKAMBI net product revenues decreased by 4.4% in 2018 as compared to 2017. In 2018, ORKAMBI net product revenues were $1.26 billion, including $310.5 million of net product revenues from ex-U.S. markets, compared to ORKAMBI net product revenues of $1.32 billion in 2017, including $167.6 million of net product revenues from ex-U.S. markets. In 2016, ORKAMBI net product revenues were $979.6 million, including $76.4 million of net product revenues from ex-U.S. markets. 

Our consolidated balance sheet includes $354.4 million collected as of December 31, 2018 in France related to ORKAMBI supplied under early access programs at the invoiced price. Pursuant to the revenue recognition guidance that 

50

became effective under GAAP on January 1, 2018, we have recognized limited net product revenues to date on sales of ORKAMBI in France due to ongoing pricing discussions regarding the reimbursement rate for ORKAMBI. Please refer to “Critical Accounting Policies - Revenue Recognition” below for a discussion of our accounting treatment for our early access program for ORKAMBI in France. 

KALYDECO

In 2018, KALYDECO net product revenues were $1.01 billion, including $363.5 million of net product revenues from ex-U.S. markets, compared to KALYDECO net product revenues of $844.6 million in 2017, including $334.2 million of net product revenues from ex-U.S. markets. In 2016, KALYDECO net product revenues were $703.4 million, including $303.9 million of net product revenues from ex-U.S. markets. The increases year-over-year were primarily due to additional patients being treated with KALYDECO as we completed reimbursement discussions in various ex-U.S. jurisdictions and as we increased the number of patients eligible to receive KALYDECO through label expansions. 

Collaborative and Royalty Revenues 

Our collaborative and royalty revenues were $9.3 million, $323.2 million and $18.5 million in 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively. In 2017, our collaborative and royalty revenues primarily included (i) $230.0 million in revenues related to the one-time upfront payment earned in 2017 from Merck KGaA, Darmstadt, Germany, and (ii) a $25.0 million milestone related to our license agreement with Janssen, Inc. for the treatment of influenza. Our 2017 collaborative and royalty revenues also included $40.0 million in revenues related to upfront and milestone payments earned by Parion in 2017 pursuant to a license agreement Parion entered into with a third party. We are not a party to the Parion license agreement and have no economic interest in either the license or these milestone payments. These revenues were included in our consolidated financial statements because we were consolidating Parion as a VIE during the first three quarters of 2017. Parion was deconsolidated as a VIE as of September 30, 2017 and any future payments received by Parion pursuant to this license agreement will no longer be recognized by us as collaborative revenue. In 2016 through 2018, our collaborative and royalty revenues also include a small amount of revenues related to a cash payment we received in 2008 when we sold our rights to certain HIV royalties and reimbursements for research and development activities and milestones related to our collaborative arrangements. 

Our collaborative revenues have historically fluctuated significantly from one period to another and may continue to fluctuate in the future. Our future royalty revenues will be dependent on if, and when, our collaborators, including Janssen, Inc. and Merck KGaA, Darmstadt, Germany are able to successfully develop drug candidates that we have out-licensed to them. 

Operating Costs and Expenses

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Cost of Sales

Our cost of sales primarily consists of the cost of producing inventories that corresponded to product revenues for the reporting period, plus the third-party royalties payable on our net sales of our products. Pursuant to our agreement with the CFF, our tiered third-party royalties on sales of SYMDEKO/SYMKEVI, KALYDECO and ORKAMBI, calculated as a percentage of net sales, range from the single digits to the sub-teens. As a result of the tiered royalty rate, which resets annually, our cost of sales as a percentage of CF net product revenues are lower at the beginning of each calendar year. 

51

Over the last several years, our cost of sales has been increasing primarily due to increased net product revenues. Our costs of sales as a percentage of CF net product revenues increased from 12.7% in 2017 to 13.5% in 2018 due to the tiered royalties that we pay to the CFF. In 2019, we expect our total cost of sales will increase due to expected increases in our CF net product revenues and that our cost of sales as a percentage of total CF net product revenues will be similar to our cost of sales as a percentage of total CF net product revenues in 2018.

Research and Development Expenses

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Our research and development expenses include internal and external costs incurred for research and development of our drugs and drug candidates and expenses related to certain technology that we acquire or license through business development transactions. We do not assign our internal costs, such as salary and benefits, stock-based compensation expense, laboratory supplies and other direct expenses and infrastructure costs, to individual drugs or drug candidates, because the employees within our research and development groups typically are deployed across multiple research and development programs. These internal costs are greater than our external costs, such as the costs of services provided to us by clinical research organizations and other outsourced research, which we allocate by individual program. All research and development costs for our drugs and drug candidates are expensed as incurred.

Over the past three years, we have incurred $3.8 billion in research and development expenses associated with drug discovery and development. The successful development of our drug candidates is highly uncertain and subject to a number of risks. In addition, the duration of clinical trials may vary substantially according to the type, complexity and novelty of the drug candidate and the disease indication being targeted. The FDA and comparable agencies in foreign countries impose substantial requirements on the introduction of therapeutic pharmaceutical products, typically requiring lengthy and detailed laboratory and clinical testing procedures, sampling activities and other costly and time-consuming procedures. Data obtained from nonclinical and clinical activities at any step in the testing process may be adverse and lead to discontinuation or redirection of development activities. Data obtained from these activities also are susceptible to varying interpretations, which could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. The duration and cost of discovery, nonclinical studies and clinical trials may vary significantly over the life of a project and are difficult to predict. Therefore, accurate and meaningful estimates of the ultimate costs to bring our drug candidates to market are not available.

In 2016, 2017 and 2018, costs related to our CF programs represented the largest portion of our development costs. Any estimates regarding development and regulatory timelines for our drug candidates are highly subjective and subject to change. In the fourth quarter of 2018, we obtained positive data from two Phase 3 clinical trials evaluating the triple combination of VX-659, tezacaftor and ivacaftor and we plan to submit an NDA to the FDA for a triple combination regimen with VX-659 or VX-445 no later than mid-2019. We cannot make a meaningful estimate when, if ever, our other clinical development programs will generate revenues and cash flows.

52

Research Expenses

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

We maintain a substantial investment in research activities. Our research expenses have been affected, and are expected to continue to be affected, by research expenses associated with our business development activities. In particular, in 2018 our research expenses increased primarily due to $111.6 million in research expenses associated with our business development activities, including upfront payments for certain collaboration agreements, which are reflected in collaboration and asset acquisition expenses in the table above. Collaboration and asset acquisition expenses in 2018 primarily related to agreements we entered into with Arbor Biotechnologies and Merck KGaA, Darmstadt, Germany. Collaboration and asset acquisition expenses in 2016 included expenses related to a collaboration we entered into with Moderna. We expect to continue to invest in our research programs with a focus on identifying drug candidates with the goal of creating transformative medicines for serious diseases.

Development Expenses

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Our development expenses decreased by $35.3 million, or 3%, in 2018 as compared to 2017 and increased by $280.3 million, or 38%, in 2017 as compared to 2016. The decrease in 2018 as compared to 2017 was primarily due to the $160.0 million payment to Concert in connection with the acquisition of VX-561 in 2017 for which there were no comparable expenses in 2018, partially offset by increased costs associated with ongoing clinical trials, including Phase 3 clinical trials evaluating our next-generation CFTR corrector compounds as part of triple combination treatment regimens. 

53

The increase in 2017 as compared to 2016 was primary due to the $160.0 million payment in 2017 to Concert and to increased outsourced services related to clinical trials. 

Sales, General and Administrative Expenses

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Sales, general and administrative expenses increased by 12% in 2018 as compared to 2017, and by 15% in 2017 as compared to 2016. These increases were primarily due to increased global support for our products. We expect our sales, general and administrative expenses to continue to increase in 2019. 

Restructuring Expenses

In 2018, 2017 and 2016, we recorded restructuring (income) expenses of $(0.2) million, $14.2 million and $1.3 million, respectively. Our restructuring expenses in 2017 were primarily related to our decision to consolidate our research activities into our Boston, Milton Park and San Diego locations and to close our research site in Canada. 

Intangible Asset Impairment Charge

In 2018, we recorded a $29.0 million impairment charge attributable to non-controlling interest related to VX-210 that was licensed from BioAxone in 2014. In 2017, we recorded a $255.3 million impairment charge related to Parion’s pulmonary ENaC platform that we licensed from Parion in 2015 and a benefit from income taxes of $97.7 million related to this impairment charge attributable to non-controlling interest. There were no corresponding intangible asset impairment charges in 2016.

Other Items, Net

Interest Expense, Net 

Our interest expense, net relates primarily to interest expenses associated with certain of our real estate leases and outstanding debt, if any, partially offset by interest income from the investment of our cash equivalents and marketable securities. In 2018, 2017 and 2016, interest expense, net was $34.1 million, $57.6 million and $81.4 million, respectively. The decrease in interest expense, net in 2018 as compared to 2017 was primarily due to an increase in our interest income resulting from an increase in our cash equivalents and marketable securities. The decrease in interest expense, net in 2017 as compared to 2016 was primarily due to the repayment of the $300.0 million outstanding under our revolving credit facility in February 2017. In 2019, we expect that we will incur approximately $52 million in interest expenses related to our real estate leases, including a decrease in 2019 as compared to 2018 of approximately $13 million based on updated accounting guidance related to aspects of lease accounting that became effective January 1, 2019. In addition to the updated accounting guidance, our future net interest expense will also be dependent on whether, and to what extent, we reborrow amounts under our credit facility and the amount of and prevailing market interest rates on our outstanding cash equivalents and marketable securities. 

Other Income (Expense), Net

In 2018, we recorded net other expense of $0.8 million. In 2017, we recorded net other expense of $81.4 million primarily related to the deconsolidation of Parion. In 2016, we recorded net other income of $4.1 million primarily related to foreign exchange gains. 

In 2018, our other income (expense), net fluctuated significantly on a quarterly basis based on the fair value of our strategic investments. While the annual effect on our other income (expense), net from our investments in CRISPR and Moderna was a gain of $2.6 million, the value of these investments increased by $149.4 million in the first half of 2018 and decreased by $146.8 million in the second half of 2018. We expect that due to the volatility of the stock price of 

54

biotechnology companies our other income (expense), net will fluctuate based on increases or decreases in the fair value of our strategic investments including CRISPR and Moderna.

Income Taxes 

In 2018, we recorded a benefit from income taxes of $1.49 billion. In 2017 and 2018, we were profitable from a U.S. federal income tax perspective and have used a portion of our net operating losses to offset this income since becoming profitable. Until the fourth quarter of 2018, we maintained a valuation allowance on the majority of our net operating losses and other deferred tax assets. Due to this valuation allowance, we did not record a significant provision for income taxes in 2016, 2017 and the nine months ended September 30, 2018. In the fourth quarter of 2018, we released the valuation allowance resulting in a non-cash credit to net income of $1.56 billion. Further information on the release of the valuation allowance and significant judgments related to its release can be found below in “Critical Accounting Policies - Income Taxes.” 

In 2019, we expect to continue to utilize our net operating losses to offset income, but would begin recording a significant provision for income taxes reflecting the utilization of the deferred tax assets. The majority of this provision for income taxes will be a non-cash expense until our net operating losses are fully utilized. 

In 2017, we recorded a benefit from income taxes of $107.3 million, primarily due to a total benefit from income taxes of $114.1 million attributable to noncontrolling interest related to the impairment of Parion’s pulmonary ENaC platform and decrease in the fair value of the contingent payments payable by us to Parion. In 2016, we recorded a provision for income taxes of $16.7 million, principally due to income taxes payable by our VIEs. 

Noncontrolling Interest (VIEs) 

The net loss (income) attributable to noncontrolling interest (VIEs) recorded on our consolidated statements of operations reflects Parion (through September 30, 2017) and BioAxone’s net (income) loss for the reporting period, adjusted for any changes in the noncontrolling interest holders’ claim to net assets, including contingent milestone, royalty and option payments. A summary of net (income) loss attributable to noncontrolling interest related to our VIEs for the three years ended December 31, 2018 is as follows: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

In 2018, the net loss attributable to noncontrolling interest was primarily related to the $29.0 million impairment charge related to VX-210 offset by an increase in the fair value of the contingent payments payable by us to BioAxone of $17.7 million primarily due to the expiration of our option to purchase BioAxone in 2018. In 2017, the net loss attributable to noncontrolling interest was primarily related to the $255.3 million impairment charge related to Parion’s pulmonary ENaC platform, a decrease in fair value of the contingent payments payable by us to Parion of $69.6 million upon deconsolidation and benefit from income taxes of $126.2 million related to these charges. In 2016, the net income attributable to noncontrolling interest was primarily related to an increase in the fair value of contingent payments based on a Phase 2 clinical trial of VX-371 achieving its primary safety endpoint.

55

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

The following table summarizes the components of our financial condition as of December 31, 2018 and 2017:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

As of December 31, 2018, we had cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities of $3.2 billion, which represented an increase of $1.1 billion from $2.1 billion as of December 31, 2017. In 2018, our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities balance increased primarily due to cash receipts from product sales and $289.3 million of cash received from issuances of common stock under our employee benefit plans partially offset by cash expenditures to fund our operations and $350.0 million of cash used to repurchase shares of our common stock. We expect that our future cash flows will be substantially dependent on our CF product sales. 

As of December 31, 2018, total working capital was $2.7 billion, which represented an increase of $881.1 million from $1.8 billion as of December 31, 2017. The most significant items that increased total working capital in 2018 were $1.3 billion of cash provided by operations and $289.3 million of cash received from issuances of common stock under our employee benefit plans partially offset by $350.0 million of cash used to repurchase shares of our common stock and expenditures for property and equipment of $95.5 million as well as other expenditures. 

Sources of Liquidity

We intend to rely on our existing cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities together with cash flows from product sales as our primary source of liquidity. We are receiving cash flows from sales of KALYDECO and ORKAMBI in the United States and ex-U.S. markets and from SYMDEKO in the United States. We will begin receiving cash flows from sales of SYMKEVI in the European Union in 2019. Future net product revenues from ex-U.S. markets will be dependent on, among other things, the timing of and our ability to complete reimbursement discussions in European countries. 

We may borrow up to $500.0 million pursuant to a revolving credit facility that we entered into in 2016. We may repay and reborrow amounts under the revolving credit agreement without penalty. Subject to certain conditions, we may request that the borrowing capacity under this credit agreement be increased by an additional $300.0 million. 

In 2018 and 2017, we received significant proceeds from the issuance of common stock under our employee benefit plans and more limited proceeds from employee benefit plans in 2016. The amount and timing of future proceeds from employee benefits plans is uncertain. In 2018, the value of our strategic investment in CRISPR fluctuated on a quarterly basis. The future value of our strategic investments, including our investments in CRISPR and Moderna, is uncertain. Other possible sources of future liquidity include strategic collaborative agreements that include research and/or development funding, commercial debt, public and private offerings of our equity and debt securities, development milestones and royalties on sales of products, software and equipment leases, strategic sales of assets or businesses and financial transactions. Negative covenants in our credit agreement may prohibit or limit our ability to access these sources of liquidity. 

Future Capital Requirements

We have significant future capital requirements including:

•incurring substantial operating expenses to conduct research and development activities and to operate our organization; and

•having substantial facility and capital lease obligations, including leases for two buildings in Boston, Massachusetts that continue through 2028 and a lease in San Diego, California that continues through 2034. 

In addition, [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

56

based on the difference between the invoiced price of ORKAMBI and the final price for ORKAMBI in France once we conclude our ongoing pricing discussions with the French government.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•To the extent we borrow amounts under the credit agreement we entered into in October 2016, we would be required to repay any outstanding principal amounts in 2021.

In January 2018, we announced a share repurchase program to repurchase up to $500.0 million of shares of our common stock through December 31, 2019. As of December 31, 2018, $150.0 million remained available to fund repurchases under the share repurchase program. 

We expect that cash flows from our CF products together with our current cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities will be sufficient to fund our operations for at least the next twelve months. The adequacy of our available funds to meet our future operating and capital requirements will depend on many factors, including the amounts of future revenues generated by CF products, and the potential introduction of one or more of our other drug candidates to the market, including a triple combination regimen for patients with CF, the level of our business development activities and the number, breadth, cost and prospects of our research and development programs.

Financing Strategy

We may raise additional capital by borrowing under credit agreements, through public offerings or private placements of our securities or securing new collaborative agreements or other methods of financing. We will continue to manage our capital structure and will consider all financing opportunities, whenever they may occur, that could strengthen our long-term liquidity profile. There can be no assurance that any such financing opportunities will be available on acceptable terms, if at all.

CONTRACTUAL COMMITMENTS AND OBLIGATIONS

The following table sets forth our commitments and obligations as of December 31, 2018: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Leases

We lease two buildings that are located at Fan Pier in Boston, Massachusetts. We commenced lease payments on these two buildings in December 2013 and the initial lease periods end in December 2028. We also lease office and laboratory space in San Diego, California and will commence base rent payments for this building in the second quarter of 2019 pursuant to a 16 year lease. The future minimum rental payments that we are obligated to pay related to the San Diego building are included in “Facility leases, excluding Fan Pier Leases.” The table also reflects leases of equipment that are accounted for as capital leases. 

Research, Development and Drug Supply Costs

The amounts reflected in “Research, development and drug supply costs,” do not include certain payments we anticipate making to clinical research organizations, or CROs, because these contracts are cancelable, at our option, with notice. However, we historically have not cancelled such contracts. As of December 31, 2018, we had accrued $53.1 million related 

to these contracts for costs incurred for services provided through December 31, 2018, and we have approximately $177.0 million in cancelable future commitments based on existing contracts as of December 31, 2018. These amounts reflect planned expenditures based on existing contracts and do not reflect any future modifications to, or terminations of, existing contracts or anticipated or potential new contracts.

Collaborative Arrangements and Asset Acquisitions

We have entered into certain research and development collaboration agreements with third parties and acquired certain assets that include the funding of certain development, manufacturing and commercialization efforts with the potential for future milestone and royalty payments by us upon the achievement of pre-established developmental, regulatory and/or commercial targets. Our obligation to fund these efforts is contingent upon continued involvement in the programs and/or the lack of any adverse events that could cause the discontinuance of the programs. These payments include:

•CFF: CFF has the right to tiered royalties ranging from single digits to sub-teens on any approved drugs first synthesized and/or tested during a research term on or before February 28, 2014, including KALYDECO, ORKAMBI, SYMDEKO/SYMKEVI, lumacaftor, ivacaftor and tezacaftor and royalties ranging from low single digits to mid-single digits on potential sales of certain compounds first synthesized and/or tested between March 1, 2014 and August 31, 2016, including VX-659 and VX-445. For combination products, such as ORKAMBI and SYMDEKO/SYMKEVI, sales are allocated equally to each of the active pharmaceutical ingredients in the combination product.

•Research and Development Milestones:  Our collaborations and certain other business development arrangements, including our asset acquisition from Concert, have milestone and royalty payments payable by us upon the successful achievement of pre-established developmental, regulatory and/or commercial targets or net sales. 

Contingent payments under these agreements become due and payable only upon achievement of certain milestones and are not included in the contractual obligations table above. 

Tax-related Obligations

We exclude liabilities pertaining to uncertain tax positions from our summary of contractual obligations as we cannot make a reliable estimate of the period of cash settlement with the respective taxing authorities. As of December 31, 2018, our liabilities associated with uncertain tax positions were $19.5 million. 

Other Funding Commitments

Our table detailing contractual commitments and obligations does not include severance payment obligations to certain of our executive officers in the event of a not-for-cause employment termination under existing employment contracts. We will provide information regarding these obligations annually in our proxy statement for our annual meeting of shareholders.

In addition, as discussed below, we began distributing ORKAMBI through early access programs in France in 2015 at the invoiced price and are engaged in ongoing pricing discussions regarding the final price for ORKAMBI in France. We expect the difference between the amounts collected at the invoiced price and the final price for ORKAMBI in France will be returned to the French government and that this amount could be material. 

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES

Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based upon our consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make certain estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reported periods. These items are monitored and analyzed by management for changes in facts and circumstances, and material changes in these estimates could occur in the future. Changes in estimates are reflected in reported results for the period in which the change occurs. We base our estimates on historical experience and various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results may differ from our estimates if past experience or other assumptions do not turn out to be substantially accurate.

57

We believe that our application of the following accounting policies, each of which requires significant judgments and estimates on the part of management, are the most critical to aid in fully understanding and evaluating our reported financial results:

•revenue recognition;

•income taxes;

•research and development accruals;

•leases; and

•collaborations; intangible assets and variable interest entities.

Our accounting policies, including the ones discussed below, are more fully described in the Notes to our consolidated financial statements, including Note A, “Nature of Business and Accounting Policies,” included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Revenue Recognition

Product Revenues, Net

We generate product revenues from sales in the United States and in international markets. We sell our products principally to a limited number of specialty pharmacy and specialty distributors in the United States, which account for the largest portion of our total revenues, and make international sales primarily to specialty distributors and retail chains, as well as hospitals and clinics, many of which are government-owned or supported customers, collectively, our customers. Our customers in the United States subsequently resell our products to patients and health care providers. We contract with government agencies so that our products will be eligible for purchase by, or partial or full reimbursement from, such third-party payors. We recognize net product revenues from sales of our products when our customers obtain control of our products, which typically occurs upon delivery to our customers. Revenues from our product sales are recorded at the net sales price, or “transaction price,” which requires us to make several significant estimates regarding the net sales price. 

The most significant estimate we are required to make is related to government and private payor rebates, chargebacks, discounts and fees, collectively rebates. The value of the rebates provided to third-party payors per course of treatment vary significantly and are based on government-mandated discounts and our arrangements with other third-party payors. In order to estimate our total rebates, we estimate the percentage of prescriptions that will be covered by each third-party payor, which is referred to as the payor mix. We track available information regarding changes, if any, to the payor mix for our products, to our contractual terms with third-party payors and to applicable governmental programs and regulations and levels of our products in the distribution channel. We adjust our estimated rebates based on new information, including information regarding actual rebates for our products, as it becomes available. Claims by third-party payors for rebates are submitted to us significantly after the related sales, potentially resulting in adjustments in the period in which the new information becomes known. Our credits to revenue related to prior period sales have not been significant (typically less than 1% of gross product revenues) and primarily related to U.S. rebates. 

58

The following table summarizes activity related to our accruals for rebates for the three years ended December 31, 2018: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

We have also entered into contracts with government-owned and supported customers in international markets that limit the amount of annual reimbursement we can receive. Upon exceeding the annual reimbursement amount, products are provided free of charge. We defer a portion of the consideration received, which include upfront payment and fees, for shipments made up to the annual reimbursement limit and the deferred amount is recognized as revenue when the free products are shipped. In order to estimate the portion of the consideration received to recognize as revenue and the portion of the amount to defer, we rely on our forecast of the number of units we will distribute during the applicable annual period in each international market in which our contracts with government-owned and supported customers limit the amount of annual reimbursement we can receive. Our forecasts are based on, among other things, our historical experience.

The preceding estimates and judgments materially affect our recognition of net product revenues. Changes in our estimates of net product revenues could have a material affect on net product revenues recorded in the period in which we determine that change occurs. 

French Early Access Programs

We began distributing ORKAMBI through early access programs in France in 2015 and are engaged in ongoing pricing discussions regarding the final price for ORKAMBI in France. Our consolidated balance sheets included $354.4 million and $232.4 million collected as of December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively, in France related to ORKAMBI that are classified as “Early access sales accrual” related to amounts collected in France as payment for shipments of ORKAMBI under the early access programs at the invoiced price. We expect the difference between the amounts collected at the invoiced price and the final price for ORKAMBI in France will be returned to the French government. 

We did not recognize ORKAMBI net product revenues from sales in France under the accounting guidance that was applicable until December 31, 2017. Pursuant to ASC 606, which we adopted on January 1, 2018, we recorded an $8.3 million cumulative effect adjustment to “Accumulated deficit” primarily related to ORKAMBI net product revenues from sales in France and we began recognizing ORKAMBI net product revenues based on our estimate of consideration we expect to retain that will not be subject to a significant reversal, which results in recognized revenue that represents a small percentage of the invoiced price. If our estimates regarding the amounts we will receive pursuant to these programs change, we will reflect the effect of the change in estimate in net product revenues in the period in which the change in estimate occurs and will include adjustments to all prior sales of ORKAMBI under the early access programs. Depending on the final price of ORKAMBI and because the current estimate is based on the amount that will not be subject to a significant reversal in amounts recognized, this adjustment could be material. 

Collaborative and Royalty Revenues

We recognize collaborative and royalty revenues generated through collaborative research, development and/or commercialization agreements. The terms of these agreements typically include payment to us of one or more of the following: nonrefundable, upfront license fees; development and commercial milestone payments; funding of research and/or development activities; and royalties on net sales of licensed products. 

59

In connection, with upfront license fees and milestone payments we receive from these agreements we are required to determine the amount and timing of revenue recognition. These payments can either be recognized immediately or as we complete the performance obligations that we identify as required by the applicable accounting standard. In order to make this determination, we identify all material performance obligations, which may include a license to intellectual property and know-how, research and development activities and/or transition activities. In order to determine the transaction price, in addition to any upfront payment, we estimate the amount of variable consideration at the outset of the contract utilizing either the expected value method or most likely amount method, depending on the facts and circumstances relative to the contract. We constrain (reduce) the estimate of variable consideration such that it is probable that a significant reversal of previously recognized revenue will not occur throughout the life of the contract. When determining if variable consideration should be constrained, we consider whether there are factors outside our control that could result in a significant reversal of revenue. In making these assessments, we consider the likelihood and magnitude of a potential reversal of revenue. 

Once the estimated transaction price is established, amounts are allocated to the performance obligations that have been identified. The transaction price is generally allocated to each separate performance obligation on a relative standalone selling price basis. In order to account for these agreements, we must develop assumptions that require judgment to determine the standalone selling price, which may include (i) the probability of obtaining marketing approval for the drug candidate, (ii) estimates regarding the timing of and the expected costs to develop and commercialize the drug candidate, (iii) estimates of future cash flows from potential product sales with respect to the drug candidate and (iv) appropriate discount and tax rates. 

Income Taxes 

We were engaged in research and development activities and incurred significant net operating losses for a number of years before recently becoming profitable. Since we started generating profits, we have used a portion of our net operating losses and maintained a valuation allowance on the majority of our net operating losses and other deferred tax assets until December 31, 2018. Accordingly, we have not reported any tax benefits relating to our net operating loss carryforwards and income tax credit carryforwards that are available for utilization in future periods. As of December 31, 2018, we released the valuation allowance on the majority of our net operating losses and other deferred tax assets resulting in a non-cash benefit from income taxes of $1.56 billion in the fourth quarter of 2018. 

We provide a valuation allowance when it is more likely than not that deferred tax assets will not be realized. On a periodic basis, we reassess our valuation allowances on our deferred tax assets, weighing positive and negative evidence to assess the recoverability of the deferred tax assets. In the fourth quarter of 2018, we reassessed our valuation allowances and considered positive evidence including significant cumulative consolidated and U.S. income over the three years ended December 31, 2018, revenue growth, clinical program progression, including the advancement and clinical trial data from our triple combination regimens, and expectations regarding future profitability, and negative evidence, including potential impact of competition on our projections and cumulative losses in on the jurisdictions. After assessing both the positive evidence and the negative evidence, we released the valuation allowance on the majority of our net operating losses and other deferred tax assets as of December 31, 2018. 

Significant judgment is required in making these assessments to maintain or reverse our valuation allowances and, to the extent our future expectations change we would have to assess the recoverability of these deferred tax assets at that time. The determination to release the majority of our valuation allowances increased our net income by $1.56 billion, or $6.03 per share in 2018. In 2019, due to our release of the majority of our valuation allowance in 2018, we expect to continue to utilize our net operating losses to offset income, but expect to begin recording a significant provision for income taxes reflecting the utilization of our deferred tax assets.

We utilize the asset and liability method of accounting for income taxes. Under this method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on the difference between the financial statement carrying amounts and tax basis of assets and liabilities using enacted tax rates in effect for years in which the temporary differences are expected to reverse. If our estimate of the tax effect of reversing temporary differences is (i) not reflective of actual outcomes, (ii) modified to reflect new developments or interpretations of the tax law, or (iii) revised to incorporate new accounting principles, or changes in the expected timing or manner of the reversal, our results of operations could be materially impacted. 

Research and Development Accruals

Research and development expenses, including amounts funded through research and development collaborations, are expensed as incurred. When third-party service providers’ billing terms do not coincide with our period-end, we are required to make estimates of our obligations to those third parties, including clinical trial and pharmaceutical development costs, contractual services costs, costs for drug supply, marketing expenses and infrastructure expenses incurred in a given 

60

accounting period and record accruals at the end of the period. We base our estimates on our knowledge of the research and development programs, services performed for the period, experience with related activities and the expected duration of the third-party service contract, where applicable. Due to the scope of the research and development activities being conducted and the complexity of our clinical expense models, the estimates and judgments that we make affect the timing of our research and development expense for a reporting period and the related accruals on our consolidated balance sheet. These estimates are not likely to significantly affect the total expense we record over the course of a clinical trial or other research and development activity.

Leases

Our leases, and in particular the leases for our primary facilities, require significant judgment in order to determine the levels of operating expenses and interest expenses we record to our consolidated statement of operations and the amounts recorded on our consolidated balance sheet associated with the leases:

•Until December 31, 2018, we were required to determine whether we would be deemed for accounting purposes to be the owner of these buildings as they were constructed. Upon completion of these buildings, we were required to determine whether or not the underlying leases met the criteria for “sale-leaseback” treatment.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

As of December 31, 2018, because our corporate headquarters and San Diego building did not qualify for sale-leaseback treatment when construction was completed, we recorded the cost of construction of these buildings as “Property and equipment, net” and the related lease obligations as “Construction financing lease obligation,” on our consolidated balance sheets. Accordingly, we depreciated the assets and incurred interest expense associated with the financing obligation for these buildings. We bifurcated our lease payments pursuant to the leases into (i) a portion that is allocated to the buildings and (ii) a portion that is allocated to the land on which the buildings were constructed. In 2018, we incurred approximately (1) $15 million in depreciation expense and $7 million in rent expense, each of which is included in our operating expenses and (2) $65 million in interest expenses, related to these leases. The amounts reflected on our consolidated balance sheet and expenses incurred on our consolidated statement of operations required estimates regarding the useful life of the building and appropriate discount rates.

Beginning on January 1, 2019, we are accounting for our primary facilities under ASC 842. ASC 842 continues to require us to use significant judgment to determine whether these buildings should be accounted for as financing or operating leases including the fair value of the buildings at the inception of the lease and appropriate discount rates. Whether the buildings are recorded as financing or operating leases will result in significant shifts in the classification of expenses between operating expenses and interest expense on our consolidated statement of operations. This determination will also impact the amount and classification of assets and liabilities on our consolidated balance sheet. 

Under ASC 842, we will account for our corporate headquarters and San Diego buildings as financing leases requiring us to account for these buildings over their respective lease terms, which are significantly shorter than these buildings’ useful lives. Under previous guidance, we utilized an estimated useful life of 40 years for these buildings consistent with a useful life an owner would apply to its buildings. As a result, we depreciated the buildings over 40 years, which also impacted the amount of interest expense that we recorded on an annual basis. As a result, in 2019, we expect we will record the following related to our corporate headquarters and San Diego leases: (i) operating expenses of approximately $48 million (an increase of approximately $26 million compared to 2018) and (ii) interest expense of approximately $52 million (a decrease of approximately $13 million compared to 2018).

Collaborations; Intangible Assets and Variable Interest Entities 

Our collaborations require us to apply accounting policies that involve significant judgments and that have a material effect on our consolidated financial statements. For example, in 2017, we deconsolidated Parion, a VIE that we had consolidated since 2015, and recorded an intangible asset impairment charge of $255.3 million related to Parion’s pulmonary ENaC platform. 

We review each collaboration agreement pursuant to which we license assets owned by a collaborator in order to determine whether we have a variable interest via the license agreement with the collaborator and if the variable interest is a variable interest in the collaborator as a whole. In connection with this assessment, we consider and make judgments regarding the following, among other factors: (1) whether the collaborator is a business; (2) the purpose and design of the collaborator; (3) the value of the licensed asset(s) as compared to the value of the collaborator as a whole; and (4) which party has the power to direct the activities that most significantly affect the collaborator’s economic performance. 

61

We evaluate on a quarterly basis if we continue to have a variable interest in each VIE and are the primary beneficiary of the VIE, and if we later determine that we no longer have a variable interest or are no longer the primary beneficiary, we deconsolidate the applicable VIE. This evaluation involves an assessment of the activities being conducted pursuant to our collaboration agreement with the collaborator, the collaborator’s financial statements, discussions with the collaborator’s management regarding its other activities, including any new collaborations, financing activities, clinical data and the collaborator’s other programs. 

We believe that the following effects of the consolidation and deconsolidation of VIEs on our consolidated financial statements are the most significant:

•In periods in which we consolidate a VIE, we record net income (loss) attributable to our VIEs’ noncontrolling interest. This net income (loss) reflects our VIEs’ net income (loss) for the period as adjusted for gains and losses in the fair value of the contingent payments, which consist of milestone, royalty and option payments, payable by us to our VIEs. The changes in the fair value of contingent payments decrease or increase our net loss attributable to Vertex on a dollar-for-dollar basis. [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•In order to account for the fair value of the intangible assets and contingent payments related to collaborations with our VIEs, we use present-value models based on assumptions regarding the probability of achieving the relevant milestones, estimates regarding the timing of achieving the milestones, estimates of future product sales and the appropriate discount rates. Significant judgment is used in determining the appropriateness of these assumptions during each reporting period. Changes in these assumptions could have a material effect on the fair value of the contingent payments and affect the analysis of whether or not an intangible asset is impaired.

•The revenues, research and development expenses and sales, general and administrative expenses of our VIEs that are unrelated to the programs that we in-license from our VIEs and that are consolidated into our financial statements are set forth in the table below and represent approximately 2% or less of our revenues, research and development expenses and sales, general and administrative expenses in each period: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS

Refer to Note A, “Nature of Business and Accounting Policies,” in the accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements for a discussion of recent accounting pronouncements and new accounting pronouncements adopted during 2018. 

ITEM 7A.QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK