Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURE ABOUT MARKET RISK

We are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates, interest rates and commodity prices which could impact our results of operations and financial condition. 

Foreign Currency Exposures

We have operations throughout the world that manufacture and sell products in various international markets. As a result, we are exposed to movements in exchange rates of various currencies against the U.S. dollar as well as against other currencies throughout the world. We actively manage material currency exposures that are associated with purchases and sales and other assets and liabilities at the legal entity level; however, we do not hedge currency translation risk. We attempt to hedge exposures that cannot be naturally offset to an insignificant amount with foreign currency derivatives. Derivative instruments utilized by us in our hedging activities are viewed as risk management tools, involve little complexity and are not used for trading or speculative purposes. To minimize the risk of counter party non-performance, derivative instrument agreements are made only through major financial institutions with significant experience in such derivative instruments.

We evaluate our exposure to changes in currency exchange rates on our foreign currency derivatives using a sensitivity analysis. The sensitivity analysis is a measurement of the potential loss in fair value based on a percentage change in exchange rates. Based on the firmly committed currency derivative instruments in place at December 31, 2018, a hypothetical change in fair value of those derivative instruments assuming a 10% adverse change in exchange rates would result in an additional unrealized loss of approximately $6.8 million. This amount, when realized, would be partially offset by changes in the fair value of the underlying transactions.

Commodity Price Exposures

We are exposed to volatility in the prices of commodities used in some of our products and we use fixed price contracts to manage this exposure. We do not have committed commodity derivative instruments in place at December 31, 2018.

Interest Rate Exposure

Outstanding borrowings under the Credit Facilities accrue interest at the option of the Company of (i) a LIBOR rate plus the applicable margin or (ii) a base rate plus the applicable margin. The applicable margin ranges from 1.125% to 1.500% depending on the Company's credit ratings. At December 31, 2018, the outstanding borrowings under the Term Facility accrue interest at LIBOR plus a margin of 1.250%. To manage the Company's exposure to fluctuations in LIBOR rates, the Company has interest rate swaps to fix the interest rate for $250.0 million of the outstanding borrowings. 

These swaps expire in September 2020. A 100 basis-point increase in LIBOR would have resulted in incremental 2018 interest expense of approximately $4.3 million. If the base interest rate in our credit facilities increases in the future, our floating-rate debt could have a material effect on our interest expense.

 47
Item 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA