ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. 

 (In Millions, Except Per Share Data or As Otherwise Stated Herein)

 This Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, or MD&A, should be read in conjunction with our audited consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. References to the terms “we,” “our,” “us,” “Anthem” or the “Company” used throughout this MD&A refer to Anthem, Inc., an Indiana corporation, and, unless the context otherwise requires, its direct and indirect subsidiaries. References to the “states” include the District of Columbia, unless the context otherwise requires.

Overview

We are one of the largest health benefits companies in the United States in terms of medical membership, serving approximately 40 medical members through our affiliated health plans as of December 31, 2018. We are an independent licensee of the Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association, or BCBSA, an association of independent health benefit plans. We serve our members as the Blue Cross licensee for California and as the Blue Cross and Blue Shield, or BCBS, licensee for Colorado, Connecticut, Georgia, Indiana, Kentucky, Maine, Missouri (excluding 30 counties in the Kansas City area), Nevada, New Hampshire, New York (in the New York City metropolitan area and upstate New York), Ohio, Virginia (excluding the Northern Virginia suburbs of Washington, D.C.) and Wisconsin. In a majority of these service areas, we do business as Anthem Blue Cross, Anthem Blue Cross and Blue Shield, Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Georgia, and Empire Blue Cross Blue Shield or Empire Blue Cross. We also conduct business through arrangements with other BCBS licensees in Louisiana, South Carolina and western New York. Through our subsidiaries, we also serve customers in over 25 states across the country as America’s 1st Choice, Amerigroup, Aspire Health, CareMore, Freedom Health, HealthLink, HealthSun, Optimum HealthCare, Simply Healthcare, and/or UniCare. We are licensed to conduct insurance operations in all 50 states and the District of Columbia through our subsidiaries. 

We manage our operations through three reportable segments: Commercial & Specialty Business, Government Business and Other. During the fourth quarter of 2018, we reclassified certain ancillary businesses to align how our segments are currently being managed. Prior year amounts have been reclassified for comparability.

Our operating revenue consists of premiums and administrative fees and other revenue. Premium revenue comes from fully-insured contracts where we indemnify our policyholders against costs for covered health and life benefits. Administrative fees come from contracts where our customers are self-insured, or where the fee is based on either processing of transactions or a percent of network discount savings realized. Additionally, we earn administrative fee revenues from our Medicare processing business and from other health-related businesses including disease management programs. Other revenue includes miscellaneous income other than premium revenue and administrative fees.

Our benefit expense primarily includes costs of care for health services consumed by our fully-insured members, such as outpatient care, inpatient hospital care, professional services (primarily physician care) and pharmacy benefit costs. All four components are affected both by unit costs and utilization rates. Unit costs include the cost of outpatient medical procedures per visit, inpatient hospital care per admission, physician fees per office visit and prescription drug prices. Utilization rates represent the volume of consumption of health services and typically vary with the age and health status of our members and their social and lifestyle choices, along with clinical protocols and medical practice patterns in each of our markets. A portion of benefit expense recognized in each reporting period consists of actuarial estimates of claims incurred but not yet paid by us. Any changes in these estimates are recorded in the period the need for such an adjustment arises. While we offer a diversified mix of managed care products and services through our managed care plans, our aggregate cost of care can fluctuate based on a change in the overall mix of these products and services. Our managed care plans include: Preferred Provider Organizations, or PPOs; Health Maintenance Organizations, or HMOs; Point-of-Service plans, or POS plans; traditional indemnity plans and other hybrid plans, including Consumer-Driven Health Plans, or CDHPs; and hospital only and limited benefit products. 

We classify certain claims-related costs as benefit expense to reflect costs incurred for our members’ traditional medical care, as well as those expenses which improve our members’ health and medical outcomes. These claims-related costs may be comprised of expenses incurred for: (i) medical management, including case and prospective utilization management; (ii) health and wellness, including disease management services for such conditions as diabetes, high-risk pregnancies, 

-42-

congestive heart failure and asthma management and wellness initiatives like weight-loss programs and smoking cessation treatments; and (iii) clinical health policy such as identification and use of best clinical practices to avoid harm, identifying clinical errors and safety concerns, and identifying potential adverse drug interactions. These types of claims-related costs are designed to ultimately lower our members’ cost of care. 

Our selling, general and administrative expenses consist of fixed and variable costs. Examples of fixed costs are depreciation, amortization and certain facilities expenses. Certain variable costs, such as premium taxes, vary directly with premium volume. Commission expense generally varies with premium or membership volume. Other variable costs, such as salaries and benefits, do not vary directly with changes in premium but are more aligned with changes in membership. The acquisition or loss of a significant block of business would likely impact staffing levels and thus, associated compensation expense. Other variable costs include professional and consulting expenses and advertising. Other factors can impact our administrative cost structure, including systems efficiencies, inflation and changes in productivity.

Our results of operations depend in large part on our ability to accurately predict and effectively manage healthcare costs through effective contracting with providers of care to our members and our medical management and health and wellness programs. Several economic factors related to healthcare costs, such as regulatory mandates of coverage as well as direct-to-consumer advertising by providers and pharmaceutical companies, have a direct impact on the volume of care consumed by our members. The potential effect of escalating healthcare costs, any changes in our ability to negotiate competitive rates with our providers and any regulatory or market-driven restrictions on our ability to obtain adequate premium rates to offset overall inflation in healthcare costs, including increases in unit costs and utilization resulting from the aging of the population and other demographics, as well as advances in medical technology, may impose further risks to our ability to profitably underwrite our business, and may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. 

For additional information about our business and reportable segments, see Part I, Item 1, “Business” and in Note 19, “Segment Information” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Business Trends

The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010, as amended, or collectively, the ACA, has changed and may continue to make broad-based changes to the U.S. healthcare system, which we expect will continue to impact our business model and strategy. Also, the legal challenges regarding the ACA, including the ultimate outcome of the December 2018 decision of the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Texas, Fort Worth Division invalidating the ACA (the “2018 Texas District Court ACA Decision”), which judgment has been stayed pending appeal, could significantly disrupt our business. During 2018, we strategically reduced our participation in the Individual ACA-compliant market. Our strategy has been, and will continue to be, to only participate in rating regions where we have an appropriate level of confidence that these markets are on a path toward sustainability, including, but not limited to, factors such as expected financial performance, regulatory environment, and underlying market characteristics. We currently offer Individual ACA-compliant products in 73 of the 143 rating regions in which we operate.

In October 2017, we established a new pharmacy benefits manager, or PBM, called IngenioRx, and entered into a five-year agreement with CaremarkPCS Health, L.L.C., or CVS Health, which is a subsidiary of CVS Health Corporation, to begin offering PBM solutions upon the conclusion of our current PBM Agreement with Express Scripts Inc., or Express Scripts. The twelve-month transition period to migrate the services from Express Scripts begins March 2, 2019, at which time CVS Health can begin providing certain PBM services to IngenioRx. We expect IngenioRx to provide our members with more cost-effective solutions and improve our ability to integrate pharmacy benefits within our already strong medical and specialty platform.

Pricing Trends: We strive to price our healthcare benefit products consistent with anticipated underlying medical trends. We frequently make adjustments to respond to legislative and regulatory changes as well as pricing and other actions taken by existing competitors and new market entrants. Product pricing in our Commercial & Specialty Business segment, including our Individual and Small Group lines of business, remains competitive. The ACA imposed an annual Health Insurance Provider Fee, or HIP Fee, on health insurers that write certain types of health insurance on U.S. risks. We price our affected products to cover the impact of the HIP Fee. The HIP Fee was suspended for 2019 and is scheduled to resume for 2020.

-43-

Revenues from the Medicare and Medicaid programs are dependent, in whole or in part, upon annual funding from the federal government and/or applicable state governments. 

Medical Cost Trends: Our medical cost trends are primarily driven by increases in the utilization of services across all provider types and the unit cost increases of these services. We work to mitigate these trends through various medical management programs such as utilization management, condition management, program integrity and specialty pharmacy management, as well as benefit design changes. There are many drivers of medical cost trends that can cause variance from our estimates, such as changes in the level and mix of services utilized, regulatory changes, aging of the population, health status and other demographic characteristics of our members, epidemics, advances in medical technology, new high cost prescription drugs, and healthcare provider or member fraud. Our underlying Local Group medical cost trends reflect the “allowed amount,” or contractual rate, paid to providers. We estimate that our aggregate cost of care trend was slightly below the midpoint of our 5.5% to 6.5% range for the full year of 2018. We anticipate the Local Group medical cost trend will be in the range of 5.5% to 6.5% in 2019.

For additional discussion regarding business trends, see Part I, Item 1 “Business” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Regulatory Trends and Uncertainties

The ACA presented us with new growth opportunities, but also introduced new risks, regulatory challenges and uncertainties, and required changes in the way products are designed, underwritten, priced, distributed and administered. Changes to our business environment are likely to continue for the next several years as elected officials at the national and state levels continue to propose and enact significant modifications to existing laws and regulations, including the reduction of the individual mandate penalty to zero effective January 1, 2019, elimination of funding for cost-sharing subsidies made available for qualified individuals, and changes to taxes and fees. In addition, the legal challenges regarding the ACA, including the ultimate outcome of the 2018 Texas District Court ACA Decision, continue to contribute to this uncertainty. We will continue to evaluate the impact of the ACA as additional guidance is made available and any further developments or judicial rulings occur.

The annual HIP Fee is allocated to health insurers based on the ratio of the amount of an insurer’s net premium revenues written during the preceding calendar year to the amount of health insurance premium for all U.S. health risk for those certain lines of business written during the preceding calendar year. We record our estimated liability for the HIP Fee in full at the beginning of the year with a corresponding deferred asset that is amortized on a straight-line basis to selling, general and administrative expense. The final calculation and payment of the annual HIP Fee is due by September 30th of each fee year. The HIP Fee is non-deductible for federal income tax purposes. We price our affected products to cover the increased selling, general and administrative and income tax expenses associated with the HIP Fee. The total amount due from allocations to health insurers was $14,300 for 2018, and we recognized $1,544 as selling, general and administrative expense related to the HIP Fee. There was no corresponding expense for 2017 due to the suspension of the HIP Fee for 2017. The HIP Fee is suspended for 2019 and scheduled to resume for 2020.

As a result of the ACA, the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, or HHS, issued Medical Loss Ratio, or MLR, regulations that require us to meet minimum MLR thresholds of 85% for Large Group and 80% for Small Group and Individual lines of business. Plans that do not meet the minimum thresholds have to pay a MLR rebate. For purposes of determining MLR rebates, HHS has defined the types of costs that should be included in the MLR rebate calculation. However, certain components of the MLR calculation as defined by HHS cannot be classified consistently under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP. While considered benefit expense or a reduction of premium revenue by HHS, certain of these costs are classified as other types of expense, such as selling, general and administrative expense or income tax expense, in our GAAP basis financial statements. Accordingly, the benefit expense ratio determined using our consolidated GAAP operating results is not comparable to the MLR calculated under HHS regulations.

The ACA also imposed a separate minimum MLR threshold of 85% for Medicare Advantage and Medicare Part D prescription drug plans, or Medicare Part D. Medicare Advantage or Medicare Part D plans that do not meet this threshold have to pay an MLR rebate. If a plan’s MLR is below 85% for three consecutive years beginning with 2014, enrollment is restricted. A Medicare Advantage or Medicare Part D plan contract will be terminated if the plan’s MLR is below 85% for five consecutive years.

-44-

For additional discussion regarding regulatory trends and uncertainties, and risk factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in forward-looking statements made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, see Part I, Item 1 “Business - Regulation” and Part I, Item 1A “Risk Factors.”

Other Significant Items or Transactions

In October 2017, we established IngenioRx and entered into a five-year agreement with CVS Health to begin offering PBM solutions (the “CVS PBM Agreement”), which coincides with the conclusion of our current PBM agreement with Express Scripts (the “ESI PBM Agreement”). In January 2019, we exercised our contractual right to terminate the ESI PBM Agreement earlier than the original expiration date of December 31, 2019 due to the recent acquisition of Express Scripts by Cigna Corporation, or Cigna. As a result of exercising our early termination right, the ESI PBM Agreement will now terminate on March 1, 2019, and the twelve-month transition period to migrate the services begins on March 2, 2019. At that time CVS Health is able to begin providing certain PBM services to IngenioRx pursuant to the CVS PBM Agreement. Notwithstanding our termination of the ESI PBM Agreement, the litigation between us and Express Scripts regarding the ESI PBM Agreement continues. In March 2016, we filed a lawsuit against Express Scripts seeking to recover damages for pharmacy pricing that is higher than competitive benchmark pricing and damages related to operational breaches. Express Scripts filed an answer to the lawsuit disputing our contractual claims and alleging various defenses and counterclaims. For additional information regarding this lawsuit, see Note 13, “Commitments and Contingencies - Litigation and Regulatory Proceedings - Express Scripts, Inc. Pharmacy Benefit Management Litigation,” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

On February 15, 2018, we completed our acquisition of Freedom Health, Inc., Optimum HealthCare, Inc., America’s 1st Choice of South Carolina, Inc. and related entities, or collectively, America’s 1st Choice, a Medicare Advantage organization that offers HMO products, including Chronic Special Needs Plans and Dual-Eligible Special Needs Plans under its Freedom Health and Optimum HealthCare brands in Florida and its America’s 1st Choice of South Carolina brand in South Carolina. At the time of acquisition, through its Medicare Advantage Plans, America’s 1st Choice served approximately one hundred and thirty-five thousand members in 25 Florida and 3 South Carolina counties. This acquisition aligned with our plans for continued growth in the Medicare Advantage and Special Needs populations.

In December 2017, we acquired HealthSun Health Plans, Inc., or HealthSun, which at the time of acquisition served approximately forty thousand members in the state of Florida through its Medicare Advantage plans, and which received a five-star rating from the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services. This acquisition aligned with our plans for continued growth in the Medicare Advantage and dual-eligible populations.

For additional information related to the acquisitions of America’s 1st Choice and HealthSun, see Note 3, “Business Acquisitions,” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

In May 2017, we announced that we were terminating the Agreement and Plan of Merger, or Cigna Merger Agreement, between us and Cigna. Both we and Cigna have commenced litigation against the other seeking various actions and damages, including Cigna’s damage claim for a $1,850 termination fee pursuant to the terms of the Cigna Merger Agreement. For additional information about the ongoing litigation related to the Cigna Merger Agreement, see Note 13, “Commitments and Contingencies - Litigation and Regulatory Proceedings - Cigna Corporation Merger Litigation,” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Other significant transactions in recent years that have impacted or will impact our capital structure or that have influenced or will influence how we conduct our business operations include our Board of Directors’ declarations of dividends on our common stock (2013 through January 2019), repurchases of our common stock (2019 and prior), and debt repurchases and new debt issuances (2018 and prior). For additional information regarding these transactions, see Note 12, “Debt” and Note 14, “Capital Stock,” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Operating Performance

Operating revenue for the year ended December 31, 2018 was $91,341, an increase of $2,280, or 2.6%, from the year ended December 31, 2017. The increase in operating revenue was primarily a result of higher premium revenue in our 

-45-

Government Business segment, and, to a lesser extent, increased administrative fees and other revenue in our Commercial & Specialty Business segment. These increases were partially offset by a decrease in premium revenue in our Commercial & Specialty Business segment.

Net income for the year ended December 31, 2018 was $3,750, a decrease of $93, or 2.4%, from the year ended December 31, 2017. The decrease in net income was primarily a result of higher income tax expense, net realized losses on investments and increased amortization of other intangible assets. The decrease in net income was partially offset by higher operating results in both our Commercial & Specialty Business and Government Business segments, lower realized losses on extinguishment of debt and an increase in net earnings from investment activities.

Our fully-diluted earnings per share, or EPS, for the year ended December 31, 2018 was $14.19, a decrease of $0.16, or 1.1%, from the year ended December 31, 2017. Our diluted shares for the year ended December 31, 2018 were 264.2, a decrease of 3.6, or 1.3% compared to the year ended December 31, 2017. The decrease in EPS resulted from the decrease in net income, partially offset by the lower number of shares outstanding in 2018.

Operating cash flow for the year ended December 31, 2018 was $3,827, or 1.0 times net income. Operating cash flow for the year ended December 31, 2017 was $4,185, or 1.1 times net income. The decrease in operating cash flow from 2017 of $358 was primarily due to increased spend to support growth initiatives and the impact of membership declines due to our reduced participation in ACA-compliant Individual marketplaces, and to a lesser extent, membership declines in our fully-insured Local Group business. The decrease in cash provided by operating activities was partially offset by cash receipts related to rate increases across our businesses designed to cover overall cost trends. The decrease was further offset by lower income taxes paid in 2018 as a result of the tax bill, H.R.1, An Act to provide for reconciliation pursuant to titles II and V of the concurrent resolution on the budget for fiscal year 2018, or the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, enacted by the federal government on December 22, 2017. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act reduced the U.S. federal corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21% effective January 1, 2018.

Our results of operations discussed throughout this MD&A are determined in accordance with GAAP. We also calculate operating gain, a non-GAAP measure, to further aid investors in understanding and analyzing our core operating results. We define operating revenue as premium income and administrative fees and other revenues. Operating gain is calculated as total operating revenue less benefit expense and selling, general and administrative expense. We use these measures as a basis for evaluating segment performance, allocating resources, forecasting future operating periods and setting incentive compensation targets. This information is not intended to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for income before income tax expense, net income or EPS prepared in accordance with GAAP, and may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. For additional details on operating gain, see our “Reportable Segments Results of Operations” discussion included in this MD&A. For a reconciliation of reportable segment operating revenue to the amounts of total revenue included in the consolidated statements of income and a reconciliation of reportable segment operating gain to income before income tax expense, see Note 19, “Segment Information,” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

We intend to expand through a combination of organic growth, strategic acquisitions and efficient use of capital in both existing and new markets. Our growth strategy is designed to enable us to take advantage of additional economies of scale, as well as providing us access to new and evolving technologies and products. In addition, we believe geographic and product diversity reduces our exposure to local or regional regulatory, economic and competitive pressures and provides us with increased opportunities for growth. In 2018, we reduced our participation in the Individual ACA-compliant market. In all other markets, we have maintained our position or achieved growth as a result of strategic mergers and acquisitions, as well as organic growth resulting from delivering excellent service, offering competitively priced products, providing access to high-quality provider networks and effectively capitalizing on the brand strength of the Blue Cross and Blue Shield names and marks.

-46-

Membership 

Our medical membership includes seven different customer types: Local Group, Individual, National Accounts, BlueCard®, Medicare, Medicaid and FEP®. BCBS-branded business generally refers to members in our service areas licensed by the BCBSA. Non-BCBS-branded business refers to members in our non-BCBS-branded America’s 1st Choice, Amerigroup, CareMore, HealthSun, and Simply Healthcare plans, as well as HealthLink and UniCare members. In addition to the above medical membership, we also serve customers who purchase one or more of our other products or services that are often ancillary to our health business.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•Medicare customers are Medicare-eligible individual members age 65 and over who have enrolled in Medicare Supplement plans; Medicare Advantage, including Special Needs Plans; Medicare Part D; and dual-eligible programs through Medicare-Medicaid Plans, or MMPs. Medicare Supplement plans typically pay the difference between healthcare costs incurred by a beneficiary and amounts paid by Medicare. Medicare Advantage plans provide Medicare beneficiaries with a managed care alternative to traditional Medicare and often include a Medicare Part D benefit. In addition, our Medicare Advantage Special Needs Plans provide tailored benefits to Medicare beneficiaries who have chronic diseases and also cover certain dual-eligible customers, who are low-income seniors 

-47-

and persons under age 65 with disabilities. Medicare Advantage membership also includes Employer Group Medicare Advantage members who are related to National Accounts or retired members of Local Group accounts who have selected a Medicare Advantage product. Medicare Part D offers a prescription drug plan to Medicare and MMP beneficiaries. MMP, which was established as a result of the passage of the ACA, is a demonstration program focused on serving members who are dually eligible for Medicaid and Medicare. Medicare Supplement and Medicare Advantage products are marketed in the same manner, primarily through independent agents and brokers. Medicare business accounted for 4.6%, 3.9% and 3.6% of our medical members at December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

In addition to reporting our medical membership by customer type, we report by funding arrangement according to the level of risk that we assume in the product contract. Our two principal funding arrangement categories are fully-insured and self-funded. Fully-insured products are products in which we indemnify our policyholders against costs for health benefits. Self-funded products are offered to customers, generally larger employers, who elect to retain most or all of the financial risk associated with their employees’ healthcare costs. Some self-funded customers choose to purchase stop loss coverage to limit their retained risk.

During the fourth quarter of 2018 we made a number of changes to our membership reporting to better align our reported membership to the appropriate type, funding arrangement and segment, including movement of our Employer Group Medicare Advantage members from National Accounts to Medicare Advantage, reclassification of these Employer Group members from the Commercial & Specialty Business segment to our Government Business segment, and other marginal changes.

-48-

The following table presents our medical membership by customer type, funding arrangement and reportable segment as of December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016. Also included below is other membership by product. The medical membership and other membership presented are unaudited and in certain instances include estimates of the number of members represented by each contract at the end of the period.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

1Certain types of membership have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation, as described above.

December 31, 2018 Compared to December 31, 2017 

Medical Membership

Total medical membership decreased primarily due to decreases in our Individual, Local Group and FEP membership, partially offset by increases in our Medicare, Medicaid, National Accounts and BlueCard® membership. Our reduced participation in ACA-compliant marketplaces led to the decreases in our Individual and fully-insured memberships. This decrease in fully-insured membership was partially offset by an increase in Medicare membership as a result of our America’s 1st Choice acquisition and higher sales during open enrollment. Self-funded medical membership increased due to 

-49-

increases in our National Accounts and Large Group businesses and higher activity from BlueCard® membership. Local Group membership decreased as a result of competitive pressures in fully-insured membership, partially offset by new sales and growth in our existing self-funded business. National Accounts membership increased primarily due to new sales and growth from existing contracts exceeding lapses. BlueCard® membership increased primarily due to higher membership activity at other BCBSA plans whose members reside in or travel to our licensed areas. Medicare Advantage membership increased primarily due to membership acquired through the acquisition of America’s 1st Choice and organic growth in existing markets. Medicaid membership increased primarily due to new business, partially offset by certain state market contractions and membership reverification processes. 

Other Membership

Growth in our other membership can be impacted by changes in our medical membership, as our medical members often purchase our other products that are ancillary to our health business. We have experienced growth in our life and disability and vision memberships primarily due to higher sales in our Large Group business. Dental membership decreased primarily due to our reduced participation in ACA-compliant marketplaces, partially offset by higher sales in our Local Group and National Accounts businesses. Dental administration membership decreased primarily due to the loss of a large managed dental contract, partially offset by membership expansion under current contracts. 

December 31, 2017 Compared to December 31, 2016 

Medical Membership

Total medical membership increased primarily due to increases in our Local Group and Medicare membership, partially offset by decreases in our Individual, National Accounts, Medicaid, and BlueCard® membership. Self-funded medical membership increased primarily due to new sales and growth in our existing Large Group accounts, partially offset by lower activity from BlueCard® membership and the loss of a large multi-state employer group contract in our National Accounts. Fully-insured membership increased primarily due to higher sales during Medicare open enrollment, new sales in Large Group accounts and Medicare membership acquired through the acquisition of HealthSun. These increases in fully-insured membership were partially offset by attrition in both our non-ACA-compliant and ACA-compliant off-exchange Individual product offerings. Local Group membership increased primarily due to new sales and growth in our existing Large Group accounts. Individual membership decreased primarily due to attrition in both our non-ACA-compliant and ACA-compliant off-exchange product offerings, partially offset by growth in ACA-compliant on-exchange product offerings. National Accounts membership decreased primarily due to the loss of a large multi-state employer group, partially offset by new sales. BlueCard® membership decreased primarily due to lower membership activity at other BCBSA plans whose members reside in or travel to our licensed areas. Medicare membership increased primarily due to higher sales during open enrollment, membership acquired through the acquisition of HealthSun and growth in certain existing Medicare Advantage markets. Medicaid membership decreased primarily due to membership reverification processes and the impact of a new entrant in one of our existing markets, partially offset by new business expansions. 

Other Membership

Life and disability membership decreased primarily due to higher lapses in our fully-insured Local Group business. Dental membership increased primarily due to new sales and increased penetration in our Local Group and National Accounts businesses. Dental administration membership increased primarily due to membership expansion under current contracts. Vision membership increased primarily due to new sales and increased penetration in our National Accounts, Local Group and Medicare product offerings. Medicare Part D standalone membership decreased primarily due to our product repositioning strategies in certain markets.

-50-

Consolidated Results of Operations

Our consolidated summarized results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 are discussed in the following section.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Certain of the following definitions are also applicable to all other results of operations tables in this discussion:

1Includes interest expense, amortization of other intangible assets and loss on extinguishment of debt.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

3bp = basis point; one hundred basis points = 1%.

4Selling, general and administrative expense ratio represents selling, general and administrative expense as a percentage of total operating revenue.

Year Ended December 31, 2018 Compared to the Year Ended December 31, 2017 

Total operating revenue increased primarily from higher premiums, and, to a lesser extent, increased administrative fees and other revenue. Higher premiums were primarily due to rate increases designed to cover overall cost trends and the HIP Fee reinstatement for 2018, as well as membership growth in our Medicare business as a result of our acquisitions of America’s 1st Choice and HealthSun and organic growth in existing markets. These increases in premiums were partially offset by a premium revenue decrease resulting from our reduced participation in ACA-compliant Individual markets in various states and a membership decline in our fully-insured Local Group business. The increase in administrative fees and other revenue primarily resulted from rate increases and membership growth in our self-funded Local Group and National Accounts businesses.

-51-

Net investment income increased primarily due to higher dividend yields on equity securities and higher income from alternative investments.

We recognized net realized losses on financial instruments in 2018 compared to net realized gains on financial instruments in 2017. This change was primarily due to the recognition of changes in the fair values of equity securities from the adoption of Accounting Standards Update No. 2016-01, Financial Instruments - Overall (Subtopic 825-10): Recognition and Measurement of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities, or ASU 2016-01. For additional information related to the adoption of ASU 2016-01, see Note 2, “Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies - Recently Adopted Accounting Guidance,” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The change was further due to an increase in net realized losses on sales of fixed maturity securities, partially offset by increases in net realized gains on sales of equity securities and net realized gains on derivative financial instruments.

Benefit expense decreased primarily due to our reduced participation in ACA-compliant Individual marketplaces in various states. The decrease was partially offset by increased expenses related to membership growth in our Medicare business primarily as a result of our America’s 1st Choice and HealthSun acquisitions and organic growth in existing markets. The decrease was further offset by higher medical costs in our Medicaid business.

Our benefit expense ratio decreased primarily due to the increase in premiums to cover the HIP Fee reinstatement for 2018 and, to a lesser extent, improved medical cost performance in our Commercial & Specialty Business segment. The decrease was partially offset by higher medical costs in our Medicaid business.

Selling, general and administrative expense increased primarily due to the reinstatement of the HIP Fee for 2018. The increase was further attributable to an increase in spend to drive future growth. These increases were partially offset by the recognition of a guaranty fund assessment during 2017 related to the liquidation order of Penn Treaty Network American Insurance Company and its subsidiary American Network Insurance Company, or collectively Penn Treaty, and a decrease in performance-based incentive compensation. 

Our selling, general and administrative expense ratio increased primarily due to the reinstatement of the HIP Fee for 2018. The increase in the ratio was further attributable to an increase in spend to drive future growth. These increases were partially offset by the growth in operating revenue, the impact of the Penn Treaty guaranty fund assessment in 2017 and a decrease in performance-based incentive compensation.

Other expense decreased primarily due to lower debt extinguishment losses. For more information on our debt, see Note 12, “Debt” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The decrease was partially offset by increased amortization of intangible assets acquired with the HealthSun and America’s 1st Choice acquisitions.

Our income tax expense and effective tax rate increased primarily due to the non-recurring income tax benefit we recognized in 2017 related to the remeasurement of our deferred tax balance pursuant to the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act and the reinstatement of the non-tax deductible HIP Fee for 2018. This increase was partially offset by a decrease in income tax expense due to the effect of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, which reduced the U.S. federal corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21% effective January 1, 2018.

Our net income as a percentage of total revenue decreased as a result of all factors discussed above.

Year Ended December 31, 2017 Compared to the Year Ended December 31, 2016 

Total operating revenue increased, resulting primarily from higher premiums, and, to a lesser extent, increased administrative fees and other revenue. Higher premiums were due, in part, to rate increases across our businesses designed to cover overall cost trends. The increase was further attributable to membership growth in our Medicare Advantage and Large Group product offerings. The increase in premiums was partially offset by the impact of the HIP Fee suspension for 2017, as we did not price affected products to cover any HIP Fee related expense in 2017. Additionally declines in both our non-ACA-compliant and ACA-compliant off-exchange Individual businesses, lower favorable adjustments to prior year estimates for the ACA risk adjustment premium stabilization program and declines in our National Accounts business partially offset the overall increase in premiums. The increase in administrative fees and other revenue primarily resulted from membership growth in our self-funded Large Group business.

-52-

Net investment income increased primarily due to higher income from alternative investments and higher investment yields on fixed maturity securities, partially offset by lower dividend yields on equity securities.

Net realized gains on financial instruments increased primarily due to a decrease in net realized losses on derivative financial instruments and an increase in net realized gains on sales of fixed maturity securities, partially offset by a decrease in net realized gains on sales of equity securities.

Other-than-temporary impairment losses on investments decreased primarily due to a decrease in impairment losses on fixed maturity securities.

Benefit expense increased primarily due to increased costs as a result of overall cost trends across our businesses. The increase was further attributable to membership growth in our Medicare Advantage and Large Group business product offerings. These increases were partially offset by the impact of membership declines in both our non-ACA-compliant and ACA-compliant off-exchange Individual product offerings.

Our benefit expense ratio increased in 2017. The increase in the ratio was largely driven by the loss of revenue associated with the HIP Fee suspension for 2017, higher medical cost experience in our Medicare business and adjustments to prior year estimates for the ACA risk adjustment premium stabilization program. The increase in the ratio was partially offset by improved medical cost experience in our Individual business.

Our selling, general and administrative expense increased due, in part, to an increase in spend to support our growth initiatives, the recognition of a guaranty fund assessment related to the liquidation order of Penn Treaty, an increase in performance-based incentive compensation and a legal settlement accrual related to settlement of the 2015 cyber attack class action litigation. For additional information regarding the cyber attack and related settlement, see Note 13, “Commitments and Contingencies - Litigation and Regulatory Proceedings - Cyber Attack Regulatory Proceedings and Litigation,” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. These increases were partially offset by lower ACA fees, primarily as a result of the suspension of the HIP Fee for 2017 and, to a lesser extent, the expiration of the fees for the ACA temporary reinsurance premium stabilization program that ended on December 31, 2016. The increases were further offset by lower selling, general and administrative costs related to expense efficiency initiatives and lower transaction costs related to the terminated Cigna Merger Agreement.

Our selling, general and administrative expense ratio decreased due, in part, to the lower ACA fees discussed above, lower selling, general and administrative costs related to expense efficiency initiatives and growth in operating revenue. These decreases were partially offset by an increase in spend to support our growth initiatives, the impact of the Penn Treaty guaranty fund assessment, an increase in performance-based incentive compensation and the accrual related to the settlement of the 2015 cyber attack class action litigation.

Other expense increased primarily due to losses on extinguishment of debt. For more information on our debt, see Note 12, “Debt” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Income tax expense decreased primarily due to the effect of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, the suspension of the non-tax deductible HIP Fee for 2017 and the favorable impact of our recognition of tax benefits for prior acquisition costs incurred related to the terminated Cigna Merger Agreement. For the year ended December 31, 2017, we recognized a non-recurring income tax benefit related to the remeasurement of our deferred tax balance pursuant to the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. For the year ended December 31, 2016, we recognized additional income tax expense related to the HIP Fee. The decrease in income tax expense was further due to the recognition of excess tax benefits during the year ended December 31, 2017 from the adoption of Accounting Standards Update No. 2016-09, Compensation - Stock Compensation (Topic 718): Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting, or ASU 2016-09. For additional information related to the adoption of ASU 2016-09, see Note 2, “Basis of Presentation of Significant Accounting Policies - Recently Adopted Accounting Guidance” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Additionally, during the year ended December 31, 2016, we recognized additional California deferred state tax expense resulting from specific California legislation related to Managed Care Organizations that did not recur in 2017.

Our effective tax rate decreased primarily due to the effect of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, the suspension of the HIP Fee in 2017, the deduction of the prior acquisition costs incurred related to the terminated Cigna Merger Agreement, the excess tax benefits from the adoption of ASU 2016-09 and the additional 2016 California deferred state tax expense, discussed above.

-53-

Our net income as a percentage of total revenue increased as a result of all factors discussed above. 

Reportable Segments Results of Operations

We use operating gain to evaluate the performance of our reportable segments, which are Commercial & Specialty Business, Government Business, and Other. Operating gain, which is a non-GAAP measure, is calculated as total operating revenue less benefit expense and selling, general and administrative expense. It does not include net investment income, net realized (losses) gains on financial instruments, other-than-temporary impairment losses recognized in income, interest expense, amortization of other intangible assets, loss (gain) on extinguishment of debt or income taxes, as these items are managed in a corporate shared service environment and are not the responsibility of operating segment management. 

The discussion of segment results for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 presented below are based on operating gain, as described above, and operating margin, which is calculated as operating gain divided by operating revenue. Our definitions of operating gain and operating margin may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. For additional information, including a reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures, see Note 19, “Segment Information,” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Our Commercial & Specialty Business, Government Business, and Other segments’ summarized results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 are as follows: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

1Primarily a result of changes in unallocated corporate expenses.

2Certain amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation.

Year Ended December 31, 2018 Compared to the Year Ended December 31, 2017 

Commercial & Specialty Business

Operating revenue decreased primarily due to a decrease in our Individual business membership resulting from our reduced participation in ACA-compliant marketplaces in various states and, to a lesser extent, membership declines in our Local Group fully-insured products. The decrease was partially offset by premium rate increases designed to cover overall cost trends and the impact of the HIP Fee reinstatement for 2018. The decrease was further offset by an increase in administrative fees and other revenue due to rate increases and membership growth in our self-funded Large Group and National Accounts businesses.

Operating gain increased due to improved medical cost performance, the impact of the recognition of the Penn Treaty guaranty fund assessment in 2017, and a decrease in certain selling, general and administrative expenses.

-54-

Government Business

Operating revenue increased primarily due to membership growth in our Medicare business as a result of our acquisitions of America’s 1st Choice and HealthSun and organic growth in existing markets. The increase was further due to premium rate increases designed to cover overall cost trends and the HIP Fee reinstatement for 2018.

Operating gain increased primarily due to the membership growth in our Medicare business described in the preceding paragraph. The increase was further due to retroactive premium adjustments recognized in various Medicaid markets and the impact of the HIP Fee reinstatement. These increases were partially offset by higher medical costs in our Medicaid business.

Year Ended December 31, 2017 Compared to the Year Ended December 31, 2016 

Commercial & Specialty Business

Operating revenue increased primarily due to premium rate increases designed to cover overall cost trends in our Individual and Local Group businesses. The increase was further attributable to membership growth in our fully-insured Large Group business and an increase in administrative fees and other revenue. The increase in administrative fees and other revenue was primarily due to membership growth in our self-insured Large Group business. The increase in operating revenue was partially offset by the impact of the HIP Fee suspension for 2017, declines in membership in our non-ACA-compliant and ACA-compliant off-exchange Individual businesses, lower favorable adjustments to prior year estimates for the ACA risk adjustment premium stabilization program and declines in membership in our National Accounts business.

Operating gain decreased primarily due to the recognition of the guaranty fund assessment related to the Penn Treaty liquidation, an increase in spend to support our growth initiatives and adjustments to prior year estimates for the ACA risk adjustment premium stabilization program. The decrease in operating gain was further due to an increase in performance-based incentive compensation and the settlement accrual for the class action litigation related to the 2015 cyber attack. The decrease in operating gain was partially offset by lower selling, general and administrative costs related to expense efficiency initiatives and fixed costs leverage from higher operating revenue. The decrease in operating gain was further offset by improved medical cost experience in our Individual businesses. 

Government Business

Operating revenue increased primarily due to premium rate increases designed to cover overall cost trends in our Medicaid and Medicare business. The increase was further due to new Medicaid business expansions and membership growth in our Medicare Advantage business. These increases were partially offset by the impact of the HIP Fee suspension for 2017 and Medicaid membership declines resulting from membership reverification processes and the impact of a new entrant in an existing market.

Operating gain decreased primarily due to the impact of the HIP Fee suspension for 2017 and higher medical cost experience in our Medicare business. The decrease was further due to an increase in performance-based incentive compensation and an increase in spend to support our growth initiatives. These decreases were partially offset by lower selling, general and administrative costs related to expense efficiency initiatives and fixed costs leverage from higher operating revenue. 

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates

We prepare our consolidated financial statements in conformity with GAAP. Application of GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes and within this MD&A. We consider our most important accounting policies that require significant estimates and management judgment to be those policies with respect to liabilities for medical claims payable, income taxes, goodwill and other intangible assets, investments and retirement benefits, which are discussed below. Our other significant accounting policies are summarized in Note 2, “Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies,” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

We continually evaluate the accounting policies and estimates used to prepare the consolidated financial statements. In general, our estimates are based on historical experience, evaluation of current trends, information from third-party 

-55-

professionals and various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the known facts and circumstances. Estimates can require a significant amount of judgment and a different set of assumptions could result in material changes to our reported results.

Medical Claims Payable 

The most subjective accounting estimate in our consolidated financial statements is our liability for medical claims payable. At December 31, 2018, this liability was $7,454 and represented 17% of our total consolidated liabilities. We record this liability and the corresponding benefit expense for incurred but not paid claims, including the estimated costs of processing such claims. Incurred but not paid claims include (1) an estimate for claims that are incurred but not reported, as well as claims reported to us but not yet processed through our systems, which approximated 98%, or $7,300, of our total medical claims liability as of December 31, 2018; and (2) claims reported to us and processed through our systems but not yet paid, which approximated 2%, or $154, of the total medical claims payable as of December 31, 2018. The level of claims payable processed through our systems but not yet paid may fluctuate from one period-end to the next, from approximately 1% to 5% of our total medical claims liability, due to timing of when claim payments are made.

Liabilities for both claims incurred but not reported and reported but not yet processed through our systems are determined in the aggregate, employing actuarial methods that are commonly used by health insurance actuaries and meet Actuarial Standards of Practice. Actuarial Standards of Practice require that the claim liabilities be appropriate under moderately adverse circumstances. We determine the amount of the liability for incurred but not paid claims by following a detailed actuarial process that uses both historical claim payment patterns as well as emerging medical cost trends to project our best estimate of claim liabilities. Under this process, historical paid claims data is formatted into “claim triangles,” which compare claim incurred dates to the dates of claim payments. This information is analyzed to create “completion factors” that represent the average percentage of total incurred claims that have been paid through a given date after being incurred. Completion factors are applied to claims paid through the period-end date to estimate the ultimate claim expense incurred for the period. Actuarial estimates of incurred but not paid claim liabilities are then determined by subtracting the actual paid claims from the estimate of the ultimate incurred claims.  

For the most recent incurred months (typically the most recent two months), the percentage of claims paid for claims incurred in those months is generally low. This makes the completion factor methodology less reliable for such months. Therefore, incurred claims for recent months are not projected from historical completion and payment patterns; rather, they are projected by estimating the claims expense for those months based on recent claims expense levels and healthcare trend levels, or “trend factors.” 

Because the reserve methodology is based upon historical information, it must be adjusted for known or suspected operational and environmental changes. These adjustments are made by our actuaries based on their knowledge and their estimate of emerging impacts to benefit costs and payment speed. Circumstances to be considered in developing our best estimate of reserves include changes in utilization levels, unit costs, mix of business, benefit plan designs, provider reimbursement levels, processing system conversions and changes, claim inventory levels, claim processing patterns, claim submission patterns and operational changes resulting from business combinations. A comparison of prior period liabilities to re-estimated claim liabilities based on subsequent claims development is also considered in making the liability determination. In our comparison to prior periods, the methods and assumptions are not changed as reserves are recalculated; rather, the availability of additional paid claims information drives changes in the re-estimate of the unpaid claim liability. To the extent appropriate, changes in such development are recorded as a change to current period benefit expense.

We regularly review and set assumptions regarding cost trends and utilization when initially establishing claim liabilities. We continually monitor and adjust the claims liability and benefit expense based on subsequent paid claims activity. If it is determined that our assumptions regarding cost trends and utilization are materially different than actual results, our income statement and financial position could be impacted in future periods. Adjustments of prior year estimates may result in additional benefit expense or a reduction of benefit expense in the period an adjustment is made. Further, due to the considerable variability of healthcare costs, adjustments to claim liabilities occur each period and are sometimes significant as compared to the net income recorded in that period. Prior period development is recognized immediately upon the actuary’s judgment that a portion of the prior period liability is no longer needed or that an additional liability should have been accrued. That determination is made when sufficient information is available to ascertain that the re-estimate of the liability is reasonable.

-56-

While there are many factors that are used as a part of the estimation of our medical claims payable liability, the two key assumptions having the most significant impact on our incurred but not paid claims liability as of December 31, 2018 were the completion and trend factors. As discussed above, these two key assumptions can be influenced by utilization levels, unit costs, mix of business, benefit plan designs, provider reimbursement levels, processing system conversions and changes, claim inventory levels, claim processing patterns, claim submission patterns and operational changes resulting from business combinations.

There is variation in the reasonable choice of completion factors by duration for durations of three months through twelve months where the completion factors have the most significant impact. As previously discussed, completion factors tend to be less reliable for the most recent months and therefore are not specifically utilized for months one and two. In our analysis for the claim liabilities at December 31, 2018, the variability in months three to five was estimated to be between 40 and 90 basis points, while months six through twelve have much lower estimated variability ranging from 0 to 30 basis points.

The difference in completion factor assumptions, assuming moderately adverse experience, results in variability of 3%, or approximately $213, in the December 31, 2018 incurred but not paid claims liability, depending on the completion factors chosen. It is important to note that the completion factor methodology inherently assumes that historical completion rates will be reflective of the current period. However, it is possible that the actual completion rates for the current period will develop differently from historical patterns and therefore could fall outside the possible variations described herein.

The other major assumption used in the establishment of the December 31, 2018 incurred but not paid claim liability was the trend factors. In our analysis for the period ended December 31, 2018, there was a 300 basis point differential in the high and low trend factors assuming moderately adverse experience. This range of trend factors would imply variability of 5%, or approximately $408, in the incurred but not paid claims liability, depending upon the trend factors used. Because historical trend factors are often not representative of current claim trends, the trend experience for the most recent six to nine months, plus knowledge of recent events likely affecting current trends, have been taken into consideration in establishing the incurred but not paid claims liability at December 31, 2018. 

See Note 11, “Medical Claims Payable,” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, for a reconciliation of the beginning and ending balance for medical claims payable for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016. Components of the total incurred claims for each year include amounts accrued for current year estimated claims expense as well as adjustments to prior year estimated accruals. In Note 11, “Medical Claims Payable,” the line labeled “Net incurred medical claims: Prior years redundancies” accounts for those adjustments made to prior year estimates. The impact of any reduction of “Net incurred medical claims: Prior years redundancies” may be offset as we establish the estimate of “Net incurred medical claims: Current year.” Our reserving practice is to consistently recognize the actuarial best estimate of our ultimate liability for our claims. When we recognize a release of the redundancy, we disclose the amount that is not in the ordinary course of business, if material. 

The ratio of current year medical claims paid as a percent of current year net medical claims incurred was 90.2% for 2018, 89.4% for 2017 and 89.2% for 2016. This ratio serves as an indicator of claims processing speed whereby claims were processed slightly faster during 2018 than in both 2017 and 2016.

We calculate the percentage of prior year redundancies in the current year as a percent of prior year net incurred claims payable less prior year redundancies in the current year in order to demonstrate the development of the prior year reserves. For the year ended December 31, 2018, this metric was 13.7%, largely driven by favorable trend factor development at the end of 2017 as well as favorable completion factor development from 2017. For the year ended December 31, 2017, this metric was 18.9%, largely driven by favorable trend factor development at the end of 2016 as well as favorable completion factor development from 2016. For the year ended December 31, 2016, this metric was 14.2%, largely driven by favorable trend factor development at the end of 2015.

We calculate the percentage of prior year redundancies in the current year as a percent of prior year net incurred medical claims to indicate the percentage of redundancy included in the preceding year calculation of current year net incurred medical claims. We believe this calculation supports the reasonableness of our prior year estimate of incurred medical claims and the consistency in our methodology. For the year ended December 31, 2018, this metric was 1.3%, which was calculated using the redundancy of $930. This metric was 1.8% for 2017 and 1.4% for 2016. These metrics demonstrate a generally consistent level of reserve conservatism.

-57-

The following table shows the variance between total net incurred medical claims as reported in Note 11, “Medical Claims Payable,” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, for each of 2017 and 2016 and the incurred claims for such years had it been determined retrospectively (computed as the difference between “net incurred medical claims – current year” for the year shown and “net incurred medical claims – prior years redundancies” for the immediately following year):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Given that our business is primarily short tailed (which means that medical claims are generally paid within twelve months of the member receiving service from the provider), the variance to total net incurred medical claims, as reported above, is used to assess the reasonableness of our estimate of ultimate incurred medical claims for a given calendar year with the benefit of one year of experience. We expect that substantially all of the development of the 2018 estimate of medical claims payable will be known during 2019.

The 2017 variance to total net incurred medical claims, as reported of (0.3)% was less than the 2016 percentage of 0.5%. The higher 2016 variance was driven by a similar level of prior year redundancies in 2017 associated with 2016 claim payments to the prior year redundancies in 2016 associated with 2015 claims payments. Prior year redundancies in 2018 associated with 2017 claim payments were lower by comparison to the previous year, thus creating a smaller 2017 variance.

Income Taxes

We account for income taxes in accordance with FASB guidance, which requires, among other things, the separate recognition of deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities. Such deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities represent the tax effect of temporary differences between financial reporting and tax reporting measured at tax rates enacted at the time the deferred tax asset or liability is recorded. A valuation allowance must be established for deferred tax assets if it is “more likely than not” that all or a portion may be unrealized. Our judgment is required in determining an appropriate valuation allowance.

At each financial reporting date, we assess the adequacy of the valuation allowance by evaluating each of our deferred tax assets based on the following:

•the types of temporary differences that created the deferred tax asset;

•the amount of taxes paid in prior periods and available for a carry-back claim;

•the tax rate at which the deferred tax assets will likely be utilized at in the future;

•the forecasted future taxable income, and therefore, likely future deduction of the deferred tax item; and

•any significant other issues impacting the likely realization of the benefit of the temporary differences.

We, like other companies, frequently face challenges from tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due. These challenges include questions regarding the timing and amount of deductions that we have taken on our tax returns. In evaluating any additional tax liability associated with various positions taken in our tax return filings, we record additional liabilities for potential adverse tax outcomes. Based on our evaluation of our tax positions, we believe we have appropriately accrued for uncertain tax benefits, as required by the guidance. To the extent we prevail in matters we have accrued for, our future effective tax rate would be reduced and net income would increase. If we are required to pay more than accrued, our future effective tax rate would increase and net income would decrease. Our effective tax rate and net income in any given future period could be materially impacted.

-58-

In the ordinary course of business, we are regularly audited by federal and other tax authorities, and from time to time, these audits result in proposed assessments. We believe our tax positions comply with applicable tax law and we intend to defend our positions vigorously through the federal, state and local appeals processes. We believe we have adequately provided for any reasonably foreseeable outcome related to these matters. Accordingly, although their ultimate resolution may require additional tax payments, we do not anticipate any material impact on our results of operations or financial condition from these matters.

For additional information, see Note 7, “Income Taxes,” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets

Our consolidated goodwill at December 31, 2018 was $20,504 and other intangible assets were $9,007. The sum of goodwill and other intangible assets represented 41.2% of our total consolidated assets and 103.4% of our consolidated shareholders’ equity at December 31, 2018.

We follow FASB guidance for business combinations and goodwill and other intangible assets, which specifies the types of acquired intangible assets that are required to be recognized and reported separately from goodwill. Under the guidance, goodwill and other intangible assets (with indefinite lives) are not amortized but are tested for impairment at least annually. Furthermore, goodwill and other intangible assets are allocated to reporting units for purposes of the annual impairment test. Our impairment tests require us to make assumptions and judgments regarding the estimated fair value of our reporting units, which include goodwill and other intangible assets. In addition, certain other intangible assets with indefinite lives, such as trademarks, are also tested separately.

We complete our annual impairment tests of existing goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite lives during the fourth quarter of each year. These tests involve the use of estimates related to the fair value of goodwill at the reporting unit level and other intangible assets with indefinite lives, and require a significant degree of management judgment and the use of subjective assumptions. Certain interim impairment tests are also performed when potential impairment indicators exist or changes in our business or other triggering events occur. We have the option of first performing a qualitative assessment for each reporting unit to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount which is an indication that our goodwill may be impaired. These qualitative impairment tests include assessing events and factors that could affect the fair value of the indefinite-lived intangible assets. Our procedures include assessing our financial performance, macroeconomic conditions, industry and market considerations, various asset specific factors and entity specific events. If we determine that a reporting unit’s goodwill may be impaired after utilizing these qualitative impairment analysis procedures, we are required to perform a quantitative impairment test.

Our quantitative impairment test utilizes the projected income and market valuation approaches for goodwill and the projected income approach for our indefinite lived intangible assets. Use of the projected income and market valuation approaches for our goodwill impairment test reflects our view that both valuation methodologies provide a reasonable estimate of fair value. The projected income approach is developed using assumptions about future revenue, expenses and net income derived from our internal planning process. These estimated future cash flows are then discounted. Our assumed discount rate is based on our industry’s weighted-average cost of capital. Market valuations are based on observed multiples of certain measures including revenue, EBITDA, and book value of invested capital (debt and equity) and include market comparisons to publicly traded companies in our industry.

We did not incur any impairment losses as a result of our 2018 annual impairment tests, as the estimated fair values of our reporting units were substantially in excess of the carrying values as of December 31, 2018. Additionally, we do not believe that the estimated fair values of our reporting units are at risk of becoming impaired in the next twelve months. 

While we believe we have appropriately allocated the purchase price of our acquisitions, this allocation requires many assumptions to be made regarding the fair value of assets and liabilities acquired. In addition, estimated fair values developed based on our assumptions and judgments might be significantly different if other reasonable assumptions and estimates were to be used. If estimated fair values are less than the carrying values of goodwill and other intangibles with indefinite lives in future annual impairment tests, or if significant impairment indicators are noted relative to other intangible assets subject to amortization, we may be required to record impairment losses against future income.

-59-

For additional information, see Note 3, “Business Acquisitions” and Note 9, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets,” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Investments

Current and long-term marketable investment securities were $18,705 at December 31, 2018 and represented 26.1% of our total consolidated assets at December 31, 2018. We classify fixed maturity securities in our investment portfolio as “available-for-sale” or “trading” and report those securities at fair value. Certain fixed maturity securities are available to support current operations and, accordingly, we classify such investments as current assets without regard to their contractual maturity. Investments used to satisfy contractual, regulatory or other requirements are classified as long-term, without regard to contractual maturity.

We review fixed maturity investment securities to determine if declines in fair value below cost are other-than-temporary. This review is subjective and requires a high degree of judgment. We conduct this review on a quarterly basis, using both qualitative and quantitative factors, to determine whether a decline in value is other-than-temporary. Such factors considered include the length of time and the extent to which a security’s market value has been less than its cost, the reasons for the decline in value (i.e., credit event compared to liquidity, general credit spread widening, currency exchange rate or interest rate factors), financial condition and near term prospects of the issuer, including the credit ratings and changes in the credit ratings of the issuer, recommendations of investment advisors, and forecasts of economic, market or industry trends. 

FASB other-than-temporary impairment, or OTTI, guidance applies to fixed maturity securities and provides guidance on the recognition, presentation of, and disclosures for OTTIs. If a fixed maturity security is in an unrealized loss position and we have the intent to sell the fixed maturity security, or it is more likely than not that we will have to sell the fixed maturity security before recovery of its amortized cost basis, the decline in value is deemed to be other-than-temporary and is presented within the other-than-temporary impairment losses recognized in the income line item on our consolidated statements of income. For impaired fixed maturity securities that we do not intend to sell or it is more likely than not that we will not have to sell such securities, but we expect that we will not fully recover the amortized cost basis, the credit component of the OTTI is presented within the other-than-temporary impairment losses recognized in the income line item on our consolidated statements of income and the non-credit component of the OTTI is recognized in other comprehensive income. Furthermore, unrealized losses entirely caused by non-credit related factors related to fixed maturity securities for which we expect to fully recover the amortized cost basis continue to be recognized in accumulated other comprehensive loss. 

The credit component of an OTTI is determined primarily by comparing the net present value of projected future cash flows with the amortized cost basis of the fixed maturity security. The net present value is calculated by discounting our best estimate of projected future cash flows at the effective interest rate implicit in the fixed maturity security at the date of acquisition. For mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities, cash flow estimates are based on assumptions regarding the underlying collateral, including prepayment speeds, vintage, type of underlying asset, geographic concentrations, default rates, recoveries and changes in value. For all other securities, cash flow estimates are driven by assumptions regarding probability of default, including changes in credit ratings and estimates regarding timing and amount of recoveries associated with a default.

We have a committee of accounting and investment associates and management that is responsible for managing the impairment review process. We believe we have adequately reviewed our investment securities for impairment and that our investment securities are carried at fair value. However, over time, the economic and market environment may provide additional insight regarding the fair value of certain securities, which could change our judgment regarding impairment. This could result in OTTI losses on investments being charged against future income. Given the uncertainty of future market conditions, as well as the significant judgments involved, there is continuing risk that declines in fair value may occur and material OTTI losses on investments may be recorded in future periods.

In addition to marketable investment securities, we held additional long-term investments of $3,726, or 5.2% of total consolidated assets, at December 31, 2018. These long-term investments consisted primarily of certain other equity investments, the cash surrender value of corporate-owned life insurance policies and real estate. Due to their less liquid nature, these investments are classified as long-term.

-60-

Through our investing activities, we are exposed to financial market risks, including those resulting from changes in interest rates and changes in equity market valuations. We manage market risks through our investment policy, which establishes credit quality limits and limits on investments in individual issuers. Ineffective management of these risks could have an impact on our future results of operations and financial condition. Our investment portfolio includes fixed maturity securities with a fair value of $17,179 at December 31, 2018. The weighted-average credit rating of these securities was “A” as of December 31, 2018. Included in this balance are investments in fixed maturity securities of states, municipalities and political subdivisions of $947 that are guaranteed by third parties. With the exception of seven securities with a fair value of $16, these securities are all investment-grade and carry a weighted-average credit rating of “A” as of December 31, 2018. The securities are guaranteed by a number of different guarantors, and we do not have any material exposure to any single guarantor, neither indirectly through the guarantees, nor directly through investment in the guarantor. Further, due to the high underlying credit rating of the issuers, the weighted-average credit rating of the fixed maturity securities without a guarantee, for which such information is available, was “A” as of December 31, 2018.

Fair values of fixed maturity and equity securities are based on quoted market prices, where available. These fair values are obtained primarily from third-party pricing services, which generally use Level I or Level II inputs for the determination of fair value in accordance with FASB guidance for fair value measurements and disclosures. We have controls in place to review the pricing services’ qualifications and procedures used to determine fair values. In addition, we periodically review the pricing services’ pricing methodologies, data sources and pricing inputs to ensure the fair values obtained are reasonable.

We obtain quoted market prices for each security from the pricing services, which are derived through recently reported trades for identical or similar securities, making adjustments through the reporting date based upon available market observable information. For securities not actively traded, the pricing services may use quoted market prices of comparable instruments or discounted cash flow analyses, incorporating inputs that are currently observable in the markets for similar securities. Inputs that are often used in these valuation methodologies include, but are not limited to, broker quotes, benchmark yields, credit spreads, default rates and prepayment speeds. As we are responsible for the determination of fair value, we perform analysis on the prices received from the pricing services to determine whether the prices are reasonable estimates of fair value. Our analysis includes procedures such as a review of month-to-month price fluctuations and price comparisons to secondary pricing services. There were no adjustments to quoted market prices obtained from the pricing services during the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017.

In certain circumstances, it may not be possible to derive pricing model inputs from observable market activity, and therefore, such inputs are estimated internally. Such securities are designated Level III in accordance with FASB guidance. Securities designated Level III at December 31, 2018 totaled $623 and represented approximately 2.9% of our total assets measured at fair value on a recurring basis. Our Level III securities primarily consisted of certain corporate securities and equity securities for which observable inputs were not always available and the fair values of these securities were estimated using internal estimates for inputs including, but not limited to, prepayment speeds, credit spreads, default rates and benchmark yields.

For additional information, see Part II, Item 7A “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk,” and Note 2, “Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies,” Note 4, “Investments,” and Note 6, “Fair Value,” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Retirement Benefits 

Pension Benefits

We sponsor defined benefit pension plans for some of our employees. These plans are accounted for in accordance with FASB guidance for retirement benefits, which requires that amounts recognized in financial statements be determined on an actuarial basis. As permitted by the guidance, we calculate the value of plan assets as described below. Further, the difference between our expected rate of return and the actual performance of plan assets, as well as certain changes in pension liabilities, are amortized over future periods. 

An important factor in determining our pension expense is the assumption for expected long-term return on plan assets. As of our December 31, 2018 measurement date, we selected a weighted-average long-term rate of return on plan assets of 7.44%. We use a total portfolio return analysis in the development of our assumption. Factors such as past market performance, the long-term relationship between fixed maturity and equity securities, interest rates, inflation and asset 

-61-

allocations are considered in the assumption. The assumption includes an estimate of the additional return expected from active management of the investment portfolio. Peer data and an average of historical returns are also reviewed for appropriateness of the selected assumption. We believe our assumption of future returns is reasonable. However, if we lower our expected long-term return on plan assets, future contributions to the pension plan and pension expense would likely increase.

This assumed long-term rate of return on assets is applied to a calculated value of plan assets, which recognizes changes in the fair value of plan assets in a systematic manner over three years, producing the expected return on plan assets that is included in the determination of pension expense. We apply a corridor approach to amortize unrecognized actuarial gains or losses. Under this approach, only accumulated net actuarial gains or losses in excess of 10% of the greater of the projected benefit obligation or the fair value of plan assets are amortized over the average remaining service or lifetime of the workforce as a component of pension expense. The net deferral of past asset gains or losses affects the calculated value of plan assets and, ultimately, future pension expense. 

The discount rate reflects the current rate at which the pension liabilities could be effectively settled at the end of the year based on our most recent measurement date. At the December 31, 2017 measurement date, we changed the discount rate setting methodology from the single equivalent discount rate to the annual spot rate approach. Under the spot rate approach, individual spot rates from a full yield curve of published rates are used to discount each plan’s cash flows to determine the plan’s obligation. The spot rate approach produces a more precise measure of service and interest cost, and results in obligations that are equal at the measurement date under both methods. At the December 31, 2018 measurement date, the weighted-average discount rate under the annual spot rate approach was 4.15%, compared to 3.44% at the December 31, 2017 measurement date. The net effect of changes in the discount rate, as well as the net effect of other changes in actuarial assumptions and experience, have been deferred and amortized as a component of pension expense in accordance with FASB guidance.

In managing the plan assets, our objective is to be a responsible fiduciary while minimizing financial risk. Plan assets include a diversified mix of investment grade fixed maturity securities, equity securities and alternative investments across a range of sectors and levels of capitalization to maximize the long-term return for a prudent level of risk. In addition to producing a reasonable return, the investment strategy seeks to minimize the volatility in our expense and cash flow.

Effective January 1, 2019, we curtailed the benefits under the Anthem Cash Balance Plan B pension plan. All grandfathered participants will no longer have pay credits added to their accounts, but will continue to earn interest on existing account balances. Participants will continue to earn years of pension service for vesting purposes.

Other Postretirement Benefits

We provide most associates with certain medical, vision and dental benefits upon retirement. We use various actuarial assumptions, including a discount rate and the expected trend in healthcare costs, to estimate the costs and benefit obligations for our retiree benefits.

At our December 31, 2018 measurement date, the selected discount rate for all plans was 4.04%, compared to a discount rate of 3.42% at the December 31, 2017 measurement rate. We developed this rate using the annual spot rate approach as described above. 

The assumed healthcare cost trend rates used to measure the expected cost of pre-Medicare (those who are not currently eligible for Medicare benefits) other benefits at our December 31, 2018 measurement date was 7.50% for 2019 with a gradual decline to 4.50% by the year 2028. The assumed healthcare cost trend rates used to measure the expected cost of post-Medicare (those who are currently eligible for Medicare benefits) other benefits at our December 31, 2018 measurement date was 6.00% for 2019 with a gradual decline to 4.50% by the year 2028. These estimated trend rates are subject to change in the future. The healthcare cost trend rate assumption affects the amounts reported. For example, an increase in the assumed healthcare cost trend rate of one percentage point would increase the postretirement benefit obligation as of December 31, 2018 by $24 and would increase service and interest costs by $1. Conversely, a decrease in the assumed healthcare cost trend rate of one percentage point would decrease the postretirement benefit obligation as of December 31, 2018 by $21 and would decrease service and interest costs by $1. 

-62-

For additional information regarding our retirement benefits, see Note 10, “Retirement Benefits,” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

New Accounting Pronouncements

For information regarding new accounting pronouncements that were issued or became effective during the year ended December 31, 2018 that had, or are expected to have, a material impact on our financial position, results of operations or financial statement disclosures, see the “Recently Adopted Accounting Guidance” and “Recent Accounting Guidance Not Yet Adopted” sections of Note 2, “Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies,” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Liquidity and Capital Resources 

Introduction

Our cash receipts result primarily from premiums, administrative fees and other revenue, investment income, proceeds from the sale or maturity of our investment securities, proceeds from borrowings, and proceeds from the issuance of common stock under our employee stock plans. Cash disbursements result mainly from claims payments, administrative expenses, taxes, purchases of investment securities, interest expense, payments on borrowings, acquisitions, capital expenditures, repurchases of our debt securities and common stock and the payment of cash dividends. Cash outflows fluctuate with the amount and timing of settlement of these transactions. Any future decline in our profitability would likely have an unfavorable impact on our liquidity.

We manage our cash, investments and capital structure so we are able to meet the short-term and long-term obligations of our business while maintaining financial flexibility and liquidity. We forecast, analyze and monitor our cash flows to enable investment and financing within the overall constraints of our financial strategy.

A substantial portion of the assets held by our regulated subsidiaries are in the form of cash and cash equivalents and investments. After considering expected cash flows from operating activities, we generally invest cash that exceeds our near term obligations in longer term marketable fixed maturity securities to improve our overall investment income returns. Our investment strategy is to make investments consistent with insurance statutes and other regulatory requirements, while preserving our asset base. Our investments are generally available-for-sale to meet liquidity and other needs. Our subsidiaries pay out excess capital annually in the form of dividends to their respective parent companies for general corporate use, as permitted by applicable regulations.

The availability of financing in the form of debt or equity is influenced by many factors, including our profitability, operating cash flows, debt levels, debt ratings, contractual restrictions, regulatory requirements and market conditions. The securities and credit markets have in the past experienced higher than normal volatility, although current market conditions are more stable. During recent years, the federal government and various governmental agencies have taken a number of steps to improve liquidity in the financial markets and strengthen the regulation of the financial services market. In addition, governments around the world have developed their own plans to provide liquidity and security in the credit markets and to ensure adequate capital in certain financial institutions. 

We have a $2,500 commercial paper program. Should commercial paper issuance be unavailable, we have the ability to use a combination of cash on hand and/or our $3,500 senior revolving credit facility to redeem any outstanding commercial paper upon maturity. Additionally, we believe the lenders participating in our credit facility would be willing and able to provide financing in accordance with their legal obligations. In addition to the $3,500 senior revolving credit facility, we estimate that we expect to receive approximately $2,680 of dividends from our subsidiaries during 2019, which also provides further operating and financial flexibility. 

-63-

A summary of our major sources and uses of cash and cash equivalents for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 is as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Liquidity—Year Ended December 31, 2018 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2017

The decrease in cash provided by operating activities was primarily due to increased spend to support growth initiatives and the impact of membership declines due to our reduced participation in ACA-compliant Individual marketplaces, and to a lesser extent, membership declines in our fully-insured Local Group business. The decrease in cash provided by operating activities was partially offset by cash receipts related to rate increases across our businesses designed to cover overall cost trends. The decrease was further offset by lower income taxes paid in 2018 as a result of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act.

Other significant changes in sources and uses of cash year-over-year included an increase in net proceeds from sales of investments and the issuance of common stock under our Equity Units stock purchase contracts in 2018. These increases in cash were partially offset by an increase in net repayments of commercial paper and short- and long-term debt and increased purchases of property and equipment.

Liquidity— Year Ended December 31, 2017 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2016 

The increase in cash provided by operating activities was primarily attributable to an increase in premium receipts as a result of both rate increases across our businesses designed to cover overall cost trends and growth in membership. The increase in cash flow was partially offset by an increase in claims payments due to higher medical cost experience and 

-64-

growth in membership. The increase was further offset by an increase in spend to support our growth initiatives, the timing of provider capitation payments for pass-through funding under the California Medicaid contract and the timing of certain state Medicaid payments.

Other significant changes in sources and uses of cash year-over-year included an increase in net purchases of investments, cash paid for acquisitions in 2017 and repurchases and retirement of common stock in 2017. These decreases in cash were partially offset by the cash received from the issuances of commercial paper and short- and long-term debt, net of repayments.

Financial Condition

We maintained a strong financial condition and liquidity position, with consolidated cash, cash equivalents and investments in fixed maturity and equity securities of $22,639 at December 31, 2018. Since December 31, 2017, total cash, cash equivalents and investments in fixed maturity and equity securities decreased by $2,540 primarily due to cash used for acquisitions, purchases of property and equipment, repurchases of our common stock, net repayments of commercial paper and short- and long-term debt and cash dividends paid to shareholders. These decreases were partially offset by cash generated from operations and the proceeds received from the issuance of our common stock under Equity Units stock purchase contracts.

Many of our subsidiaries are subject to various government regulations that restrict the timing and amount of dividends and other distributions that may be paid to their respective parent companies. Certain accounting practices prescribed by insurance regulatory authorities, or statutory accounting practices, differ from GAAP. Changes that occur in statutory accounting practices, if any, could impact our subsidiaries’ future dividend capacity. In addition, we have agreed to certain undertakings to regulatory authorities, including the requirement to maintain certain capital levels in certain of our subsidiaries.

At December 31, 2018, we held $1,949 of cash, cash equivalents and investments at the parent company, which are available for general corporate use, including investment in our businesses, acquisitions, potential future common stock repurchases and dividends to shareholders, repurchases of debt securities and debt and interest payments. 

Debt

Periodically, we access capital markets and issue debt, or Notes, for long-term borrowing purposes, for example, to refinance debt, to finance acquisitions or for share repurchases. Certain of these Notes may have a call feature that allows us to redeem the Notes at any time at our option and/or a put feature that allows a Note holder to redeem the Notes upon the occurrence of both a change in control event and a downgrade of the Notes below an investment grade rating. For more information on our debt, including redemptions and issuances, see Note 12, “Debt” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

We calculate our consolidated debt-to-capital ratio, a non-GAAP measure, from the amounts presented on our audited consolidated balance sheets included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our debt-to-capital ratio is calculated as total debt divided by total debt plus total shareholders’ equity. Total debt is the sum of short-term borrowings, current portion of long-term debt, and long-term debt, less current portion. We believe our debt-to-capital ratio assists investors and rating agencies in measuring our overall leverage and additional borrowing capacity. In addition, our bank covenants include a maximum debt-to-capital ratio that we cannot and did not exceed. Our debt-to-capital ratio may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. Our consolidated debt-to-capital ratio was 40.2% and 42.9% as of December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. 

Our senior debt is rated “A” by S&P Global, “BBB” by Fitch Ratings, Inc., “Baa2” by Moody’s Investor Service, Inc. and “bbb+” by AM Best Company, Inc. We intend to maintain our senior debt investment grade ratings. If our credit ratings are downgraded, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely impacted by limitations on future borrowings and a potential increase in our borrowing costs.

-65-

Future Sources and Uses of Liquidity 

We have a shelf registration statement on file with the Securities and Exchange Commission to register an unlimited amount of any combination of debt or equity securities in one or more offerings. Specific information regarding terms and securities being offered will be provided at the time of an offering. Proceeds from future offerings are expected to be used for general corporate purposes, including, but not limited to, the repayment of debt, investments in or extensions of credit to our subsidiaries and the financing of possible acquisitions or business expansions.

We have a senior revolving credit facility, or the Facility, with a group of lenders for general corporate purposes. The Facility provides credit up to $3,500 and matures on August 25, 2020. Our ability to borrow under the Facility is subject to compliance with certain covenants. There were no amounts outstanding under the Facility at December 31, 2018.

We have an authorized commercial paper program of up to $2,500, the proceeds of which may be used for general corporate purposes. At December 31, 2018, we had $697 outstanding under our commercial paper program.

We are a member, through certain subsidiaries, of the Federal Home Loan Bank of Indianapolis, the Federal Home Loan Bank of Cincinnati and the Federal Home Loan Bank of Atlanta, or collectively, the FHLBs. As a member we have the ability to obtain short-term cash advances, subject to certain minimum collateral requirements. At December 31, 2018, we had $645 outstanding under our short-term FHLB borrowings.

Through certain subsidiaries, we have entered into multiple 364-day lines of credit with separate lenders for general corporate purposes. These lines of credit provide combined credit up to $600. Our ability to borrow under the lines of credit is subject to compliance with certain covenants. At December 31, 2018 we had $500 outstanding under our 364-day lines of credit. 

As discussed in “Financial Condition” above, many of our subsidiaries are subject to various government regulations that restrict the timing and amount of dividends and other distributions that may be paid. Based upon these requirements, we currently estimate that approximately $2,680 of dividends will be paid to the parent company during 2019. During 2018, we received $3,606 of dividends from our subsidiaries.

We regularly review the appropriate use of capital, including acquisitions, common stock and debt security repurchases and dividends to shareholders. The declaration and payment of any dividends or repurchases of our common stock or debt is at the discretion of our Board of Directors and depends upon our financial condition, results of operations, future liquidity needs, regulatory and capital requirements and other factors deemed relevant by our Board of Directors.  

On January 29, 2019, our Audit Committee declared a quarterly cash dividend to shareholders of $0.80 per share on the outstanding shares of our common stock. This quarterly dividend is payable on March 29, 2019 to the shareholders of record as of March 18, 2019.

Under our Board of Directors’ authorization, we maintain a common stock repurchase program. As of December 31, 2018, we had Board authorization of $5,493 to repurchase our common stock. 

For additional information regarding our sources and uses of capital, see Note 4, “Investments,” Note 5 “Derivative Financial Instruments,” Note 12 “Debt” and Note 14 “Capital Stock-Use of Capital-Dividends and Stock Repurchase Program” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

-66-

Contractual Obligations and Commitments

Our estimated contractual obligations and commitments as of December 31, 2018 are as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

1Includes estimated interest expense. 

2Primarily consists of reserves for future policy benefits, projected other postretirement benefits, deferred compensation, supplemental executive retirement plan liabilities and certain other miscellaneous long-term obligations. Estimated future payments for funded pension benefits have been excluded from this table as we had no funding requirements under ERISA at December 31, 2018 as a result of the value of the assets in the plans. 

3Includes estimated payments for future services under contractual arrangements from third-party service contracts.

4Includes unfunded capital commitments for alternative investments.

The above table does not contain $278 of gross liabilities for uncertain tax positions and interest for which we cannot reasonably estimate the timing of the resolutions with the respective taxing authorities. For further information, see Note 7, “Income Taxes,” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

In addition to the contractual obligations and commitments discussed above, we have a variety of other contractual agreements related to acquiring materials and services used in our operations. However, we do not believe these other agreements contain material noncancelable commitments. 

We believe that funds from future operating cash flows, cash and investments and funds available under our Facility and/or from public or private financing sources, will be sufficient for future operations and commitments, and for capital acquisitions and other strategic transactions.

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

We do not have any off-balance sheet derivative instruments, guarantee transactions, agreements or other contractual arrangements or any indemnification agreements that will require funding in future periods. We have not transferred assets to an unconsolidated entity that serves as credit, liquidity or market risk support to such entity. We do not hold any variable interest in an unconsolidated entity where such entity provides us with financing, liquidity, market risk or credit risk support.

Risk-Based Capital

Our regulated subsidiaries’ states of domicile have statutory risk-based capital, or RBC, requirements for health and other insurance companies and HMOs largely based on the National Association of Insurance Commissioners, or NAIC, Risk-Based Capital (RBC) For Health Organizations Model Act, or RBC Model Act. These RBC requirements are intended to measure capital adequacy, taking into account the risk characteristics of an insurer’s investments and products. The NAIC sets forth the formula for calculating the RBC requirements, which are designed to take into account asset risks, insurance risks, interest rate risks and other relevant risks with respect to an individual insurance company’s business. In general, under the RBC Model Act, an insurance company must submit a report of its RBC level to the state insurance department or insurance commissioner, as appropriate, at the end of each calendar year. Our regulated subsidiaries’ respective RBC levels as 

-67-

of December 31, 2018, which was the most recent date for which reporting was required, were in excess of all mandatory RBC requirements. In addition to exceeding the RBC requirements, we are in compliance with the liquidity and capital requirements for a licensee of the BCBSA and with the tangible net worth requirements applicable to certain of our California subsidiaries.

For additional information, see Note 21, “Statutory Information,” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK.