Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk  

 (amounts in millions)  

 The Company, in the normal course of doing business, is exposed to a variety of risks, including market risks associated with foreign currency exchange rates and changes in interest rates. The Company does not have any significant concentration with any one counterparty.  

 Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk  

 The Company conducts business in many foreign currencies through its worldwide operations, and as a result is subject to foreign exchange exposure due to changes in exchange rates of the various currencies. Changes in exchange rates can positively or negatively affect the Company’s sales, operating margins and equity. The Company attempts to manage currency exposure risk in a number of ways including producing its products in the same country or region in which the products are sold (thereby generating revenues and incurring expenses in the same currency), cost reduction and pricing actions, and working capital management. However, there can be no assurance that these actions will be fully effective in managing currency risk, including in the event of a significant and sudden decline in the value of any of the foreign currencies of the Company’s worldwide operations.  

 In July 2018, the Company and one of its wholly owned European subsidiaries (collectively, the “Euro Issuer”) entered into a Euro Commercial Paper Program, and then in October 2018, issued €500.0 (approximately $574.6) of unsecured 2.000% senior notes (“2028 Euro Notes”) due October 8, 2028. While the 2028 Euro Notes are denominated in Euros, any borrowings under the Company’s Euro Commercial Paper Program may be denominated in various foreign currencies, including the Euro. When borrowing in foreign currencies, there can be no assurance that the Company can successfully manage these changes in exchange rates, including in the event of a significant and sudden decline in the value of any of the foreign currencies for which such borrowings are made. Refer to Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of debt.  

 As of December 31, 2018, the Company had two forward contracts of varying amounts that effectively fixed Great Britain Pound and Korean Won intercompany debt obligations into fixed Hong Kong dollar denominated obligations expiring at various times through 2019 concurrent with the underlying intercompany loans. The fair value of the contracts at December 31, 2018 resulted in a net asset of $2.4. A 10% change in foreign currency exchange rates would not have a material effect on the value of the hedges as of December 31, 2018 and 2017. The Company does not engage in purchasing forward contracts for trading or speculative purposes. Refer to Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of derivative financial instruments.  

 Interest Rate Risk  

 The Company is subject to market risk from exposure to changes in interest rates based on the Company’s financing activities. The Company manages its exposure to interest rate risk through a mix of fixed and variable rate debt. The Company currently has outstanding various fixed rate series of senior notes over various maturity dates. In October 2018, the Euro Issuer issued the 2028 Euro Notes, and the Company used a portion of the net proceeds from the 2028 Euro Notes to repay a portion of the outstanding amounts under its U.S. Commercial Paper Program and Euro Commercial Paper Program (collectively, the “Commercial Paper Programs”), with the remainder of the net proceeds being used for general corporate purposes. In January 2019, the Company issued $500.0 of unsecured 4.350% Senior Notes due June 2029. The Company used the net proceeds of the 4.350% Senior Notes, along with borrowings under the U.S. Commercial Paper Program, to repay $750.0 of 2.55% Senior Notes due January 30, 2019.  

 While there were no such borrowings as of December 31, 2018, any borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility either bear interest at or trade at rates that fluctuate with a spread over LIBOR. Any borrowings under the Commercial Paper Programs are subject to floating interest rates. Therefore, when the Company borrows under these debt instruments, the Company is exposed to market risk related to changes in interest rates. As of December 31, 2018, approximately $639.9, or 18% of the Company’s outstanding borrowings, which related primarily to the Company’s Commercial Paper Programs, were subject to floating interest rates. At December 31, 2018 and 2017, the Company’s average floating rate on borrowings under the U.S. Commercial Paper Program was 2.88% and 1.71%, respectively. At December 31, 2018, the Company’s average floating rate on borrowings under the Euro Commercial Paper Program was (0.10)%. A 10% change in the interest rate at December 31, 2018 and 2017 for either or both Commercial Paper Programs would not have a material effect on interest expense. The Company does not expect changes in interest rates to have a material effect on income or cash flows in 2019, although there can be no assurances that interest rates will not change significantly.  

 40  

 Table of Contents  

 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data