Item 1. BUSINESS 

  Overview  

 Activision Blizzard, Inc. is a leading global developer and publisher of interactive entertainment content and services. We develop and distribute content and services on video game consoles, personal computers ("PC"s), and mobile devices. We also operate esports leagues and events and create film and television content based on our intellectual property. The terms "Activision Blizzard," the "Company," "we," "us," and "our" are used to refer collectively to Activision Blizzard, Inc. and its subsidiaries.  

 The Company was originally incorporated in California in 1979 and was reincorporated in Delaware in December 1992. In connection with the 2008 business combination by and among the Company (then known as Activision, Inc.), Vivendi S.A. ("Vivendi"), and Vivendi Games, Inc., then an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Vivendi, we were renamed Activision Blizzard, Inc.  

 The common stock of Activision Blizzard is traded on The Nasdaq Stock Market under the ticker symbol "ATVI."  

2 

Table of Contents 

  The King Acquisition  

 On February 23, 2016 (the "King Closing Date"), we acquired King Digital Entertainment, a leading interactive mobile entertainment company ("King"), by purchasing all of its outstanding shares (the "King Acquisition"). We made this acquisition because we believed that the addition of King's highly complementary mobile business positioned us as a global leader in interactive entertainment across mobile, console, and PC platforms, and aligned us for future growth. The aggregate purchase price of approximately $5.8 billion was funded with $3.6 billion of existing cash and $2.2 billion of cash from new debt issued by the Company. King's results of operations since the King Closing Date are included in our consolidated financial statements.  

  Our Strategy and Vision  

 Our objective is to continue to be a worldwide leader in the development, publishing, and distribution of high-quality interactive entertainment content and services, as well as related media, that deliver engaging entertainment experiences on a year-round basis. In pursuit of this objective we focus on three strategic pillars: expanding audience reach; driving deep consumer engagement; and providing more opportunities for player investment.  

 Expanding audience reach. Building on our strong established franchises and creating new franchises through compelling new content is at the core of our business. We endeavor to reach as many consumers as possible either through: (1) the purchase of our content and services; (2) engagement in our free-to-play games, which allow consumers to play games with no up-front cost but provide for player investment through sales of downloadable content or via microtransactions; or (3) engagement in other types of media based on our franchises, such as esports and film and television content.  

 Driving deep consumer engagement. Our high-quality entertainment content not only expands our audience reach, but it also drives deep engagement with our franchises. We design our games, as well as related media, to provide a depth of content that keeps consumers engaged for a long period of time following a game's release, delivering more value to our players and additional growth opportunities for our franchises.  

 Providing more opportunities for player investment. Increasingly, our consumers are connected to our games online through consoles, PCs, and mobile devices. This allows us to offer additional digital player investment opportunities directly to our consumers on a year-round basis. In addition to purchasing full games or subscriptions, players can invest in certain of our games and franchises by purchasing incremental "in-game" content (including larger downloadable content or smaller content, via microtransactions). These digital revenue streams tend to be more recurring and have relatively higher profit margins. Further, if executed properly, additional player investment can increase engagement as it provides more frequent and incremental content for our players. In addition, we have begun to generate revenue through offering advertising within certain of our franchises, and we believe there are opportunities to grow new forms of player investment through esports, film and television, and consumer products. We are in the early stages of developing these new revenue streams.  

 Our strategy is ultimately aimed at creating shareholder value and enhancing returns. We strive to increase profitability, cash flows, and return on capital—and to do so while keeping our company a great place to work for our employees.  

3 

Table of Contents 

  Reportable Segments  

 Based upon our organizational structure, we conduct our business through three reportable segments as follows:  

(i) Activision Publishing, Inc.  

 Activision Publishing, Inc. ("Activision") is a leading global developer and publisher of interactive software products and entertainment content, particularly for the console platforms. Activision primarily delivers content through retail and digital channels, including full-game and in-game sales, as well as by licensing software to third-party or related-party companies that distribute Activision products. Activision develops, markets, and sells products primarily based on our internally developed intellectual properties, as well as some licensed properties.  

 Activision's key product franchise is Call of Duty®, a first-person shooter for the console and PC platforms. Call of Duty has been the number one console franchise globally for nine of the last 10 years, based on data from The NPD Group, GfK Chart-Track, and GSD, and our internal estimates of dollar sales on front line games.  

 In 2010, Activision entered into an exclusive relationship with Bungie, Inc. ("Bungie") to publish games in the Destiny franchise. Effective December 31, 2018, Activision and Bungie, mutually agreed to terminate their publishing relationship related to the Destiny franchise. As part of this termination, Activision agreed to transfer its publishing rights for the Destiny franchise to Bungie in exchange for cash and Bungie's assumption of on-going customer obligations of Activision. Going forward, Activision no longer has any material rights or obligations related to the Destiny franchise. As a result of the agreement to terminate the relationship, the Company recognized net bookings, a key operating metric, of $20 million, GAAP revenues of $164 million, and GAAP operating income of $91 million for the year ended December 31, 2018.  

(ii) Blizzard Entertainment, Inc.  

 Blizzard Entertainment, Inc. ("Blizzard") is a leading global developer and publisher of interactive software products and entertainment content, particularly for the PC platform. Blizzard primarily delivers content through retail and digital channels, including subscriptions, full-game, and in-game sales, as well as by licensing software to third-party or related-party companies that distribute Blizzard products. Blizzard also maintains a proprietary online gaming service, Blizzard Battle.net®, which facilitates digital distribution of Blizzard content and selected Activision content, online social connectivity, and the creation of user-generated content. Blizzard also includes the activities of the Overwatch LeagueTM, the first major global professional esports league with city-based teams, and our Major League Gaming ("MLG") business, which is responsible for various esports events and serves as a multi-platform network for Activision Blizzard esports content.  

 Blizzard's key product franchises include: World of Warcraft®, a subscription-based massive multi-player online role-playing game for the PC platform; StarCraft®, a real-time strategy franchise for the PC platform; Diablo®, an action role-playing franchise for the PC and console platforms; Hearthstone®, an online collectible card franchise for the PC and mobile platforms; and Overwatch®, a team-based first-person shooter for the PC and console platforms.  

(iii) King Digital Entertainment  

 King is a leading global developer and publisher of interactive entertainment content and services, primarily on mobile platforms, such as Google Inc.'s ("Google") Android and Apple Inc.'s ("Apple") iOS. King also distributes its content and services on the PC platform, primarily via Facebook. King's  

4 

Table of Contents 

games are free to play; however, players can acquire in-game items, either with virtual currency or real currency, and we continue to focus on in-game advertising as a growing source of additional revenue.  

 King's key product franchises, all of which are for the mobile and PC platforms, include: Candy Crush™, which features "match three" games; Farm Heroes™, which also features "match three" games; and Bubble Witch™, which features "bubble shooter" games. King had two of the top 10 highest-grossing titles in the U.S. mobile app stores for the last 21 quarters in a row, according to App Annie Intelligence and internal estimates for the Apple App Store and the Google Play Store combined.  

  Other  

 We also engage in other businesses that do not represent reportable segments, including:   

• the Activision Blizzard Studios ("Studios") business, which is devoted to creating original film and television content based on our library of globally recognized intellectual properties, and which, in September 2018, released the third season of the animated TV series Skylanders™  Academy on Netflix; and  

• the Activision Blizzard Distribution ("Distribution") business, which consists of operations in Europe that provide warehousing, logistics, and sales distribution services to third-party publishers of interactive entertainment software, our own publishing operations, and manufacturers of interactive entertainment hardware.   

  Products  

 We develop interactive entertainment content and services, principally for console, PC, and mobile devices, and we market and sell our games through retail and digital distribution channels. Our products span various genres, including first-person shooter, action/adventure, role-playing, strategy, and "match three," among others. We primarily offer the following products and services:   

• full-games, which typically provide access to main game content, primarily for console or PC;  

• downloadable content, which provides players with additional in-game content to purchase following the purchase of a full game;   

• microtransactions, which typically provide relatively small pieces of additional in-game content or enhancements to gameplay, generally at relatively low price points; and  

• subscriptions for players in our World of Warcraft franchise that provide for continual access to the game content.   

 Providing additional opportunities for player investment outside of full-game purchases has allowed us to shift from our historical seasonality to a more consistently recurring and year-round revenue model. In addition, if executed properly, it allows us to increase player engagement, as it provides more frequent and incremental content for our players.  

  Product Development and Support  

 We focus on developing enduring franchises backed by well-designed, high-quality games with regular content updates. We build interactive entertainment content with the potential for broad reach, sustainable engagement and year-round player investment. It is our experience that enduring franchises then serve as the basis for sequels, prequels, and related new products and content that can be released over an extended period of time. We believe that the development and distribution of products and content based on established franchises enhances predictability of revenues and the probability of high  

5 

Table of Contents 

unit volume sales and operating profits. We intend to continue development of owned franchises in the future.  

 We develop and produce our titles using a model in which a group of creative, technical, and production professionals, including designers, producers, programmers, artists, and sound engineers, in coordination with our marketing, finance, analytics, sales, and other professionals, has responsibility for the entire development and production process, including the supervision and coordination of internal and, where appropriate, external resources. We believe this model allows us to deploy the best resources for a given task, by supplementing our internal expertise with top-quality external resources on an as-needed basis.  

 While most of the content for our franchises is developed by internal studios, we periodically engage independent third-party developers to create content on our behalf. From time to time, we also acquire the license rights to publish and/or distribute software products that are, or will be, independently created by third-party developers.  

 We provide various forms of product support. Central technology and development teams review, assess, and provide support to products throughout the development process. Quality assurance personnel are also involved throughout the development and production of published content. We subject all such content to extensive testing before public release to ensure compatibility with appropriate hardware systems and configurations and to minimize the number of bugs and other defects found in the products. To support our content, we generally provide 24-hour game support to players through various means, primarily online and by telephone.  

  Marketing, Sales, and Distribution  

 Many of our products contain software that enables us to connect with our gamers directly. This provides a significant marketing tool that allows us to communicate and market directly to our customers, including through customized advertising and in-game messaging based on customer preferences and trends. Our marketing efforts also include activities on Facebook, Twitter, Twitch, YouTube, and other online social networks, other online advertising, other public relations activity, print and broadcast advertising, coordinated in-store and industry promotions (including merchandising and point of purchase displays), participation in cooperative advertising programs, direct response vehicles, and product sampling through demonstration software distributed through the Internet or the digital online services provided by our partners. From time to time, we also receive marketing support from hardware manufacturers, producers of consumer products related to a game, and retailers in connection with their own promotional efforts, as well as co-marketing from promotional partners.  

 Our physical products are available for sale in outlets around the world. These products are sold primarily on a direct basis to mass-market retailers (e.g., Target, Walmart), consumer electronics stores (e.g., Best Buy), discount warehouses, game specialty stores (e.g., GameStop), and other stores (e.g., Amazon), or through third-party distribution and licensing arrangements.  

 Most of our products and content are also available in a digital format, which allows consumers to purchase and download the content at their convenience directly to their console, PC, or mobile device through our platform partners, including Microsoft Corporation ("Microsoft"), Sony Interactive Entertainment Inc. ("Sony"), Apple, Google, Nintendo Co., Ltd. ("Nintendo"), and Facebook. Blizzard utilizes its proprietary online gaming service, Blizzard Battle.net, to distribute most of Blizzard's content and selected Activision content directly to PC consumers.  

 In addition to serving as a distribution platform, Blizzard Battle.net offers players communications features, social networking, player matching and digital content delivery and is designed to allow people to connect regardless of which of our games on Blizzard Battle.net they are playing. It attracts millions of active players, making it one of the largest online game-related services in the world.  

6 

Table of Contents 

  Manufacturing  

 We prepare master program copies for our products on each release platform. With respect to products for Microsoft, Sony, and Nintendo consoles, our disk duplication, packaging, printing, manufacturing, warehousing, assembly, and shipping are performed by third-party subcontractors or distribution facilities owned by us.  

 Microsoft, Sony, and Nintendo generally specify or control the manufacturing and assembly of finished products and license their hardware technologies to us. In return, we pay an applicable royalty per unit once the manufacturer fills the product order, even if the units do not ultimately sell. We deliver the master materials to the licensor or its approved replicator, who then manufactures the finished goods and delivers them to us for distribution under our label.  

  Significant Customers and Top Franchises  

  Customers  

 While the Company does sell directly to end consumers in certain instances, such as sales through Blizzard's proprietary online gaming service platform, Blizzard Battle.net, in other instances our customers may be platform providers, such as Sony, Microsoft, Google, and Apple, or retailers, such as Walmart and GameStop, who act as distributors of our content to end consumers. For the year ended December 31, 2018, we had three customers—Apple, Sony, and Google—who accounted for 15%, 13%, and 11%, respectively, of net revenues. For the year ended December 31, 2017, we had three customers—Apple, Sony, and Google—who accounted for 16%, 14%, and 10%, respectively, of net revenues. For the year ended December 31, 2016, we had two customers—Sony and Apple—who each accounted for 13% of net revenues. No other customer accounted for 10% or more of our net revenues in the respective periods discussed above.  

 We had two customers—Sony and NetEase, Inc.—who accounted for 15% and 12%, respectively, of consolidated gross receivables at December 31, 2018. We had three customers—Sony, Microsoft, and Apple—who accounted for 17%, 14%, and 10%, respectively, of consolidated gross receivables at December 31, 2017. No other customer accounted for 10% or more of our consolidated gross receivables in the respective periods discussed above.  

  Top Franchises  

 For the year ended December 31, 2018, our top three franchises—Call of Duty, Candy Crush, and World of Warcraft—collectively accounted for 58% of our net revenues. For the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, our top four franchises—Call of Duty, Candy Crush, World of Warcraft, and Overwatch—collectively accounted for 66% and 69% of our net revenues, respectively. No other franchise comprised 10% or more of our net revenues in the respective periods discussed above.  

  Competition  

 We compete for the leisure time and discretionary spending of consumers with other interactive entertainment companies, as well as with providers of different forms of entertainment, such as film, television, social networking, music and other consumer products.  

 The interactive entertainment industry is intensely competitive and new interactive entertainment software products and platforms are regularly introduced. We believe that the main competitive factors in the interactive entertainment industry include: product features, game quality, and playability; brand name recognition; compatibility of products with popular platforms; access to distribution channels; online capability and functionality; ease of use; price; marketing support; and quality of customer service.  

7 

Table of Contents 

 We compete with other publishers of video game console, PC, and mobile interactive entertainment software. In addition to third-party software competitors, integrated video game console hardware and software companies, such as Microsoft, Sony, and Nintendo, compete directly with us in the development of software titles for their respective platforms. A number of software publishers have developed and commercialized, or are currently developing, online games for use by consumers.  

  Intellectual Property  

 Like other interactive entertainment companies, our business is significantly dependent on the creation, acquisition, use and protection of intellectual property. Some of this intellectual property is in the form of copyrighted software code, patented technology, and other technology and trade secrets that we use to develop and run our games. Other intellectual property is in the form of copyrighted audio-visual elements that consumers can see, hear, and interact with when they are playing our games.  

 We develop a majority of our products based on wholly-owned intellectual properties, such as Call of Duty, World of Warcraft, and Candy Crush, among others. In other cases, we obtain intellectual property through licenses and service agreements. Further, our products that play on consoles and mobile platforms include technology that is owned by the platform provider and is licensed non-exclusively to us for use in the relevant product. We also license technology from providers other than console manufacturers in developing our content and services. While we may have renewal rights for some licenses, our business is dependent on our ability to continue to obtain the intellectual property rights from the owners of these rights on reasonable terms and at reasonable rates.  

 We are actively engaged in enforcement of our copyright, trademark, patent, and trade secret rights against potential infringers of those rights along with other protective activities, including monitoring online channels for distribution of pirated copies and participating in various enforcement initiatives, education programs and legislative activity around the world. For our PC products, we use technological protection measures to prevent piracy and the use of unauthorized copies of our products. For other platforms, the platform providers typically incorporate technological protections and other security measures in their platforms to prevent the use of unlicensed products on those platforms.  

  Executive Officers  

 Our executive officers and their biographical summaries are provided below:  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]   

  Robert A. Kotick, Chief Executive Officer of Activision Blizzard  

 Robert A. Kotick has been a director of Activision Blizzard since February 1991, following his purchase of a significant interest in the Company, which was then on the verge of insolvency, and serves as our Chief Executive Officer. Mr. Kotick was our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer from February 1991 until July 2008, when he became our President and Chief Executive Officer. He served as our President from July 2008 until June 2017, when Mr. Johnson began serving as our President and Chief Operating Officer. Mr. Kotick is also a member of the board of directors of The Coca-Cola Company, a multinational beverage corporation, and the boards of trustees for The Center for Early  

8 

Table of Contents 

Education and Harvard-Westlake School. He is also vice chairman of the board and chairman of the committee of trustees of the Los Angeles County Museum of Art. In addition, Mr. Kotick is the co-founder and co-chairman of the Call of Duty Endowment, a nonprofit, public benefit corporation that seeks to help organizations that provide job placement and training services for veterans.  

  Collister Johnson, President and Chief Operating Officer of Activision Blizzard  

 Collister "Coddy" Johnson has served as our President and Chief Operating Officer since June 2017. From April 2016 until May 2017, he served as the chief operating officer and co-founder of Altschool, a public benefit, education technology company, where he continues to serve on the board of directors. Prior to joining Altschool, he held a number of positions of increasing responsibility at our Company from 2008 to 2016, serving as the chief financial officer and head of operations of Activision, one of our principal operating units, chief operating officer of studios for Activision, and senior vice president and chief of staff to our Chief Executive Officer. Mr. Johnson holds a B.A. degree in ethics, politics, and economics from Yale University and an M.B.A. degree from Stanford University.  

  Dennis Durkin, Chief Financial Officer of Activision Blizzard and President of Emerging Brands  

 Dennis Durkin has served as our Chief Financial Officer and President of Emerging Businesses since January 2019. Mr. Durkin joined the Company in March 2012 as our Chief Financial Officer and served in that role until May 2017. He served as our Chief Corporate Officer from May 2017 until January 2019. Prior to joining the Company in 2012, Mr. Durkin held a number of positions of increasing responsibility at Microsoft, a computing software and hardware manufacturer, most recently serving as the corporate vice president and chief operating and financial officer of Microsoft's interactive entertainment business, which included the Xbox console business. Prior to joining Microsoft's interactive entertainment business in 2006, Mr. Durkin spent seven years on Microsoft's corporate development and strategy team, including two years where he was based in London, England, driving pan-European activity. Before joining Microsoft, Mr. Durkin was a financial analyst at Alex. Brown and Company. Mr. Durkin holds a B.A. degree in government from Dartmouth College and an M.B.A. degree from Harvard University.  

  Brian Stolz, Chief People Officer of Activision Blizzard  

 Brian Stolz has served as our Chief People Officer since May 2016. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Stolz served as Senior Vice President of the neurology, dental, and generics businesses of Valeant Pharmaceuticals. Before that, Mr. Stolz served as Valeant's Executive Vice President of Administration and Chief Human Capital Officer. Prior to joining Valeant, Mr. Stolz held positions as a Principal at ghSMART and as an Associate Principal at McKinsey & Co. Mr. Stolz holds a B.S. degree in finance from Georgetown University and an M.B.A. degree from Harvard University.  

  Christopher Walther, Chief Legal Officer of Activision Blizzard  

 Christopher Walther has served as our Chief Legal Officer since November 2009 and served as our Secretary from February 2010 until February 2011. Prior to joining us, Mr. Walther held a number of positions of increasing responsibility within the legal department of The Procter & Gamble Company from 1992 to 2009, including serving as the general counsel for Central and Eastern Europe, Middle East and Africa, general counsel for Northeast Asia and, most recently, as general counsel for Western Europe. Mr. Walther also led Procter & Gamble's corporate and securities and mergers and acquisitions practices. Before joining Procter & Gamble, Mr. Walther served as a law clerk for Senior Judge Harry W. Wellford of the United States Sixth Circuit Court of Appeals. Since 2012, Mr. Walther has served on the board of directors of the Alliance for Children's Rights and currently serves as its co-chair. Mr. Walther has also served as our representative on the board of directors of the Entertainment Software Association since 2013 and on its executive committee. Mr. Walther holds a B.A. degree in history and Spanish from Centre College and a J.D. degree from the University of Kentucky College of Law.  

9 

Table of Contents 

  Employees  

 At December 31, 2018, we had approximately 9,900 total full-time and part-time employees. At December 31, 2018, approximately 140 of our full-time employees were subject to fixed-term employment agreements with us.  

 The majority of our employees in France, Germany, Spain, and Italy are subject to collective agreements as a part of normal business practices in those countries. In addition, certain employees in those countries are subject to collective bargaining agreements. To date, we have not experienced any labor-related work stoppages.  

  Additional Financial Information  

 See the Critical Accounting Policies section under Item 7 "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" for a discussion of our practices with regard to several working capital items, such as rights of return. See the "Management's Overview of Business Trends" under Item 7 "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" for a discussion of the impact of seasonality on our business.  

  Available Information  

 Our website, located at https://www.activisionblizzard.com, allows free-of-charge access to our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements and amendments to those documents filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"). The information found on our website is not a part of, and is not incorporated by reference into, this or any other report that we file with or furnish to the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC").  

 Our SEC filings are also available to the public over the Internet at the SEC's website at https://www.sec.gov.  

10 

Table of Contents 

     Item 1A. RISK FACTORS