Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk  

We are exposed to market risk from, among other things, changes in interest rates, foreign exchange rates and fuel prices. From time to time, we use various derivative instruments to reduce interest rate and fuel price risks. To date, based upon our current level of foreign operations, no derivative instruments have been utilized to reduce foreign exchange rate risk. All of our hedging activities are governed by guidelines that are authorized by the Board. Further, we do not buy or sell derivative instruments for trading purposes.  

Interest Rate Risk  

Our financial market risk results primarily from changes in interest rates. At times, we reduce our exposure to changes in interest rates by entering into various interest rate hedge instruments such as interest rate swap contracts, treasury lock agreements and forward-starting interest rate swaps.  

We have historically utilized interest rate swaps to convert variable rate debt to fixed rate debt and to lock in fixed rates on future debt issuances. We reflect the current fair value of all interest rate hedge instruments as a component of either other current assets or accrued expenses and other. Our interest rate hedge instruments are designated as cash flow hedges.  

Unrealized gains and losses on interest rate hedges are deferred in stockholders’ deficit as a component of Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss. These deferred gains and losses are recognized in income as a decrease or increase to interest expense in the period in which the related cash flows being hedged are recognized in expense. However, to the extent that the change in value of an interest rate hedge instrument does not perfectly offset the change in the value of the cash flow being hedged, that ineffective portion is immediately recognized in earnings.  

The fair value of our debt was estimated at $5.419 billion as of August 31, 2019, and $4.948 billion as of August 25, 2018, based on the quoted market prices for the same or similar debt issues or on the current rates available to us for debt having the same remaining maturities. Such fair value is greater than the carrying value of debt by $212.7 million at August 31, 2019, which reflects its face amount, adjusted for any unamortized debt issuance costs and discounts. At August 25, 2018, the fair value was less than the carrying value of debt by $57.5 million.  

We had $1.030 billion of variable rate debt outstanding at August 31, 2019, and $1.325 billion of variable rate debt outstanding at August 25, 2018. In fiscal 2019, at this borrowing level for variable rate debt, a one percentage point increase in interest rates would have had an unfavorable impact on our pre-tax earnings and cash flows of approximately $10.3 million. The primary interest rate exposure on variable rate debt is based on LIBOR.  

We had outstanding fixed rate debt of $4.176 billion, net of unamortized debt issuance costs of $23.7 million, at August 31, 2019, and $3.681 billion, net of unamortized debt issuance costs of $19.4 million, at August 25, 2018. A one percentage point increase in interest rates would have reduced the fair value of our fixed rate debt by approximately $190.3 million at August 31, 2019.  

36   

Table of Contents 

Foreign Currency Risk  

Foreign currency exposures arising from transactions include firm commitments and anticipated transactions denominated in a currency other than our entities’ functional currencies. To minimize our risk, we generally enter into transactions denominated in the respective functional currencies. We are exposed to Brazilian reals, Canadian dollars, euros, Chinese yuan renminbi and British pounds, but our primary foreign currency exposure arises from Mexican peso-denominated revenues and profits and their translation into U.S. dollars. Foreign currency exposures arising from transactions denominated in currencies other than the functional currency are not material. 

We view our investments in Mexican subsidiaries as long-term. As a result, we generally do not hedge these net investments. The net asset exposure in the Mexican subsidiaries translated into U.S. dollars using the year-end exchange rates was $328.8 million at August 31, 2019 and $590.7 million at August 25, 2018. The year-end exchange rates with respect to the Mexican peso decreased by approximately 7% and approximately 6% with respect to the U.S. dollar during fiscal 2019 and fiscal 2018. The loss in value of our net assets in the Mexican subsidiaries resulting from a hypothetical 10 percent adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates at August 31, 2019 and August 25, 2018, would have been approximately $29.9 million and approximately $53.7 million, respectively. Any changes in our net assets in the Mexican subsidiaries relating to foreign currency exchange rates would be reflected in the foreign currency translation component of Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss, unless the Mexican subsidiaries are sold or otherwise disposed.  

A hypothetical 10 percent adverse change in average exchange rates would not have a material impact on our results of operations.  

37   

Table of Contents 

Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data