PART I  

Item 1. Business  

Introduction  

AutoZone, Inc. (“AutoZone,” the “Company,” “we,” “our” or “us”) is the leading retailer, and a leading distributor, of automotive replacement parts and accessories in the Americas. We began operations in 1979 and at August 31, 2019, operated 5,772 stores in the United States (U.S.), including Puerto Rico and Saint Thomas; 604 stores in Mexico; and 35 stores in Brazil. Each store carries an extensive product line for cars, sport utility vehicles, vans and light trucks, including new and remanufactured automotive hard parts, maintenance items, accessories and non-automotive products. At August 31, 2019, in 4,893 of our domestic stores, we also had a commercial sales program that provides commercial credit and prompt delivery of parts and other products to local, regional and national repair garages, dealers, service stations and public sector accounts. We also have commercial programs in stores in Mexico and Brazil. We also sell the ALLDATA brand automotive diagnostic and repair software through www.alldata.com and www.alldatadiy.com. Additionally, we sell automotive hard parts, maintenance items, accessories and non-automotive products through www.autozone.com, and our commercial customers can make purchases through www.autozonepro.com. Additionally, on www.duralastparts.com we provide product information on our Duralast branded product. We do not derive revenue from automotive repair or installation services.  

At August 31, 2019, our stores were in the following locations:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

4   

Table of Contents 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Marketing and Merchandising Strategy  

We are dedicated to providing customers with superior service and trustworthy advice as well as quality automotive parts and products at a great value in conveniently located, well-designed stores. Key elements of this strategy are:  

Customer Service  

Customer service is the most important element in our marketing and merchandising strategy, which is based upon consumer marketing research. We emphasize that our AutoZoners (employees) should always put customers first by providing prompt, courteous service and trustworthy advice. Our electronic parts catalog assists in the selection of parts as well as identifying any associated warranties that are offered by us or our vendors. We sell automotive hard parts, maintenance items, accessories and non-automotive parts through www.autozone.com for pick-up in store or to be shipped directly to a customer’s home or business, with next day delivery covering approximately 85% of the U.S. population. Additionally, we offer a smartphone application that provides customers with store locations, driving directions, operating hours, product availability and ability to purchase products.  

We also provide specialty tools through our Loan-A-Tool program. Customers can borrow a specialty tool, such as a steering wheel puller, for which a do-it-yourself (“DIY”) customer or a repair shop would have little or no use other than for a single job. AutoZoners also provide free services, including check engine light readings where allowed by law, battery charging, the collection of used oil for recycling and the testing of starters, alternators and batteries.  

5   

Table of Contents 

Merchandising  

The following tables show some of the types of products that we sell by major category of items:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

We believe that the satisfaction of our customers is often impacted by our ability to provide specific automotive products as requested. Each store carries the same basic products, but we tailor our hard parts inventory to the makes and models of the vehicles in each store’s trade area, and our sales floor products are tailored to the local store’s demographics. Our hub stores (including mega hubs, which carry an even broader assortment) carry a larger assortment of products that are delivered to local satellite stores. We are constantly updating the products we offer to ensure that our inventory matches the products our customers need or desire.  

Pricing  

We want to be the value leader in our industry, by consistently providing quality merchandise at the right price, backed by a satisfactory warranty and outstanding customer service. For many of our products, we offer multiple value choices in a good/better/best assortment, with appropriate price and quality differences from the “good” products to the “better” and “best” products. A key differentiating component versus our competitors is our exclusive line of in-house brands, which includes AutoZone, Duralast, Duralast Max, Duralast Gold, Duralast Platinum, Duralast ProPower, Duralast GT, Valucraft, SureBilt, ProElite and TruGrade. We believe that our overall value compares favorably to that of our competitors.  

Brand Marketing: Advertising and Promotions  

We believe that targeted advertising and promotions play important roles in succeeding in today’s environment. We are constantly working to understand our customers’ wants and needs so that we can build long-lasting, loyal relationships. We utilize promotions, advertising and loyalty programs primarily to highlight our great value and the availability of high quality parts. Broadcast and internet media are our primary advertising methods of driving retail traffic to our stores, while we leverage a dedicated sales force and our ProVantage loyalty program to drive commercial sales. In the stores, we utilize in-store signage, in-store circulars, and creative product placement and promotions to help educate customers about products that they need.  

Store Design and Visual Merchandising  

We design and build stores for high visual impact. The typical store utilizes colorful exterior and interior signage, exposed beams and ductwork and brightly lit interiors. Maintenance products, accessories and non-automotive items are attractively displayed for easy browsing by customers. In-store signage and special displays promote products on floor displays, end caps and shelves.  

6   

Table of Contents 

Commercial  

Our commercial sales program operates in a highly fragmented market, and we are a leading distributor of automotive parts and other products to local, regional and national repair garages, dealers, service stations and public sector accounts in the Americas. As a part of the domestic store program, we offer credit and delivery to our customers, as well as online ordering through www.autozonepro.com. Through our hub stores, we offer a greater range of parts and products desired by professional technicians. We have dedicated sales teams focused on independent repair shops as well as national, regional and public sector commercial accounts.  

Store Operations  

Store Formats  

Substantially all stores are based on standard store formats, resulting in generally consistent appearance, merchandising and product mix. Approximately 85% to 90% of each store’s square footage is selling space. In our satellite stores, approximately 40% to 45% of our space is dedicated to hard parts inventory, while our hub stores and mega hubs have 75% to 85% of their space utilized for hard parts. The hard parts inventory area is generally fronted by counters or pods that run the depth or length of the store, dividing the hard parts area from the remainder of the store. The remaining selling space contains displays of maintenance, accessories and non-automotive items.  

We believe that our stores are “destination stores,” generating their own traffic rather than relying on traffic created by adjacent stores. Therefore, we situate most stores on major thoroughfares with easy access and good parking.  

Store Personnel and Training  

We provide on-the-job training as well as formal training programs, including an annual national sales meeting with related cascading meetings at our distribution centers, regional offices and stores; store meetings on specific sales and product topics; standardized computer-based training to support culture, safety, salesmanship, compliance and product and job knowledge; and several specialist, vendor and third-party programs to support learning and development in areas requiring technical expertise and specific job knowledge. All domestic AutoZoners are encouraged to complete our in-house product knowledge program and Parts Expert certification, which is developed in partnership with our key suppliers. Training is supplemented with frequent store visits by management. Advanced leadership training is an additional area of investment that is used to deepen bench strength and support succession planning.  

Store managers, commercial sales managers and managers at various levels across the organization receive financial incentives through performance-based bonuses. In addition, our growth has provided opportunities for the promotion of qualified AutoZoners. We believe these opportunities are important to attract, motivate and retain high quality AutoZoners.  

All store support functions are centralized in our store support centers located in Memphis, Tennessee; Monterrey, Mexico; Chihuahua, Mexico and Sao Paulo, Brazil. We believe that this centralization enhances consistent execution of our merchandising and marketing strategies at the store level, while reducing expenses and cost of sales.  

Store Automation  

All of our stores have Z-net, our proprietary electronic catalog that enables our AutoZoners to efficiently look up the parts that our customers need and to provide complete job solutions, advice and information for customer vehicles. Z-net provides parts information based on the year, make, model and engine type of a vehicle and also tracks inventory availability at the store, at other nearby stores and through special order. The Z-net display screens are placed on the hard parts counter or pods, where both the AutoZoner and customer can view the screen.  

Our stores utilize our computerized proprietary Store Management System, which includes bar code scanning and point-of-sale data collection terminals. The Store Management System provides administrative assistance, as well as enhanced merchandising information and improved inventory control. We believe the Store Management System also enhances customer service through faster processing of transactions and simplified warranty and product return procedures.  

7   

Table of Contents 

Store Development  

The following table reflects our location development during the past five fiscal years:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1)  

17 Interamerican Motor Corporation (“IMC”) branches acquired on September 27, 2014.  

 (2)  

26 IMC branches sold on April 4, 2018. See “Note M – Sale of Assets” for more information.  

We believe that expansion opportunities exist in markets that we do not currently serve, as well as in markets where we can achieve a larger presence. We undertake substantial research prior to entering new markets. The most important criteria for opening a new store is the projected future profitability and the ability to achieve our required investment hurdle rate. Key factors in selecting new site and market locations for stores include population, demographics, vehicle profile, customer buying trends, commercial businesses, number and strength of competitors’ stores and the cost of real estate. In reviewing the vehicle profile, we also consider the number of vehicles that are seven years old and older, or “our kind of vehicles”; these vehicles are generally no longer under the original manufacturers’ warranties and require more maintenance and repair than newer vehicles. We seek to open new stores in high visibility sites in high traffic locations within or contiguous to existing market areas and attempt to cluster development in markets in a relatively short period of time. In addition to continuing to lease or develop our own locations, we evaluate and may make strategic acquisitions.  

Purchasing and Supply Chain  

Merchandise is selected and purchased for all stores through our store support centers located in Memphis, Tennessee; Monterrey, Mexico and Sao Paulo, Brazil. Additionally, we have an office in Shanghai, China to support our sourcing efforts in Asia. In fiscal 2019, one class of similar products accounted for approximately 13 percent of our total sales, and one vendor supplied approximately 12 percent of our purchases. No other class of similar products accounted for 10 percent or more of our total sales, and no other individual vendor provided more than 10 percent of our total purchases. We believe that alternative sources of supply exist, at similar costs, for most types of product sold. Most of our merchandise flows through our distribution centers to our stores by our fleet of tractors and trailers or by third-party trucking firms. The distribution centers replenish all stores up to multiple times per week depending on store sales volumes.  

We ended fiscal 2019 with 205 total domestic hub stores, which have a larger assortment of products as well as regular replenishment items that can be delivered to a store in its network within 24 hours. Hub stores are generally replenished from distribution centers multiple times per week. Hub stores have increased our ability to distribute products on a timely basis to many of our stores and to expand our product assortment.  

As a subset, we ended fiscal 2019 with 35 domestic mega hubs, an increase of 11 since fiscal 2018. Mega hubs work in concert with our hubs to drive customer satisfaction through improved local parts availability and expanded product assortments. A mega hub store carries inventory of 70,000 to 110,000 unique SKUs, approximately twice what a hub store carries. Mega hubs provide coverage to both surrounding stores and other hub stores multiple times a day or on an overnight basis. Currently, we have over 5,500 domestic stores with access to mega hub inventory. A majority of these 5,500 stores currently receive their service on an overnight basis, but as we expand our mega hubs, more of them will receive this service same day and many will receive it multiple times per day.  

8   

Table of Contents 

Competition  

The sale of automotive parts, accessories and maintenance items is highly competitive in many areas, including name recognition, product availability, customer service, store location and price. AutoZone competes in the aftermarket auto parts industry, which includes both the retail DIY and commercial do-it-for-me (“DIFM”) auto parts and products markets.  

Our competitors include national, regional and local auto parts chains, independently owned parts stores, online automotive parts stores or marketplaces, wholesale distributors, jobbers, repair shops, car washes and auto dealers, in addition to discount and mass merchandise stores, hardware stores, supermarkets, drugstores, convenience stores, home stores and other retailers that sell aftermarket vehicle parts and supplies, chemicals, accessories, tools and maintenance parts. AutoZone competes on the basis of customer service, including the knowledge and expertise of our AutoZoners; merchandise quality, selection and availability; product warranty; store layouts, location and convenience; price; and the strength of our AutoZone brand name, trademarks and service marks.  

 Trademarks and Patents  

We have registered several service marks and trademarks in the United States Patent and Trademark Office as well as in certain other countries, including our service marks: “AutoZone,” “AutoZone Rewards,” “Get in the Zone,” “Parts Are Just Part of What We Do,” “ProVantage,” “The Best Parts in Auto Parts,” “Zone” and trademarks: “ALLDATA Collision,” “ALLDATA Manage,” “ALLDATA Mobile,” “ALLDATA Repair,” “ALLDATA Tech-Assist,” “AutoZone,” “AutoZone & Design,” “Duralast,” “Duralast Aero Blade,” “Duralast Flex Blade,” “Duralast Gold,” “Duralast Gold Cmax,” “Duralast GT,” “Duralast Platinum,” “Duralast ProPower,” “Duralast ProPower Plus,” “Duralast ProPower Ultra,” “Duralast ProPower AGM,” “Duralast Max,” “Econocraft,” “Loan-A-Tool,” “ProElite,” “ProElite & Design,” “SureBilt,” “TruGrade,” “Valucraft,” “V & Design,” and “Z-net.” We believe that these service marks and trademarks are important components of our marketing and merchandising strategies.  

Employees  

As of August 31, 2019, we employed approximately 96,000 persons, approximately 58 percent of whom were employed full-time. About 90 percent of our AutoZoners were employed in stores or in direct field supervision, approximately 5 percent in distribution centers and approximately 5 percent in store support and other functions. Included in the above numbers are approximately 10,000 persons employed in our Mexico and Brazil operations.  

We have never experienced any material labor disruption and believe that relations with our AutoZoners are good.  

Seasonality  

Our business is somewhat seasonal in nature, with the highest sales typically occurring in the spring and summer months of February through September, in which average weekly per-store sales historically have been about 10% to 20% higher than in the slower months of December and January. During short periods of time, a store’s sales can be affected by weather conditions. Extremely hot or extremely cold weather may enhance sales by causing parts to fail; thereby increasing sales of seasonal products. Mild or rainy weather tends to soften sales, as parts failure rates are lower in mild weather and elective maintenance is deferred during periods of rainy weather. Over the longer term, the effects of weather balance out, as we have locations throughout the Americas.  

AutoZone Websites  

AutoZone’s primary website is at www.autozone.com. We make available, free of charge, at www.autozone.com, by clicking “Investor Relations” located at the bottom of the page, our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements, registration statements and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as soon as reasonably feasible after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (“the SEC”). Our website and the information contained therein or linked thereto are not intended to be incorporated into this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  

9   

Table of Contents 

Information about our Executive Officers  

The following list describes our executive officers, which are elected by and serve at the discretion of the Board of Directors. The title of each executive officer includes the words “Customer Satisfaction” which reflects our commitment to customer service.  

William C. Rhodes, III, 54—Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, Customer Satisfaction  

William C. Rhodes, III, was named Chairman of AutoZone during fiscal 2007 and has been President, Chief Executive Officer and a director since March 2005. Prior to his appointment as President and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Rhodes was Executive Vice President – Store Operations and Commercial. Previously, he held several key management positions with the Company. Prior to 1994, Mr. Rhodes was a manager with Ernst & Young LLP. Mr. Rhodes is a member of the Board of Directors for Dollar General Corporation.  

William T. Giles, 60—Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President – Finance, Information Technology and Store Development, Customer Satisfaction   

William T. Giles was named Chief Financial Officer during May 2006. He has also held other responsibilities at various times including Executive Vice President of Finance, Information Technology, ALLDATA and Store Development. From 1991 to May 2006, he held several positions with Linens N’ Things, Inc., most recently as the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. Prior to 1991, he was with Melville, Inc. and PricewaterhouseCoopers. Mr. Giles is a member of the Board of Directors for Brinker International.  

Mark A. Finestone, 58—Executive Vice President – Merchandising, Supply Chain and Marketing, Customer Satisfaction  

Mark A. Finestone was named Executive Vice President – Merchandising, Supply Chain and Marketing during October 2015. Previously, he was Senior Vice President – Merchandising and Store Development since 2014, Senior Vice President – Merchandising from 2008 to 2014, and Vice President – Merchandising from 2002 to 2008. Prior to joining AutoZone in 2002, Mr. Finestone worked for May Department Stores for 19 years where he held a variety of leadership roles which included Divisional Vice President, Merchandising. Mr. Finestone also serves as Chairman of the Auto Care Association.  

Thomas B. Newbern, 57—Executive Vice President – Store Operations, Commercial, Loss Prevention and ALLDATA, Customer Satisfaction  

Thomas B. Newbern was named Executive Vice President – Store Operations, Commercial, Loss Prevention and ALLDATA during February 2017. Prior to that, he was Executive Vice President – Store Operations, Commercial and Loss Prevention since October 2015. Previously, he held the titles Senior Vice President – Store Operations and Loss Prevention from 2014 to 2015, Senior Vice President – Store Operations and Store Development from 2012 to 2014, Senior Vice President – Store Operations from 2007 to 2012 and Vice President – Store Operations from 1998 to 2007. Prior thereto, he served in various capacities within the Company.  

Philip B. Daniele, 50—Senior Vice President – Commercial, Customer Satisfaction  

Philip B. Daniele was elected Senior Vice President – Commercial during November 2015. Prior to that, he was Vice President – Commercial since 2013 and Vice President – Merchandising from 2008 to 2013. Previously, he was Vice President – Store Operations from 2005 to 2008. From 1993 until 2008, Mr. Daniele served in various capacities within the Company.  

Preston B. Frazer, 43—Senior Vice President – Store Operations, Customer Satisfaction  

Preston B. Frazer was named Senior Vice President, Store Operations in October 2019. Prior to that he was Vice President, Stores and Store Operations Support since 2018 and Vice President, Loss Prevention from 2015 to 2018. Previously, he was Vice President, Internal Audit from 2010 to 2015. From 2006 to 2010, Mr. Frazer served in various capacities within the Company. Prior to joining AutoZone, Mr. Frazer was a senior manager with KPMG, LLP.  

10   

Table of Contents 

Ronald B. Griffin, 65—Senior Vice President and Chief Information Officer, Customer Satisfaction  

Ronald B. Griffin was elected Senior Vice President and Chief Information Officer during June 2012. Prior to that, he was Senior Vice President, Global Information Technology at Hewlett-Packard Company. During his tenure at Hewlett-Packard Company, he also served as the Chief Information Officer for the Enterprise Business Division. Prior to that, Mr. Griffin was Executive Vice President and Chief Information Officer for Fleming Companies, Inc. He also spent over 12 years with The Home Depot, Inc., with the last eight years in the role of Chief Information Officer. Mr. Griffin also served at Deloitte & Touche LLP and Delta Air Lines, Inc.  

William R. Hackney, 54—Senior Vice President – Merchandising, Customer Satisfaction  

William R. Hackney was named Senior Vice President, Merchandising in October 2015. His career with AutoZone began in 1983, and he has held several key management roles within the Company, including Vice President – Store Operations Support and Vice President – Merchandising.  

Domingo J. Hurtado, 58—Senior Vice President – International, Customer Satisfaction  

Domingo José Hurtado Rodríguez was named Senior Vice President, International in September 2018. Prior to that, he was President, AutoZone de México. Mr. Hurtado has served in various capacities within the Company since 2001, which included leading the Company’s expansion into Mexico. Prior to 2001, he held different positions with RadioShack including Director General in Mexico and General Manager in Venezuela.  

Mitchell C. Major, 50—Senior Vice President – Supply Chain, Customer Satisfaction  

Mitchell C. Major was named Senior Vice President – Supply Chain in November 2018. Previously, he served as Vice President – Commercial Support since September 2016 and prior to that he held the title of President, ALLDATA. Mr. Major joined AutoZone in 2005. Prior to AutoZone, Mr. Major worked for Family Dollar, Inc.  

Charlie Pleas, III, 54—Senior Vice President and Controller, Customer Satisfaction  

Charlie Pleas, III, was elected Senior Vice President and Controller during 2007. Prior to that, he was Vice President and Controller since 2003. Previously, he was Vice President – Accounting since 2000, and Director of General Accounting since 1996. Prior to joining AutoZone, Mr. Pleas was a Division Controller with Fleming Companies, Inc. where he served in various capacities since 1988. Mr. Pleas is a member of the Board of Directors for Kirkland’s Inc.  

Albert Saltiel, 55—Senior Vice President – Marketing and E-Commerce, Customer Satisfaction   

Albert Saltiel was named Senior Vice President – Marketing and E-Commerce during October 2014. Previously, he was elected Senior Vice President – Marketing since 2013. Prior to that, he was Chief Marketing Officer and a key member of the leadership team at Navistar International Corporation. Mr. Saltiel has also been with Sony Electronics as General Manager, Marketing, and Ford Motor Company where he held multiple marketing roles.  

Richard C. Smith, 55—Senior Vice President – Human Resources, Customer Satisfaction  

Richard C. Smith was elected Senior Vice President – Human Resources in December 2015. He has been an AutoZoner since 1985, previously holding the position of Vice President of Stores since 1997. Prior thereto, he served in various capacities within the Company.  

Kristen C. Wright, 43—Senior Vice President – General Counsel & Secretary, Customer Satisfaction  

Kristen C. Wright was named Senior Vice President – General Counsel & Secretary effective January 2014. She previously held the title of Vice President – Assistant General Counsel & Assistant Secretary since January 2012. Before joining AutoZone, she was a partner with the law firm of Bass, Berry & Sims PLC. 

11   

Table of Contents 

Item 1A. Risk Factors