Item 7. Bank of America Corporation and Subsidiaries

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

19 Bank of America 2018

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Bank of America Corporation (the “Corporation”) and its management may make certain statements that constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements can be identified by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. Forward-looking statements often use words such as “anticipates,” “targets,” “expects,” “hopes,” “estimates,” “intends,” “plans,” “goals,” “believes,” “continue” and other similar expressions or future or conditional verbs such as “will,” “may,” “might,” “should,” “would” and “could.” Forward-looking statements represent the Corporation’s current expectations, plans or forecasts of its future results, revenues, expenses, efficiency ratio, capital measures, strategy and future business and economic conditions more generally, and other future matters. These statements are not guarantees of future results or performance and involve certain known and unknown risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict and are often beyond the Corporation’s control. Actual outcomes and results may differ materially from those expressed in, or implied by, any of these forward-looking statements. 

You should not place undue reliance on any forward-looking statement and should consider the following uncertainties and risks, as well as the risks and uncertainties more fully discussed under Item 1A. Risk Factors of this Annual Report on Form 10-K: the Corporation’s potential claims, damages, penalties, fines and reputational damage resulting from pending or future litigation, regulatory proceedings and enforcement actions and the possibility that amounts may be in excess of the Corporation’s recorded liability and estimated range of possible loss for litigation and regulatory exposures; the possibility that the Corporation could face increased servicing, securities, fraud, indemnity, contribution or other claims from one or more counterparties, including trustees, purchasers of loans, underwriters, issuers, other parties involved in securitizations, monolines or private-label and other investors; the possibility that future representations and warranties losses may occur in excess of the Corporation’s recorded liability and estimated range of possible loss for its representations and warranties exposures; the Corporation’s ability to resolve representations and warranties repurchase and related claims, including claims brought by investors or trustees seeking to avoid the statute of limitations for repurchase claims; the risks related to the discontinuation of the London InterBank Offered Rate and other reference rates, including increased expenses and litigation and the effectiveness of hedging strategies; uncertainties about the financial stability and growth rates of non-U.S. jurisdictions, the risk that those jurisdictions may face difficulties servicing their sovereign debt, and related stresses on financial markets, currencies and trade, and the Corporation’s exposures to such risks, including direct, indirect and operational; the impact of U.S. and global interest rates, inflation, currency exchange rates, economic conditions, trade policies, including tariffs, and potential geopolitical instability; the impact on the Corporation’s business, financial condition and results of operations of a potential higher interest rate environment; the possibility that future credit losses may be higher than currently expected due to changes in economic assumptions, customer behavior, adverse developments with respect to U.S. or global economic conditions and other uncertainties; the Corporation’s ability to achieve its expense targets and expectations regarding net interest income, net charge-offs, loan growth or other projections; adverse changes to the Corporation’s credit ratings from the major credit rating agencies; an inability to access capital markets or maintain deposits; estimates of the fair value and other accounting values, subject to 

impairment assessments, of certain of the Corporation’s assets and liabilities; uncertainty regarding the content, timing and impact of regulatory capital and liquidity requirements; the impact of adverse changes to total loss-absorbing capacity requirements and/or global systemically important bank surcharges; the success of our reorganization of Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated; the potential impact of actions of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on the Corporation’s capital plans; the effect of regulations, other guidance or additional information on the impact from the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act; the impact of implementation and compliance with U.S. and international laws, regulations and regulatory interpretations, including, but not limited to, recovery and resolution planning requirements, Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation assessments, the Volcker Rule, fiduciary standards and derivatives regulations; a failure in or breach of the Corporation’s operational or security systems or infrastructure, or those of third parties, including as a result of cyber-attacks; the impact on the Corporation’s business, financial condition and results of operations from the planned exit of the United Kingdom from the European Union; the impact of a prolonged federal government shutdown and uncertainty regarding the federal government’s debt limit; and other similar matters.

Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and the Corporation undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to reflect the impact of circumstances or events that arise after the date the forward-looking statement was made.

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements referred to in the Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) are incorporated by reference into the MD&A. Certain prior-year amounts have been reclassified to conform to current-year presentation. Throughout the MD&A, the Corporation uses certain acronyms and abbreviations which are defined in the Glossary.

Executive Summary

Business Overview

The Corporation is a Delaware corporation, a bank holding company (BHC) and a financial holding company. When used in this report, “the Corporation” may refer to Bank of America Corporation individually, Bank of America Corporation and its subsidiaries, or certain of Bank of America Corporation’s subsidiaries or affiliates. Our principal executive offices are located in Charlotte, North Carolina. Through our banking and various nonbank subsidiaries throughout the U.S. and in international markets, we provide a diversified range of banking and nonbank financial services and products through four business segments: Consumer Banking, Global Wealth & Investment Management (GWIM), Global Banking and Global Markets, with the remaining operations recorded in All Other. We operate our banking activities primarily under the Bank of America, National Association (Bank of America, N.A. or BANA) charter. At December 31, 2018, the Corporation had approximately $2.4 trillion in assets and a headcount of approximately 204,000 employees.

As of December 31, 2018, we served clients through operations across the U.S., its territories and more than 35 countries. Our retail banking footprint covers approximately 85 percent of the U.S. population, and we serve approximately 66 million consumer and small business clients with approximately 4,300 retail  financial  centers,  approximately  16,300  ATMs,  and

  Bank of America 2018  20

leading digital banking platforms (www.bankofamerica.com) with more than 36 million active users, including over 26 million active mobile users. We offer industry-leading support to approximately three million small business owners. Our wealth management businesses, with client balances of approximately $2.6 trillion, provide tailored solutions to meet client needs through a full set of investment management, brokerage, banking, trust and retirement products. We are a global leader in corporate and investment banking and trading across a broad range of asset classes serving corporations, governments, institutions and individuals around the world.

Recent Developments

Capital Management

During 2018, we repurchased $20.1 billion of common stock pursuant to the Board of Directors’ (the Board) repurchase authorizations under our 2018 and 2017 Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review (CCAR) plans, including repurchases to offset equity-based compensation awards. Also, in addition to the previously announced repurchases associated with the 2018 CCAR capital plan, on February 7, 2019, we announced a plan to repurchase an additional $2.5 billion of common stock through June 30, 2019, which was approved by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Federal Reserve). For additional information, see Capital Management on page 43. 

U.K. Exit from the EU

We conduct business in Europe, the Middle East and Africa primarily through our subsidiaries in the U.K. and Ireland. A referendum held in the U.K. in 2016 resulted in a majority vote in favor of exiting the European Union (EU). In March 2017, the U.K. notified the EU of its intent to withdraw from the EU, which is scheduled to occur on March 29, 2019. Negotiations between the U.K. and the EU regarding the terms, conditions and timing of the withdrawal are ongoing and the outcome remains uncertain. In preparation for the withdrawal, we have implemented changes to our operating model in the region, including establishing our principal EU banking and broker-dealer operations outside the U.K. The changes are expected to enable us to continue to service our clients with minimal disruption, retain operational flexibility, minimize transition risks and maximize legal entity efficiencies, independent of the outcome and timing of the withdrawal. 

LIBOR and Other Benchmark Rates

The U.K. Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), which regulates the London InterBank Offered Rate (LIBOR), announced in July 2017 that it will no longer persuade or require banks to submit rates for LIBOR after 2021. This announcement along with financial benchmark reforms more generally and changes in the interbank lending markets have resulted in uncertainty about the future of LIBOR and certain other rates or indices used as interest rate “benchmarks.” These actions and uncertainties may trigger future changes in the rules or methodologies used to calculate benchmarks or lead to the discontinuation or unavailability of benchmarks. 

The Corporation has established an enterprise-wide initiative to identify, assess and monitor risks associated with the potential discontinuation or unavailability of benchmarks, including LIBOR, and the transition to alternative reference rates. As part of this initiative, the Corporation is actively engaged with global regulators, industry working groups and trade associations to develop strategies for transitions from current benchmarks to alternative reference rates. We are updating our operational processes and models to support new alternative reference rate 

activity. In addition, we continue to analyze and evaluate legacy contracts across all products to determine the impact of a discontinuation of LIBOR or other benchmarks and to address consequential changes to those legacy contracts. Certain actions required to mitigate risks associated with the unavailability of benchmarks and implementation of new methodologies and contractual mechanics are dependent on a consensus being reached by the industry or the markets in various jurisdictions around the world. As a result, there is uncertainty as to the solutions that will be developed to address the unavailability of LIBOR or other benchmarks, as well as the overall impact to our businesses, operations and results. Additionally, any transition from current benchmarks may alter the Corporation’s risk profiles and models, valuation tools, product design and effectiveness of hedging strategies, as well as increase the costs and risks related to potential regulatory requirements.

Financial Highlights

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Return on average tangible common shareholders’ equity is a non-GAAP financial measure. For more information and a corresponding reconciliation to accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP) financial measures, see  on page 25. 

Net income was $28.1 billion, or $2.61 per diluted share in 2018 compared to $18.2 billion, or $1.56 per diluted share in 2017. The improvement in net income was driven by a decrease in income tax expense due to the impacts of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the Tax Act), an increase in net interest income, higher noninterest income, lower provision for credit losses and a decline in noninterest expense. Impacts from the Tax Act include a reduction in the federal corporate income tax rate to 21 percent from 35 percent. In addition, results for 2017 included a reduction in net income of $2.9 billion due to the Tax Act, driven largely by a lower valuation of certain U.S. deferred tax assets and liabilities.

21 Bank of America 2018

Net Interest Income

Net interest income increased $2.8 billion to $47.4 billion in 2018 compared to 2017. Net interest yield on a fully taxable-equivalent (FTE) basis increased five basis points (bps) to 2.42 percent for 2018. These increases were primarily driven by higher interest rates as well as loan and deposit growth, partially offset by tightening spreads, higher Global Markets funding costs and the impact of the sale of the non-U.S. consumer credit card business in 2017. For more information on net interest yield and the FTE basis, see Supplemental Financial Data on page 24, and for more information on interest rate risk management, see Interest Rate Risk Management for the Banking Book on page 74.

Noninterest Income

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Noninterest income increased $1.1 billion to $43.8 billion in 2018 compared to 2017. The following highlights the significant changes.

●Card income increased $149 million primarily driven by an increase in credit and debit card spending, as well as increased late fees and annual fees, partially offset by higher rewards costs, lower cash advance fees, and the impact of the sale of the non-U.S. consumer credit card business in 2017.

•Investment and brokerage services income increased $324 million primarily due to assets under management (AUM) flows and higher market valuations, partially offset by the impact of changing market dynamics on transactional revenue and AUM pricing.

●Investment banking income decreased $684 million . 

●Trading account profits increased $1.3 billion primarily due to increased client activity in equity financing and derivatives, higher market interest rates and strong trading performance in equity derivatives, partially offset by weakness in credit products.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Provision for Credit Losses

The provision for credit losses decreased $114 million to $3.3 billion in 2018 compared to 2017, primarily reflecting a 2017 single-name non-U.S. commercial charge-off and improvement in the commercial portfolio. In the consumer portfolio, the impact of the sale of the non-U.S. consumer credit card business in 2017 was more than offset by a slower pace of improvement in the consumer real estate portfolio, and portfolio seasoning and loan growth in the U.S. credit card portfolio. For more information on the provision for credit losses, see Provision for Credit Losses on page 67.

Noninterest Expense

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Noninterest expense decreased $1.4 billion to $53.4 billion in 2018 compared to 2017. The decrease was primarily due to lower other general operating expense, primarily driven by a decline in litigation and Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) expense as well as a $316 million impairment charge in 2017 related to certain data centers.

Income Tax Expense

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Tax expense for 2018 reflected the new 21 percent federal income tax rate and the other provisions of the Tax Act, as well as our recurring tax preference benefits.

Tax expense for 2017 included a charge of $1.9 billion reflecting the initial impact of the Tax Act, including a tax charge of $2.3 billion related primarily to a lower valuation of certain deferred tax assets and liabilities and a $347 million tax benefit on the pretax loss from the lower valuation of our tax-advantaged energy investments. Other than the impact of the Tax Act, the effective tax rate for 2017 was driven by our recurring tax preference benefits as well as an expense from the sale of the non-U.S. consumer credit card business, largely offset by benefits related to stock-based compensation and the restructuring of certain subsidiaries.

We expect the effective tax rate for 2019 to be approximately 19 percent, absent unusual items.

  Bank of America 2018  22

Balance Sheet Overview

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Assets

At December 31, 2018, total assets were approximately $2.4 trillion, up $73.3 billion from December 31, 2017. The increase in assets was primarily due to higher securities borrowed or purchased under agreements to resell due to investment of excess cash levels in higher yielding assets and increased client activity, and higher cash and cash equivalents driven by deposit growth. 

Cash and Cash Equivalents

Cash and cash equivalents increased $20.0 billion primarily driven by deposit growth, partially offset by investment of short-term excess cash into securities purchased under agreements to resell, and loan growth.

Federal Funds Sold and Securities Borrowed or Purchased Under Agreements to Resell

Federal funds transactions involve lending reserve balances on a short-term basis. Securities borrowed or purchased under agreements to resell are collateralized lending transactions utilized to accommodate customer transactions, earn interest rate spreads, and obtain securities for settlement and for collateral. Federal funds sold and securities borrowed or purchased under agreements to resell increased $48.4 billion due to investment of excess cash levels in higher yielding assets and a higher level of customer financing activity.

Trading Account Assets

Trading account assets consist primarily of long positions in equity and fixed-income securities including U.S. government and agency securities, corporate securities and non-U.S. sovereign debt. Trading account assets increased $5.0 billion primarily driven by additional inventory in fixed-income, currencies and commodities (FICC) to meet expected client demand.

Debt Securities

Debt securities primarily include U.S. Treasury and agency securities, mortgage-backed securities (MBS), principally agency MBS, non-U.S. bonds, corporate bonds and municipal debt. We use the debt securities portfolio primarily to manage interest rate 

and liquidity risk and to take advantage of market conditions that create economically attractive returns on these investments. Debt securities increased $1.6 billion primarily driven by the deployment of deposit inflows. In 2018, the Corporation transferred available-for-sale (AFS) debt securities with an amortized cost of $64.5 billion to held to maturity. For more information on debt securities, see Note 4 – Securities to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Loans and Leases

Loans and leases increased $10.1 billion primarily due to net loan growth driven by client demand for commercial loans and increases in residential mortgage. For more information on the loan portfolio, see Credit Risk Management on page 51.

Allowance for Loan and Lease Losses

The allowance for loan and lease losses decreased $792 million primarily due to the impact of improvements in credit quality from a stronger economy and continued runoff and sales in the non-core consumer real estate portfolio. For additional information, see Allowance for Credit Losses on page 67.

Liabilities

At December 31, 2018, total liabilities were approximately $2.1 trillion, up $75.1 billion from December 31, 2017, primarily due to deposit growth.

Deposits

Deposits increased $71.9 billion primarily due to an increase in retail deposits. 

Federal Funds Purchased and Securities Loaned or Sold Under Agreements to Repurchase

Federal funds transactions involve borrowing reserve balances on a short-term basis. Securities loaned or sold under agreements to repurchase are collateralized borrowing transactions utilized to accommodate customer transactions, earn interest rate spreads and finance assets on the balance sheet. Federal funds purchased and securities loaned or sold under agreements to repurchase increased $10.1 billion primarily due to an increase in matched book funding within Global Markets.

23 Bank of America 2018

Trading Account Liabilities

Trading account liabilities consist primarily of short positions in equity and fixed-income securities including U.S. Treasury and agency securities, corporate securities and non-U.S. sovereign debt. Trading account liabilities decreased $13.0 billion primarily due to lower levels of short positions in government and corporate bonds driven by expected client demand within Global Markets.

Short-term Borrowings

Short-term borrowings provide an additional funding source and primarily consist of Federal Home Loan Bank (FHLB) short-term borrowings, notes payable and various other borrowings that generally have maturities of one year or less. Short-term borrowings decreased $12.5 billion primarily due to a decrease in short-term FHLB advances. For more information on short-term borrowings, see Note 10 – Federal Funds Sold or Purchased, Securities Financing Agreements, Short-term Borrowings and Restricted Cash to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Long-term Debt

Long-term debt increased $1.9 billion primarily driven by issuances outpacing maturities and redemptions. For more information on long-term debt, see Note 11 – Long-term Debt to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Shareholders’ Equity

Shareholders’ equity decreased $1.8 billion driven by returns of capital to shareholders of $27.0 billion through common and preferred stock dividends and share repurchases and a $4.0 billion after-tax decrease in the fair value of AFS debt securities recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income (OCI), largely offset by earnings.

Cash Flows Overview

The Corporation’s operating assets and liabilities support our global markets and lending activities. We believe that cash flows from operations, available cash balances and our ability to generate cash through short- and long-term debt are sufficient to fund our operating liquidity needs. Our investing activities primarily include the debt securities portfolio and loans and leases. Our financing activities reflect cash flows primarily related to customer deposits, securities financing agreements and long-term debt. For more information on liquidity, see Liquidity Risk on page 47.

Supplemental Financial Data

In this Form 10-K, we present certain non-GAAP financial measures. Non-GAAP financial measures exclude certain items or otherwise include components that differ from the most directly comparable measures calculated in accordance with GAAP. Non-GAAP financial measures are provided as additional useful information to assess our financial condition, results of operations (including period-to-period operating performance) or compliance with prospective regulatory requirements. These non-GAAP financial measures are not intended as a substitute for GAAP financial measures and may not be defined or calculated the same way as non-GAAP financial measures used by other companies.

We view net interest income and related ratios and analyses on an FTE basis, which when presented on a consolidated basis, are non-GAAP financial measures. To derive the FTE basis, net interest income is adjusted to reflect tax-exempt income on an equivalent before-tax basis with a corresponding increase in income tax expense. For purposes of this calculation, we used the federal statutory tax rate of 21 percent for 2018 (35 percent for all prior periods) and a representative state tax rate. Net interest yield, which measures the basis points we earn over the cost of funds, utilizes net interest income (and thus total revenue) on an FTE basis. We believe that presentation of these items on an FTE basis allows for comparison of amounts from both taxable and tax-exempt sources and is consistent with industry practices.

We may present certain key performance indicators and ratios excluding certain items (e.g., debit valuation adjustment (DVA) gains (losses)) which result in non-GAAP financial measures. We believe that the presentation of measures that exclude these items is useful because such measures provide additional information to assess the underlying operational performance and trends of our businesses and to allow better comparison of period-to-period operating performance.

We also evaluate our business based on certain ratios that utilize tangible equity, a non-GAAP financial measure. Tangible equity represents an adjusted shareholders’ equity or common shareholders’ equity amount which has been reduced by goodwill and certain acquired intangible assets (excluding mortgage servicing rights (MSRs)), net of related deferred tax liabilities. These measures are used to evaluate our use of equity. In addition, profitability, relationship and investment models use both return on average tangible common shareholders’ equity and return on average tangible shareholders’ equity as key measures to support our overall growth goals. These ratios are as follows:

●Return on average tangible common shareholders’ equity measures our earnings contribution as a percentage of adjusted common shareholders’ equity. The tangible common equity ratio represents adjusted ending common shareholders’ equity divided by total assets less goodwill and certain acquired intangible assets (excluding MSRs), net of related deferred tax liabilities.

●Return on average tangible shareholders’ equity measures our earnings contribution as a percentage of adjusted average total shareholders’ equity. The tangible equity ratio represents adjusted ending shareholders’ equity divided by total assets less goodwill and certain acquired intangible assets (excluding MSRs), net of related deferred tax liabilities.

●Tangible book value per common share represents adjusted ending common shareholders’ equity divided by ending common shares outstanding.

We believe that the use of ratios that utilize tangible equity provides additional useful information because they present measures of those assets that can generate income. Tangible book value per share provides additional useful information about the level of tangible assets in relation to outstanding shares of common stock.

The aforementioned supplemental data and performance measures are presented in Tables 8 and 9.

  Bank of America 2018  24

Non-GAAP Reconciliations

Tables 6 and 7 provide reconciliations of certain non-GAAP financial measures to GAAP financial measures.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

25 Bank of America 2018

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(3) Includes the allowance for loan and leases losses and the reserve for unfunded lending commitments. [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

n/a = not applicable

  Bank of America 2018  26

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Net income for the fourth quarter of 2017 included a charge of $2.9 billion related to the Tax Act effects which consisted of $946 million in noninterest income and $1.9 billion in income tax expense. 

(2) Calculated as total net income for four consecutive quarters divided by annualized average assets for four consecutive quarters.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(4) Asset quality metrics include $31 million of non-U.S. consumer credit card net charge-offs for the second quarter of 2017 and $242 million of non-U.S. consumer credit card allowance for loan and lease losses, $9.5 billion of non-U.S. consumer credit card loans and $44 million of non-U.S. consumer credit card net charge-offs for the first quarter of 2017. The Corporation sold its non-U.S. consumer credit card business in the second quarter of 2017.

(5) Includes the allowance for loan and lease losses and the reserve for unfunded lending commitments.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

n/a = not applicable

27 Bank of America 2018

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Certain prior-period amounts have been reclassified to conform to current period presentation.

(2) Nonperforming loans are included in the respective average loan balances. Income on these nonperforming loans is generally recognized on a cost recovery basis.

(3) Includes assets of the Corporation’s non-U.S. consumer credit card business, which was sold during the second quarter of 2017.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

  Bank of America 2018  28

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) The changes for each category of interest income and expense are divided between the portion of change attributable to the variance in volume and the portion of change attributable to the variance in rate for that category. The unallocated change in rate or volume variance is allocated between the rate and volume variances.

(2) The Corporation sold its non-U.S. credit card business in the second quarter of 2017.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

29 Bank of America 2018

Business Segment Operations

Segment Description and Basis of Presentation

We report our results of operations through the following four business segments: Consumer Banking, GWIM, Global Banking and Global Markets, with the remaining operations recorded in All Other. We manage our segments and report their results on an FTE basis. For more information on our presentation of financial information on an FTE basis, see Supplemental Financial Data on page 24. The primary activities, products and businesses of the business segments and All Other are shown below.

We periodically review capital allocated to our businesses and allocate capital annually during the strategic and capital planning processes. We utilize a methodology that considers the effect of regulatory capital requirements in addition to internal risk-based capital models. Our internal risk-based capital models use a risk-adjusted methodology incorporating each segment’s credit, market, interest rate, business and operational risk components. For more information on the nature of these risks, see Managing Risk on page 40. The capital allocated to the business segments 

is referred to as allocated capital. Allocated equity in the reporting 

units is comprised of allocated capital plus capital for the portion of goodwill and intangibles specifically assigned to the reporting unit. For more information, including the definition of reporting unit, see Note 8 – Goodwill and Intangible Assets to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

For more information on the basis of presentation for business segments and reconciliations to consolidated total revenue, net income and year-end total assets, see Note 23 – Business Segment Information to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

  Bank of America 2018  30

Consumer Banking

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Estimated at the segment level only.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Consumer Banking, which is comprised of Deposits and Consumer Lending, offers a diversified range of credit, banking and investment products and services to consumers and small businesses. Deposits and Consumer Lending include the net impact of migrating customers and their related deposit, brokerage asset and loan balances between Deposits, Consumer Lending and GWIM, as well as other client-managed businesses. Our customers and clients have access to a coast to coast network including financial centers in 34 states and the District of Columbia. Our network includes approximately 4,300 financial centers, approximately 16,300 ATMs, nationwide call centers, and leading digital banking platforms with more than 36 million active users, including over 26 million active mobile users.

Consumer Banking Results

Net income for Consumer Banking increased $3.8 billion to $12.0 billion in 2018 compared to 2017 primarily driven by higher pretax income and lower income tax expense from the reduction in the federal income tax rate. The increase in pretax income was driven by higher revenue and lower noninterest expense, partially offset by higher provision for credit losses. Net interest income increased $2.8 billion to $27.1 billion primarily due to the beneficial impact of an increase in investable assets as a result of an increase in deposits, as well as higher interest rates, pricing discipline and loan growth. Noninterest income increased $186 million to $10.4 billion driven by higher card income, partially offset by lower mortgage banking income, which is included in all other income. 

The provision for credit losses increased $139 million to $3.7 billion driven by portfolio seasoning and loan growth in the U.S. credit card portfolio. Noninterest expense decreased $82 million to $17.7 billion driven by operating efficiencies and lower litigation and FDIC expense. These decreases were partially offset by investments in digital capabilities and business growth, including primary sales professionals, combined with investments in new financial centers and renovations. 

The return on average allocated capital was 33 percent, up from 22 percent, driven by higher net income. For more information on capital allocated to the business segments, see Business Segment Operations on page 30.

Deposits

Deposits includes the results of consumer deposit activities which consist of a comprehensive range of products provided to consumers and small businesses. Our deposit products include traditional savings accounts, money market savings accounts, CDs and IRAs, and noninterest- and interest-bearing checking accounts, as well as investment accounts and products. Net interest income is allocated to the deposit products using our funds transfer pricing process that matches assets and liabilities with similar interest rate sensitivity and maturity characteristics. Deposits generates fees such as account service fees, non-sufficient funds fees, overdraft charges and ATM fees, as well as investment and brokerage fees from Merrill Edge accounts. Merrill Edge is an integrated investing and banking service targeted at customers with less than $250,000 in investable assets. Merrill 

31 Bank of America 2018

Edge provides investment advice and guidance, client brokerage asset services, a self-directed online investing platform and key banking capabilities including access to the Corporation’s network of financial centers and ATMs.

Net income for Deposits increased $2.9 billion to $7.5 billion in 2018 driven by higher revenue and lower income tax expense, partially offset by higher noninterest expense. Net interest income increased $2.7 billion to $16.0 billion primarily due to the beneficial impact of an increase in investable assets as a result of higher deposits, and pricing discipline. Noninterest income increased $72 million to $4.7 billion primarily driven by higher service charges.

The provision for credit losses decreased $6 million to $195 million in 2018. Noninterest expense increased $134 million to $10.5 billion primarily driven by investments in digital capabilities and business growth, including primary sales professionals, combined with investments in new financial centers and renovations. These increases were partially offset by lower litigation and FDIC expense.

Average deposits increased $31.7 billion to $678.6 billion in 2018 driven by strong organic growth. Growth in checking, money market savings and traditional savings of $36.3 billion was partially offset by a decline in time deposits of $4.6 billion. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Includes deposits held in Consumer Lending.

(2) Digital users represents mobile and/or online users across consumer businesses.

Client brokerage assets increased $8.8 billion in 2018 driven by strong client flows, partially offset by market performance. Active mobile banking users increased 2.2 million reflecting continuing changes in our customers’ banking preferences. The number of financial centers declined by a net 136 reflecting changes in customer preferences to self-service options as we continue to optimize our consumer banking network and improve our cost to serve.

Consumer Lending

Consumer Lending offers products to consumers and small businesses across the U.S. The products offered include credit and debit cards, residential mortgages and home equity loans, and direct and indirect loans such as automotive, recreational vehicle and consumer personal loans. In addition to earning net interest spread revenue on its lending activities, Consumer Lending generates interchange revenue from credit and debit card transactions, late fees, cash advance fees, annual credit card fees, mortgage banking fee income and other miscellaneous fees. Consumer Lending products are available to our customers through our retail network, direct telephone, and online and mobile channels. Consumer Lending results also include the impact of 

servicing residential mortgages and home equity loans in the core portfolio, including loans held on the balance sheet of Consumer Lending and loans serviced for others.

Net income for Consumer Lending increased $960 million to $4.5 billion in 2018 driven by lower income tax expense, higher revenue and lower noninterest expense, partially offset by higher provision for credit losses. Net interest income increased $145 million to $11.1 billion primarily driven by higher interest rates and the impact of an increase in loan balances. Noninterest income increased $114 million to $5.7 billion driven by higher card income, partially offset by lower mortgage banking income.

The provision for credit losses increased $145 million to $3.5 billion driven by portfolio seasoning and loan growth in the U.S. credit card portfolio. Noninterest expense decreased $216 million to $7.2 billion primarily driven by operating efficiencies.

Average loans increased $17.6 billion to $278.6 billion in 2018 driven by increases in residential mortgages and U.S. credit card loans, partially offset by lower home equity balances. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

During 2018, the total U.S. credit card risk-adjusted margin decreased 33 bps compared to 2017, primarily driven by increased net charge-offs and higher credit card rewards costs. Total U.S. credit card purchase volumes increased $20.0 billion to $264.7 billion, and debit card purchase volumes increased $19.9 billion to $318.6 billion, reflecting higher levels of consumer spending.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) The loan production amounts represent the unpaid principal balance of loans and, in the case of home equity, the principal amount of the total line of credit.

(2) In addition to loan production in Consumer Banking, there is also first mortgage and home equity loan production in GWIM.

First mortgage loan originations in Consumer Banking and for the total Corporation decreased $6.8 billion and $9.4 billion in 2018 primarily driven by a higher interest rate environment driving lower first-lien mortgage refinances.

Home equity production in Consumer Banking and for the total Corporation decreased $1.9 billion and $2.1 billion in 2018 primarily driven by lower demand.

  Bank of America 2018  32

Global Wealth & Investment Management

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

GWIM consists of two primary businesses: Merrill Lynch Global Wealth Management (MLGWM) and U.S. Trust, Bank of America Private Wealth Management (U.S. Trust).

MLGWM’s advisory business provides a high-touch client experience through a network of financial advisors focused on clients with over $250,000 in total investable assets. MLGWM provides tailored solutions to meet clients’ needs through a full set of investment management, brokerage, banking and retirement products. 

U.S. Trust, together with MLGWM’s Private Banking & Investments Group, provides comprehensive wealth management solutions targeted to high net worth and ultra high net worth clients, as well as customized solutions to meet clients’ wealth structuring, investment management, trust and banking needs, including specialty asset management services. 

Net income for GWIM increased $986 million to $4.1 billion in 2018 compared to 2017 due to higher revenue and lower income tax expense from the reduction in the federal income tax rate, partially offset by an increase in noninterest expense and provision for credit losses. The operating margin was 28 percent compared to 27 percent a year ago.

Net interest income increased $121 million to $6.3 billion due to higher deposit spreads and average loan balances, partially offset by lower loan spreads and average deposit balances.

Noninterest income, which primarily includes investment and brokerage services income, increased $627 million to $13.0 billion. The increase was driven by the impact of AUM flows and higher market valuations, partially offset by the impact of changing market dynamics on transactional revenue and AUM pricing. 

Noninterest expense increased $221 million to $13.8 billion primarily due to higher revenue-related incentive expense and investments for business growth, partially offset by continued expense discipline.

The return on average allocated capital was 28 percent, up from 22 percent, as higher net income was partially offset by an increased capital allocation. For more information on capital allocated to the business segments, see Business Segment Operations on page 30.

Revenue from MLGWM of $15.9 billion and revenue from U.S. Trust of $3.4 billion both increased four percent due to higher asset management fees driven by higher net flows and market valuations, and an increase in net interest income. The increase in MLGWM revenue was partially offset by lower AUM pricing and transactional revenue. 

33 Bank of America 2018

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Includes margin receivables which are classified in customer and other receivables on the Consolidated Balance Sheet.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(3) Financial advisor productivity is defined as MLGWM total revenue, excluding the allocation of certain asset and liability management (ALM) activities, divided by the total average number of financial advisors (excluding financial advisors in the Consumer Banking segment).

Client Balances 

Client balances managed under advisory and/or discretion of GWIM are AUM and are typically held in diversified portfolios. Fees earned on AUM are calculated as a percentage of clients’ AUM balances. The asset management fees charged to clients per year depend on various factors, but are commonly driven by the breadth 

of the client’s relationship. The net client AUM flows represent the net change in clients’ AUM balances over a specified period 

of time, excluding market appreciation/depreciation and other adjustments.

Client balances decreased $131.0 billion, or five percent, in 2018 to $2.6 trillion, primarily due to lower market valuations on AUM and brokerage balances, as measured at December 31, 2018, partially offset by positive flows.

  Bank of America 2018  34

Global Banking

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Global Banking, which includes Global Corporate Banking, Global Commercial Banking, Business Banking and Global Investment Banking, provides a wide range of lending-related products and services, integrated working capital management and treasury solutions, and underwriting and advisory services through our network of offices and client relationship teams. Our lending products and services include commercial loans, leases, commitment facilities, trade finance, commercial real estate lending and asset-based lending. Our treasury solutions business includes treasury management, foreign exchange and short-term investing options. We also provide investment banking products to our clients such as debt and equity underwriting and distribution, and merger-related and other advisory services. Underwriting debt and equity issuances, fixed-income and equity research, and certain market-based activities are executed through our global broker-dealer affiliates, which are our primary dealers in several countries. Within Global Banking, Global Commercial Banking clients generally include middle-market companies, commercial real estate firms and not-for-profit companies. Global Corporate Banking clients generally include large global corporations, financial institutions and leasing clients. Business Banking clients include mid-sized U.S.-based businesses requiring customized and integrated financial advice and solutions. 

Net income for Global Banking increased $1.2 billion to $8.2 billion in 2018 compared to 2017 primarily driven by lower income tax expense from the reduction in the federal income tax rate and lower provision for credit losses, partially offset by lower revenue. Noninterest expense was relatively unchanged.

Revenue decreased $355 million to $19.6 billion driven by lower noninterest income, partially offset by higher net interest income. Net interest income increased $377 million to $10.9 billion primarily due to the impact of higher interest rates, as well as loan and deposit growth. Noninterest income decreased $732 million to $8.8 billion primarily due to lower investment banking fees. The provision for credit losses improved $204 million to $8 million primarily driven by Global Banking’s portion of a 2017 single-name non-U.S. commercial charge-off and continued improvement in the commercial portfolio.

The return on average allocated capital was 20 percent, up from 17 percent, as higher net income was partially offset by an increased capital allocation. For more information on capital allocated to the business segments, see Business Segment Operations on page 30.

Global Corporate, Global Commercial and Business Banking 

Global Corporate, Global Commercial and Business Banking each include Business Lending and Global Transaction Services activities. Business Lending includes various lending-related products and services, and related hedging activities, including commercial loans, leases, commitment facilities, trade finance, real estate lending and asset-based lending. Global Transaction Services includes deposits, treasury management, credit card, foreign exchange and short-term investment products.

35 Bank of America 2018

The table below and following discussion present a summary of the results, which exclude certain investment banking activities in Global Banking.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Business Lending revenue decreased $517 million in 2018 compared to 2017. The decrease was primarily driven by the impact of tax reform on certain tax-advantaged investments and lower leasing-related revenues.

Global Transaction Services revenue increased $729 million to $7.9 billion in 2018 compared to 2017 driven by higher short-term rates and increased deposits.

Average loans and leases increased two percent in 2018 compared to 2017 driven by growth in the commercial and industrial, and commercial real estate portfolios. Average deposits increased eight percent due to growth in domestic and international interest-bearing balances.

Global Investment Banking

Client teams and product specialists underwrite and distribute debt, equity and loan products, and provide advisory services and tailored risk management solutions. The economics of certain investment banking and underwriting activities are shared primarily between  Global Banking originates certain deal-related transactions with our corporate and commercial clients that are executed and distributed by Global Markets. To provide a complete discussion of our consolidated investment banking fees, the following table presents total Corporation investment banking Global Banking  Global Banking originates certain deal-related transactions with our corporate and commercial clients that are executed and distributed by Global Markets. To provide a complete discussion of our consolidated investment banking fees, the following table presents total Corporation investment banking fees and the portion attributable to Global Banking.and  Global Banking originates certain deal-related transactions with our corporate and commercial clients that are executed and distributed by Global Markets. To provide a complete discussion of our consolidated investment banking fees, the following table presents total Corporation investment banking fees and the portion attributable to Global Banking.Global Markets Global Banking originates certain deal-related transactions with our corporate and commercial clients that are executed and distributed by Global Markets. To provide a complete discussion of our consolidated investment banking fees, the following table presents total Corporation investment banking fees and the portion attributable to Global Banking. under an internal revenue-sharing arrangement. Global Banking originates certain deal-related transactions with our corporate and commercial clients that are executed and distributed by Global Markets. To provide a complete discussion of our consolidated investment banking fees, the following table presents total Corporation investment banking fees and the portion attributable to Global Banking.

fees and the portion attributable to Global Banking.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Total Corporation investment banking fees, excluding self-led deals, of $5.3 billion, which are primarily included within Global Banking and Global Markets, decreased 11 percent in 2018 compared to 2017 primarily due to declines in advisory fees and debt underwriting, the latter of which was driven by lower fee pools.

  Bank of America 2018  36

Global Markets

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Global Markets offers sales and trading services and research services to institutional clients across fixed-income, credit, currency, commodity and equity businesses. Global Markets Global Markets provides market-making, financing, securities clearing, settlement and custody services globally to our institutional investor clients in support of their investing and trading activities. We also work with our commercial and corporate clients to provide risk management products using interest rate, equity, credit, currency and commodity derivatives, foreign exchange, fixed-income and mortgage-related products. As a result of our market-making activities in these products, we may be required to manage risk in a broad range of financial products including government securities, equity and equity-linked securities, high-grade and high-yield corporate debt securities, syndicated loans, MBS, commodities and asset-backed securities. The economics of certain investment banking and underwriting activities are shared primarily between Global Markets and Global Banking under an internal revenue-sharing arrangement. Global Banking originates certain deal product coverage includes securities and derivative products in both the primary and secondary markets. Global Markets provides market-making, financing, securities clearing, settlement and custody services globally to our institutional investor clients in support of their investing and trading activities. We also work with our commercial and corporate clients to provide risk management products using interest rate, equity, credit, currency and commodity derivatives, foreign exchange, fixed-income and mortgage-related products. As a result of our market-making activities in these products, we may be required to manage risk in a broad range of financial products including government securities, equity and equity-linked securities, high-grade and high-yield corporate debt securities, syndicated loans, MBS, commodities and asset-backed securities. The economics of certain investment banking and underwriting activities are shared primarily between Global Markets and Global Ban

-related transactions with our corporate and commercial clients that are executed and distributed by Global Markets. For information on investment banking fees on a consolidated basis, see page 36.king under an internal revenue-sharing arrangement. Global Banking originates certain deal-related transactions with our corporate and commercial clients that are executed and distributed by Global Markets. For information on investment banking fees on a consolidated basis, see page 36.

Net income for Global Markets increased $686 million to $4.0 billion in 2018 compared to 2017. Net DVA losses were $162 million compared to losses of $428 million in 2017. Excluding net DVA, net income increased $544 million to $4.1 billion. These increases were primarily driven by lower income tax expense from the reduction in the federal income tax rate, a decrease in the provision for credit losses and modestly higher revenue.

Sales and trading revenue, excluding net DVA, increased $19 million due to higher Equities revenue, largely offset by lower FICC revenue. The provision for credit losses decreased $164 million driven by Global Markets’ portion of a single-name non-U.S. commercial charge-off in 2017. Noninterest expense decreased $45 million to $10.7 billion primarily due to lower operating costs.

37 Bank of America 2018

Average total assets increased $27.3 billion to $666.0 billion in 2018 primarily driven by increased levels of inventory in FICC to facilitate client demand and growth in Equities derivative client financing activities. Total year-end assets increased $12.9 billion to $641.9 billion at December 31, 2018 due to increased levels of inventory in FICC.

The return on average allocated capital was 11 percent, up from 9 percent, reflecting higher net income. For more information on capital allocated to the business segments, see Business Segment Operations on page 30.

Sales and Trading Revenue

Sales and trading revenue includes unrealized and realized gains and losses on trading and other assets, net interest income, and fees primarily from commissions on equity securities. Sales and trading revenue is segregated into fixed-income (government debt obligations, investment and non-investment grade corporate debt obligations, commercial MBS, residential mortgage-backed securities, collateralized loan obligations, interest rate and credit derivative contracts), currencies (interest rate and foreign exchange contracts), commodities (primarily futures, forwards, swaps and options) and equities (equity-linked derivatives and cash equity activity). The following table and related discussion present sales and trading revenue, substantially all of which is in Global Markets, with the remainder in Global Banking. In addition, the following table and related discussion present sales and trading revenue, excluding net DVA, which is a non-GAAP financial measure. For more information on net DVA, see Supplemental Financial Data on page 24.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The following explanations for year-over-year changes in sales and trading, FICC and Equities revenue exclude net DVA, but would be the same whether net DVA was included or excluded. FICC revenue decreased $723 million in 2018 primarily due to lower activity and a less favorable market in credit-related products. The decline in FICC revenue was also impacted by higher funding costs, which were driven by increases in market interest rates. Equities revenue increased $742 million in 2018 driven by strength in client financing and derivatives.

All Other

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

n/m = not meaningful

All Other consists of ALM activities, equity investments, non-core mortgage loans and servicing activities, the net impact of periodic revisions to the MSR valuation model for core and non-core MSRs and the related economic hedge results, liquidating businesses and residual expense allocations. ALM activities encompass certain residential mortgages, debt securities, interest rate and foreign currency risk management activities, the impact of certain 

allocation methodologies and hedge ineffectiveness. The results of certain ALM activities are allocated to our business segments. For more information on our ALM activities, see Note 23 – Business Segment Information to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Equity investments include our merchant services joint venture as well as a portfolio of equity, real estate and other alternative investments. For more information on our merchant services joint 

  Bank of America 2018  38

venture, see Note 12 – Commitments and Contingencies to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

The Corporation classifies consumer real estate loans as core or non-core based on loan and customer characteristics. For more information on the core and non-core portfolios, see Consumer Portfolio Credit Risk Management on page 51. Residential mortgage loans that are held for ALM purposes, including interest rate or liquidity risk management, are classified as core and are presented on the balance sheet of All Other. During 2018, residential mortgage loans held for ALM activities decreased $3.6 billion to $24.9 billion at December 31, 2018 primarily as a result of payoffs and paydowns. Non-core residential mortgage and home equity loans, which are principally runoff portfolios, are also held in All Other. During 2018, total non-core loans decreased $17.8 billion to $23.5 billion at December 31, 2018 due primarily to loan sales of $10.8 billion, as well as payoffs and paydowns. 

The net loss for All Other improved $3.2 billion to a loss of $113 million, driven by a charge of $2.9 billion in 2017 due to enactment of the Tax Act. The pretax loss for 2018 compared to 2017 decreased $1.4 billion primarily due to lower noninterest expense.

Revenue increased $73 million to a loss of $711 million primarily due to gains of $731 million from the sale of consumer real estate loans, primarily non-core, offset by a $729 million charge related to the redemption of certain trust preferred securities in 2018. Results for 2017 included a downward valuation adjustment of $946 million on tax-advantaged energy investments in connection with the Tax Act and a pretax gain of $793 million recognized in connection with the sale of the non-U.S. consumer credit card business in 2017.

Noninterest expense decreased $1.5 billion to $2.6 billion primarily due to lower non-core mortgage costs and reduced operational costs from the sale of the non-U.S. consumer credit card business. Also, the prior-year period included a $316 million impairment charge related to certain data centers.

The income tax benefit was $2.7 billion in 2018 compared to a benefit of $1.0 billion in 2017. The increase in the tax benefit was primarily driven by a charge of $1.9 billion in 2017 related to impacts of the Tax Act for the lower valuation of certain deferred tax assets and liabilities. Both periods included income tax benefit adjustments to eliminate the FTE treatment of certain tax credits recorded in Global Banking.

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Contractual Obligations

We have contractual obligations to make future payments on debt and lease agreements. Additionally, in the normal course of business, we enter into contractual arrangements whereby we commit to future purchases of products or services from unaffiliated parties. Purchase obligations are defined as obligations that are legally binding agreements whereby we agree to purchase products or services with a specific minimum quantity at a fixed, minimum or variable price over a specified period of time. Included in purchase obligations are vendor contracts, the most significant of which include communication services, processing services and software contracts. Debt, lease and other obligations are more fully discussed in Note 11 – Long-term Debt and Note 12 – Commitments and Contingencies to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Other long-term liabilities include our contractual funding obligations related to the Non-U.S. Pension Plans and Nonqualified and Other Pension Plans (together, the Plans). Obligations to the Plans are based on the current and projected obligations of the Plans, performance of the Plans’ assets, and any participant contributions, if applicable. During 2018 and 2017, we contributed $156 million and $514 million to the Plans, and we expect to make $127 million of contributions during 2019. The Plans are more fully discussed in Note 17 – Employee Benefit Plans to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

We enter into commitments to extend credit such as loan commitments, standby letters of credit (SBLCs) and commercial letters of credit to meet the financing needs of our customers. For a summary of the total unfunded, or off-balance sheet, credit extension commitment amounts by expiration date, see Credit Extension Commitments in Note 12 – Commitments and Contingencies to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

We also utilize variable interest entities (VIEs) in the ordinary course of business to support our financing and investing needs as well as those of our customers. For more information on our involvement with unconsolidated VIEs, see Note 7 – Securitizations and Other Variable Interest Entities to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Table 12 includes certain contractual obligations at December 31, 2018 and 2017.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Represents forecasted net interest expense on long-term debt and time deposits based on interest rates at December 31, 2018 and 2017. Forecasts are based on the contractual maturity dates of each liability, and are net of derivative hedges, where applicable.

39 Bank of America 2018

Representations and Warranties Obligations

For more information on representations and warranties obligations in connection with the sale of mortgage loans, see Note 12 – Commitments and Contingencies to the Consolidated Financial Statements. For more information related to the sensitivity of the assumptions used to estimate our reserve for representations and warranties, see Complex Accounting Estimates – Representations and Warranties Liability on page 79.

Managing Risk

Overview

Risk is inherent in all our business activities. Sound risk management enables us to serve our customers and deliver for our shareholders. If not managed well, risks can result in financial loss, regulatory sanctions and penalties, and damage to our reputation, each of which may adversely impact our ability to execute our business strategies. We take a comprehensive approach to risk management with a defined Risk Framework and an articulated Risk Appetite Statement which are approved annually by the Enterprise Risk Committee (ERC) and the Board.

The seven key types of risk faced by the Corporation are strategic, credit, market, liquidity, compliance, operational and reputational.

●Strategic risk is the risk resulting from incorrect assumptions about external or internal factors, inappropriate business plans, ineffective business strategy execution, or failure to respond in a timely manner to changes in the regulatory, macroeconomic or competitive environments in the geographic locations in which we operate.

●Credit risk is the risk of loss arising from the inability or failure of a borrower or counterparty to meet its obligations.

●Market risk is the risk that changes in market conditions may adversely impact the value of assets or liabilities, or otherwise negatively impact earnings.

●Liquidity risk is the inability to meet expected or unexpected cash flow and collateral needs while continuing to support our businesses and customers under a range of economic conditions.

●Compliance risk is the risk of legal or regulatory sanctions, material financial loss or damage to the reputation of the Corporation arising from the failure of the Corporation to comply with the requirements of applicable laws, rules and regulations and our internal policies and procedures.

●Operational risk is the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed processes, people and systems, or from external events.

●Reputational risk is the risk that negative perceptions of the Corporation’s conduct or business practices may adversely impact its profitability or operations.

The following sections address in more detail the specific procedures, measures and analyses of the major categories of risk. This discussion of managing risk focuses on the current Risk Framework that, as part of its annual review process, was approved by the ERC and the Board.

As set forth in our Risk Framework, a culture of managing risk well is fundamental to fulfilling our purpose and our values and delivering responsible growth. It requires us to focus on risk in all activities and encourages the necessary mindset and behavior to enable effective risk management, and promotes sound risk-taking 

within our risk appetite. Sustaining a culture of managing risk well throughout the organization is critical to our success and is a clear expectation of our executive management team and the Board.

Our Risk Framework serves as the foundation for the consistent and effective management of risks facing the Corporation. The Risk Framework sets forth clear roles, responsibilities and accountability for the management of risk and provides a blueprint for how the Board, through delegation of authority to committees and executive officers, establishes risk appetite and associated limits for our activities.

Executive management assesses, with Board oversight, the risk-adjusted returns of each business. Management reviews and approves the strategic and financial operating plans, as well as the capital plan and Risk Appetite Statement, and recommends them annually to the Board for approval. Our strategic plan takes into consideration return objectives and financial resources, which must align with risk capacity and risk appetite. Management sets financial objectives for each business by allocating capital and setting a target for return on capital for each business. Capital allocations and operating limits are regularly evaluated as part of our overall governance processes as the businesses and the economic environment in which we operate continue to evolve. For more information regarding capital allocations, see Business Segment Operations on page 30.

The Corporation’s risk appetite indicates the amount of capital, earnings or liquidity we are willing to put at risk to achieve our strategic objectives and business plans, consistent with applicable regulatory requirements. Our risk appetite provides a common and comparable set of measures for senior management and the Board to clearly indicate our aggregate level of risk and to monitor whether the Corporation’s risk profile remains in alignment with our strategic and capital plans. Our risk appetite is formally articulated in the Risk Appetite Statement, which includes both qualitative components and quantitative limits.

Our overall capacity to take risk is limited; therefore, we prioritize the risks we take in order to maintain a strong and flexible financial 

position so we can withstand challenging economic conditions and take advantage of organic growth opportunities. Therefore, we set objectives and targets for capital and liquidity that are intended to permit us to continue to operate in a safe and sound manner, including during periods of stress.

Our lines of business operate with risk limits (which may include credit, market and/or operational limits, as applicable) that align with the Corporation’s risk appetite. Executive management is responsible for tracking and reporting performance measurements as well as any exceptions to guidelines or limits. The Board, and its committees when appropriate, oversees financial performance, execution of the strategic and financial operating plans, adherence to risk appetite limits and the adequacy of internal controls.

For a more detailed discussion of our risk management activities, see the discussion below and pages 43 through 77. 

Risk Management Governance

The Risk Framework describes delegations of authority whereby the Board and its committees may delegate authority to management-level committees or executive officers. Such delegations may authorize certain decision-making and approval functions, which may be evidenced in, for example, committee charters, job descriptions, meeting minutes and resolutions.

  Bank of America 2018  40

The chart below illustrates the inter-relationship among the Board, Board committees and management committees that have the majority of risk oversight responsibilities for the Corporation. 

(1) This presentation does not include committees for other legal entities.

(2) Reports to the CEO and CFO with oversight by the Audit Committee.

Board of Directors and Board Committees

The Board is composed of 16 directors, all but one of whom are independent. The Board authorizes management to maintain an effective Risk Framework, and oversees compliance with safe and sound banking practices. In addition, the Board or its committees conduct inquiries of, and receive reports from management on risk-related matters to assess scope or resource limitations that could impede the ability of Independent Risk Management (IRM) and/or Corporate Audit to execute its responsibilities. The Board committees discussed below have the principal responsibility for enterprise-wide oversight of our risk management activities. Through these activities, the Board and applicable committees are provided with information on our risk profile and oversee executive management addressing key risks we face. Other Board committees, as described below, provide additional oversight of specific risks.

Each of the committees shown on the above chart regularly reports to the Board on risk-related matters within the committee’s responsibilities, which is intended to collectively provide the Board with integrated insight about our management of enterprise-wide risks.

Audit Committee

The Audit Committee oversees the qualifications, performance and independence of the Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm, the performance of our corporate audit function, the integrity of our consolidated financial statements, our compliance with legal and regulatory requirements, and makes inquiries of management or the Corporate General Auditor (CGA) to determine whether there are scope or resource limitations that impede the ability of Corporate Audit to execute its responsibilities. The Audit Committee is also responsible for overseeing compliance risk pursuant to the New York Stock Exchange listing standards.

Enterprise Risk Committee 

The ERC has primary responsibility for oversight of the Risk Framework and key risks we face and of the Corporation’s overall risk appetite. It approves the Risk Framework and the Risk Appetite Statement and further recommends these documents to the Board for approval. The ERC oversees senior management’s 

responsibilities for the identification, measurement, monitoring and control of key risks we face. The ERC may consult with other Board committees on risk-related matters.

Other Board Committees

Our Corporate Governance Committee oversees our Board’s governance processes, identifies and reviews the qualifications of potential Board members, recommends nominees for election to our Board, recommends committee appointments for Board approval and reviews our Environmental, Social and Governance and stockholder engagement activities.

Our Compensation and Benefits Committee oversees establishing, maintaining and administering our compensation programs and employee benefit plans, including approving and recommending our Chief Executive Officer’s (CEO) compensation to our Board for further approval by all independent directors, and reviewing and approving all of our executive officers’ compensation, as well as compensation for non-management directors.

Management Committees

Management committees may receive their authority from the Board, a Board committee, another management committee or from one or more executive officers. Our primary management-level risk committee is the Management Risk Committee (MRC). Subject to Board oversight, the MRC is responsible for management oversight of key risks facing the Corporation. This includes providing management oversight of our compliance and operational risk programs, balance sheet and capital management, funding activities and other liquidity activities, stress testing, trading activities, recovery and resolution planning, model risk, subsidiary governance and activities between member banks and their nonbank affiliates pursuant to Federal Reserve rules and regulations, among other things.

Lines of Defense

We have clear ownership and accountability across three lines of defense: Front Line Units (FLUs), IRM and Corporate Audit. We also have control functions outside of FLUs and IRM (e.g., Legal and Global Human Resources). The three lines of defense are 

41 Bank of America 2018

integrated into our management-level governance structure. Each of these functional roles is described in more detail below.

Executive Officers

Executive officers lead various functions representing the functional roles. Authority for functional roles may be delegated to executive officers from the Board, Board committees or management-level committees. Executive officers, in turn, may further delegate responsibilities, as appropriate, to management-level committees, management routines or individuals. Executive officers review our activities for consistency with our Risk Framework, Risk Appetite Statement and applicable strategic, capital and financial operating plans, as well as applicable policies, standards, procedures and processes. Executive officers and other employees make decisions individually on a day-to-day basis, consistent with the authority they have been delegated. Executive officers and other employees may also serve on committees and participate in committee decisions.

Front Line Units

FLUs, which include the lines of business as well as the Global Technology and Operations Group, are responsible for appropriately assessing and effectively managing all of the risks associated with their activities. 

Three organizational units that include FLU activities and control function activities, but are not part of IRM are the Chief Financial Officer (CFO) Group, Global Marketing and Corporate Affairs (GM&CA) and the Chief Administrative Officer (CAO) Group.

Independent Risk Management

IRM is part of our control functions and includes Global Risk Management and Global Compliance and Operational Risk. We have other control functions that are not part of IRM (other control functions may also provide oversight to FLU activities), including Legal, Global Human Resources and certain activities within the CAO Group, CFO Group and GM&CA. IRM, led by the Chief Risk Officer (CRO), is responsible for independently assessing and overseeing risks within FLUs and other control functions. IRM establishes written enterprise policies and procedures that include concentration risk limits, where appropriate. Such policies and procedures outline how aggregate risks are identified, measured, monitored and controlled.

The CRO has the stature, authority and independence to develop and implement a meaningful risk management framework. The CRO has unrestricted access to the Board and reports directly to both the ERC and to the CEO. Global Risk Management is organized into horizontal risk teams, front line unit risk teams and control function risk teams that work collaboratively in executing their respective duties.

Corporate Audit

Corporate Audit and the CGA maintain their independence from the FLUs, IRM and other control functions by reporting directly to the Audit Committee or the Board. The CGA administratively reports to the CEO. Corporate Audit provides independent assessment and validation through testing of key processes and controls across the Corporation. Corporate Audit includes Credit Review which periodically tests and examines credit portfolios and processes.

Risk Management Processes

The Risk Framework requires that strong risk management practices are integrated in key strategic, capital and financial planning processes and in day-to-day business processes across 

the Corporation, with a goal of ensuring risks are appropriately considered, evaluated and responded to in a timely manner.

We employ our risk management process, referred to as Identify, Measure, Monitor and Control, as part of our daily activities.

Identify – To be effectively managed, risks must be clearly defined and proactively identified. Proper risk identification focuses on recognizing and understanding key risks inherent in our business activities or key risks that may arise from external factors. Each employee is expected to identify and escalate risks promptly. Risk identification is an ongoing process, incorporating input from FLUs and control functions, designed to be forward looking and capture relevant risk factors across all of our lines of business. 

Measure – Once a risk is identified, it must be prioritized and accurately measured through a systematic risk quantification process including quantitative and qualitative components. Risk is measured at various levels including, but not limited to, risk type, FLU, legal entity and on an aggregate basis. This risk quantification process helps to capture changes in our risk profile due to changes in strategic direction, concentrations, portfolio quality and the overall economic environment. Senior management considers how risk exposures might evolve under a variety of stress scenarios. 

Monitor – We monitor risk levels regularly to track adherence to risk appetite, policies, standards, procedures and processes. We also regularly update risk assessments and review risk exposures. Through our monitoring, we can determine our level of risk relative to limits and can take action in a timely manner. We also can determine when risk limits are breached and have processes to appropriately report and escalate exceptions. This includes requests for approval to managers and alerts to executive management, management-level committees or the Board (directly or through an appropriate committee).

Control – We establish and communicate risk limits and controls through policies, standards, procedures and processes that define the responsibilities and authority for risk-taking. The limits and controls can be adjusted by the Board or management when conditions or risk tolerances warrant. These limits may be absolute (e.g., loan amount, trading volume) or relative (e.g., percentage of loan book in higher-risk categories). Our lines of business are held accountable to perform within the established limits.

The formal processes used to manage risk represent a part of our overall risk management process. We instill a strong and comprehensive culture of managing risk well through communications, training, policies, procedures and organizational roles and responsibilities. Establishing a culture reflective of our purpose to help make our customers’ financial lives better and delivering our responsible growth strategy are also critical to effective risk management. We understand that improper actions, behaviors or practices that are illegal, unethical or contrary to our core values could result in harm to the Corporation, our shareholders or our customers, damage the integrity of the financial markets, or negatively impact our reputation, and have established protocols and structures so that such conduct risk is governed and reported across the Corporation. Specifically, our Code of Conduct provides a framework for all of our employees to conduct themselves with the highest integrity. Additionally, we continue to strengthen the link between the employee performance management process and individual compensation to encourage employees to work toward enterprise-wide risk goals.

  Bank of America 2018  42

Corporation-wide Stress Testing

Integral to our Capital Planning, Financial Planning and Strategic Planning processes, we conduct capital scenario management and stress forecasting on a periodic basis to better understand balance sheet, earnings and capital sensitivities to certain economic and business scenarios, including economic and market conditions that are more severe than anticipated. These stress forecasts provide an understanding of the potential impacts from our risk profile on the balance sheet, earnings and capital, and serve as a key component of our capital and risk management practices. The intent of stress testing is to develop a comprehensive understanding of potential impacts of on- and off-balance sheet risks at the Corporation and how they impact financial resiliency, which provides confidence to management, regulators and our investors. 

Contingency Planning

We have developed and maintain contingency plans that are designed to prepare us in advance to respond in the event of potential adverse economic, financial or market stress. These contingency plans include our Capital Contingency Plan and Financial Contingency and Recovery Plan, which provide monitoring, escalation, actions and routines designed to enable us to increase capital, access funding sources and reduce risk through consideration of potential options that include asset sales, business sales, capital or debt issuances, or other de-risking strategies. We also maintain a Resolution Plan to limit adverse systemic impacts that could be associated with a potential resolution of Bank of America.

Strategic Risk Management

Strategic risk is embedded in every business and is one of the major risk categories along with credit, market, liquidity, compliance, operational and reputational risks. This risk results from incorrect assumptions about external or internal factors, inappropriate business plans, ineffective business strategy execution, or failure to respond in a timely manner to changes in the regulatory, macroeconomic or competitive environments, in the geographic locations in which we operate, such as competitor actions, changing customer preferences, product obsolescence and technology developments. Our strategic plan is consistent with our risk appetite, capital plan and liquidity requirements, and specifically addresses strategic risks.

On an annual basis, the Board reviews and approves the strategic plan, capital plan, financial operating plan and Risk Appetite Statement. With oversight by the Board, executive management directs the lines of business to execute our strategic plan consistent with our core operating principles and risk appetite. The executive management team monitors business performance throughout the year and provides the Board with regular progress reports on whether strategic objectives and timelines are being met, including reports on strategic risks and if additional or alternative actions need to be considered or implemented. The regular executive reviews focus on assessing forecasted earnings and returns on capital, the current risk profile, current capital and liquidity requirements, staffing levels and changes required to support the strategic plan, stress testing results, and other qualitative factors such as market growth rates and peer analysis. 

Significant strategic actions, such as capital actions, material acquisitions or divestitures, and resolution plans are reviewed and approved by the Board. At the business level, processes are in place to discuss the strategic risk implications of new, expanded or modified businesses, products or services and other strategic initiatives, and to provide formal review and approval where 

required. With oversight by the Board and the ERC, executive management performs similar analyses throughout the year, and evaluates changes to the financial forecast or the risk, capital or liquidity positions as deemed appropriate to balance and optimize achieving the targeted risk appetite, shareholder returns and maintaining the targeted financial strength. Proprietary models are used to measure the capital requirements for credit, country, market, operational and strategic risks. The allocated capital assigned to each business is based on its unique risk profile. With oversight by the Board, executive management assesses the risk-adjusted returns of each business in approving strategic and financial operating plans. The businesses use allocated capital to define business strategies, and price products and transactions.

Capital Management

The Corporation manages its capital position so that its capital is more than adequate to support its business activities and aligns with risk, risk appetite and strategic planning. Additionally, we seek to maintain safety and soundness at all times, even under adverse scenarios, take advantage of organic growth opportunities, meet obligations to creditors and counterparties, maintain ready access to financial markets, continue to serve as a credit intermediary, remain a source of strength for our subsidiaries, and satisfy current and future regulatory capital requirements. Capital management is integrated into our risk and governance processes, as capital is a key consideration in the development of our strategic plan, risk appetite and risk limits.

We conduct an Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process (ICAAP) on a periodic basis. The ICAAP is a forward-looking assessment of our projected capital needs and resources, incorporating earnings, balance sheet and risk forecasts under baseline and adverse economic and market conditions. We utilize periodic stress tests to assess the potential impacts to our balance sheet, earnings, regulatory capital and liquidity under a variety of stress scenarios. We perform qualitative risk assessments to identify and assess material risks not fully captured in our forecasts or stress tests. We assess the potential capital impacts of proposed changes to regulatory capital requirements. Management assesses ICAAP results and provides documented quarterly assessments of the adequacy of our capital guidelines and capital position to the Board or its committees. 

We periodically review capital allocated to our businesses and allocate capital annually during the strategic and capital planning processes. For additional information, see Business Segment Operations on page 30.

CCAR and Capital Planning

The Federal Reserve requires BHCs to submit a capital plan and requests for capital actions on an annual basis, consistent with the rules governing the CCAR capital plan.

On June 28, 2018, following the Federal Reserve’s non-objection to our 2018 CCAR capital plan, the Board authorized the repurchase of approximately $20.6 billion in common stock from July 1, 2018 through June 30, 2019, which includes approximately $600 million in repurchases to offset shares awarded under equity-based compensation plans during the same period. In addition to the previously announced repurchases associated with the 2018 CCAR capital plan, on February 7, 2019, we announced a plan to repurchase an additional $2.5 billion of common stock through June 30, 2019, which was approved by the Federal Reserve.

During 2018, pursuant to the Board’s authorizations, including those related to our 2017 CCAR capital plan that expired June 30, 2018, we repurchased $20.1 billion of common stock, which includes common stock repurchases to offset equity-based 

43 Bank of America 2018

compensation awards. At December 31, 2018, our remaining stock repurchase authorization was $10.3 billion.

Our stock repurchases are subject to various factors, including the Corporation’s capital position, liquidity, financial performance and alternative uses of capital, stock trading price and general market conditions, and may be suspended at any time. The repurchases may be effected through open market purchases or privately negotiated transactions, including repurchase plans that satisfy the conditions of Rule 10b5-1 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. As a “well-capitalized” BHC, we may notify the Federal Reserve of our intention to make additional capital distributions not to exceed 0.25 percent of Tier 1 capital, and which were not contemplated in our capital plan, subject to the Federal Reserve’s non-objection.

Regulatory Capital

As a financial services holding company, we are subject to regulatory capital rules, including Basel 3, issued by U.S. banking regulators. Basel 3 established minimum capital ratios and buffer requirements and outlined two methods of calculating risk-weighted assets, the Standardized approach and the Advanced approaches. The Standardized approach relies primarily on supervisory risk weights based on exposure type, and the Advanced approaches determine risk weights based on internal models. 

The Corporation and its primary affiliated banking entity, BANA, are Advanced approaches institutions under Basel 3 and are required to report regulatory risk-based capital ratios and risk-weighted assets under both the Standardized and Advanced approaches. The approach that yields the lower ratio is used to assess capital adequacy including under the Prompt Corrective Action (PCA) framework. As of December 31, 2018, Common equity tier 1 (CET1) and Tier 1 capital ratios for the Corporation were lower under the Standardized approach whereas the Advanced approaches yielded a lower Total capital ratio. 

Minimum Capital Requirements

Minimum capital requirements and related buffers were fully phased in as of January 1, 2019. The PCA framework established categories of capitalization, including well capitalized, based on the Basel 3 regulatory ratio requirements. U.S. banking regulators are required to take certain mandatory actions depending on the category of capitalization, with no mandatory actions required for well-capitalized banking organizations.

In order to avoid restrictions on capital distributions and discretionary bonus payments, the Corporation must meet risk-based capital ratio requirements that include a capital conservation buffer greater than 2.5 percent, plus any applicable countercyclical capital buffer and a global systemically important bank (G-SIB) surcharge. The buffers and surcharge must be comprised solely of CET1 capital and were phased in over a three-year period that ended January 1, 2019. 

The Corporation is also required to maintain a minimum supplementary leverage ratio (SLR) of 3.0 percent plus a leverage buffer of 2.0 percent in order to avoid certain restrictions on capital distributions and discretionary bonus payments. Our insured depository institution subsidiaries are required to maintain a minimum 6.0 percent SLR to be considered well capitalized under the PCA framework. The numerator of the SLR is quarter-end Basel 3 Tier 1 capital. The denominator is total leverage exposure based on the daily average of the sum of on-balance sheet exposures less permitted Tier 1 deductions, as well as the simple average of certain off-balance sheet exposures, as of the end of each month in a quarter.

Capital Composition and Ratios

Table 13 presents Bank of America Corporation’s capital ratios and related information in accordance with Basel 3 Standardized and Advanced approaches as measured at December 31, 2018 and 2017. As of the periods presented, the Corporation met the definition of well capitalized under current regulatory requirements.

  Bank of America 2018  44

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Basel 3 transition provisions for regulatory capital adjustments and deductions were fully phased in as of January 1, 2018. Prior periods are presented on a fully phased-in basis.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(4) Total capital under the Advanced approaches differs from the Standardized approach due to differences in the amount permitted in Tier 2 capital related to the qualifying allowance for credit losses.

(5) Reflects adjusted average total assets for the three months ended December 31, 2018 and 2017.

CET1 capital was $167.3 billion at December 31, 2018, a decrease of $1.2 billion from December 31, 2017, driven by common stock repurchases, dividends and market value declines on AFS debt securities included in accumulated OCI, partially offset by earnings. During 2018, Total capital under the Advanced approaches decreased $2.4 billion driven by the same factors as CET1 capital and a decrease in subordinated debt included in Tier 

2 capital. Standardized risk-weighted assets, which yielded the lower CET1 capital ratio for December 31, 2018, decreased $5.5 billion during 2018 to $1,437 billion primarily due to sales of non-core mortgage loans and a decrease in market risk, partially offset by an increase in commercial loans.

Table 14 shows the capital composition at December 31, 2018 and 2017.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Basel 3 transition provisions for regulatory capital adjustments and deductions were fully phased in as of January 1, 2018. Prior periods are presented on a fully phased-in basis.

45 Bank of America 2018

Table 15 shows the components of risk-weighted assets as measured under Basel 3 at December 31, 2018 and 2017.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Basel 3 transition provisions for regulatory capital adjustments and deductions were fully phased in as of January 1, 2018. Prior periods are presented on a fully phased-in basis.

n/a = not applicable

Bank of America, N.A. Regulatory Capital

Table 16 presents regulatory capital information for BANA in accordance with Basel 3 Standardized and Advanced approaches as measured at December 31, 2018 and 2017. BANA met the definition of well capitalized under the PCA framework for both periods.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Percent required to meet guidelines to be considered well capitalized under the PCA framework.

Regulatory Developments

Minimum Total Loss-Absorbing Capacity

The Federal Reserve’s final rule, which was effective January 1, 2019, includes minimum external total loss-absorbing capacity (TLAC) and long-term debt requirements to improve the resolvability and resiliency of large, interconnected BHCs. As of December 31, 2018, the Corporation’s TLAC and long-term debt exceeded our estimated 2019 minimum requirements.

Stress Buffer Requirements

On April 10, 2018, the Federal Reserve announced a proposal to integrate the annual quantitative assessment of the CCAR program with the buffer requirements in the Basel 3 capital rule by introducing stress buffer requirements as a replacement of the CCAR quantitative objection. Under the Standardized approach, the proposal replaces the existing static 2.5 percent capital conservation buffer with a stress capital buffer, calculated as the decrease in the CET1 capital ratio in the supervisory severely adverse scenario of the modified CCAR stress test plus four quarters of planned common stock dividend payments, floored at 2.5 percent. The static 2.5 percent capital conservation buffer would be retained under the Advanced approaches. The proposal also introduces a stress leverage buffer requirement which would be calculated as the decrease in the Tier 1 leverage ratio in the supervisory severely adverse scenario of the modified CCAR stress test plus four quarters of planned common stock dividends, with

no floor. The SLR would not incorporate a stress buffer requirement. The proposal also updates the capital distribution assumptions used in the CCAR stress test to better align with a firm’s expected actions in stress, notably removing the assumption that a BHC will carry out all of its planned capital actions under stress.

Enhanced Supplementary Leverage Ratio and TLAC Requirements

On April 11, 2018, the Federal Reserve and Office of the Comptroller of the Currency announced a proposal to modify the enhanced SLR standards applicable to U.S. G-SIBs and their insured depository institution subsidiaries. The proposal replaces the existing 2.0 percent leverage buffer with a leverage buffer tailored to each G-SIB, set at 50 percent of the applicable G-SIB surcharge. This proposal also replaces the current 6.0 percent threshold at which a G-SIB’s insured depository institution subsidiaries are considered well capitalized under the PCA framework with a threshold set at 3.0 percent plus 50 percent of the G-SIB surcharge applicable to the subsidiary’s G-SIB holding company. Correspondingly, the proposal updates the external TLAC leverage buffer for each G-SIB to 50 percent of the applicable G-SIB surcharge and revises the leverage component of the minimum external long-term debt requirement from 4.5 percent to 2.5 percent plus 50 percent of the applicable G-SIB surcharge.

  Bank of America 2018  46

Revisions to Basel 3 to Address Current Expected Credit Loss Accounting

On December 18, 2018, the U.S. banking regulators issued a final rule to address the regulatory capital impact of using the current expected credit loss methodology to measure credit reserves under a new accounting standard that is effective on January 1, 2020. For more information on this standard, see Note 1 – Summary of Significant Accounting Principles to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The final rule provides an option to phase in the impact to regulatory capital over a three-year period on a straight-line basis. It also updates the existing regulatory capital framework by creating a new defined term, adjusted allowance for credit losses, which would include credit losses on all financial instruments measured at amortized cost with the exception of purchased credit-deteriorated assets. The final rule continues to allow a limited amount of credit losses to be recognized in Tier 2 capital and maintains the existing limits under the Standardized and Advanced approaches.

Single-Counterparty Credit Limits

On June 14, 2018, the Federal Reserve published a final rule establishing single-counterparty credit limits (SCCL) for BHCs with total consolidated assets of $250 billion or more. The SCCL rule is designed to ensure that the maximum possible loss that a BHC could incur due to the default of a single counterparty or a group of connected counterparties would not endanger the BHC’s survival, thereby reducing the probability of future financial crises. Beginning January 1, 2020, G-SIBs must calculate SCCL on a daily basis by dividing the aggregate net credit exposure to a given counterparty by the G-SIB’s Tier 1 capital, ensuring that exposures to other G-SIBs and nonbank financial institutions regulated by the Federal Reserve do not breach 15 percent of Tier 1 capital and exposures to most other counterparties do not breach 25 percent of Tier 1 capital. Certain exposures, including exposures to the U.S. government, U.S. government-sponsored entities and qualifying central counterparties, are exempt from the credit limits.

Broker-dealer Regulatory Capital and Securities Regulation 

The Corporation’s principal U.S. broker-dealer subsidiaries are Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated (MLPF&S) and Merrill Lynch Professional Clearing Corp (MLPCC). MLPCC is a fully-guaranteed subsidiary of MLPF&S and provides clearing and settlement services. Both entities are subject to the net capital requirements of Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) Rule 15c3-1. Both entities are also registered as futures commission merchants and are subject to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission Regulation 1.17.

MLPF&S has elected to compute the minimum capital requirement in accordance with the Alternative Net Capital Requirement as permitted by SEC Rule 15c3-1. At December 31, 2018, MLPF&S’ regulatory net capital as defined by Rule 15c3-1 was $13.4 billion and exceeded the minimum requirement of $2.0 billion by $11.4 billion. MLPCC’s net capital of $4.4 billion exceeded the minimum requirement of $617 million by $3.8 billion.

In accordance with the Alternative Net Capital Requirements, MLPF&S is required to maintain tentative net capital in excess of $1.0 billion, net capital in excess of $500 million and notify the SEC in the event its tentative net capital is less than $5.0 billion. At December 31, 2018, MLPF&S had tentative net capital and net capital in excess of the minimum and notification requirements.

As a result of resolution planning, the current business of MLPF&S is expected to be reorganized into two affiliated broker-

dealers: MLPF&S and BofA Securities, Inc., a newly formed broker-dealer. Under the contemplated reorganization, which is expected to occur during 2019, BofA Securities, Inc. would become the legal entity for the institutional services that are now provided by MLPF&S. MLPF&S’ retail services would remain with MLPF&S. The contemplated reorganization is subject to regulatory approval. For more information on resolution planning, see Item 1. Business. – .Resolution Planning.

Merrill Lynch International (MLI), a U.K. investment firm, is regulated by the Prudential Regulation Authority and the FCA, and is subject to certain regulatory capital requirements. At December 31, 2018, MLI’s capital resources were $35.0 billion, which exceeded the minimum Pillar 1 requirement of $12.7 billion.

Liquidity Risk

Funding and Liquidity Risk Management

Our primary liquidity risk management objective is to meet expected or unexpected cash flow and collateral needs while continuing to support our businesses and customers under a range of economic conditions. To achieve that objective, we analyze and monitor our liquidity risk under expected and stressed conditions, maintain liquidity and access to diverse funding sources, including our stable deposit base, and seek to align liquidity-related incentives and risks.

We define liquidity as readily available assets, limited to cash and high-quality, liquid, unencumbered securities that we can use to meet our contractual and contingent financial obligations as those obligations arise. We manage our liquidity position through line of business and ALM activities, as well as through our legal entity funding strategy, on both a forward and current (including intraday) basis under both expected and stressed conditions. We believe that a centralized approach to funding and liquidity management enhances our ability to monitor liquidity requirements, maximizes access to funding sources, minimizes borrowing costs and facilitates timely responses to liquidity events. 

The Board approves our liquidity risk policy and the Financial Contingency and Recovery Plan. The ERC establishes our liquidity risk tolerance levels. The MRC is responsible for overseeing liquidity risks and directing management to maintain exposures within the established tolerance levels. The MRC reviews and monitors our liquidity position and stress testing results, approves certain liquidity risk limits and reviews the impact of strategic decisions on our liquidity. For more information, see Managing Risk on page 40. Under this governance framework, we have developed certain funding and liquidity risk management practices which include: maintaining liquidity at the parent company and selected subsidiaries, including our bank subsidiaries and other regulated entities; determining what amounts of liquidity are appropriate for these entities based on analysis of debt maturities and other potential cash outflows, including those that we may experience during stressed market conditions; diversifying funding sources, considering our asset profile and legal entity structure; and performing contingency planning.

NB Holdings Corporation

We have intercompany arrangements with certain key subsidiaries under which we transferred certain assets of Bank of America Corporation, as the parent company, which is a separate and distinct legal entity from our banking and nonbank subsidiaries, and agreed to transfer certain additional parent company assets not needed to satisfy anticipated near-term expenditures, to NB Holdings Corporation, a wholly-owned holding company subsidiary 

47 Bank of America 2018

(NB Holdings). The parent company is expected to continue to have access to the same flow of dividends, interest and other amounts of cash necessary to service its debt, pay dividends and perform other obligations as it would have had if it had not entered into these arrangements and transferred any assets.

In consideration for the transfer of assets, NB Holdings issued a subordinated note to the parent company in a principal amount equal to the value of the transferred assets. The aggregate principal amount of the note will increase by the amount of any future asset transfers. NB Holdings also provided the parent company with a committed line of credit that allows the parent company to draw funds necessary to service near-term cash needs. These arrangements support our preferred single point of entry resolution strategy, under which only the parent company would be resolved under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. These arrangements include provisions to terminate the line of credit, forgive the subordinated note and require the parent company to transfer its remaining financial assets to NB Holdings if our projected liquidity resources deteriorate so severely that resolution of the parent company becomes imminent.

Global Liquidity Sources and Other Unencumbered Assets

We maintain liquidity available to the Corporation, including the parent company and selected subsidiaries, in the form of cash and high-quality, liquid, unencumbered securities. Our liquidity buffer, referred to as Global Liquidity Sources (GLS), is comprised of assets that are readily available to the parent company and selected subsidiaries, including holding company, bank and broker-dealer subsidiaries, even during stressed market conditions. Our cash is primarily on deposit with the Federal Reserve Bank and, to a lesser extent, central banks outside of the U.S. We limit the composition of high-quality, liquid, unencumbered securities to U.S. government securities, U.S. agency securities, U.S. agency MBS and a select group of non-U.S. government securities. We can quickly obtain cash for these securities, even in stressed conditions, through repurchase agreements or outright sales. We hold our GLS in legal entities that allow us to meet the liquidity requirements of our global businesses, and we consider the impact of potential regulatory, tax, legal and other restrictions that could limit the transferability of funds among entities.

Table 17 presents average GLS for the three months ended December 31, 2018 and 2017.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Typically, parent company and NB Holdings liquidity is in the form of cash deposited with BANA.

Our bank subsidiaries’ liquidity is primarily driven by deposit and lending activity, as well as securities valuation and net debt activity. Liquidity at bank subsidiaries excludes the cash deposited by the parent company and NB Holdings. Our bank subsidiaries can also generate incremental liquidity by pledging a range of unencumbered loans and securities to certain FHLBs and the Federal Reserve Discount Window. The cash we could have obtained by borrowing against this pool of specifically-identified eligible assets was $344 billion and $308 billion at December 31, 

2018 and 2017. We have established operational procedures to enable us to borrow against these assets, including regularly monitoring our total pool of eligible loans and securities collateral. Eligibility is defined in guidelines from the FHLBs and the Federal Reserve and is subject to change at their discretion. Due to regulatory restrictions, liquidity generated by the bank subsidiaries can generally be used only to fund obligations within the bank subsidiaries, and transfers to the parent company or nonbank subsidiaries may be subject to prior regulatory approval.

Liquidity held in other regulated entities, comprised primarily of broker-dealer subsidiaries, is primarily available to meet the obligations of that entity and transfers to the parent company or to any other subsidiary may be subject to prior regulatory approval due to regulatory restrictions and minimum requirements. Our other regulated entities also hold unencumbered investment-grade securities and equities that we believe could be used to generate additional liquidity.

Table 18 presents the composition of average GLS for the three months ended December 31, 2018 and 2017.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Our GLS are substantially the same in composition to what qualifies as High Quality Liquid Assets (HQLA) under the final U.S. Liquidity Coverage Ratio (LCR) rules. However, HQLA for purposes of calculating LCR is not reported at market value, but at a lower value that incorporates regulatory deductions and the exclusion of excess liquidity held at certain subsidiaries. The LCR is calculated as the amount of a financial institution’s unencumbered HQLA relative to the estimated net cash outflows the institution could encounter over a 30-day period of significant liquidity stress, expressed as a percentage. Our average consolidated HQLA, on a net basis, was $446 billion and $439 billion for the three months ended December 31, 2018 and 2017. For the same periods, the average consolidated LCR was 118 percent and 125 percent. Our LCR will fluctuate due to normal business flows from customer activity.

Liquidity Stress Analysis

We utilize liquidity stress analysis to assist us in determining the appropriate amounts of liquidity to maintain at the parent company and our subsidiaries to meet contractual and contingent cash outflows under a range of scenarios. The scenarios we consider and utilize incorporate market-wide and Corporation-specific events, including potential credit rating downgrades for the parent company and our subsidiaries, and more severe events including potential resolution scenarios. The scenarios are based on our historical experience, experience of distressed and failed financial institutions, regulatory guidance, and both expected and unexpected future events.

The types of potential contractual and contingent cash outflows we consider in our scenarios may include, but are not limited to, upcoming contractual maturities of unsecured debt and reductions in new debt issuance; diminished access to secured financing markets; potential deposit withdrawals; increased draws on loan 

  Bank of America 2018  48

commitments, liquidity facilities and letters of credit; additional collateral that counterparties could call if our credit ratings were downgraded; collateral and margin requirements arising from market value changes; and potential liquidity required to maintain businesses and finance customer activities. Changes in certain market factors, including, but not limited to, credit rating downgrades, could negatively impact potential contractual and contingent outflows and the related financial instruments, and in some cases these impacts could be material to our financial results.

We consider all sources of funds that we could access during each stress scenario and focus particularly on matching available sources with corresponding liquidity requirements by legal entity. We also use the stress modeling results to manage our asset and liability profile and establish limits and guidelines on certain funding sources and businesses.

Net Stable Funding Ratio

U.S. banking regulators issued a proposal for a Net Stable Funding Ratio (NSFR) requirement applicable to U.S. financial institutions following the Basel Committee’s final standard. The proposed U.S. NSFR would apply to the Corporation on a consolidated basis and to our insured depository institutions. While the final requirement remains pending and is subject to change, if finalized as proposed, we expect to be in compliance within the regulatory timeline. The standard is intended to reduce funding risk over a longer time horizon. The NSFR is designed to provide an appropriate amount of stable funding, generally capital and liabilities maturing beyond one year, given the mix of assets and off-balance sheet items.

Diversified Funding Sources

We fund our assets primarily with a mix of deposits, and secured and unsecured liabilities through a centralized, globally coordinated funding approach diversified across products, programs, markets, currencies and investor groups.

The primary benefits of our centralized funding approach include greater control, reduced funding costs, wider name recognition by investors and greater flexibility to meet the variable funding requirements of subsidiaries. Where regulations, time zone differences or other business considerations make parent company funding impractical, certain other subsidiaries may issue their own debt.

We fund a substantial portion of our lending activities through our deposits, which were $1.38 trillion and $1.31 trillion at December 31, 2018 and 2017. Deposits are primarily generated by our Consumer Banking, GWIM and Global Banking segments. These deposits are diversified by clients, product type and geography, and the majority of our U.S. deposits are insured by the FDIC. We consider a substantial portion of our deposits to be a stable, low-cost and consistent source of funding. We believe this deposit funding is generally less sensitive to interest rate changes, market volatility or changes in our credit ratings than wholesale funding sources. Our lending activities may also be financed through secured borrowings, including credit card securitizations and securitizations with government-sponsored enterprises (GSE), the Federal Housing Administration (FHA) and private-label investors, as well as FHLB loans.

Our trading activities in other regulated entities are primarily funded on a secured basis through securities lending and repurchase agreements, and these amounts will vary based on customer activity and market conditions. We believe funding these activities in the secured financing markets is more cost-efficient and less sensitive to changes in our credit ratings than unsecured financing. Repurchase agreements are generally short-term and 

often overnight. Disruptions in secured financing markets for financial institutions have occurred in prior market cycles which resulted in adverse changes in terms or significant reductions in the availability of such financing. We manage the liquidity risks arising from secured funding by sourcing funding globally from a diverse group of counterparties, providing a range of securities collateral and pursuing longer durations, when appropriate. For more information on secured financing agreements, see Note 10 – Federal Funds Sold or Purchased, Securities Financing Agreements, Short-term Borrowings and Restricted Cash to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

We issue long-term unsecured debt in a variety of maturities and currencies to achieve cost-efficient funding and to maintain an appropriate maturity profile. While the cost and availability of unsecured funding may be negatively impacted by general market conditions or by matters specific to the financial services industry or the Corporation, we seek to mitigate refinancing risk by actively managing the amount of our borrowings that we anticipate will mature within any month or quarter.

Table 19 presents our long-term debt by major currency at December 31, 2018 and 2017.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Total long-term debt increased $1.9 billion during 2018, primarily due to issuances outpacing maturities and redemptions. We may, from time to time, purchase outstanding debt instruments in various transactions, depending on market conditions, liquidity and other factors. Our other regulated entities may also make markets in our debt instruments to provide liquidity for investors. For more information on long-term debt funding, see Note 11 – Long-term Debt to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

During 2018, we issued $64.4 billion of long-term debt consisting of $30.7 billion for Bank of America Corporation, substantially all of which was TLAC compliant, $18.7 billion for Bank of America, N.A. and $15.0 billion of other debt. During 2017, we issued $53.3 billion of long-term debt consisting of $37.7 billion for Bank of America Corporation, substantially all of which was TLAC compliant, $8.2 billion for Bank of America, N.A. and $7.4 billion of other debt.

During 2018, we had total long-term debt maturities and redemptions in the aggregate of $53.3 billion consisting of $29.8 billion for Bank of America Corporation, $11.2 billion for Bank of America, N.A. and $12.3 billion of other debt. During 2017, we had total long-term debt maturities and redemptions in the aggregate of $48.8 billion consisting of $29.1 billion for Bank of America Corporation, $13.3 billion for Bank of America, N.A. and $6.4 billion of other debt.

During 2018, we redeemed trust preferred securities of 11 trusts with a carrying value of $3.1 billion and recorded a charge of $729 million in other income. We also collapsed two trusts, with no financial statement impact, that held fixed-rate junior subordinated notes with a carrying value of $741 million that were 

49 Bank of America 2018

outstanding at December 31, 2018. At December 31, 2018, we had one remaining floating-rate junior subordinated note held in trust.

We use derivative transactions to manage the duration, interest rate and currency risks of our borrowings, considering the characteristics of the assets they are funding. For more information on our ALM activities, see Interest Rate Risk Management for the Banking Book on page 74.

We may also issue unsecured debt in the form of structured notes for client purposes, certain of which qualify as TLAC eligible debt. During 2018, we issued $6.9 billion of structured notes, which are debt obligations that pay investors returns linked to other debt or equity securities, indices, currencies or commodities. We typically hedge the returns we are obligated to pay on these liabilities with derivatives and/or investments in the underlying instruments, so that from a funding perspective, the cost is similar to our other unsecured long-term debt. We could be required to settle certain structured note obligations for cash or other securities prior to maturity under certain circumstances, which we consider for liquidity planning purposes. We believe, however, that a portion of such borrowings will remain outstanding beyond the earliest put or redemption date.

Substantially all of our senior and subordinated debt obligations contain no provisions that could trigger a requirement for an early repayment, require additional collateral support, result in changes to terms, accelerate maturity or create additional financial obligations upon an adverse change in our credit ratings, financial ratios, earnings, cash flows or stock price. 

Contingency Planning

We maintain contingency funding plans that outline our potential responses to liquidity stress events at various levels of severity. These policies and plans are based on stress scenarios and include potential funding strategies and communication and notification procedures that we would implement in the event we experienced stressed liquidity conditions. We periodically review and test the contingency funding plans to validate efficacy and assess readiness.

Our U.S. bank subsidiaries can access contingency funding through the Federal Reserve Discount Window. Certain non-U.S. subsidiaries have access to central bank facilities in the jurisdictions in which they operate. While we do not rely on these sources in our liquidity modeling, we maintain the policies, procedures and governance processes that would enable us to access these sources if necessary.

Credit Ratings

Our borrowing costs and ability to raise funds are impacted by our credit ratings. In addition, credit ratings may be important to customers or counterparties when we compete in certain markets and when we seek to engage in certain transactions, including over-the-counter (OTC) derivatives. Thus, it is our objective to maintain high-quality credit ratings, and management maintains an active dialogue with the major rating agencies.

Credit ratings and outlooks are opinions expressed by rating agencies on our creditworthiness and that of our obligations 

or securities, including long-term debt, short-term borrowings, preferred stock and other securities, including asset securitizations. Our credit ratings are subject to ongoing review by the rating agencies, and they consider a number of factors, including our own financial strength, performance, prospects and operations as well as factors not under our control. The rating agencies could make adjustments to our ratings at any time, and they provide no assurances that they will maintain our ratings at current levels.

Other factors that influence our credit ratings include changes to the rating agencies’ methodologies for our industry or certain security types; the rating agencies’ assessment of the general operating environment for financial services companies; our relative positions in the markets in which we compete; our various risk exposures and risk management policies and activities; pending litigation and other contingencies or potential tail risks; our reputation; our liquidity position, diversity of funding sources and funding costs; the current and expected level and volatility of our earnings; our capital position and capital management practices; our corporate governance; the sovereign credit ratings of the U.S. government; current or future regulatory and legislative initiatives; and the agencies’ views on whether the U.S. government would provide meaningful support to the Corporation or its subsidiaries in a crisis.

On December 5, 2018, Moody’s Investors Service (Moody’s) placed the long-term and short-term ratings of the Corporation as well as the long-term ratings of its rated subsidiaries, including BANA, on review for upgrade. The agency cited the Corporation’s strengthening profitability, continued adherence to a conservative risk profile, and stable capital ratios as drivers of the review. A rating review indicates that those ratings are under consideration for a change in the near term, which typically concludes within 90 days. Moody’s concurrently affirmed the short-term ratings of the Corporation’s rated subsidiaries, including BANA. 

The ratings from Standard & Poor’s Global Ratings (S&P) for the Corporation and its subsidiaries did not change during 2018. The last change to the ratings from S&P was a one-notch upgrade of the Corporation’s long-term ratings in November 2017.

On June 21, 2018, Fitch Ratings (Fitch) upgraded the Corporation’s long-term senior debt rating to A+ from A as part of the agency’s latest review of 12 Global Trading & Investment Banks, citing our sustained and improved risk-adjusted earnings, lower risk appetite relative to peers, overall franchise strength and solid liquidity position. The Corporation’s short-term debt rating of F1 was affirmed. Additionally, Fitch upgraded the long- and short-term debt ratings of the Corporation’s rated U.S. subsidiaries, including BANA and MLPF&S, and upgraded the long-term debt ratings of our rated international subsidiaries, including MLI. The outlook at Fitch remains stable for all long-term debt ratings.

Table 20 presents the Corporation’s current long-term/short-term senior debt ratings and outlooks expressed by the rating agencies.

  Bank of America 2018  50

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Review for upgrade only applies to BANA’s long-term rating.

NR = not rated

A reduction in certain of our credit ratings or the ratings of certain asset-backed securitizations may have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, potential loss of access to credit markets, the related cost of funds, our businesses and on certain trading revenues, particularly in those businesses where counterparty creditworthiness is critical. In addition, under the terms of certain OTC derivative contracts and other trading agreements, in the event of downgrades of our or our rated subsidiaries’ credit ratings, the counterparties to those agreements may require us to provide additional collateral, or to terminate these contracts or agreements, which could cause us to sustain losses and/or adversely impact our liquidity. If the short-term credit ratings of our parent company, bank or broker-dealer subsidiaries were downgraded by one or more levels, the potential loss of access to short-term funding sources such as repo financing and the effect on our incremental cost of funds could be material.

While certain potential impacts are contractual and quantifiable, the full scope of the consequences of a credit rating downgrade to a financial institution is inherently uncertain, as it depends upon numerous dynamic, complex and inter-related factors and assumptions, including whether any downgrade of a company’s long-term credit ratings precipitates downgrades to its short-term credit ratings, and assumptions about the potential behaviors of various customers, investors and counterparties. For more information on potential impacts of credit rating downgrades, see Liquidity Risk – Liquidity Stress Analysis on page 48.

For more information on additional collateral and termination payments that could be required in connection with certain OTC derivative contracts and other trading agreements as a result of such a credit rating downgrade, see Note 3 – Derivatives to the Consolidated Financial Statements and Item 1A. Risk Factors.

Common Stock Dividends

For a summary of our declared quarterly cash dividends on common stock during 2018 and through February 26, 2019, see Note 13 – Shareholders’ Equity to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Credit Risk Management

Credit risk is the risk of loss arising from the inability or failure of a borrower or counterparty to meet its obligations. Credit risk can also arise from operational failures that result in an erroneous advance, commitment or investment of funds. We define the credit exposure to a borrower or counterparty as the loss potential arising from all product classifications including loans and leases, deposit overdrafts, derivatives, assets held-for-sale and unfunded lending commitments which include loan commitments, letters of credit and financial guarantees. Derivative positions are recorded at fair value and assets held-for-sale are recorded at either fair value or the lower of cost or fair value. Certain loans and unfunded commitments are accounted for under the fair value option. Credit 

risk for categories of assets carried at fair value is not accounted for as part of the allowance for credit losses but as part of the fair value adjustments recorded in earnings. For derivative positions, our credit risk is measured as the net cost in the event the counterparties with contracts in which we are in a gain position fail to perform under the terms of those contracts. We use the current fair value to represent credit exposure without giving consideration to future mark-to-market changes. The credit risk amounts take into consideration the effects of legally enforceable master netting agreements and cash collateral. Our consumer and commercial credit extension and review procedures encompass funded and unfunded credit exposures. For more information on derivatives and credit extension commitments, see Note 3 – Derivatives and Note 12 – Commitments and Contingencies to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

We manage credit risk based on the risk profile of the borrower or counterparty, repayment sources, the nature of underlying collateral, and other support given current events, conditions and expectations. We classify our portfolios as either consumer or commercial and monitor credit risk in each as discussed below.

We refine our underwriting and credit risk management practices as well as credit standards to meet the changing economic environment. To mitigate losses and enhance customer support in our consumer businesses, we have in place collection programs and loan modification and customer assistance infrastructures. We utilize a number of actions to mitigate losses in the commercial businesses including increasing the frequency and intensity of portfolio monitoring, hedging activity and our practice of transferring management of deteriorating commercial exposures to independent special asset officers as credits enter criticized categories.

For more information on our credit risk management activities, see Consumer Portfolio Credit Risk Management below, Commercial Portfolio Credit Risk Management on page 59, Non-U.S. Portfolio on page 65, Provision for Credit Losses on page 67, Allowance for Credit Losses on page 67, and Note 5 – Outstanding Loans and Leases and Note 6 – Allowance for Credit Losses to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Consumer Portfolio Credit Risk Management

Credit risk management for the consumer portfolio begins with initial underwriting and continues throughout a borrower’s credit cycle. Statistical techniques in conjunction with experiential judgment are used in all aspects of portfolio management including underwriting, product pricing, risk appetite, setting credit limits, and establishing operating processes and metrics to quantify and balance risks and returns. Statistical models are built using detailed behavioral information from external sources such as credit bureaus and/or internal historical experience and are a component of our consumer credit risk management process. These models are used in part to assist in making both new and 

51 Bank of America 2018

ongoing credit decisions, as well as portfolio management strategies, including authorizations and line management, collection practices and strategies, and determination of the allowance for loan and lease losses and allocated capital for credit risk.

Consumer Credit Portfolio

Improvement in home prices continued during 2018 resulting in improved credit quality and lower credit losses in the home equity portfolio, partially offset by seasoning and loan growth in the U.S. credit card portfolio compared to 2017. 

Improved credit quality, continued loan balance runoff and sales primarily in the non-core consumer real estate portfolio, partially offset by seasoning within the U.S. credit card portfolio, drove a $581 million decrease in the consumer allowance for loan and lease losses in 2018 to $4.8 billion at December 31, 2018. For additional information, see Allowance for Credit Losses on page 67.

For more information on our accounting policies regarding delinquencies, nonperforming status, charge-offs, troubled debt restructurings (TDRs) for the consumer portfolio and PCI loans, see Note 1 – Summary of Significant Accounting Principles and

Note 5 – Outstanding Loans and Leases to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Table 21 presents our outstanding consumer loans and leases, consumer nonperforming loans and accruing consumer loans past due 90 days or more. Nonperforming loans do not include past due consumer credit card loans, other unsecured loans and in general, consumer loans not secured by real estate (bankruptcy loans are included) as these loans are typically charged off no later than the end of the month in which the loan becomes 180 days past due. Real estate-secured past due consumer loans that are insured by the FHA or individually insured under long-term standby agreements with Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac (collectively, the fully-insured loan portfolio) are reported as accruing as opposed to nonperforming since the principal repayment is insured. Fully-insured loans included in accruing past due 90 days or more are primarily from our repurchases of delinquent FHA loans pursuant to our servicing agreements with the Government National Mortgage Association (GNMA). Additionally, nonperforming loans and accruing balances past due 90 days or more do not include the PCI loan portfolio or loans accounted for under the fair value option even though the customer may be contractually past due.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

n/a = not applicable

Table 22 presents net charge-offs and related ratios for consumer loans and leases.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(2) Net charge-off ratios are calculated as net charge-offs divided by average outstanding loans and leases excluding loans accounted for under the fair value option.

(3) Represents net charge-offs related to the non-U.S. credit card loan portfolio, which was sold during the second quarter of 2017.

n/m = not meaningful

  Bank of America 2018  52

Net charge-offs, as shown in Tables 22 and 23, exclude write-offs in the PCI loan portfolio of $154 million and $131 million in residential mortgage and $119 million and $76 million in home equity for 2018 and 2017. Net charge-off ratios including the PCI write-offs were 0.09 percent and 0.02 percent for residential mortgage and 0.22 percent and 0.47 percent for home equity in 2018 and 2017. 

Table 23 presents outstandings, nonperforming balances, net charge-offs, allowance for loan and lease losses and provision for loan and lease losses for the core and non-core portfolios within the consumer real estate portfolio. We categorize consumer real estate loans as core and non-core based on loan and customer characteristics such as origination date, product type, loan-to-value (LTV), Fair Isaac Corporation (FICO) score and delinquency status consistent with our current consumer and mortgage servicing strategy. Generally, loans that were originated after January 1, 

2010, qualified under GSE underwriting guidelines, or otherwise met our underwriting guidelines in place in 2015 are characterized as core loans. All other loans are generally characterized as non-core loans and represent runoff portfolios. Core loans as reported in Table 23 include loans held in the Consumer Banking and GWIM segments, as well as loans held for ALM activities in All Other. 

As shown in Table 23, outstanding core consumer real estate loans increased $12.8 billion during 2018 driven by an increase of $17.1 billion in residential mortgage, partially offset by a $4.2 billion decrease in home equity. 

During 2018, we sold $11.6 billion of consumer real estate loans compared to $4.0 billion in 2017. In addition to recurring loan sales, the 2018 amount includes sales of loans, primarily non-core, with a carrying value of $9.6 billion and related gains of $731 million recorded in other income in the Consolidated Statement of Income.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

We believe that the presentation of information adjusted to exclude the impact of the PCI loan portfolio, the fully-insured loan portfolio and loans accounted for under the fair value option is more representative of the ongoing operations and credit quality of the business. As a result, in the following tables and discussions of the residential mortgage and home equity portfolios, we exclude loans accounted for under the fair value option and provide information that excludes the impact of the PCI loan portfolio and the fully-insured loan portfolio in certain credit quality statistics. We separately disclose information on the PCI loan portfolio on page 57.

Residential Mortgage

The residential mortgage portfolio made up the largest percentage of our consumer loan portfolio at 47 percent of consumer loans and leases at December 31, 2018. Approximately 44 percent of the residential mortgage portfolio was in Consumer Banking and 37 percent was in GWIM. The remaining portion was in All Other and was comprised of originated loans, purchased loans used in our overall ALM activities, delinquent FHA loans repurchased pursuant to our servicing agreements with GNMA as well as loans repurchased related to our representations and warranties. 

53 Bank of America 2018

Outstanding balances in the residential mortgage portfolio increased $4.7 billion in 2018 as retention of new originations was partially offset by loan sales of $8.9 billion and runoff. 

At December 31, 2018 and 2017, the residential mortgage portfolio included $20.1 billion and $23.7 billion of outstanding fully-insured loans, of which $14.0 billion and $17.4 billion had FHA insurance with the remainder protected by long-term standby agreements. At December 31, 2018 and 2017, $3.5 billion and $5.2 billion of the FHA-insured loan population were repurchases of delinquent FHA loans pursuant to our servicing agreements with GNMA.

Table 24 presents certain residential mortgage key credit statistics on both a reported basis and excluding the PCI loan portfolio and the fully-insured loan portfolio. Additionally, in the “Reported Basis” columns in the following table, accruing balances past due and nonperforming loans do not include the PCI loan portfolio, in accordance with our accounting policies, even though the customer may be contractually past due. As such, the following discussion presents the residential mortgage portfolio excluding the PCI loan portfolio and the fully-insured loan portfolio. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Outstandings, accruing past due, nonperforming loans and percentages of portfolio exclude loans accounted for under the fair value option. [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(3) Net charge-off ratios are calculated as net charge-offs divided by average outstanding loans excluding loans accounted for under the fair value option.

Nonperforming residential mortgage loans decreased $583 million in 2018 primarily driven by sales. Of the nonperforming residential mortgage loans at December 31, 2018, $716 million, or 38 percent, were current on contractual payments. Loans accruing past due 30 days or more decreased $366 million due to continued improvement in credit quality as well as loan sales in the non-core portfolio. 

Net charge-offs increased $128 million to $28 million in 2018 compared to $100 million of net recoveries in 2017 primarily due to net recoveries related to loan sales in 2017. 

Loans with a refreshed LTV greater than 100 percent represented one percent of the residential mortgage loan portfolio at both December 31, 2018 and 2017. Of the loans with a refreshed LTV greater than 100 percent, 99 percent and 98 percent were performing at December 31, 2018 and 2017. Loans with a refreshed LTV greater than 100 percent reflect loans where the outstanding carrying value of the loan is greater than the most recent valuation of the property securing the loan. 

Of the $184.6 billion in total residential mortgage loans outstanding at December 31, 2018, as shown in Table 24, 30 percent were originated as interest-only loans. The outstanding balance of interest-only residential mortgage loans that have 

entered the amortization period was $8.6 billion, or 16 percent, at December 31, 2018. Residential mortgage loans that have entered the amortization period generally have experienced a higher rate of early stage delinquencies and nonperforming status compared to the residential mortgage portfolio as a whole. At December 31, 2018, $177 million, or two percent, of outstanding interest-only residential mortgages that had entered the amortization period were accruing past due 30 days or more compared to $1.2 billion, or one percent, for the entire residential mortgage portfolio. In addition, at December 31, 2018, $365 million, or four percent, of outstanding interest-only residential mortgage loans that had entered the amortization period were nonperforming, of which $128 million were contractually current, compared to $1.9 billion, or one percent, for the entire residential mortgage portfolio. Loans that have yet to enter the amortization period in our interest-only residential mortgage portfolio are primarily well-collateralized loans to our wealth management clients and have an interest-only period of three to ten years. Approximately 90 percent of these loans that have yet to enter the amortization period will not be required to make a fully-amortizing payment until 2022 or later.

  Bank of America 2018  54

Table 25 presents outstandings, nonperforming loans and net charge-offs by certain state concentrations for the residential mortgage portfolio. The Los Angeles-Long Beach-Santa Ana Metropolitan Statistical Area (MSA) within California represented 16 percent of outstandings at both December 31, 2018 and 2017. In the New York area, the New York-Northern New Jersey-Long Island MSA made up 13 percent of outstandings at both December 31, 2018 and 2017. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Outstandings and nonperforming loans exclude loans accounted for under the fair value option.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(3) In these states, foreclosure requires a court order following a legal proceeding (judicial states).

(4) Amounts exclude the PCI residential mortgage and fully-insured loan portfolios.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Home Equity 

At December 31, 2018, the home equity portfolio made up 11 percent of the consumer portfolio and was comprised of home equity lines of credit (HELOCs), home equity loans and reverse mortgages.

At December 31, 2018, our HELOC portfolio had an outstanding balance of $44.3 billion, or 92 percent of the total home equity portfolio, compared to $51.2 billion, or 89 percent, at December 31, 2017. HELOCs generally have an initial draw period of 10 years, and after the initial draw period ends, the loans generally convert to 15-year amortizing loans.

At December 31, 2018, our home equity loan portfolio had an outstanding balance of $1.8 billion, or four percent of the total home equity portfolio, compared to $4.4 billion, or seven percent, at December 31, 2017. Home equity loans are almost all fixed-rate loans with amortizing payment terms of 10 to 30 years, and of the $1.8 billion at December 31, 2018, 68 percent have 25- to 30-year terms. At December 31, 2018, our reverse mortgage portfolio had an outstanding balance of $2.2 billion, or four percent of the total home equity portfolio, compared to $2.1 billion, or four percent, at December 31, 2017. We no longer originate reverse mortgages.

At December 31, 2018, 75 percent of the home equity portfolio was in Consumer Banking, 17 percent was in All Other and the remainder of the portfolio was primarily in GWIM. Outstanding 

balances in the home equity portfolio decreased $9.5 billion in 2018 primarily due to paydowns and loan sales of $2.7 billion outpacing new originations and draws on existing lines. Of the total home equity portfolio at December 31, 2018 and 2017, $17.3 billion and $18.7 billion, or 36 percent and 32 percent, were in first-lien positions. At December 31, 2018, outstanding balances in the home equity portfolio that were in a second-lien or more junior-lien position and where we also held the first-lien loan totaled $7.9 billion, or 17 percent of our total home equity portfolio excluding the PCI loan portfolio.

Unused HELOCs totaled $43.1 billion and $44.2 billion at December 31, 2018 and 2017. The decrease was primarily due to accounts reaching the end of their draw period, which automatically eliminates open line exposure, and customers choosing to close accounts. Both of these more than offset the impact of new production. The HELOC utilization rate was 51 percent and 54 percent at December 31, 2018 and 2017.

Table 26 presents certain home equity portfolio key credit statistics on both a reported basis and excluding the PCI loan portfolio. Additionally, in the “Reported Basis” columns in the following table, accruing balances past due 30 days or more and nonperforming loans do not include the PCI loan portfolio, in accordance with our accounting policies, even though the customer may be contractually past due. As such, the following discussion presents the home equity portfolio excluding the PCI loan portfolio. 

55 Bank of America 2018

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Outstandings, accruing past due, nonperforming loans and percentages of the portfolio exclude loans accounted for under the fair value option.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(4) Net charge-off ratios are calculated as net charge-offs divided by average outstanding loans excluding loans accounted for under the fair value option.

Nonperforming outstanding balances in the home equity portfolio decreased $751 million in 2018 as outflows, including sales, outpaced new inflows. Of the nonperforming home equity loans at December 31, 2018, $1.1 billion, or 59 percent, were current on contractual payments. Nonperforming loans that are contractually current primarily consist of collateral-dependent TDRs, including those that have been discharged in Chapter 7 bankruptcy, junior-lien loans where the underlying first lien is 90 days or more past due, as well as loans that have not yet demonstrated a sustained period of payment performance following a TDR. In addition, $463 million, or 24 percent, of nonperforming home equity loans were 180 days or more past due and had been written down to the estimated fair value of the collateral, less costs to sell. Accruing loans that were 30 days or more past due decreased $139 million in 2018.

In some cases, the junior-lien home equity outstanding balance that we hold is performing, but the underlying first lien is not. For outstanding balances in the home equity portfolio on which we service the first-lien loan, we are able to track whether the first-lien loan is in default. For loans where the first lien is serviced by a third party, we utilize credit bureau data to estimate the delinquency status of the first lien. At December 31, 2018, we estimate that $610 million of current and $83 million of 30 to 89 days past due junior-lien loans were behind a delinquent first-lien loan. We service the first-lien loans on $114 million of these combined amounts, with the remaining $579 million serviced by third parties. Of the $693 million of current to 89 days past due junior-lien loans, based on available credit bureau data and our own internal servicing data, we estimate that approximately $221 million had first-lien loans that were 90 days or more past due. 

Net charge-offs decreased $215 million to a net recovery of $2 million in 2018 compared to net charge-offs of $213 million in 2017 driven by favorable portfolio trends due in part to improvement in home prices and the U.S. economy. 

Outstanding balances with a refreshed CLTV greater than 100 percent comprised three percent and four percent of the home equity portfolio at December 31, 2018 and 2017. Outstanding balances with a refreshed CLTV greater than 100 percent reflect loans where our loan and available line of credit combined with any outstanding senior liens against the property are equal to or greater than the most recent valuation of the property securing the loan. Depending on the value of the property, there may be collateral in excess of the first lien that is available to reduce the 

severity of loss on the second lien. Of those outstanding balances with a refreshed CLTV greater than 100 percent, 96 percent of the customers were current on their home equity loan and 91 percent of second-lien loans with a refreshed CLTV greater than 100 percent were current on both their second-lien and underlying first-lien loans at December 31, 2018. 

Of the $47.4 billion in total home equity portfolio outstandings at December 31, 2018, as shown in Table 26, 20 percent require interest-only payments. The outstanding balance of HELOCs that have reached the end of their draw period and have entered the amortization period was $15.8 billion at December 31, 2018. The HELOCs that have entered the amortization period have experienced a higher percentage of early stage delinquencies and nonperforming status when compared to the HELOC portfolio as a whole. At December 31, 2018, $267 million, or two percent, of outstanding HELOCs that had entered the amortization period were accruing past due 30 days or more. In addition, at December 31, 2018, $1.7 billion, or 11 percent, of outstanding HELOCs that had entered the amortization period were nonperforming. Loans that have yet to enter the amortization period in our interest-only portfolio are primarily post-2008 vintages and generally have better credit quality than the previous vintages that had entered the amortization period. We communicate to contractually current customers more than a year prior to the end of their draw period to inform them of the potential change to the payment structure before entering the amortization period, and provide payment options to customers prior to the end of the draw period.

Although we do not actively track how many of our home equity customers pay only the minimum amount due on their home equity loans and lines, we can infer some of this information through a review of our HELOC portfolio that we service and that is still in its revolving period. During 2018, 14 percent of these customers with an outstanding balance did not pay any principal on their HELOCs.

Table 27 presents outstandings, nonperforming balances and net charge-offs by certain state concentrations for the home equity portfolio. In the New York area, the New York-Northern New Jersey-Long Island MSA made up 13 percent of the outstanding home equity portfolio at both December 31, 2018 and 2017. Loans within this MSA contributed $35 million and $58 million of net charge-offs in 2018 and 2017 within the home equity portfolio. The Los Angeles-Long Beach-Santa Ana MSA within California made up 11 percent of the outstanding home equity portfolio 

  Bank of America 2018  56

at both December 31, 2018 and 2017. Loans within this MSA contributed net recoveries of $23 million and $20 million within the home equity portfolio in 2018 and 2017. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Outstandings and nonperforming loans exclude loans accounted for under the fair value option.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(3) In these states, foreclosure requires a court order following a legal proceeding (judicial states). 

(4) Amount excludes the PCI home equity portfolio.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Purchased Credit-impaired Loan Portfolio

Loans acquired with evidence of credit quality deterioration since origination and for which it is probable at purchase that we will be unable to collect all contractually required payments are accounted for under the accounting standards for PCI loans. 

Table 28 presents the unpaid principal balance, carrying value, related valuation allowance and the net carrying value as a percentage of the unpaid principal balance for the PCI loan portfolio.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The total PCI unpaid principal balance decreased $6.1 billion, or 56 percent, in 2018 primarily driven by loan sales with a carrying value of $4.4 billion compared to sales of $803 million in 2017. 

Of the unpaid principal balance of $4.8 billion at December 31, 2018, $4.3 billion, or 90 percent, was current based on the contractual terms, $208 million, or four percent, was in early stage delinquency and $205 million was 180 days or more past due, including $172 million of first-lien mortgages and $33 million of home equity loans.

The PCI residential mortgage loan and home equity portfolios represented 82 percent and 18 percent of the total PCI loan portfolio at December 31, 2018. Those loans to borrowers with a refreshed FICO score below 620 represented 19 percent and 21 percent of the PCI residential mortgage loan and home equity portfolios at December 31, 2018. Residential mortgage and home equity loans with a refreshed LTV or CLTV greater than 90 percent, after consideration of purchase accounting adjustments and the related valuation allowance, represented 10 percent and 28 percent of their respective PCI loan portfolios and 11 percent and 

32 percent based on the unpaid principal balance at December 31, 2018.

U.S. Credit Card

At December 31, 2018, 97 percent of the U.S. credit card portfolio was managed in Consumer Banking with the remainder in GWIM. Outstandings in the U.S. credit card portfolio increased $2.1 billion in 2018 to $98.3 billion due to higher retail volume partially offset by payments as well as the sale of a small portfolio. In 2018, net charge-offs increased $324 million to $2.8 billion, and U.S. credit card loans 30 days or more past due and still accruing interest increased $142 million and loans 90 days or more past due and still accruing interest increased $94 million, each driven by portfolio seasoning and loan growth.

Unused lines of credit for U.S. credit card totaled $334.8 billion and $326.3 billion at December 31, 2018 and 2017. The increase was driven by account growth and lines of credit increases.

Table 29 presents certain state concentrations for the U.S. credit card portfolio.

57 Bank of America 2018

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Direct/Indirect Consumer

At December 31, 2018, 55 percent of the direct/indirect portfolio was included in Consumer Banking (consumer auto and specialty lending – automotive, marine, aircraft, recreational vehicle loans and consumer personal loans) and 45 percent was included in GWIM (principally securities-based lending loans). 

Outstandings in the direct/indirect portfolio decreased $5.2 billion in 2018 to $91.2 billion primarily due to declines in 

securities-based lending due to higher paydowns, and in our auto portfolio as paydowns outpaced originations. Net charge-offs decreased $19 million to $195 million in 2018 due largely to clarifying regulatory guidance related to bankruptcy and repossession issued during 2017.

Table 30 presents certain state concentrations for the direct/indirect consumer loan portfolio.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Nonperforming Consumer Loans, Leases and Foreclosed Properties Activity

Table 31 presents nonperforming consumer loans, leases and foreclosed properties activity during 2018 and 2017. During 2018, nonperforming consumer loans declined $1.3 billion to $3.8 billion primarily driven by loan sales of $969 million.

At December 31, 2018, $1.1 billion, or 29 percent, of nonperforming loans were 180 days or more past due and had been written down to their estimated property value less costs to sell. In addition, at December 31, 2018, $1.9 billion, or 49 percent, of nonperforming consumer loans were modified and are now current after successful trial periods, or are current loans classified as nonperforming loans in accordance with applicable policies.

Foreclosed properties increased $8 million in 2018 to $244 million as additions outpaced liquidations. PCI loans are excluded from nonperforming loans as these loans were written down to fair value at the acquisition date; however, once we acquire the underlying real estate upon foreclosure of the delinquent PCI loan, 

it is included in foreclosed properties. Certain delinquent government-guaranteed loans (principally FHA-insured loans) are excluded from our nonperforming loans and foreclosed properties activity as we expect we will be reimbursed once the property is conveyed to the guarantor for principal and, up to certain limits, costs incurred during the foreclosure process and interest accrued during the holding period. 

We classify junior-lien home equity loans as nonperforming when the first-lien loan becomes 90 days past due even if the junior-lien loan is performing. At December 31, 2018 and 2017, $221 million and $330 million of such junior-lien home equity loans were included in nonperforming loans and leases. 

Nonperforming loans also include certain loans that have been modified in TDRs where economic concessions have been granted to borrowers experiencing financial difficulties. Nonperforming TDRs, excluding those modified loans in the PCI loan portfolio, are included in Table 31.

  Bank of America 2018  58

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Consumer loans may be returned to performing status when all principal and interest is current and full repayment of the remaining contractual principal and interest is expected, or when the loan otherwise becomes well-secured and is in the process of collection.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(3) Outstanding consumer loans and leases exclude loans accounted for under the fair value option.

Table 32 presents TDRs for the consumer real estate portfolio. Performing TDR balances are excluded from nonperforming loans and leases in Table 31.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

In addition to modifying consumer real estate loans, we work with customers who are experiencing financial difficulty by modifying credit card and other consumer loans. Credit card and other consumer loan modifications generally involve a reduction in the customer’s interest rate on the account and placing the customer on a fixed payment plan not exceeding 60 months, all of which are considered TDRs (the renegotiated TDR portfolio).

Modifications of credit card and other consumer loans are made through renegotiation programs utilizing direct customer contact, but may also utilize external renegotiation programs. The renegotiated TDR portfolio is excluded in large part from Table 31 as substantially all of the loans remain on accrual status until either charged off or paid in full. At December 31, 2018 and 2017, our renegotiated TDR portfolio was $566 million and $490 million, of which $481 million and $426 million were current or less than 30 days past due under the modified terms. The increase in the renegotiated TDR portfolio was primarily driven by new renegotiated enrollments outpacing runoff of existing portfolios. 

Commercial Portfolio Credit Risk Management

Credit risk management for the commercial portfolio begins with an assessment of the credit risk profile of the borrower or counterparty based on an analysis of its financial position. As part of the overall credit risk assessment, our commercial credit exposures are assigned a risk rating and are subject to approval based on defined credit approval standards. Subsequent to loan origination, risk ratings are monitored on an ongoing basis, and if necessary, adjusted to reflect changes in the financial condition, 

cash flow, risk profile or outlook of a borrower or counterparty. In making credit decisions, we consider risk rating, collateral, country, industry and single-name concentration limits while also balancing these considerations with the total borrower or counterparty relationship. We use a variety of tools to continuously monitor the ability of a borrower or counterparty to perform under its obligations. We use risk rating aggregations to measure and evaluate concentrations within portfolios. In addition, risk ratings are a factor in determining the level of allocated capital and the allowance for credit losses.

As part of our ongoing risk mitigation initiatives, we attempt to work with clients experiencing financial difficulty to modify their loans to terms that better align with their current ability to pay. In situations where an economic concession has been granted to a borrower experiencing financial difficulty, we identify these loans as TDRs. For more information on our accounting policies regarding delinquencies, nonperforming status and net charge-offs for the commercial portfolio, see Note 1 – Summary of Significant Accounting Principles to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Management of Commercial Credit Risk Concentrations

Commercial credit risk is evaluated and managed with the goal that concentrations of credit exposure continue to be aligned with our risk appetite. We review, measure and manage concentrations of credit exposure by industry, product, geography, customer relationship and loan size. We also review, measure and manage commercial real estate loans by geographic location and property 

59 Bank of America 2018

type. In addition, within our non-U.S. portfolio, we evaluate exposures by region and by country. Tables 37, 40, 43 and 44 summarize our concentrations. We also utilize syndications of exposure to third parties, loan sales, hedging and other risk mitigation techniques to manage the size and risk profile of the commercial credit portfolio. For more information on our industry concentrations, see Commercial Portfolio Credit Risk Management – Industry Concentrations on page 63 and Table 40.

We account for certain large corporate loans and loan commitments, including issued but unfunded letters of credit which are considered utilized for credit risk management purposes, that exceed our single-name credit risk concentration guidelines under the fair value option. Lending commitments, both funded and unfunded, are actively managed and monitored, and as appropriate, credit risk for these lending relationships may be mitigated through the use of credit derivatives, with our credit view and market perspectives determining the size and timing of the hedging activity. In addition, we purchase credit protection to cover the funded portion as well as the unfunded portion of certain other credit exposures. To lessen the cost of obtaining our desired credit protection levels, credit exposure may be added within an industry, borrower or counterparty group by selling protection. These credit derivatives do not meet the requirements for treatment as accounting hedges. They are carried at fair value with changes in fair value recorded in other income.

In addition, we are a member of various securities and derivative exchanges and clearinghouses, both in the U.S. and 

other countries. As a member, we may be required to pay a pro-rata share of the losses incurred by some of these organizations as a result of another member default and under other loss scenarios. For additional information, see Note 12 – Commitments and Contingencies to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Commercial Credit Portfolio

During 2018, credit quality among large corporate borrowers was strong, and there was continued improvement in the energy portfolio. Credit quality of commercial real estate borrowers in most sectors remained stable with conservative LTV ratios. However, some of the commercial real estate markets experienced slowing tenant demand and decelerating rental income.

Total commercial utilized credit exposure increased $20.2 billion in 2018 to $621.0 billion primarily driven by commercial loan growth. The utilization rate for loans and leases, SBLCs and financial guarantees, and commercial letters of credit, in the aggregate, was 59 percent at both December 31, 2018 and 2017.

Table 33 presents commercial credit exposure by type for utilized, unfunded and total binding committed credit exposure. Commercial utilized credit exposure includes SBLCs and financial guarantees and commercial letters of credit that have been issued and for which we are legally bound to advance funds under prescribed conditions during a specified time period, and excludes exposure related to trading account assets. Although funds have not yet been advanced, these exposure types are considered utilized for credit risk management purposes.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(3) Excludes unused business card lines, which are not legally binding.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(5) Includes credit risk exposure associated with assets under operating lease arrangements of $6.1 billion and $6.3 billion at December 31, 2018 and 2017.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Outstanding commercial loans and leases increased $18.2 billion during 2018 primarily in the U.S. commercial portfolio. The allowance for loan and lease losses for the commercial portfolio decreased $211 million to $4.8 billion at December 31, 2018. For additional information, see Allowance for Credit Losses on page 67. Table 34 presents our commercial loans and leases portfolio and related credit quality information at December 31, 2018 and 2017.

  Bank of America 2018  60

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(2) Includes card-related products.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Table 35 presents net charge-offs and related ratios for our commercial loans and leases for 2018 and 2017. The decrease in net charge-offs of $378 million for 2018 was primarily driven by a single-name non-U.S. commercial charge-off of $292 million in 2017.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Net charge-off ratios are calculated as net charge-offs divided by average outstanding loans and leases excluding loans accounted for under the fair value option.

Table 36 presents commercial reservable criticized utilized exposure by loan type. Criticized exposure corresponds to the Special Mention, Substandard and Doubtful asset categories as defined by regulatory authorities. Total commercial reservable criticized utilized exposure decreased $2.5 billion, or 18 percent, during 2018 driven by broad-based improvements including the energy sector. At December 31, 2018 and 2017, 91 percent and 84 percent of commercial reservable criticized utilized exposure was secured.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(2) Percentages are calculated as commercial reservable criticized utilized exposure divided by total commercial reservable utilized exposure for each exposure category.

61 Bank of America 2018

Commercial and Industrial

Commercial and industrial loans include U.S. commercial and non-U.S. commercial portfolios.

U.S. Commercial

At December 31, 2018, 70 percent of the U.S. commercial loan portfolio, excluding small business, was managed in Global Banking, 16 percent in Global Markets, 12 percent in GWIM (generally business-purpose loans for high net worth clients) and the remainder primarily in Consumer Banking. U.S. commercial loans increased $14.4 billion in 2018 primarily in Global Banking. Reservable criticized utilized exposure decreased $1.9 billion, or 19 percent, driven by broad-based improvements including the energy sector.

Non-U.S. Commercial

At December 31, 2018, 81 percent of the non-U.S. commercial loan portfolio was managed in Global Banking and 19 percent in Global Markets. Reservable criticized utilized exposure decreased $753 million, or 43 percent, and nonperforming loans and leases decreased $219 million, or 73 percent, due primarily to paydowns, sales and charge-offs. Net charge-offs decreased $372 million in 2018 primarily due to a single-name non-U.S. commercial charge-off of $292 million in 2017. For more information on the non-U.S. commercial portfolio, see Non-U.S. Portfolio on page 65.

Commercial Real Estate

Commercial real estate primarily includes commercial loans and leases secured by non-owner-occupied real estate and is 

dependent on the sale or lease of the real estate as the primary source of repayment. The portfolio remains diversified across property types and geographic regions. California represented the largest state concentration at 23 percent of the commercial real estate loans and leases portfolio at both December 31, 2018 and 2017. The commercial real estate portfolio is predominantly managed in Global Banking and consists of loans made primarily to public and private developers, and commercial real estate firms. Outstanding loans increased $2.5 billion, or four percent, during 2018 to $60.8 billion due to new originations, including higher hold levels on syndicated loans, outpacing paydowns.

During 2018, we continued to see low default rates and solid credit quality in both the residential and non-residential portfolios. We use a number of proactive risk mitigation initiatives to reduce adversely rated exposure in the commercial real estate portfolio, including transfers of deteriorating exposures to management by independent special asset officers and the pursuit of loan restructurings or asset sales to achieve the best results for our customers and the Corporation.

Nonperforming commercial real estate loans and foreclosed properties increased $48 million, or 29 percent, during 2018 to $212 million, primarily due to a single-name downgrade.

Table 37 presents outstanding commercial real estate loans by geographic region, based on the geographic location of the collateral, and by property type.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Includes unsecured loans to real estate investment trusts and national home builders whose portfolios of properties span multiple geographic regions and properties in the states of Colorado, Utah, Hawaii, Wyoming and Montana.

U.S. Small Business Commercial

The U.S. small business commercial loan portfolio is comprised of small business card loans and small business loans managed in Consumer Banking. Credit card-related products were 51 percent and 50 percent of the U.S. small business commercial portfolio at December 31, 2018 and 2017. Of the U.S. small business commercial net charge-offs, 95 percent and 90 percent were credit card-related products in 2018 and 2017.

  Bank of America 2018  62

Nonperforming Commercial Loans, Leases and Foreclosed Properties Activity

Table 38 presents the nonperforming commercial loans, leases and foreclosed properties activity during 2018 and 2017. Nonperforming loans do not include loans accounted for under the fair value option. During 2018, nonperforming commercial loans and leases decreased $202 million to $1.1 billion. At December 

31, 2018, 93 percent of commercial nonperforming loans, leases and foreclosed properties were secured and 55 percent were contractually current. Commercial nonperforming loans were carried at 89 percent of their unpaid principal balance before consideration of the allowance for loan and lease losses as the carrying value of these loans has been reduced to the estimated collateral value less costs to sell.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Balances do not include nonperforming loans held-for-sale of $292 million and $339 million at December 31, 2018 and 2017.

(2) Includes U.S. small business commercial activity. Small business card loans are excluded as they are not classified as nonperforming.

(3) Commercial loans and leases may be returned to performing status when all principal and interest is current and full repayment of the remaining contractual principal and interest is expected, or when the loan otherwise becomes well-secured and is in the process of collection. TDRs are generally classified as performing after a sustained period of demonstrated payment performance.

(4) Outstanding commercial loans exclude loans accounted for under the fair value option.

Table 39 presents our commercial TDRs by product type and performing status. U.S. small business commercial TDRs are comprised of renegotiated small business card loans and small business loans. The renegotiated small business card loans are not classified as nonperforming as they are charged off no later than the end of the month in which the loan becomes 180 days past due. For more information on TDRs, see Note 5 – Outstanding Loans and Leases to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Industry Concentrations 

Table 40 presents commercial committed and utilized credit exposure by industry and the total net credit default protection purchased to cover the funded and unfunded portions of certain credit exposures. Our commercial credit exposure is diversified across a broad range of industries. Total commercial committed exposure increased $28.8 billion, or three percent, during 2018 to $1.0 trillion. The increase in commercial committed exposure was concentrated in the Asset Managers and Funds, Pharmaceuticals and Biotechnology, and Capital Goods industry sectors. Increases were partially offset by reduced exposure to the Media, Food and Staples Retailing, and Energy industry sectors.

Industry limits are used internally to manage industry concentrations and are based on committed exposure that is 

allocated on an industry-by-industry basis. A risk management framework is in place to set and approve industry limits as well as to provide ongoing monitoring. The MRC oversees industry limit governance.

Asset Managers and Funds, our largest industry concentration with committed exposure of $107.9 billion, increased $16.8 billion, or 18 percent, during 2018. The change reflects an increase in exposure to several counterparties.

Real Estate, our second largest industry concentration with committed exposure of $86.5 billion, increased $2.7 billion, or three percent, during 2018. For more information on the commercial real estate and related portfolios, see Commercial Portfolio Credit Risk Management – Commercial Real Estate on page 62.

63 Bank of America 2018

Capital Goods, our third largest industry concentration with committed exposure of $75.1 billion, increased $4.7 billion, or seven percent, during 2018. The increase in committed exposure occurred primarily as a result of increases in large conglomerates, as well as trading companies, distributors and electrical equipment companies, partially offset by a decrease in machinery companies.

Our energy-related committed exposure decreased $4.5 billion, or 12 percent, during 2018 to $32.3 billion. Energy sector net 

charge-offs were $31 million in 2018 compared to $156 million in 2017. Energy sector reservable criticized exposure decreased $833 million during 2018 to $787 million due to improvement in credit quality coupled with exposure reductions. The energy allowance for credit losses decreased $225 million during 2018 to $335 million.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Includes U.S. small business commercial exposure.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(3) Industries are viewed from a variety of perspectives to best isolate the perceived risks. For purposes of this table, the real estate industry is defined based on the primary business activity of the borrowers or counterparties using operating cash flows and primary source of repayment as key factors.

(4) Represents net notional credit protection purchased. For additional information, see Commercial Portfolio Credit Risk Management – Risk Mitigation.

Risk Mitigation

We purchase credit protection to cover the funded portion as well as the unfunded portion of certain credit exposures. To lower the cost of obtaining our desired credit protection levels, we may add credit exposure within an industry, borrower or counterparty group by selling protection.

At December 31, 2018 and 2017, net notional credit default protection purchased in our credit derivatives portfolio to hedge our funded and unfunded exposures for which we elected the fair 

value option, as well as certain other credit exposures, was $2.7 billion and $2.1 billion. We recorded net losses of $2 million for 2018 compared to net losses of $66 million in 2017 on these positions. The gains and losses on these instruments were offset by gains and losses on the related exposures. The Value-at-Risk (VaR) results for these exposures are included in the fair value option portfolio information in Table 47. For additional information, see Trading Risk Management on page 71.

  Bank of America 2018  64

Tables 41 and 42 present the maturity profiles and the credit exposure debt ratings of the net credit default protection portfolio at December 31, 2018 and 2017.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Represents net credit default protection purchased.

(2) Ratings are refreshed on a quarterly basis.

(3) Ratings of BBB- or higher are considered to meet the definition of investment grade.

(4) NR is comprised of index positions held and any names that have not been rated.

In addition to our net notional credit default protection purchased to cover the funded and unfunded portion of certain credit exposures, credit derivatives are used for market-making activities for clients and establishing positions intended to profit from directional or relative value changes. We execute the majority of our credit derivative trades in the OTC market with large, multinational financial institutions, including broker-dealers and, to a lesser degree, with a variety of other investors. Because these transactions are executed in the OTC market, we are subject to settlement risk. We are also subject to credit risk in the event that these counterparties fail to perform under the terms of these contracts. In order to properly reflect counterparty credit risk, we record counterparty credit risk valuation adjustments on certain derivative assets, including our purchased credit default protection. 

In most cases, credit derivative transactions are executed on a daily margin basis. Therefore, events such as a credit downgrade, depending on the ultimate rating level, or a breach of credit covenants would typically require an increase in the amount of collateral required by the counterparty, where applicable, and/or allow us to take additional protective measures such as early termination of all trades. For more information on credit derivatives and counterparty credit risk valuation adjustments, see Note 3 – Derivatives to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Non-U.S. Portfolio

Our non-U.S. credit and trading portfolios are subject to country risk. We define country risk as the risk of loss from unfavorable economic and political conditions, currency fluctuations, social instability and changes in government policies. A risk management framework is in place to measure, monitor and manage non-U.S. risk and exposures. In addition to the direct risk of doing business in a country, we also are exposed to indirect country risks (e.g., related to the collateral received on secured financing transactions or related to client clearing activities). These indirect exposures are managed in the normal course of business through credit, market and operational risk governance, rather than through country risk governance.

Table 43 presents our 20 largest non-U.S. country exposures at December 31, 2018. These exposures accounted for 89 percent and 86 percent of our total non-U.S. exposure at December 31, 2018 and 2017. Net country exposure for these 20 countries increased $44.1 billion in 2018, primarily driven by increased placements with central banks in the U.K., Japan and Germany.

Non-U.S. exposure is presented on an internal risk management basis and includes sovereign and non-sovereign credit exposure, securities and other investments issued by or domiciled in countries other than the U.S.

Funded loans and loan equivalents include loans, leases, and other extensions of credit and funds, including letters of credit and due from placements. Unfunded commitments are the undrawn portion of legally binding commitments related to loans and loan equivalents. Net counterparty exposure includes the fair value of derivatives, including the counterparty risk associated with credit default swaps (CDS), and secured financing transactions. Securities and other investments are carried at fair value and long securities exposures are netted against short exposures with the same underlying issuer to, but not below, zero. Net country exposure represents country exposure less hedges and credit default protection purchased, net of credit default protection sold. 

65 Bank of America 2018

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

A number of economic conditions and geopolitical events have given rise to risk aversion in certain emerging markets. Our largest emerging market country exposure at December 31, 2018 was China, with net exposure of $14.6 billion, concentrated in large state-owned companies, subsidiaries of multinational corporations and commercial banks. 

The outlook for policy direction and therefore economic performance in the EU remains uncertain as a consequence of reduced political cohesion among EU countries. Additionally, we believe that the uncertainty in the U.K.’s ability to negotiate a favorable exit from the EU will further weigh on economic performance. Our largest EU country exposure at December 31, 2018 was the U.K. with net exposure of $54.9 billion, a $17.3 billion increase from December 31, 2017. The increase was driven by corporate loan growth and increased placements with the central bank as part of liquidity management.

Markets have reacted negatively to the escalating tensions between the U.S. and several key trading partners. We are closely 

monitoring our exposures to tariff-sensitive industries and our international exposure, particularly to countries that account for a large percentage of U.S. trade. 

Table 44 presents countries where total cross-border exposure exceeded one percent of our total assets. At December 31, 2018, the U.K. and France were the only countries where total cross-border exposure exceeded one percent of our total assets. At December 31, 2018, Germany and China had total cross-border exposure of $20.4 billion and $19.5 billion representing 0.87 percent and 0.83 percent of our total assets. No other countries had total cross-border exposure that exceeded 0.75 percent of our total assets at December 31, 2018.

Cross-border exposure includes the components of Country Risk Exposure as detailed in Table 43 as well as the notional amount of cash loaned under secured financing agreements. Local exposure, defined as exposure booked in local offices of a respective country with clients in the same country, is excluded.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

  Bank of America 2018  66

Provision for Credit Losses

The provision for credit losses decreased $114 million to $3.3 billion in 2018 compared to 2017 primarily due to improvement in the commercial portfolio, partially offset by an increase in the consumer portfolio. The provision for credit losses was $481 million lower than net charge-offs for 2018, resulting in a reduction in the allowance for credit losses. This compared to a reduction of $583 million in the allowance for credit losses in 2017.

The provision for credit losses for the consumer portfolio increased $222 million to $2.9 billion in 2018 compared to 2017. The increase was primarily driven by a slower pace of improvement in the consumer real estate portfolio, and portfolio seasoning and loan growth in the U.S. credit card portfolio, partially offset by the impact of the sale of the non-U.S. consumer credit card business in 2017. 

The provision for credit losses for the commercial portfolio, including unfunded lending commitments, decreased $336 million to $333 million in 2018 compared to 2017. The decrease was primarily driven by a 2017 single-name non-U.S. commercial charge-off and improvement in the commercial portfolio. 

Allowance for Credit Losses

Allowance for Loan and Lease Losses

The allowance for loan and lease losses is comprised of two components. The first component covers nonperforming commercial loans and TDRs. The second component covers loans and leases on which there are incurred losses that are not yet individually identifiable, as well as incurred losses that may not be represented in the loss forecast models. We evaluate the adequacy of the allowance for loan and lease losses based on the total of these two components, each of which is described in more detail below. The allowance for loan and lease losses excludes loans held-for-sale (LHFS) and loans accounted for under the fair value option as the fair value reflects a credit risk component. 

The first component of the allowance for loan and lease losses covers both nonperforming commercial loans and all TDRs within the consumer and commercial portfolios. These loans are subject to impairment measurement based on the present value of projected future cash flows discounted at the loan’s original effective interest rate, or in certain circumstances, impairment may also be based upon the collateral value or the loan’s observable market price if available. Impairment measurement for the renegotiated consumer credit card, small business credit card and unsecured consumer TDR portfolios is based on the present value of projected cash flows discounted using the average portfolio contractual interest rate, excluding promotionally priced loans, in effect prior to restructuring. For purposes of computing this specific loss component of the allowance, larger impaired loans are evaluated individually and smaller impaired loans are evaluated as a pool using historical experience for the respective product types and risk ratings of the loans.

The second component of the allowance for loan and lease losses covers the remaining consumer and commercial loans and leases that have incurred losses that are not yet individually identifiable. The allowance for consumer (including credit card and other consumer loans) and certain homogeneous commercial loan and lease products is based on aggregated portfolio evaluations, which include both quantitative and qualitative components, generally by product type. Loss forecast models are utilized that consider a variety of factors including, but not limited to, historical loss experience, estimated defaults or foreclosures based on portfolio trends, delinquencies, economic trends and credit scores. Our consumer real estate loss forecast model estimates 

the portion of loans that will default based on individual loan attributes, the most significant of which are refreshed LTV or CLTV, and borrower credit score as well as vintage and geography, all of which are further broken down into current delinquency status. Additionally, we incorporate the delinquency status of underlying first-lien loans on our junior-lien home equity portfolio in our allowance process. Incorporating refreshed LTV and CLTV into our probability of default allows us to factor the impact of changes in home prices into our allowance for loan and lease losses. These loss forecast models are updated on a quarterly basis to incorporate information reflecting the current economic environment. As of December 31, 2018, the loss forecast process resulted in reductions in the allowance related to the residential mortgage and home equity portfolios compared to December 31, 2017.

The allowance for commercial loan and lease losses is established by product type after analyzing historical loss experience, internal risk rating, current economic conditions, industry performance trends, geographic and obligor concentrations within each portfolio and any other pertinent information. The statistical models for commercial loans are generally updated annually and utilize our historical database of actual defaults and other data, including external default data. The loan risk ratings and composition of the commercial portfolios used to calculate the allowance are updated quarterly to incorporate the most recent data reflecting the current economic environment. For risk-rated commercial loans, we estimate the probability of default and the loss given default (LGD) based on our historical experience of defaults and credit losses. Factors considered when assessing the internal risk rating include the value of the underlying collateral, if applicable, the industry in which the obligor operates, the obligor’s liquidity and other financial indicators, and other quantitative and qualitative factors relevant to the obligor’s credit risk. As of December 31, 2018, the allowance for the U.S. commercial and non-U.S. commercial portfolios decreased compared to December 31, 2017.

Also included within the second component of the allowance for loan and lease losses are reserves to cover losses that are incurred but, in our assessment, may not be adequately represented in the historical loss data used in the loss forecast models. For example, factors that we consider include, among others, changes in lending policies and procedures, changes in economic and business conditions, changes in the nature and size of the portfolio, changes in portfolio concentrations, changes in the volume and severity of past due loans and nonaccrual loans, the effect of external factors such as competition, and legal and regulatory requirements. Further, we consider the inherent uncertainty in mathematical models that are built upon historical data.

During 2018, the factors that impacted the allowance for loan and lease losses included improvement in the credit quality of the consumer real estate portfolios driven by continuing improvements in the U.S. economy and strong labor markets, proactive credit risk management initiatives and the impact of high credit quality originations. Evidencing the improvements in the U.S. economy and strong labor markets are low levels of unemployment and increases in home prices. In addition to these improvements, in the consumer portfolio, nonperforming consumer loans decreased $1.3 billion in 2018 as returns to performing status, loan sales, paydowns and charge-offs continued to outpace new nonaccrual loans. During 2018, the allowance for loan and lease losses in the commercial portfolio reflected decreased energy reserves primarily driven by improvement in energy exposures including reservable criticized utilized exposures.

67 Bank of America 2018

We monitor differences between estimated and actual incurred loan and lease losses. This monitoring process includes periodic assessments by senior management of loan and lease portfolios and the models used to estimate incurred losses in those portfolios.

The allowance for loan and lease losses for the consumer portfolio, as presented in Table 45, was $4.8 billion at December 31, 2018, a decrease of $581 million from December 31, 2017. The decrease was primarily in the consumer real estate portfolio, partially offset by an increase in the U.S. credit card portfolio. The reduction in the allowance for the consumer real estate portfolio was due to improved home prices, lower nonperforming loans and a decrease in loan balances in our non-core portfolio. The increase in the allowance for the U.S. credit card portfolio was driven by portfolio seasoning and loan growth. 

The allowance for loan and lease losses for the commercial portfolio, as presented in Table 45, was $4.8 billion at December 31, 2018, a decrease of $211 million from December 31, 2017 primarily driven by improvement in energy exposures. Commercial reservable criticized utilized exposure decreased to $11.1 billion at December 31, 2018 from $13.6 billion (to 2.08 percent from 2.65 percent of total commercial reservable utilized exposure) at December 31, 2017, driven by broad-based improvements including the energy sector. Nonperforming commercial loans decreased to $1.1 billion at December 31, 2018 from $1.3 billion (to 0.22 percent from 0.27 percent of outstanding commercial loans excluding loans accounted for under the fair value option) 

at December 31, 2017. See Tables 34, 35 and 36 for more details on key commercial credit statistics.

The allowance for loan and lease losses as a percentage of total loans and leases outstanding was 1.02 percent at December 31, 2018 compared to 1.12 percent at December 31, 2017. 

Reserve for Unfunded Lending Commitments

In addition to the allowance for loan and lease losses, we also estimate probable losses related to unfunded lending commitments such as letters of credit, financial guarantees, unfunded bankers’ acceptances and binding loan commitments, excluding commitments accounted for under the fair value option. Unfunded lending commitments are subject to the same assessment as funded loans, including estimates of probability of default and LGD. Due to the nature of unfunded commitments, the estimate of probable losses must also consider utilization. To estimate the portion of these undrawn commitments that is likely to be drawn by a borrower at the time of estimated default, analyses of our historical experience are applied to the unfunded commitments to estimate the funded exposure at default (EAD). The expected loss for unfunded lending commitments is the product of the probability of default, the LGD and the EAD, adjusted for any qualitative factors including economic uncertainty and inherent imprecision in models.

The reserve for unfunded lending commitments was $797 million at December 31, 2018 compared to $777 million at December 31, 2017.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

n/m = not meaningful

  Bank of America 2018  68

Table 46 presents a rollforward of the allowance for credit losses, which includes the allowance for loan and lease losses and the reserve for unfunded lending commitments, for 2018 and 2017.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Represents net charge-offs related to the non-U.S. credit card loan portfolio, which was sold in 2017.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(4) Primarily represents the net impact of portfolio sales, consolidations and deconsolidations, foreign currency translation adjustments, transfers to held for sale and certain other reclassifications.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

69 Bank of America 2018

Market Risk Management

Market risk is the risk that changes in market conditions may adversely impact the value of assets or liabilities, or otherwise negatively impact earnings. This risk is inherent in the financial instruments associated with our operations, primarily within our Global Markets segment. We are also exposed to these risks in other areas of the Corporation (e.g., our ALM activities). In the event of market stress, these risks could have a material impact on our results. For more information, see Interest Rate Risk Management for the Banking Book on page 74.

Our traditional banking loan and deposit products are non-trading positions and are generally reported at amortized cost for assets or the amount owed for liabilities (historical cost). However, these positions are still subject to changes in economic value based on varying market conditions, with one of the primary risks being changes in the levels of interest rates. The risk of adverse changes in the economic value of our non-trading positions arising from changes in interest rates is managed through our ALM activities. We have elected to account for certain assets and liabilities under the fair value option.

Our trading positions are reported at fair value with changes reflected in income. Trading positions are subject to various changes in market-based risk factors. The majority of this risk is generated by our activities in the interest rate, foreign exchange, credit, equity and commodities markets. In addition, the values of assets and liabilities could change due to market liquidity, correlations across markets and expectations of market volatility. We seek to manage these risk exposures by using a variety of techniques that encompass a broad range of financial instruments. The key risk management techniques are discussed in more detail in the Trading Risk Management section.

Global Risk Management is responsible for providing senior management with a clear and comprehensive understanding of the trading risks to which we are exposed. These responsibilities include ownership of market risk policy, developing and maintaining quantitative risk models, calculating aggregated risk measures, establishing and monitoring position limits consistent with risk appetite, conducting daily reviews and analysis of trading inventory, approving material risk exposures and fulfilling regulatory requirements. Market risks that impact businesses outside of Global Markets are monitored and governed by their respective governance functions.

Quantitative risk models, such as VaR, are an essential component in evaluating the market risks within a portfolio. The Enterprise Model Risk Committee (EMRC), a subcommittee of the MRC, is responsible for providing management oversight and approval of model risk management and governance. The EMRC defines model risk standards, consistent with our risk framework and risk appetite, prevailing regulatory guidance and industry best practice. Models must meet certain validation criteria, including effective challenge of the model development process and a sufficient demonstration of developmental evidence incorporating a comparison of alternative theories and approaches. The EMRC oversees that model standards are consistent with model risk requirements and monitors the effective challenge in the model validation process across the Corporation. In addition, the relevant stakeholders must agree on any required actions or restrictions to the models and maintain a stringent monitoring process for continued compliance.

Interest Rate Risk

Interest rate risk represents exposures to instruments whose values vary with the level or volatility of interest rates. These instruments include, but are not limited to, loans, debt securities, 

certain trading-related assets and liabilities, deposits, borrowings and derivatives. Hedging instruments used to mitigate these risks include derivatives such as options, futures, forwards and swaps.

Foreign Exchange Risk

Foreign exchange risk represents exposures to changes in the values of current holdings and future cash flows denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. The types of instruments exposed to this risk include investments in non-U.S. subsidiaries, foreign currency-denominated loans and securities, future cash flows in foreign currencies arising from foreign exchange transactions, foreign currency-denominated debt and various foreign exchange derivatives whose values fluctuate with changes in the level or volatility of currency exchange rates or non-U.S. interest rates. Hedging instruments used to mitigate this risk include foreign exchange options, currency swaps, futures, forwards, and foreign currency-denominated debt and deposits.

Mortgage Risk

Mortgage risk represents exposures to changes in the values of mortgage-related instruments. The values of these instruments are sensitive to prepayment rates, mortgage rates, agency debt ratings, default, market liquidity, government participation and interest rate volatility. Our exposure to these instruments takes several forms. For example, we trade and engage in market-making activities in a variety of mortgage securities including whole loans, pass-through certificates, commercial mortgages and collateralized mortgage obligations including collateralized debt obligations using mortgages as underlying collateral. In addition, we originate a variety of MBS, which involves the accumulation of mortgage-related loans in anticipation of eventual securitization, and we may hold positions in mortgage securities and residential mortgage loans as part of the ALM portfolio. We also record MSRs as part of our mortgage origination activities. Hedging instruments used to mitigate this risk include derivatives such as options, swaps, futures and forwards as well as securities including MBS and U.S. Treasury securities. For more information, see Mortgage Banking Risk Management on page 76.

Equity Market Risk

Equity market risk represents exposures to securities that represent an ownership interest in a corporation in the form of domestic and foreign common stock or other equity-linked instruments. Instruments that would lead to this exposure include, but are not limited to, the following: common stock, exchange-traded funds, American Depositary Receipts, convertible bonds, listed equity options (puts and calls), OTC equity options, equity total return swaps, equity index futures and other equity derivative products. Hedging instruments used to mitigate this risk include options, futures, swaps, convertible bonds and cash positions.

Commodity Risk

Commodity risk represents exposures to instruments traded in the petroleum, natural gas, power and metals markets. These instruments consist primarily of futures, forwards, swaps and options. Hedging instruments used to mitigate this risk include options, futures and swaps in the same or similar commodity product, as well as cash positions.

Issuer Credit Risk

Issuer credit risk represents exposures to changes in the creditworthiness of individual issuers or groups of issuers. Our portfolio is exposed to issuer credit risk where the value of an asset may be adversely impacted by changes in the levels of credit spreads, by credit migration or by defaults. Hedging instruments 

  Bank of America 2018  70

used to mitigate this risk include bonds, CDS and other credit fixed-income instruments.

Market Liquidity Risk

Market liquidity risk represents the risk that the level of expected market activity changes dramatically and, in certain cases, may even cease. This exposes us to the risk that we will not be able to transact business and execute trades in an orderly manner which may impact our results. This impact could be further exacerbated if expected hedging or pricing correlations are compromised by disproportionate demand or lack of demand for certain instruments. We utilize various risk mitigating techniques as discussed in more detail in Trading Risk Management.

Trading Risk Management

To evaluate risk in our trading activities, we focus on the actual and potential volatility of revenues generated by individual positions as well as portfolios of positions. Various techniques and procedures are utilized to enable the most complete understanding of these risks. Quantitative measures of market risk are evaluated on a daily basis from a single position to the portfolio of the Corporation. These measures include sensitivities of positions to various market risk factors, such as the potential impact on revenue from a one basis point change in interest rates, and statistical measures utilizing both actual and hypothetical market moves, such as VaR and stress testing. Periods of extreme market stress influence the reliability of these techniques to varying degrees. Qualitative evaluations of market risk utilize the suite of quantitative risk measures while understanding each of their respective limitations. Additionally, risk managers independently evaluate the risk of the portfolios under the current market environment and potential future environments.

VaR is a common statistic used to measure market risk as it allows the aggregation of market risk factors, including the effects of portfolio diversification. A VaR model simulates the value of a portfolio under a range of scenarios in order to generate a distribution of potential gains and losses. VaR represents the loss a portfolio is not expected to exceed more than a certain number of times per period, based on a specified holding period, confidence level and window of historical data. We use one VaR model consistently across the trading portfolios and it uses a historical simulation approach based on a three-year window of historical data. Our primary VaR statistic is equivalent to a 99 percent confidence level. This means that for a VaR with a one-day holding period, there should not be losses in excess of VaR, on average, 99 out of 100 trading days.

Within any VaR model, there are significant and numerous assumptions that will differ from company to company. The accuracy of a VaR model depends on the availability and quality of historical data for each of the risk factors in the portfolio. A VaR model may require additional modeling assumptions for new products that do not have the necessary historical market data or for less liquid positions for which accurate daily prices are not consistently available. For positions with insufficient historical data for the VaR calculation, the process for establishing an appropriate proxy is based on fundamental and statistical analysis of the new product or less liquid position. This analysis identifies reasonable alternatives that replicate both the expected volatility and correlation to other market risk factors that the missing data would be expected to experience.

VaR may not be indicative of realized revenue volatility as changes in market conditions or in the composition of the portfolio can have a material impact on the results. In particular, the historical data used for the VaR calculation might indicate higher 

or lower levels of portfolio diversification than will be experienced. In order for the VaR model to reflect current market conditions, we update the historical data underlying our VaR model on a weekly basis, or more frequently during periods of market stress, and regularly review the assumptions underlying the model. A minor portion of risks related to our trading positions is not included in VaR. These risks are reviewed as part of our ICAAP. For more information regarding ICAAP, see Capital Management on page 43.

Global Risk Management continually reviews, evaluates and enhances our VaR model so that it reflects the material risks in our trading portfolio. Changes to the VaR model are reviewed and approved prior to implementation and any material changes are reported to management through the appropriate management committees.

Trading limits on quantitative risk measures, including VaR, are independently set by Global Markets Risk Management and reviewed on a regular basis so that trading limits remain relevant and within our overall risk appetite for market risks. Trading limits are reviewed in the context of market liquidity, volatility and strategic business priorities. Trading limits are set at both a granular level to allow for extensive coverage of risks as well as at aggregated portfolios to account for correlations among risk factors. All trading limits are approved at least annually. Approved trading limits are stored and tracked in a centralized limits management system. Trading limit excesses are communicated to management for review. Certain quantitative market risk measures and corresponding limits have been identified as critical in the Corporation’s Risk Appetite Statement. These risk appetite limits are reported on a daily basis and are approved at least annually by the ERC and the Board.

In periods of market stress, Global Markets senior leadership communicates daily to discuss losses, key risk positions and any limit excesses. As a result of this process, the businesses may selectively reduce risk.

Table 47 presents the total market-based portfolio VaR which is the combination of the total covered positions (and less liquid trading positions) portfolio and the fair value option portfolio. Covered positions are defined by regulatory standards as trading assets and liabilities, both on- and off-balance sheet, that meet a defined set of specifications. These specifications identify the most liquid trading positions which are intended to be held for a short-term horizon and where we are able to hedge the material risk elements in a two-way market. Positions in less liquid markets, or where there are restrictions on the ability to trade the positions, typically do not qualify as covered positions. Foreign exchange and commodity positions are always considered covered positions, except for structural foreign currency positions that are excluded with prior regulatory approval. In addition, Table 47 presents our fair value option portfolio, which includes substantially all of the funded and unfunded exposures for which we elect the fair value option, and their corresponding hedges. Additionally, market risk VaR for trading activities as presented in Table 47 differs from VaR used for regulatory capital calculations due to the holding period being used. The holding period for VaR used for regulatory capital calculations is 10 days, while for the market risk VaR presented below, it is one day. Both measures utilize the same process and methodology.

The total market-based portfolio VaR results in Table 47 include market risk to which we are exposed from all business segments, excluding credit valuation adjustment (CVA), DVA and related hedges. The majority of this portfolio is within the Global Markets segment.

71 Bank of America 2018

Table 47 presents year-end, average, high and low daily trading VaR for 2018 and 2017 using a 99 percent confidence level. The amounts disclosed in Table 47 and Table 48 align to the view of covered positions used in the Basel 3 capital calculations. Foreign exchange and commodity positions are always considered covered positions, regardless of trading or banking treatment for the trade, 

except for structural foreign currency positions that are excluded with prior regulatory approval.

The average total covered positions and less liquid trading positions portfolio VaR decreased during 2018 primarily due to a decrease in credit risk along with an increase in portfolio diversification.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) The high and low for each portfolio may have occurred on different trading days than the high and low for the components. Therefore the impact from less liquid exposures and the amount of portfolio diversification, which is the difference between the total portfolio and the sum of the individual components, is not relevant.

The graph below presents the daily covered positions and less liquid trading positions portfolio VaR for 2018, corresponding to the data in Table 47.

  Bank of America 2018  72

Additional VaR statistics produced within our single VaR model are provided in Table 48 at the same level of detail as in Table 47. Evaluating VaR with additional statistics allows for an increased understanding of the risks in the portfolio as the historical market data used in the VaR calculation does not necessarily follow a predefined statistical distribution. Table 48 presents average trading VaR statistics at 99 percent and 95 percent confidence levels for 2018 and 2017.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Backtesting 

The accuracy of the VaR methodology is evaluated by backtesting, which compares the daily VaR results, utilizing a one-day holding period, against a comparable subset of trading revenue. A backtesting excess occurs when a trading loss exceeds the VaR for the corresponding day. These excesses are evaluated to understand the positions and market moves that produced the trading loss with a goal to ensure that the VaR methodology accurately represents those losses. We expect the frequency of trading losses in excess of VaR to be in line with the confidence level of the VaR statistic being tested. For example, with a 99 percent confidence level, we expect one trading loss in excess of VaR every 100 days or between two to three trading losses in excess of VaR over the course of a year. The number of backtesting excesses observed can differ from the statistically expected number of excesses if the current level of market volatility is materially different than the level of market volatility that existed during the three years of historical data used in the VaR calculation. 

The trading revenue used for backtesting is defined by regulatory agencies in order to most closely align with the VaR component of the regulatory capital calculation. This revenue differs from total trading-related revenue in that it excludes revenue from trading activities that either do not generate market risk or the market risk cannot be included in VaR. Some examples of the types of revenue excluded for backtesting are fees, commissions, reserves, net interest income and intraday trading revenues.

We conduct daily backtesting on the VaR results used for regulatory capital calculations as well as the VaR results for key legal entities, regions and risk factors. These results are reported to senior market risk management. Senior management regularly reviews and evaluates the results of these tests.

During 2018, there were three days in which there was a backtesting excess for our total covered portfolio VaR, utilizing a one-day holding period.

Total Trading-related Revenue

Total trading-related revenue, excluding brokerage fees, and CVA, DVA and funding valuation adjustment gains (losses), represents the total amount earned from trading positions, including market-based net interest income, which are taken in a diverse range of financial instruments and markets. Trading account assets and liabilities are reported at fair value. For more information on fair value, see Note 20 – Fair Value Measurements to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Trading-related revenue can be volatile and is largely driven by general market conditions and customer demand. Also, trading-related revenue is dependent on the volume and type of transactions, the level of risk assumed, and the volatility of price and rate movements at any given time within the ever-changing market environment. Significant daily revenue by business is monitored and the primary drivers of these are reviewed.

The following histogram is a graphic depiction of trading volatility and illustrates the daily level of trading-related revenue for 2018 and 2017. During 2018, positive trading-related revenue was recorded for 98 percent of the trading days, of which 79 percent were daily trading gains of over $25 million. This compares to 2017 where positive trading-related revenue was recorded for 100 percent of the trading days, of which 77 percent were daily trading gains of over $25 million.

73 Bank of America 2018

Trading Portfolio Stress Testing

Because the very nature of a VaR model suggests results can exceed our estimates and it is dependent on a limited historical window, we also stress test our portfolio using scenario analysis. This analysis estimates the change in the value of our trading portfolio that may result from abnormal market movements. 

A set of scenarios, categorized as either historical or hypothetical, are computed daily for the overall trading portfolio and individual businesses. These scenarios include shocks to underlying market risk factors that may be well beyond the shocks found in the historical data used to calculate VaR. Historical scenarios simulate the impact of the market moves that occurred during a period of extended historical market stress. Generally, a multi-week period representing the most severe point during a crisis is selected for each historical scenario. Hypothetical scenarios provide estimated portfolio impacts from potential future market stress events. Scenarios are reviewed and updated in response to changing positions and new economic or political information. In addition, new or ad hoc scenarios are developed to address specific potential market events or particular vulnerabilities in the portfolio. The stress tests are reviewed on a regular basis and the results are presented to senior management.

Stress testing for the trading portfolio is integrated with enterprise-wide stress testing and incorporated into the limits framework. The macroeconomic scenarios used for enterprise-wide stress testing purposes differ from the typical trading portfolio scenarios in that they have a longer time horizon and the results are forecasted over multiple periods for use in consolidated capital and liquidity planning. For more information, see Managing Risk on page 40.

Interest Rate Risk Management for the Banking Book

The following discussion presents net interest income for banking book activities.

Interest rate risk represents the most significant market risk exposure to our banking book balance sheet. Interest rate risk is measured as the potential change in net interest income caused 

by movements in market interest rates. Client-facing activities, primarily lending and deposit-taking, create interest rate sensitive positions on our balance sheet.

We prepare forward-looking forecasts of net interest income. The baseline forecast takes into consideration expected future business growth, ALM positioning and the direction of interest rate movements as implied by the market-based forward curve. We then measure and evaluate the impact that alternative interest rate scenarios have on the baseline forecast in order to assess interest rate sensitivity under varied conditions. The net interest income forecast is frequently updated for changing assumptions and differing outlooks based on economic trends, market conditions and business strategies. Thus, we continually monitor our balance sheet position in order to maintain an acceptable level of exposure to interest rate changes.

The interest rate scenarios that we analyze incorporate balance sheet assumptions such as loan and deposit growth and pricing, changes in funding mix, product repricing, maturity characteristics and investment securities premium amortization. Our overall goal is to manage interest rate risk so that movements in interest rates do not significantly adversely affect earnings and capital.

Table 49 presents the spot and 12-month forward rates used in our baseline forecasts at December 31, 2018 and 2017.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Table 50 shows the pretax impact to forecasted net interest income over the next 12 months from December 31, 2018 and 2017, resulting from instantaneous parallel and non-parallel shocks to the market-based forward curve. Periodically we evaluate the scenarios presented so that they are meaningful in the context of the current rate environment.

During 2018, the asset sensitivity of our balance sheet to rising rates declined primarily due to increases in long-end rates. We continue to be asset sensitive to a parallel move in interest rates with the majority of that impact coming from the short end of the yield curve. Additionally, higher interest rates impact the fair value of debt securities and, accordingly, for debt securities classified as AFS, may adversely affect accumulated OCI and thus capital levels under the Basel 3 capital rules. Under instantaneous upward parallel shifts, the near-term adverse impact to Basel 3 capital is reduced over time by offsetting positive impacts to net interest income. For more information on Basel 3, see Capital Management – Regulatory Capital on page 44.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The sensitivity analysis in Table 50 assumes that we take no action in response to these rate shocks and does not assume any change in other macroeconomic variables normally correlated with changes in interest rates. As part of our ALM activities, we use securities, certain residential mortgages, and interest rate and foreign exchange derivatives in managing interest rate sensitivity.

The behavior of our deposit portfolio in the baseline forecast and in alternate interest rate scenarios is a key assumption in our projected estimates of net interest income. The sensitivity analysis in Table 50 assumes no change in deposit portfolio size or mix from the baseline forecast in alternate rate environments. In higher rate scenarios, any customer activity resulting in the replacement of low-cost or noninterest-bearing deposits with higher yielding 

  Bank of America 2018  74

deposits or market-based funding would reduce our benefit in those scenarios.

Interest Rate and Foreign Exchange Derivative Contracts

Interest rate and foreign exchange derivative contracts are utilized in our ALM activities and serve as an efficient tool to manage our interest rate and foreign exchange risk. We use derivatives to hedge the variability in cash flows or changes in fair value on our balance sheet due to interest rate and foreign exchange components. For more information on our hedging activities, see Note 3 – Derivatives to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Our interest rate contracts are generally non-leveraged generic interest rate and foreign exchange basis swaps, options, futures and forwards. In addition, we use foreign exchange contracts, including cross-currency interest rate swaps, foreign currency futures contracts, foreign currency forward contracts and options to mitigate the foreign exchange risk associated with foreign currency-denominated assets and liabilities.

Changes to the composition of our derivatives portfolio during 2018 reflect actions taken for interest rate and foreign exchange rate risk management. The decisions to reposition our derivatives portfolio are based on the current assessment of economic and financial conditions including the interest rate and foreign currency environments, balance sheet composition and trends, and the relative mix of our cash and derivative positions.

We use interest rate derivative instruments to hedge the variability in the cash flows of our assets and liabilities and other forecasted transactions (collectively referred to as cash flow 

hedges). The net losses on both open and terminated cash flow hedge derivative instruments recorded in accumulated OCI were $1.3 billion, on a pretax basis, at both December 31, 2018 and 2017. These net losses are expected to be reclassified into earnings in the same period as the hedged cash flows affect earnings and will decrease income or increase expense on the respective hedged cash flows. Assuming no change in open cash flow derivative hedge positions and no changes in prices or interest rates beyond what is implied in forward yield curves at December 31, 2018, the pretax net losses are expected to be reclassified into earnings as follows: 25 percent within the next year, 56 percent in years two through five and 11 percent in years six through 10, with the remaining eight percent thereafter. For more information on derivatives designated as cash flow hedges, see Note 3 – Derivatives to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

We hedge our net investment in non-U.S. operations determined to have functional currencies other than the U.S. dollar using forward foreign exchange contracts that typically settle in less than 180 days, cross-currency basis swaps and foreign exchange options. We recorded net after-tax losses on derivatives in accumulated OCI associated with net investment hedges which were offset by gains on our net investments in consolidated non-U.S. entities at December 31, 2018.

Table 51 presents derivatives utilized in our ALM activities and shows the notional amount, fair value, weighted-average receive-fixed and pay-fixed rates, expected maturity and average estimated durations of our open ALM derivatives at December 31, 2018 and 2017. These amounts do not include derivative hedges on our MSRs.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

For footnotes, see page 76.

75 Bank of America 2018

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Does not include basis adjustments on either fixed-rate debt issued by the Corporation or AFS debt securities, which are hedged using derivatives designated as fair value hedging instruments, that substantially offset the fair values of these derivatives.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(3) Foreign exchange basis swaps consisted of cross-currency variable interest rate swaps used separately or in conjunction with receive-fixed interest rate swaps.

(4) Does not include foreign currency translation adjustments on certain non-U.S. debt issued by the Corporation that substantially offset the fair values of these derivatives.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(6) Reflects the net of long and short positions. Amounts shown as negative reflect a net short position.

Mortgage Banking Risk Management

We originate, fund and service mortgage loans, which subject us to credit, liquidity and interest rate risks, among others. We determine whether loans will be held for investment or held for sale at the time of commitment and manage credit and liquidity risks by selling or securitizing a portion of the loans we originate.

Interest rate risk and market risk can be substantial in the mortgage business. Changes in interest rates and other market factors impact the volume of mortgage originations. Changes in interest rates also impact the value of interest rate lock commitments (IRLCs) and the related residential first mortgage LHFS between the date of the IRLC and the date the loans are sold to the secondary market. An increase in mortgage interest rates typically leads to a decrease in the value of these instruments. Conversely, when there is an increase in interest rates, the value of the MSRs will increase driven by lower prepayment expectations. Because the interest rate risks of these two hedged items offset, we combine them into one overall hedged item with one combined economic hedge portfolio consisting of derivative contracts and securities.

During 2018 and 2017, we recorded gains of $244 million and $118 million related to the change in fair value of the MSRs, IRLCs and LHFS, net of gains and losses on the hedge portfolio. For more information on MSRs, see Note 20 – Fair Value Measurements to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Compliance and Operational Risk Management

Compliance risk is the risk of legal or regulatory sanctions, material financial loss or damage to the reputation of the Corporation arising from the failure of the Corporation to comply with the requirements of applicable laws, rules, regulations and our internal policies and procedures (collectively, applicable laws, rules and regulations).

Operational risk is the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed processes, people and systems or from external events. Operational risk may occur anywhere in the Corporation, including third-party business processes, and is not limited to operations functions. Effects may extend beyond financial losses and may result in reputational risk impacts. Operational risk includes legal risk. Additionally, operational risk is a component in the calculation of total risk-weighted assets used in the Basel 3 capital calculation. For more information on Basel 3 calculations, see Capital Management on page 43. 

FLUs and control functions are first and foremost responsible for managing all aspects of their businesses, including their compliance and operational risk. FLUs and control functions are required to understand their business processes and related risks and controls, including the related regulatory requirements, and monitor and report on the effectiveness of the control environment. In order to actively monitor and assess the performance of their processes and controls, they must conduct comprehensive quality assurance activities and identify issues and risks to remediate control gaps and weaknesses. FLUs and control functions must also adhere to compliance and operational risk appetite limits to meet strategic, capital and financial planning objectives. Finally, FLUs and control functions are responsible for the proactive identification, management and escalation of compliance and operational risks across the Corporation.

Global Compliance and Operational Risk teams independently assess compliance and operational risk, monitor business activities and processes, evaluate FLUs and control functions for adherence to applicable laws, rules and regulations, including identifying issues and risks, determining and developing tests to be conducted by the Enterprise Independent Testing unit, and reporting on the state of the control environment. Enterprise Independent Testing, an independent testing function within IRM, works with Global Compliance and Operational Risk, the FLUs and 

  Bank of America 2018  76

control functions in the identification of testing needs and test design, and is accountable for test execution, reporting and analysis of results.

The Corporation’s approach to the management of compliance risk is described in the Global Compliance - Enterprise Policy, which outlines the requirements of the Corporation’s compliance risk management program, and defines roles and responsibilities of FLUs, IRM and Corporate Audit, the three lines of defense in managing compliance risk. The requirements work together to drive a comprehensive risk-based approach for the proactive identification, management and escalation of compliance risks throughout the Corporation. For more information on FLUs and control functions, see Managing Risk on page 40.

The Corporation’s approach to operational risk management is outlined in the Operational Risk Management - Enterprise Policy which establishes the requirements of the Corporation’s operational risk management program and specifies the responsibilities and accountabilities of the first and second lines of defense for managing operational risk so that our business processes are designed and executed effectively.

The Global Compliance Enterprise Policy and Operational Risk Management - Enterprise Policy also set the requirements for reporting compliance and operational risk information to executive management as well as the Board or appropriate Board-level committees in support of Global Compliance and Operational Risk’s responsibilities for conducting independent oversight of our compliance and operational risk management activities. The Board provides oversight of compliance risk through its Audit Committee and the ERC, and operational risk through the ERC.

A key operational risk facing the Corporation is information security, which includes cybersecurity. Cybersecurity risk represents, among other things, exposure to failures or interruptions of service or breaches of security, resulting from malicious technological attacks or otherwise, that impact the confidentiality, availability or integrity of our operations, systems or data, including sensitive corporate and customer information. The Corporation manages information security risk in accordance with internal policies which govern our comprehensive information security program designed to protect the Corporation by enabling preventative and detective measures to combat information and cybersecurity risks. The Board and the ERC provide cybersecurity and information security risk oversight for the Corporation and our Global Information Security Team manages the day-to-day implementation of our information security program. 

Reputational Risk Management

Reputational risk is the risk that negative perceptions of the Corporation’s conduct or business practices may adversely impact its profitability or operations. Reputational risk may result from many of the Corporation’s activities, including those related to the management of our strategic, operational, compliance and credit risks.

The Corporation manages reputational risk through established policies and controls in its businesses and risk management processes to mitigate reputational risks in a timely manner and through proactive monitoring and identification of potential reputational risk events. If reputational risk events occur, we focus on remediating the underlying issue and taking action to minimize damage to the Corporation’s reputation. The Corporation has processes and procedures in place to respond to events that give rise to reputational risk, including educating individuals and organizations that influence public opinion, implementing external communication strategies to mitigate the risk, and informing key stakeholders of potential reputational risks. 

The Corporation’s organization and governance structure provides oversight of reputational risks, and reputational risk reporting is provided regularly and directly to management and the ERC, which provides primary oversight of reputational risk. In addition, each FLU has a committee, which includes representatives from Compliance, Legal and Risk, that is responsible for the oversight of reputational risk. Such committees’ oversight includes providing approval for business activities that present elevated levels of reputational risks.

Complex Accounting Estimates

Our significant accounting principles, as described in Note 1 – Summary of Significant Accounting Principles to the Consolidated Financial Statements, are essential in understanding the Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A). Many of our significant accounting principles require complex judgments to estimate the values of assets and liabilities. We have procedures and processes in place to facilitate making these judgments.

The more judgmental estimates are summarized in the following discussion. We have identified and described the development of the variables most important in the estimation processes that involve mathematical models to derive the estimates. In many cases, there are numerous alternative judgments that could be used in the process of determining the inputs to the models. Where alternatives exist, we have used the factors that we believe represent the most reasonable value in developing the inputs. Actual performance that differs from our estimates of the key variables could materially impact our results of operations. Separate from the possible future impact to our results of operations from input and model variables, the value of our lending portfolio and market-sensitive assets and liabilities may change subsequent to the balance sheet date, often significantly, due to the nature and magnitude of future credit and market conditions. Such credit and market conditions may change quickly and in unforeseen ways and the resulting volatility could have a significant, negative effect on future operating results. These fluctuations would not be indicative of deficiencies in our models or inputs.

Allowance for Credit Losses

The allowance for credit losses, which includes the allowance for loan and lease losses and the reserve for unfunded lending commitments, represents management’s estimate of probable incurred credit losses in the Corporation’s loan and lease portfolio excluding those loans accounted for under the fair value option. The allowance for credit losses includes both quantitative and qualitative components. The qualitative component has a higher degree of management subjectivity, and includes factors such as concentrations, economic conditions and other considerations. Our process for determining the allowance for credit losses is discussed in Note 1 – Summary of Significant Accounting Principles to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Our estimate for the allowance for loan and lease losses is sensitive to the loss rates and expected cash flows from our Consumer Real Estate and Credit Card and Other Consumer portfolio segments, as well as our U.S. small business commercial card portfolio within the Commercial portfolio segment. For each one-percent increase in the loss rates on loans collectively evaluated for impairment in our Consumer Real Estate portfolio segment, excluding PCI loans, coupled with a one-percent decrease in the discounted cash flows on those loans individually evaluated for impairment within this portfolio segment, the allowance for loan and lease losses at December 31, 2018 would have increased $24 million. We subject our PCI portfolio to stress 

77 Bank of America 2018

scenarios to evaluate the potential impact given certain events. A one-percent decrease in the expected cash flows would result in a $41 million impairment of the portfolio. Within our Credit Card and Other Consumer portfolio segment and U.S. small business commercial card portfolio, for each one-percent increase in the loss rates on loans collectively evaluated for impairment coupled with a one-percent decrease in the expected cash flows on those loans individually evaluated for impairment, the allowance for loan and lease losses at December 31, 2018 would have increased $44 million.

Our allowance for loan and lease losses is sensitive to the risk ratings assigned to loans and leases within the Commercial portfolio segment (excluding the U.S. small business commercial card portfolio). Assuming a downgrade of one level in the internal risk ratings for commercial loans and leases, except loans and leases already classified as Substandard and Doubtful as defined by regulatory authorities, the allowance for loan and lease losses would have increased $2.5 billion at December 31, 2018.

The allowance for loan and lease losses as a percentage of total loans and leases at December 31, 2018 was 1.02 percent and these hypothetical increases in the allowance would raise the ratio to 1.30 percent.

These sensitivity analyses do not represent management’s expectations of the deterioration in risk ratings or the increases in loss rates but are provided as hypothetical scenarios to assess the sensitivity of the allowance for loan and lease losses to changes in key inputs. We believe the risk ratings and loss severities currently in use are appropriate and that the probability of the alternative scenarios outlined above occurring within a short period of time is remote.

The process of determining the level of the allowance for credit losses requires a high degree of judgment. It is possible that others, given the same information, may at any point in time reach different reasonable conclusions.

Fair Value of Financial Instruments

Under applicable accounting standards, we are required to maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs in measuring fair value. We classify fair value measurements of financial instruments and MSRs based on the three-level fair value hierarchy in the accounting standards. 

The fair values of assets and liabilities may include adjustments, such as market liquidity and credit quality, where appropriate. Valuations of products using models or other techniques are sensitive to assumptions used for the significant inputs. Where market data is available, the inputs used for valuation reflect that information as of our valuation date. Inputs to valuation models are considered unobservable if they are supported by little or no market activity. In periods of extreme volatility, lessened liquidity or in illiquid markets, there may be more variability in market pricing or a lack of market data to use in the valuation process. In keeping with the prudent application of estimates and management judgment in determining the fair value of assets and liabilities, we have in place various processes and controls that include: a model validation policy that requires review and approval of quantitative models used for deal pricing, financial statement fair value determination and risk quantification; a trading product valuation policy that requires verification of all traded product valuations; and a periodic review and substantiation of daily profit and loss reporting for all traded products. Primarily through validation controls, we utilize both broker and pricing service inputs which can and do include both market-observable and internally-modeled values and/or valuation inputs. Our reliance on this information is affected by our understanding of how the broker and/or pricing service develops 

its data with a higher degree of reliance applied to those that are more directly observable and lesser reliance applied to those developed through their own internal modeling. For example, broker quotes in less active markets may only be indicative and therefore less reliable. These processes and controls are performed independently of the business. For additional information, see Note 20 – Fair Value Measurements and Note 21 – Fair Value Option to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Level 3 Assets and Liabilities

Financial assets and liabilities, and MSRs, where values are based on valuation techniques that require inputs that are both unobservable and are significant to the overall fair value measurement are classified as Level 3 under the fair value hierarchy established in applicable accounting standards. The fair value of these Level 3 financial assets and liabilities and MSRs is determined using pricing models, discounted cash flow methodologies or similar techniques for which the determination of fair value requires significant management judgment or estimation. 

Level 3 financial instruments may be hedged with derivatives classified as Level 1 or 2; therefore, gains or losses associated with Level 3 financial instruments may be offset by gains or losses associated with financial instruments classified in other levels of the fair value hierarchy. The Level 3 gains and losses recorded in earnings did not have a significant impact on our liquidity or capital. We conduct a review of our fair value hierarchy classifications on a quarterly basis. Transfers into or out of Level 3 are made if the significant inputs used in the financial models measuring the fair values of the assets and liabilities became unobservable or observable, respectively, in the current marketplace. For more information on transfers into and out of Level 3 during 2018, 2017 and 2016, see Note 20 – Fair Value Measurements to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Accrued Income Taxes and Deferred Tax Assets

Accrued income taxes, reported as a component of either other assets or accrued expenses and other liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheet, represent the net amount of current income taxes we expect to pay to or receive from various taxing jurisdictions attributable to our operations to date. We currently file income tax returns in more than 100 jurisdictions and consider many factors, including statutory, judicial and regulatory guidance, in estimating the appropriate accrued income taxes for each jurisdiction.

Net deferred tax assets, reported as a component of other assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheet, represent the net decrease in taxes expected to be paid in the future because of net operating loss (NOL) and tax credit carryforwards and because of future reversals of temporary differences in the bases of assets and liabilities as measured by tax laws and their bases as reported in the financial statements. NOL and tax credit carryforwards result in reductions to future tax liabilities, and many of these attributes can expire if not utilized within certain periods. We consider the need for valuation allowances to reduce net deferred tax assets to the amounts that we estimate are more likely than not to be realized.

Consistent with the applicable accounting guidance, we monitor relevant tax authorities and change our estimates of accrued income taxes and/or net deferred tax assets due to changes in income tax laws and their interpretation by the courts and regulatory authorities. These revisions of our estimates, which also may result from our income tax planning and from the resolution of income tax audit matters, may be material to our operating results for any given period.

  Bank of America 2018  78

See Note 19 – Income Taxes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a table of significant tax attributes and additional information. For more information, see page 13 under Item 1A. Risk Factors – Regulatory, Compliance and Legal.

Goodwill and Intangible Assets

The nature of and accounting for goodwill and intangible assets are discussed in Note 1 – Summary of Significant Accounting Principles, and Note 8 – Goodwill and Intangible Assets. Beginning with our annual goodwill impairment test as of June 30, 2018, we conducted a qualitative assessment, rather than a quantitative assessment as previously performed, that is more fully described in Note 1 – Summary of Significant Accounting Principles to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

We completed our annual goodwill impairment test as of June 30, 2018 for all of our reporting units that had goodwill. We performed that test by assessing qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of each reporting unit is less than its respective carrying value. Factors considered in the qualitative assessments include, among other things, macroeconomic conditions, industry and market considerations, financial performance of the respective reporting unit and other relevant entity- and reporting-unit specific considerations. If based on the results of the qualitative assessment, it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value, a quantitative assessment is performed.

Based on our qualitative assessments, we determined that for each reporting unit with goodwill, it was more likely than not that its respective fair value exceeded its carrying value, indicating there was no impairment. For more information regarding goodwill balances at June 30, 2018, see Note 8 – Goodwill and Intangible Assets to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Representations and Warranties Liability

The methodology used to estimate the liability for obligations under representations and warranties related to transfers of residential mortgage loans is a function of the type of representations and warranties provided in the sales contracts and considers a variety of factors. These factors, which incorporate judgment, are subject to change based on our specific experience. Our experience in negotiating settlements with trustees and other counterparties is an important input in determining our estimate of the liability. We also consider actual defaults, estimated future defaults, historical loss experience, estimated home prices and other economic conditions. Changes to any one of these factors could impact the estimate of our liability.

The representations and warranties provision may vary significantly each period as the methodology used to estimate the expense continues to be refined. The estimate of the liability for representations and warranties is sensitive to future defaults, loss severity and the net repurchase rate. An assumed simultaneous increase or decrease of 10 percent in estimated future defaults, loss severity and the net repurchase rate would result in an increase or decrease of approximately $200 million in the representations and warranties liability as of December 31, 2018. These sensitivities are hypothetical and are intended to provide an indication of the impact of a significant change in these key assumptions on the representations and warranties liability. In reality, changes in one assumption may result in changes in other assumptions, which may or may not counteract the sensitivity.

For more information on representations and warranties exposure, see Note 12 – Commitments and Contingencies to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

2017 Compared to 2016

The following discussion and analysis provide a comparison of our results of operations for 2017 and 2016. This discussion should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and related Notes. 

Overview

Net Income

Net income was $18.2 billion, or $1.56 per diluted share in 2017 compared to $17.8 billion, or $1.49 per diluted share in 2016. The results for 2017 included a charge of $2.9 billion related to the Tax Act. The pretax results for 2017 compared to 2016 were driven by higher revenue, largely the result of an increase in net interest income, lower provision for credit losses and a decline in noninterest expense. 

Net Interest Income

Net interest income increased $3.6 billion to $44.7 billion in 2017 compared to 2016. Net interest yield on an FTE basis increased 12 bps to 2.37 percent for 2017. These increases were primarily driven by the benefits from higher interest rates and loan and deposit growth, partially offset by the sale of the non-U.S. consumer credit card business in the second quarter of 2017. 

Noninterest Income

Noninterest income increased $80 million to $42.7 billion in 2017 compared to 2016. The following highlights the significant changes.

●Service charges increased $180 million primarily driven by the impact of pricing strategies and higher treasury services related revenue. 

●Investment and brokerage services income increased $487 million primarily driven by the impact of AUM flows and higher market valuations, partially offset by the impact of changing market dynamics on transactional revenue and AUM pricing. 

●Investment banking income increased $770 million primarily due to higher advisory fees and higher debt and equity issuance fees. 

●Trading account profits increased $375 million primarily due to increased client financing activity in equities, partially offset by weaker performance across most fixed-income products. 

●Other income decreased $1.8 billion primarily due to lower mortgage banking income, with declines in both MSR results and production. Included in 2017 was a $793 million pretax gain recognized in connection with the sale of the non-U.S. consumer credit card business and a downward valuation adjustment of $946 million on tax-advantaged energy investments in connection with the Tax Act. 

Provision for Credit Losses

The provision for credit losses decreased $201 million to $3.4 billion for 2017 compared to 2016 primarily due to reductions in energy exposures in the commercial portfolio and credit quality improvements in the consumer real estate portfolio. This was partially offset by portfolio seasoning and loan growth in the U.S. credit card portfolio and a single-name non-U.S. commercial charge-off. 

Noninterest Expense

Noninterest expense decreased $340 million to $54.7 billion for 2017 compared to 2016. The decrease was primarily due to lower operating costs, a reduction from the sale of the non-U.S. consumer credit card business and lower litigation expense, partially offset by a $316 million impairment charge related to certain data centers that were in the process of being sold and 

79 Bank of America 2018

$145 million for the shared success discretionary year-end bonus awarded to certain employees. 

Income Tax Expense

Tax expense for 2017 included a charge of $1.9 billion reflecting the impact of the Tax Act. Other than the impact of the Tax Act, the effective tax rate for 2017 was driven by our recurring tax preference benefits as well as an expense recognized in connection with the sale of the non-U.S. consumer credit card business, largely offset by benefits related to the adoption of the new accounting standard for the tax impact associated with share-based compensation, and the restructuring of certain subsidiaries. The effective tax rate for 2016 was driven by our recurring tax preferences and net tax benefits related to various tax audit matters, partially offset by a charge for the impact of U.K. tax law changes enacted in 2016.

Business Segment Operations

Consumer Banking

Net income for Consumer Banking increased $1.0 billion to $8.2 billion in 2017 compared to 2016 primarily driven by higher net interest income, partially offset by higher provision for credit losses and lower mortgage banking income which is included in other noninterest income. Net interest income increased $3.0 billion to $24.3 billion primarily due to the beneficial impact of an increase in investable assets as a result of higher deposits, as well as pricing discipline and loan growth. Noninterest income decreased $227 million to $10.2 billion driven by lower mortgage banking income, partially offset by higher card income and service charges. The provision for credit losses increased $810 million to $3.5 billion due to portfolio seasoning and loan growth in the U.S. credit card portfolio. Noninterest expense increased $131 million to $17.8 billion driven by higher personnel expense, including the shared success discretionary year-end bonus, and increased FDIC expense, as well as investments in digital capabilities and business growth. These increases were partially offset by improved operating efficiencies.

Global Wealth & Investment Management

Net income for GWIM increased $312 million to $3.1 billion in 2017 compared to 2016 due to higher revenue, partially offset by an increase in noninterest expense. Net interest income increased $414 million to $6.2 billion driven by higher short-term interest rates. Noninterest income, which primarily includes investment and brokerage services income, increased $526 million to $12.4 billion. The increase in noninterest income was driven by the impact of AUM flows and higher market valuations, partially offset by the impact of changing market dynamics on transactional revenue and AUM pricing. Noninterest expense increased $390 million to $13.6 billion primarily driven by higher revenue-related incentive costs.

Global Banking

Net income for Global Banking increased $1.2 billion to $7.0 billion in  2017  compared  to  2016  driven  by  higher  revenue  and  lower

provision for credit losses. Revenue increased $1.6 billion to $20.0 billion driven by higher net interest income and noninterest income. Net interest income increased $1.0 billion to $10.5 billion due to loan and deposit-related growth, higher short-term rates on an increased deposit base and the impact of the allocation of ALM activities, partially offset by credit spread compression. Noninterest income increased $521 million to $9.5 billion largely due to higher investment banking fees. The provision for credit losses decreased $671 million to $212 million in 2017 primarily driven by reductions in energy exposures and continued portfolio improvement, partially offset by Global Banking’s portion of a 2017 single-name non-U.S. commercial charge-off. Noninterest expense increased $110 million to $8.6 billion in 2017 primarily driven by higher investments in technology and higher deposit insurance, partially offset by lower litigation costs.

Global Markets

Net income for Global Markets decreased $524 million to $3.3 billion in 2017 compared to 2016. Net DVA losses were $428 million compared to losses of $238 million in 2016. Excluding net DVA, net income decreased $405 million to $3.6 billion primarily driven by higher noninterest expense, lower sales and trading revenue and an increase in the provision for credit losses, partially offset by higher investment banking fees. Sales and trading revenue, excluding net DVA, decreased $423 million primarily due to weaker performance in rates products and emerging markets. The provision for credit losses increased $133 million to $164 million in 2017, reflecting Global Markets’ portion of a single-name non-U.S. commercial charge-off. Noninterest expense increased $560 million to $10.7 billion primarily due to higher litigation expense and continued investments in technology. 

All Other

The net loss for All Other increased $1.6 billion to a net loss of $3.3 billion, driven by a charge of $2.9 billion due to enactment of the Tax Act. The pretax loss for 2017 compared to 2016 decreased $523 million reflecting lower noninterest expense and a larger benefit in the provision for credit losses, partially offset by a decline in revenue. Revenue declined $1.5 billion primarily due to lower mortgage banking income. All other noninterest loss decreased marginally and included a pretax gain of $793 million on the sale of the non-U.S. credit card business and a downward valuation adjustment of $946 million on tax-advantaged energy investments in connection with the Tax Act. 

The benefit in the provision for credit losses increased $461 million to a benefit of $561 million primarily driven by continued runoff of the non-core portfolio, loan sale recoveries and the sale of the non-U.S. consumer credit card business. 

Noninterest expense decreased $1.5 billion to $4.1 billion driven by lower litigation expense, lower personnel expense and a decline in non-core mortgage servicing costs.

The income tax benefit was $1.0 billion in 2017 compared to a benefit of $3.1 billion in 2016. The decrease in the tax benefit was driven by the impacts of the Tax Act. Both periods include income tax benefit adjustments to eliminate the FTE treatment of certain tax credits recorded in Global Banking.

  Bank of America 2018  80

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(5) Includes card-related products.

(6) Represents non-U.S. credit card loans, which were included in assets of business held for sale on the Consolidated Balance Sheet.

81 Bank of America 2018

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Our policy is to classify consumer real estate-secured loans as nonperforming at 90 days past due, except the PCI loan portfolio, the fully-insured loan portfolio and loans accounted for under the fair value option.

(2) Balances are fully-insured loans.

  Bank of America 2018  82

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Loan maturities are based on the remaining maturities under contractual terms.

(2) Includes loans accounted for under the fair value option.

(3) Loan maturities include non-U.S. commercial and commercial real estate loans.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Represents net charge-offs related to the non-U.S. credit card loan portfolio, which was sold in 2017.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(4) Primarily represents the net impact of portfolio sales, consolidations and deconsolidations, foreign currency translation adjustments, transfers to held for sale and certain other reclassifications.

(5) Represents allowance related to the non-U.S. credit card loan portfolio, which was sold in 2017.

83 Bank of America 2018

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(3) Represents allowance for loan and lease losses related to the non-U.S. credit card loan portfolio, which was sold in 2017.

  Bank of America 2018  84

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk