Item 7.Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

INTRODUCTION

BorgWarner Inc. and Consolidated Subsidiaries (the “Company”) is a global product leader in clean and efficient technology solutions for combustion, hybrid and electric vehicles. Our products help improve vehicle performance, propulsion efficiency, stability and air quality. These products are manufactured and sold worldwide, primarily to original equipment manufacturers (“OEMs”) of light vehicles (passenger cars, sport-utility vehicles ("SUVs"), vans and light trucks). The Company's products are also sold to other OEMs of commercial vehicles (medium-duty trucks, heavy-duty trucks and buses) and off-highway vehicles (agricultural and construction machinery and marine applications). We also manufacture and sell our products to certain Tier One vehicle systems suppliers and into the aftermarket for light, commercial and off-highway vehicles. The Company operates manufacturing facilities serving customers in Europe, the Americas and Asia and is an original equipment supplier to every major automotive OEM in the world. 

The Company's products fall into two reporting segments: Engine and Drivetrain. The Engine segment's products include turbochargers, timing devices and chains, emissions systems and thermal systems. The Drivetrain segment's products include transmission components and systems, AWD torque transfer systems and rotating electrical devices. 

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

A summary of our operating results for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 is as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

31

Non-comparable items impacting the Company's earnings per diluted share and net earnings

The Company's earnings per diluted share were $4.44, $2.08 and $2.76 for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively. The non-comparable items presented below are calculated after tax using the corresponding effective tax rate and the weighted average number of diluted shares for each of the years then ended. The Company believes the following table is useful in highlighting non-comparable items that impacted its earnings per diluted share:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

A summary of non-comparable items impacting the Company’s net earnings for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 is as follows:

Year ended December 31, 2018: 

•The Company recorded restructuring expense of $67.1 million related to Engine and Drivetrain segment actions designed to improve future profitability and competitiveness, primarily related to employee termination benefits, professional fees, and manufacturing footprint rationalization activities. The Company will continue to explore improving the future profitability and competitiveness of its Engine and Drivetrain business and these actions may result in the recognition of additional restructuring charges that could be material. Refer to Note 16, "Restructuring," to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report for more information. 

•During the year ended December 31, 2018, the Company recorded an additional asset impairment expense of $25.6 million to adjust the net book value of the pipe and thermostat product lines to fair value less costs to sell. Additionally, the Company recorded $5.8 million of merger, acquisition and divestiture expense primarily related to professional fees associated with divestiture activities for the non-core pipe and thermostat product lines. Refer to Note 20, "Assets and Liabilities Held for Sale," to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report for more information.

•During the year ended December 31, 2018, the Company recorded asbestos-related adjustments resulting in an increase to Other Expense of $22.8 million. This increase was the result of actuarial valuation changes of $22.8 million associated with the Company's estimate of liabilities for asbestos-related claims asserted but not yet resolved and potential claims not yet asserted. Refer to Note 15, "Contingencies," to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report for more information.

•During the fourth quarter of 2018, the Company recorded a gain of $19.4 million related to the sale of a building at a manufacturing facility located in Europe.

32

•The Company recorded net restricted stock and performance share unit compensation expense of $8.3 million in the year ended December 31, 2018 as the Company modified the vesting provisions of restricted stock and performance share unit grants made to retiring executive officers to allow certain of the outstanding awards, that otherwise would have been forfeited, to vest upon retirement. Refer to Note 13, "Stock-Based Compensation," to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report for more information.

•During the year ended December 31, 2018, the Company recorded a gain of approximately $4.0 million related to the settlement of a commercial contract for an entity acquired in the 2015 Remy acquisition. [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Year ended December 31, 2017: 

•The Company determined that the assets and liabilities of the pipe and thermostat product lines met the held for sale criteria as of December 31, 2017. As a result, the Company recorded an asset impairment expense of $71.0 million in the fourth quarter of 2017 to adjust the net book value of this business to fair value less costs to sell. Refer to Note 20, "Assets and Liabilities Held for Sale," to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report for more information. 

•The Company recorded restructuring expense of $58.5 million related to Engine and Drivetrain segment actions designed to improve future profitability and competitiveness, including $48.2 million primarily related to professional fees and negotiated commercial costs associated with emissions business divestiture and manufacturing footprint rationalization activities. The Company also recorded restructuring expense of $6.8 million primarily related to contractually-required severance associated with Sevcon, Inc. ("Sevcon") executive officers and other employee termination benefits. Refer to Note 16, "Restructuring," to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report for more information. 

•During the year ended December 31, 2017, the Company recorded $10.0 million of merger and acquisition expense primarily related to the acquisition of Sevcon completed on September 27, 2017. Refer to Note 19, "Recent Transactions," to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report for more information.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

33

Year ended December 31, 2016: 

•The Company recorded asbestos-related adjustments resulting in a net decrease to expense of $48.6 million in Other Expense. This is comprised of actuarial valuation changes of $45.5 million associated with the Company's estimate of liabilities for asbestos-related claims asserted but not yet resolved and potential claims not yet asserted and a gain of $6.1 million from cash received from insolvent insurance carriers, offset by related consulting fees. Refer to Note 15, "Contingencies," to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report for more information.

•In October 2016, the Company sold the Remy light vehicle aftermarket business associated with the 2015 Remy International, Inc. ("Remy") acquisition and recorded a loss on divestiture of $127.1 million. Refer to Note 19, "Recent Transactions," to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report for more information.

•The Company recorded $23.7 million of transition and realignment expenses associated with the Remy acquisition, including certain costs related to the sale of Remy light vehicle aftermarket business. [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•The Company recorded intangible asset impairment losses of $12.6 million related to Engine segment Etatech’s ECCOS intellectual technology due to the discontinuance of interest from potential customers during the fourth quarter of 2016 that significantly lowered the commercial feasibility of the product line.

•The Company recorded a $6.2 million gain associated with the release of certain Remy light vehicle aftermarket liabilities related to the expiration of a customer contract.

•The Company recorded reductions of income tax expense of $22.7 million, $8.6 million, $6.0 million and $4.4 million primarily related to the loss on Remy light vehicle aftermarket divestiture, other one-time tax adjustments, restructuring expense and intangible asset impairment loss, respectively, as well as tax expenses of $17.5 million associated with asbestos-related adjustments and $2.2 million associated with a gain on the release of certain Remy light vehicle aftermarket liabilities due to the expiration of a customer contract.

Net Sales

Net sales for the year ended December 31, 2018 totaled $10,529.6 million, an 7.5% increase from the year ended December 31, 2017. Excluding the impact of stronger foreign currencies and the net impact of acquisitions and divestitures, net sales increased 4.8%.

Net sales for the year ended December 31, 2017 totaled $9,799.3 million, an 8.0% increase from the year ended December 31, 2016. Excluding the impact of stronger foreign currencies and the net impact of acquisitions and divestitures, net sales increased 10.3%.

34

The following table details our results of operations as a percentage of net sales:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Cost of sales as a percentage of net sales was 78.8%, 78.4% and 78.7% in the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively. The reduction of gross margin in 2018 compared to 2017 was primarily due to the cost of recently enacted tariffs and limited ability to reduce costs in response to the rapid decline in industry volumes in the second half of the year. The Company's material cost of sales was approximately 55% of net sales in the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016. The Company's remaining cost to convert raw material to finished product, which includes direct labor and manufacturing overhead, were comparable in the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016. Gross profit as a percentage of net sales was 21.2%, 21.6% and 21.3% in the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively. Included in the 2016 gross profit and gross margin was a $6.2 million gain associated with the release of certain Remy light vehicle aftermarket liabilities related to the expiration of a customer contract. 

Selling, general and administrative expenses (“SG&A”) was $945.7 million, $899.1 million and $818.0 million or 9.0%, 9.2% and 9.0% of net sales for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively. Excluding the impact of the 2017 acquisition of Sevcon, SG&A and SG&A as a percentage of net sales were $919.7 million and 8.8% for the year ended December 31, 2018. Excluding the impact of the 2017 acquisition of Sevcon, SG&A and SG&A as a percentage of net sales were $891.3 million and 9.1% for the year ended December 31, 2017.

Research and development ("R&D") costs, net of customer reimbursements, was $440.1 million, or 4.2% of net sales, in the year ended December 31, 2018, compared to $407.5 million, or 4.2% of net sales, and $343.2 million, or 3.8% of net sales, in the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. The increase of R&D costs, net of customer reimbursements, in the year ended December 31, 2018 compared with the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 was primarily due to investments in advanced engineering programs across product lines. We will continue to invest in a number of cross-business R&D programs, as well as a number of other key programs, all of which are necessary for short- and long-term growth. Our current long-term expectation for R&D spending remains at 4% of net sales.

Other expense, net was $93.8 million, $144.5 million and $137.5 million for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively. This line item is primarily comprised of non-income tax items 

35

discussed within the subtitle "Non-comparable items impacting the Company's earnings per diluted share and net earnings" above.

Equity in affiliates' earnings, net of tax was $48.9 million, $51.2 million and $42.9 million in the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively. This line item is driven by the results of our 50%-owned Japanese joint venture, NSK-Warner, and our 32.6%-owned Indian joint venture, Turbo Energy Private Limited (“TEL”). Equity in affiliates' earnings in the year ended December 31, 2018 was comparable to the year ended December 31, 2017. The increase in the year ended December 31, 2017 to 2016 was primarily driven by higher earnings from NSK-Warner as a result of improved business conditions in Asia. Refer to Note 6, "Balance Sheet Information," to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report for further discussion of NSK-Warner.

Interest expense and finance charges were $58.7 million, $70.5 million and $84.6 million in the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively. The decrease in interest expense for the year ended December 31, 2018 compared with the year ended December 31, 2017 was primarily due to the cross-currency swaps executed in 2018 and an increase in capitalized interest. The decrease in interest expense for the year ended December 31, 2017 compared with the year ended December 31, 2016 was primarily due to the reduction in average outstanding short term borrowings and senior notes and increase in capitalized interest.

Provision for income taxes the provision for income taxes resulted in an effective tax rate of 17.7% for the year ended December 31, 2018, compared with rates of 54.6% and 32.5% for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. As of December 31, 2018, the Company has completed its accounting for the tax effects of the Tax Act. For further details, see Note 5, "Income Tax," to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. 

The effective tax rate of 17.7% for the year ended December 31, 2018 includes reductions of income tax expense of $15.0 million related to restructuring expense, $0.3 million related to merger, acquisition and divestiture expense, $5.5 million related to the asbestos-related adjustments, and $7.7 million related to asset impairment expense, offset by increases to tax expense of $0.9 million and $5.8 million related to a gain on commercial settlement and a gain on the sale of a building, respectively, discussed in Note 4, "Other Expense, Net," to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The provision for income taxes also includes reductions of income tax expense of $12.6 million related to final adjustments made to measurement period provisional estimates associated with the Tax Act, $22.0 million related to a decrease in our deferred tax liability due to a tax benefit for certain foreign tax credits now available due to actions the Company took during the year, $9.1 million related to valuation allowance releases, $2.8 million related to tax reserve adjustments, and $29.8 million related to changes in accounting methods and tax filing positions for prior years primarily related to the Tax Act. Excluding the impact of these non-comparable items, the Company's annual effective tax rate associated with ongoing operations for 2018 was 23.8%. 

The effective tax rate of 54.6% for the year ended December 31, 2017 includes reductions of income tax expense of $10.1 million, $1.0 million, $18.2 million and $3.8 million related to restructuring expense, merger and acquisition expense, asset impairment expense and other one-time tax adjustments, respectively, discussed in Note 4, "Other Expense, Net," to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report for more information. Additionally, the Company recorded a tax expense of $273.5 million for the change in the tax law related to tax effects of the Tax Act. Excluding the impact of these non-comparable items, the Company's annual effective tax rate associated with ongoing operations for 2017 was 28.2%. 

The effective tax rate of 32.5% for the year ended December 31, 2016 includes reductions of income tax expense of $22.7 million, $8.6 million, $6.0 million and $4.4 million associated with a loss on divestiture, other one-time tax adjustments, restructuring expense and intangible asset impairment loss, respectively, as well as tax expenses of $17.5 million associated with asbestos-related adjustments and $2.2 million 

36

associated with a gain on the release of certain Remy light vehicle aftermarket liabilities due to the expiration of a customer contract. Excluding the impact of these non-comparable items, the Company's annual effective tax rate associated with ongoing operations for 2016 was 30.4%.

Net earnings attributable to the noncontrolling interest, net of tax of $53.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2018 increased by $10.5 million and $12.2 million compared to the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. The increase during the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 was primarily related to higher sales and earnings by the Company's joint ventures. 

Results By Reporting Segment

The Company's business is comprised of two reporting segments: Engine and Drivetrain. These segments are strategic business groups, which are managed separately as each represents a specific grouping of related automotive components and systems. 

The Company allocates resources to each segment based upon the projected after-tax return on invested capital ("ROIC") of its business initiatives. ROIC is comprised of Adjusted EBIT after deducting notional taxes compared to the projected average capital investment required. Adjusted EBIT is comprised of earnings before interest, income taxes and noncontrolling interest (“EBIT") adjusted for restructuring, goodwill impairment charges, affiliates' earnings and other items not reflective of ongoing operating income or loss.

Adjusted EBIT is the measure of segment income or loss used by the Company. The Company believes Adjusted EBIT is most reflective of the operational profitability or loss of our reporting segments.

The following tables show segment information and Adjusted EBIT for the Company's reporting segments.

Net Sales by Reporting Segment

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

37

Adjusted Earnings Before Interest, Income Taxes and Noncontrolling Interest ("Adjusted EBIT")

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The Engine segment's net sales for the year ended December 31, 2018 increased $385.9 million, or 6.4%, and segment Adjusted EBIT increased $47.8 million, or 4.8%, from the year ended December 31, 2017 due to higher sales of light vehicle turbochargers, thermal products, engine timing systems and stronger commercial vehicle markets around the world. Excluding the impact of strengthening foreign currencies, primarily the Euro, Chinese Renminbi, and the net impact of acquisitions and divestitures, net sales increased 3.6% from the year ended December 31, 2017. The segment Adjusted EBIT margin was 16.1% for the year ended December 31, 2018, down from 16.4% in the year ended December 31, 2017. The Adjusted EBIT margin decrease was primarily related to the rapid industry volume declines in Europe and China in the second half of 2018.

The Engine segment's net sales for the year ended December 31, 2017 increased $471.4 million, or 8.4%, and segment Adjusted EBIT increased $48.2 million, or 5.1%, from the year ended December 31, 2017 due to higher sales of light vehicle turbochargers, thermal products, engine timing systems and stronger commercial vehicle markets around the world. Excluding the impact of strengthening foreign currencies, primarily the Euro and Korean Won, net sales increased 7.7% from the year ended December 31, 2016. The segment Adjusted EBIT margin was 16.4% for the year ended December 31, 2017, down from 16.9% in the year ended December 31, 2016. The Adjusted EBIT margin decrease was primarily related to inefficiencies in the non-core emission product lines. In the third quarter of 2017, the Company initiated actions designed to improve future profitability and competitiveness and started exploring strategic options for the non-core emission product lines. Refer to Note 16, "Restructuring," to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report for more information.

38

The Drivetrain segment's net sales for the year ended December 31, 2018 increased $349.1 million, or 9.2%, and segment Adjusted EBIT increased $27.1 million, or 6.0%, from the year ended December 31, 2017 primarily due to higher sales of all-wheel drive systems and transmission components. Excluding the impact of strengthening foreign currencies, primarily the Euro and Chinese Renminbi, and the net impact of acquisitions and divestitures, net sales increased 6.8% from the year ended December 31, 2017. The segment Adjusted EBIT margin was 11.5% in the year ended December 31, 2018, compared to 11.8% in the year ended December 31, 2017. The Adjusted EBIT margin decrease was primarily due to the impact of the Sevcon acquisition.

The Drivetrain segment's net sales for the year ended December 31, 2017 increased $266.6 million, or 7.6%, and segment Adjusted EBIT increased $85.3 million, or 23.5%, from the year ended December 31, 2016 primarily due to higher sales of all-wheel drive systems and transmission components. Excluding the impact of strengthening foreign currencies, primarily the Euro and Korean Won, and the net impact of acquisitions and divestitures, net sales increased 14.9% from the year ended December 31, 2016. The segment Adjusted EBIT margin was 11.8% in the year ended December 31, 2017, compared to 10.3% in the year ended December 31, 2016. The Adjusted EBIT margin improvement was primarily due to increased sales and the divestiture of the Remy light vehicle aftermarket business. 

Corporate represents headquarters' expenses not directly attributable to the individual segments and equity in affiliates' earnings. This net expense was $169.6 million, $170.3 million and $155.3 million for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively. The increase of Corporate expenses in 2018 and 2017 compared to 2016 is primarily due to costs associated with talent acquisition and severance expenses, stock-based compensation, compliance costs and various other corporate initiatives.

Outlook

Our overall outlook for 2019 is neutral. Net new business-related sales growth, due to increased penetration of BorgWarner products around the world, is expected to drive flat to increasing growth excluding the impact of foreign currencies and the net impact of acquisitions and divestitures, despite the declining global industry production expected in 2019. 

The Company maintains a positive long-term outlook for its global business and is committed to new product development and strategic capital investments to enhance its product leadership strategy. The several trends that are driving our long-term growth are expected to continue, including the increased turbocharger adoption in North America and Asia, the increased adoption of automated transmissions in Europe and Asia-Pacific, and the move to variable cam in Europe and Asia-Pacific. Our long-term growth is also expected to benefit from the adoption of product offerings for hybrid and electric vehicles.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

The Company maintains various liquidity sources including cash and cash equivalents and the unused portion of our multi-currency revolving credit agreement. At December 31, 2018, the Company had $739.4 million of cash, of which $484.8 million of cash was held by our subsidiaries outside of the United States. Cash held by these subsidiaries is used to fund foreign operational activities and future investments, including acquisitions. 

The vast majority of cash held outside the United States is available for repatriation. The Tax Act reduced the U.S. federal corporate tax rate from 35 percent to 21 percent and required companies to pay a one-time transition tax on earnings of certain foreign subsidiaries that were previously tax deferred. As of January 1, 2018, funds repatriated from foreign subsidiaries will generally no longer be taxable for U.S. federal tax purposes. In light of the treatment of foreign earnings under the Tax Act, the Company recorded a liability for the U.S. federal and applicable state income tax liabilities calculated under the provisions of the deemed repatriation of foreign earnings. A deferred tax liability has been recorded for substantially all estimated 

39

legally distributable foreign earnings. The Company uses its U.S. liquidity primarily for various corporate purposes, including but not limited to debt service, share repurchases, dividend distributions and other corporate expenses.

The Company has a $1.2 billion multi-currency revolving credit facility, which includes a feature that allows the Company's borrowings to be increased to $1.5 billion. The facility provides for borrowings through June 29, 2022. The Company has one key financial covenant as part of the credit agreement which is a debt to EBITDA ("Earnings Before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation and Amortization") ratio. The Company was in compliance with the financial covenant at December 31, 2018. At December 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, the Company had no outstanding borrowings under this facility. 

The Company's commercial paper program allows the Company to issue short-term, unsecured commercial paper notes up to a maximum aggregate principal amount outstanding of $1.2 billion. Under this program, the Company may issue notes from time to time and will use the proceeds for general corporate purposes. The Company had no outstanding borrowings under this program as of December 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017.  

The total current combined borrowing capacity under the multi-currency revolving credit facility and commercial paper program cannot exceed $1.2 billion.

In addition to the credit facility, the Company's universal shelf registration provides the ability to issue various debt and equity instruments. 

On February 7, 2018, April 25, 2018, July 25, 2018 and November 7, 2018, the Company’s Board of Directors declared quarterly cash dividends of $0.17 per share of common stock. These dividends were paid on March 15, 2018, June 15, 2018, September 17, 2018 and December 17, 2018.

The Company's net debt to net capital ratio was 24.0% at December 31, 2018 versus 30.0% at December 31, 2017.

From a credit quality perspective, the Company has a credit rating of BBB+ from both Standard & Poor's and Fitch Ratings and Baa1 from Moody's. The current outlook from Standard & Poor's, Moody's and Fitch Ratings is stable. None of the Company's debt agreements require accelerated repayment in the event of a downgrade in credit ratings.

Capitalization

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Balance sheet debt decreased by $75.0 million and cash increased by $194.1 million compared with December 31, 2017. The $269.1 million decrease in balance sheet debt (net of cash) was primarily due to cash flow from operations.

40

Total equity increased by $518.9 million in the year ended December 31, 2018 as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Operating Activities

Net cash provided by operating activities was $1,126.5 million, $1,180.3 million and $1,035.7 million in the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively. The decrease for the year ended December 31, 2018 compared with the year ended December 31, 2017 primarily reflected changes in working capital, offset by higher earnings adjusted for noncash charges to operations. The increase for the year ended December 31, 2017 compared with the year ended December 31, 2016 primarily reflected higher net earnings adjusted for non-cash charges to operations and improved working capital. 

Investing Activities

Net cash used in investing activities was $514.5 million, $752.3 million and $404.2 million in the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively. The decrease in the year ended December 31, 2018 compared with the year ended December 31, 2017 was primarily due to the 2017 acquisition of Sevcon, higher proceeds from asset disposals and lower capital expenditures, including tooling outlays in 2018. The increase in the year ended December 31, 2017 compared with the year ended December 31, 2016 was primarily due to the acquisition of Sevcon and higher capital expenditures, including tooling outlays, offset by the 2016 divestitures of Divgi-Warner and the Remy light vehicle aftermarket business. Year over year capital spending decrease of $13.4 million during the year ended December 31, 2018 was primarily due to timing of the investment activity in the Drivetrain segment. Year over year capital spending increase of $59.4 million during the year ended December 31, 2017 was due to higher spending required for new program awards within the Drivetrain segment. 

Financing Activities

Net cash used in financing activities was $383.4 million, $362.5 million and $733.8 million in the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively. The increase in the year ended December 31, 2018 compared with the year ended December 31, 2017 was primarily driven by lower borrowings, higher share repurchases and dividend payments. The decrease in the year ended December 31, 2017 compared with the year ended December 31, 2016 was primarily due to lower debt repayments and share repurchases. 

41

The Company's significant contractual obligation payments at December 31, 2018 are as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

________________

(a)Other postretirement employee benefits, excluding pensions, include anticipated future payments to cover retiree medical and life insurance benefits. Amount contained in “After 2023” column includes estimated payments through 2028. Refer to Note 12, "Retirement Benefit Plans," to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report for disclosures related to the Company’s other postretirement employee benefits.

(b)Since the timing and amount of payments for funded defined benefit pension plans are usually not certain for future years such potential payments are not shown in this table. Amount contained in “After 2023” column is for unfunded plans and includes estimated payments through 2028. Refer to Note 12, "Retirement Benefit Plans," to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report for disclosures related to the Company’s pension benefits.

We believe that the combination of cash from operations, cash balances, available credit facilities, and the universal shelf registration capacity will be sufficient to satisfy our cash needs for our current level of operations and our planned operations for the foreseeable future. We will continue to balance our needs for internal growth, external growth, debt reduction and cash conservation.

Asbestos-related Liability

During 2018 and 2017, the Company paid $46.0 million and $51.7 million, respectively, in asbestos-related claim resolution costs and associated defense costs. These gross payments are before tax benefits and any insurance receipts. Asbestos-related claim resolution costs and associated defense costs are reflected in the Company's operating cash flows and will continue to be in the future. 

Refer to Note 15, "Contingencies," to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report for more information regarding costs and assumptions for asbestos-related liability.

Off Balance Sheet Arrangements

The Company has certain leases that are recorded as operating leases. Types of operating leases include leases on facilities, vehicles and certain office equipment. The total expected future cash outlays for non-cancelable operating lease obligations at December 31, 2018 is $121.3 million. Refer to Note 17, "Leases and Commitments," to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report for more information on operating leases, including future minimum payments.

42

Pension and Other Postretirement Employee Benefits

The Company's policy is to fund its defined benefit pension plans in accordance with applicable government regulations and to make additional contributions when appropriate. At December 31, 2018, all legal funding requirements had been met. The Company contributed $25.8 million, $18.3 million and $19.7 million to its defined benefit pension plans in the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively. The Company expects to contribute a total of $15 million to $25 million into its defined benefit pension plans during 2019. Of the $15 million to $25 million in projected 2019 contributions, $4 million are contractually obligated, while any remaining payments would be discretionary. 

The funded status of all pension plans was a net unfunded position of $210.9 million and $188.6 million at December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. Of these amounts, $95.4 million and $75.7 million at December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively, were related to plans in Germany, where there is not a tax deduction allowed under the applicable regulations to fund the plans; hence the common practice is to make contributions as benefit payments become due. 

Other postretirement employee benefits primarily consist of postretirement health care benefits for certain employees and retirees of the Company's U.S. operations. The Company funds these benefits as retiree claims are incurred. Other postretirement employee benefits had an unfunded status of $86.5 million and $107.0 million at December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. 

The Company believes it will be able to fund the requirements of these plans through cash generated from operations or other available sources of financing for the foreseeable future.

Refer to Note 12, "Retirement Benefit Plans," to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report for more information regarding costs and assumptions for employee retirement benefits.

OTHER MATTERS

Contingencies

In the normal course of business, the Company is party to various commercial and legal claims, actions and complaints, including matters involving warranty claims, intellectual property claims, general liability and various other risks. It is not possible to predict with certainty whether or not the Company will ultimately be successful in any of these commercial and legal matters or, if not, what the impact might be. The Company's environmental and product liability contingencies are discussed separately below. The Company's management does not expect that an adverse outcome in any of these commercial and legal claims, actions and complaints will have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations, financial position or cash flows, although it could be material to the results of operations in a particular quarter. 

Environmental 

The Company and certain of its current and former direct and indirect corporate predecessors, subsidiaries and divisions have been identified by the United States Environmental Protection Agency and certain state environmental agencies and private parties as potentially responsible parties (“PRPs”) at various hazardous waste disposal sites under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (“Superfund”) and equivalent state laws and, as such, may presently be liable for the cost of clean-up and other remedial activities at 28 such sites. Responsibility for clean-up and other remedial activities at a Superfund site is typically shared among PRPs based on an allocation formula. 

The Company believes that none of these matters, individually or in the aggregate, will have a material adverse effect on its results of operations, financial position or cash flows. Generally, this is because either 

43

the estimates of the maximum potential liability at a site are not material or the liability will be shared with other PRPs, although no assurance can be given with respect to the ultimate outcome of any such matter. 

Refer to "Note 15 - Contingencies," to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report for further details and information respecting the Company’s environmental liability.

Asbestos-related Liability 

Like many other industrial companies that have historically operated in the United States, the Company, or parties the Company is obligated to indemnify, continues to be named as one of many defendants in asbestos-related personal injury actions. The Company has an estimated liability of $805.3 million as of December 31, 2018 for asbestos-related claim resolution costs and associated defense costs through 2074, which is the last date by which the Company currently estimates it may have resolved all asbestos-related claims. The Company additionally estimates that, as of December 31, 2018, it has aggregate insurance coverage available in the amount of $386.4 million to satisfy asbestos-related claim resolution costs and associated defense costs. As with any estimates, the actual experience may differ.

Refer to "Note 15 - Contingencies," to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report for further details and information respecting the Company’s asbestos-related liability and corresponding insurance asset.

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES

The consolidated financial statements are prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (“GAAP”). In preparing these financial statements, management has made its best estimates and judgments of certain amounts included in the financial statements, giving due consideration to materiality. Critical accounting policies are those that are most important to the portrayal of the Company's financial condition and results of operations. Some of these policies require management's most difficult, subjective or complex judgments in the preparation of the financial statements and accompanying notes. Management makes estimates and assumptions about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain, relating to the reporting of assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. Our most critical accounting policies are discussed below.

Revenue recognition The Company recognizes revenue when performance obligations under the terms of a contract are satisfied, which generally occurs with the transfer of control of our products. Although the Company may enter into long-term supply arrangements with its major customers, the prices and volumes are not fixed over the life of the arrangements, and a contract does not exist for purposes of applying ASC 606 until volumes are contractually known. For most of our products, transfer of control occurs upon shipment or delivery, however, a limited number of our customer arrangements for our highly customized products with no alternative use provide us with the right to payment during the production process. As a result, for these limited arrangements, revenue is recognized as goods are produced and control transfers to the customer. Revenue is measured at the amount of consideration we expect to receive in exchange for transferring the good. 

The Company continually seeks business development opportunities and at times provides customer incentives for new program awards. Customer incentive payments are capitalized when the payments are incremental and incurred only if the new business is obtained and these amounts are expected to be recovered from the customer over the term of the new business arrangement. The Company recognizes a reduction to revenue as products that the upfront payments are related to are transferred to the customer, based on the total amount of products expected to be sold over the term of the arrangement (generally 3 to 7 years). The Company evaluates the amounts capitalized each period end for recoverability and expenses any amounts that are no longer expected to be recovered over the term of the business arrangement. 

44

Impairment of long-lived assets, including definite-lived intangible assets The Company reviews the carrying value of its long-lived assets, whether held for use or disposal, including other amortizing intangible assets, when events and circumstances warrant such a review under Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") Topic 360. In assessing long-lived assets for an impairment loss, assets are grouped with other assets and liabilities at the lowest level for which identifiable cash flows are largely independent of the cash flows of other assets and liabilities. In assessing long-lived assets for impairment, management generally considers individual facilities the lowest level for which identifiable cash flows are largely independent. A recoverability review is performed using the undiscounted cash flows if there is a triggering event. If the undiscounted cash flow test for recoverability identifies a possible impairment, management will perform a fair value analysis. Management determines fair value under ASC Topic 820 using the appropriate valuation technique of market, income or cost approach. If the carrying value of a long-lived asset is considered impaired, an impairment charge is recorded for the amount by which the carrying value of the long-lived asset exceeds its fair value. 

Management believes that the estimates of future cash flows and fair value assumptions are reasonable; however, changes in assumptions underlying these estimates could affect the valuations. Significant judgments and estimates used by management when evaluating long-lived assets for impairment include: (i) an assessment as to whether an adverse event or circumstance has triggered the need for an impairment review; (ii) undiscounted future cash flows generated by the asset; and (iii) fair valuation of the asset. Events and conditions that could result in impairment in the value of our long-lived assets include changes in the industries in which we operate, particularly the impact of a downturn in the global economy, as well as competition and advances in technology, adverse changes in the regulatory environment, or other factors leading to reduction in expected long-term sales or profitability. 

Assets and liabilities held for sale The Company classifies assets and liabilities (disposal groups) to be sold as held for sale in the period in which all of the following criteria are met: management, having the authority to approve the action, commits to a plan to sell the disposal group; the disposal group is available for immediate sale in its present condition subject only to terms that are usual and customary for sales of such disposal groups; an active program to locate a buyer and other actions required to complete the plan to sell the disposal group have been initiated; the sale of the disposal group is probable, and transfer of the disposal group is expected to qualify for recognition as a completed sale within one year, except if events or circumstances beyond the Company's control extend the period of time required to sell the disposal group beyond one year; the disposal group is being actively marketed for sale at a price that is reasonable in relation to its current fair value; and actions required to complete the plan indicate that it is unlikely that significant changes to the plan will be made or that the plan will be withdrawn.

The Company initially measures a disposal group that is classified as held for sale at the lower of its carrying value or fair value less any costs to sell. Any loss resulting from this measurement is recognized in the period in which the held for sale criteria are met. Conversely, gains are not recognized on the sale of a disposal group until the date of sale. The Company assesses the fair value of a disposal group, less any costs to sell, each reporting period it remains classified as held for sale and reports any subsequent changes as an adjustment to the carrying value of the disposal group, as long as the new carrying value does not exceed the carrying value of the disposal group at the time it was initially classified as held for sale. 

Upon determining that a disposal group meets the criteria to be classified as held for sale, the Company reports the assets and liabilities of the disposal group, if material, in the line items assets held for sale and liabilities held for sale in the Consolidated Balance Sheet. 

Refer to Note 20, "Assets and Liabilities Held for Sale," to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report for more information.

Goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets During the fourth quarter of each year, the Company qualitatively assesses its goodwill assigned to each of its reporting units. This qualitative 

45

assessment evaluates various events and circumstances, such as macro economic conditions, industry and market conditions, cost factors, relevant events and financial trends, that may impact a reporting unit's fair value. Using this qualitative assessment, the Company determines whether it is more-likely-than-not the reporting unit's fair value exceeds its carrying value. If it is determined that it is not more-likely-than-not the reporting unit's fair value exceeds the carrying value, or upon consideration of other factors, including recent acquisition, restructuring or divestiture activity, the Company performs a quantitative, "step one," goodwill impairment analysis. In addition, the Company may test goodwill in between annual test dates if an event occurs or circumstances change that could more-likely-than-not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying value.  

Similar to goodwill, the Company can elect to perform the impairment test for indefinite-lived intangibles other than goodwill (primarily trade names) using a qualitative analysis, considering similar factors as outlined in the goodwill discussion in order to determine if it is more-likely-than-not that the fair value of the trade names is less than the respective carrying values. If the Company elects to perform or is required to perform a quantitative analysis, the test consists of a comparison of the fair value of the indefinite-lived intangible asset to the carrying value of the asset as of the impairment testing date. We estimate the fair value of indefinite-lived intangibles using the relief-from-royalty method, which we believe is an appropriate and widely used valuation technique for such assets. The fair value derived from the relief-from-royalty method is measured as the discounted cash flow savings realized from owning such trade names and not being required to pay a royalty for their use. 

During the fourth quarter of 2018, the Company performed an analysis on each reporting unit. For the reporting unit with restructuring activities, the Company performed a quantitative, "step one," goodwill impairment analysis, which requires the Company to make significant assumptions and estimates about the extent and timing of future cash flows, discount rates and growth rates. The basis of this goodwill impairment analysis is the Company's annual budget and long-range plan (“LRP”). The annual budget and LRP includes a five-year projection of future cash flows based on actual new products and customer commitments and assumes the last year of the LRP data is a fair indication of the future performance. Because the LRP is estimated over a significant future period of time, those estimates and assumptions are subject to a high degree of uncertainty. Further, the market valuation models and other financial ratios used by the Company require certain assumptions and estimates regarding the applicability of those models to the Company's facts and circumstances. 

The Company believes the assumptions and estimates used to determine the estimated fair value are reasonable. Different assumptions could materially affect the estimated fair value. The primary assumptions affecting the Company's December 31, 2018 goodwill quantitative, "step one," impairment review are as follows: 

•Discount rate: the Company used a 10.9% weighted average cost of capital (“WACC”) as the discount rate for future cash flows. The WACC is intended to represent a rate of return that would be expected by a market participant.  

•Operating income margin: the Company used historical and expected operating income margins, which may vary based on the projections of the reporting unit being evaluated.  

•Revenue growth rate:the Company used a global automotive market industry growth rate forecast adjusted to estimate its own market participation for product lines.

46

In addition to the above primary assumptions, the Company notes the following risks to volume and operating income assumptions that could have an impact on the discounted cash flow models: 

•The automotive industry is cyclical and the Company's results of operations would be adversely affected by industry downturns. 

•The Company is dependent on market segments that use our key products and would be affected by decreasing demand in those segments. 

•The Company is subject to risks related to international operations. 

Based on the assumptions outlined above, the impairment testing conducted in the fourth quarter of 2018 indicated the Company's goodwill assigned to the reporting unit with restructuring activity that was quantitatively assessed was not impaired and contained a fair value substantially higher than the reporting unit's carrying value. Additionally, for the reporting unit quantitatively assessed, sensitivity analyses were completed indicating that a one percent increase in the discount rate, a one percent decrease in the operating margin, or a one percent decrease in the revenue growth rate assumptions would not result in the carrying value exceeding the fair value.

Refer to Note 7, "Goodwill and Other Intangibles," to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report for more information regarding goodwill.

Product warranties The Company provides warranties on some, but not all, of its products. The warranty terms are typically from one to three years. Provisions for estimated expenses related to product warranty are made at the time products are sold. These estimates are established using historical information about the nature, frequency and average cost of warranty claim settlements as well as product manufacturing and industry developments and recoveries from third parties. Management actively studies trends of warranty claims and takes action to improve product quality and minimize warranty claims. Management believes that the warranty accrual is appropriate; however, actual claims incurred could differ from the original estimates, requiring adjustments to the accrual:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The following table illustrates the sensitivity of a 25 basis point change (as a percentage of net sales) in the assumed warranty trend on the Company's accrued warranty liability:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

At December 31, 2018, the total accrued warranty liability was $103.2 million. The accrual is represented as $56.2 million in current liabilities and $47.0 million in non-current liabilities on our Consolidated Balance Sheet.

Refer to Note 8, "Product Warranty," to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report for more information regarding product warranties.

Asbestos Like many other industrial companies that have historically operated in the United States, the Company, or parties that the Company is obligated to indemnify, continues to be named as one of many defendants in asbestos-related personal injury actions. With the assistance of a third party actuary, the 

47

Company estimates the liability and corresponding insurance recovery for pending and future claims not yet asserted to extend through December 31, 2064 with a runoff through 2074 and defense costs. This estimate is based on the Company's historical claim experience and estimates of the number and resolution cost of potential future claims that may be filed based on anticipated levels of unique plaintiff asbestos-related claims in the U.S. tort system against all defendants. As with any estimates, actual experience may differ. This estimate is not discounted to present value. The Company currently believes that December 31, 2074 is a reasonable assumption as to the last date on which it is likely to have resolved all asbestos-related claims, based on the nature and useful life of the Company’s products and the likelihood of incidence of asbestos-related disease in the U.S. population generally. The Company assesses the sufficiency of its estimated liability for pending and future claims not yet asserted and defense costs on an ongoing basis by evaluating actual experience regarding claims filed, settled and dismissed, and amounts paid in claim resolution costs. In addition to claims experience, the Company considers additional quantitative and qualitative factors such as changes in legislation, the legal environment, and the Company's defense strategy. The Company continues to have additional excess insurance coverage available for potential future asbestos-related claims. In connection with the Company’s ongoing review of its asbestos-related claims, the Company also reviewed the amount of its potential insurance coverage for such claims, taking into account the remaining limits of such coverage, the number and amount of claims on our insurance from co-insured parties, ongoing litigation against the Company’s insurance carriers, potential remaining recoveries from insolvent insurance carriers, the impact of previous insurance settlements, and coverage available from solvent insurance carriers not party to the coverage litigation.

Refer to Note 15, "Contingencies," to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report for more information regarding management's judgments applied in the recognition and measurement of asbestos-related assets and liabilities.

Pension and other postretirement defined benefits The Company provides postretirement defined benefits to a number of its current and former employees. Costs associated with postretirement defined benefits include pension and postretirement health care expenses for employees, retirees and surviving spouses and dependents. 

The Company's defined benefit pension and other postretirement plans are accounted for in accordance with ASC Topic 715. The determination of the Company's obligation and expense for its pension and other postretirement employee benefits, such as retiree health care, is dependent on certain assumptions used by actuaries in calculating such amounts. Certain assumptions, including the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets, discount rate, rates of increase in compensation and health care costs trends are described in Note 12, "Retirement Benefit Plans," to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report. The effects of any modification to those assumptions are either recognized immediately or amortized over future periods in accordance with GAAP. 

48

In accordance with GAAP, actual results that differ from assumptions used are accumulated and generally amortized over future periods. The primary assumptions affecting the Company's accounting for employee benefits under ASC Topics 712 and 715 as of December 31, 2018 are as follows:

•Expected long-term rate of return on plan assets: The expected long-term rate of return is used in the calculation of net periodic benefit cost. The required use of the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets may result in recognized returns that are greater or less than the actual returns on those plan assets in any given year. Over time, however, the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets is designed to approximate actual earned long-term returns. The expected long-term rate of return for pension assets has been determined based on various inputs, including historical returns for the different asset classes held by the Company's trusts and its asset allocation, as well as inputs from internal and external sources regarding expected capital market return, inflation and other variables. The Company also considers the impact of active management of the plans' invested assets. In determining its pension expense for the year ended December 31, 2018, the Company used long-term rates of return on plan assets ranging from 1.75% to 6.0% outside of the U.S. and 6.0% in the U.S.

Actual returns on U.S. pension assets were -4.1%, 11.5% and 5.9% for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively, compared to the expected rate of return assumption of 6.0% for the same years ended.

Actual returns on U.K. pension assets were -3.1%, 9.7% and 22.0% for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively, compared to the expected rate of return assumption of 6.0% for the same years ended.

Actual returns on German pension assets were -4.2%, 7.0% and 8.6% for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively, compared to the expected rate of return assumption of 5.9% for the same years ended.

•Discount rate: The discount rate is used to calculate pension and other postretirement employee benefit obligations (“OPEB”). In determining the discount rate, the Company utilizes a full yield approach in the estimation of service and interest components by applying the specific spot rates along the yield curve used in the determination of the benefit obligation to the relevant projected cash flows. The Company used discount rates ranging from 0.66% to 10.75% to determine its pension and other benefit obligations as of December 31, 2018, including weighted average discount rates of 4.24% in the U.S., 2.28% outside of the U.S., and 4.05% for U.S. other postretirement health care plans. The U.S. discount rate reflects the fact that our U.S. pension plan has been closed for new participants since 1989 (1999 for our U.S. health care plan).

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

While the Company believes that these assumptions are appropriate, significant differences in actual experience or significant changes in these assumptions may materially affect the Company's pension and OPEB and its future expense. 

49

The following table illustrates the sensitivity to a change in certain assumptions for Company sponsored U.S. and non-U.S. pension plans on its 2019 pre-tax pension expense:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

________________

* A one percentage point increase or decrease in the discount rate would have a negligible impact on the Company’s U.S. 2019 pre-tax pension expense.

The following table illustrates the sensitivity to a change in the discount rate assumption related to the Company’s U.S. OPEB interest expense:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The sensitivity to a change in the discount rate assumption related to the Company's total 2019 U.S. OPEB expense is expected to be negligible, as any increase in interest expense will be offset by net actuarial gains.

The following table illustrates the sensitivity to a one-percentage point change in the assumed health care cost trend related to the Company's OPEB obligation and service and interest cost: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Refer to Note 12, "Retirement Benefit Plans," to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report for more information regarding the Company’s retirement benefit plans.

Restructuring Restructuring costs may occur when the Company takes action to exit or significantly curtail a part of its operations or implements a reorganization that affects the nature and focus of operations. A restructuring charge can consist of severance costs associated with reductions to the workforce, costs to terminate an operating lease or contract, professional fees and other costs incurred related to the implementation of restructuring activities.

Income taxes The Company accounts for income taxes in accordance with ASC Topic 740. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax consequences attributable to differences between financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases and operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. 

Management judgment is required in determining the Company’s provision for income taxes, deferred tax assets and liabilities and the valuation allowance recorded against the Company’s net deferred tax assets. In calculating the provision for income taxes on an interim basis, the Company uses an estimate of the annual effective tax rate based upon the facts and circumstances known at each interim period. In 

50

determining the need for a valuation allowance, the historical and projected financial performance of the operation recording the net deferred tax asset is considered along with any other pertinent information. Since future financial results may differ from previous estimates, periodic adjustments to the Company’s valuation allowance may be necessary. 

The Company is subject to income taxes in the U.S. at the federal and state level and numerous non-U.S. jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes and recording the related assets and liabilities. In the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is less than certain. Accruals for income tax contingencies are provided for in accordance with the requirements of ASC Topic 740. The Company’s U.S. federal and certain state income tax returns and certain non-U.S. income tax returns are currently under various stages of audit by applicable tax authorities. Although the outcome of ongoing tax audits is always uncertain, management believes that it has appropriate support for the positions taken on its tax returns and that its annual tax provisions included amounts sufficient to pay assessments, if any, which may be proposed by the taxing authorities. At December 31, 2018, the Company has a liability for significant tax positions the Company estimates are not more-likely-than-not to be sustained based on the technical merits, which is included in other current and non-current liabilities. Nonetheless, the amounts ultimately paid, if any, upon resolution of the issues raised by the taxing authorities may differ materially from the amounts accrued for each year. 

The Tax Act that was signed into law in December 2017 constitutes a major change to the US tax system. The impact of the Tax Act on the Company is based on management’s current interpretations of the Tax Act, recently issued regulations and related analysis. The Company's tax liability may be materially different based on regulatory developments. In future periods, our effective tax rate could be subject to additional uncertainty as a result of regulatory developments related to Act.

Refer to Note 5, "Income Taxes," to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report for more information regarding income taxes. 

New Accounting Pronouncements

Refer to Note 1, "Summary of Significant Accounting Policies," to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report for more information regarding new applicable accounting pronouncements.

QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

The Company's primary market risks include fluctuations in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. We are also affected by changes in the prices of commodities used or consumed in our manufacturing operations. Some of our commodity purchase price risk is covered by supply agreements with customers and suppliers. Other commodity purchase price risk is addressed by hedging strategies, which include forward contracts. The Company enters into derivative instruments only with high credit quality counterparties and diversifies its positions across such counterparties in order to reduce its exposure to credit losses. We do not engage in any derivative instruments for purposes other than hedging specific operating risks.

We have established policies and procedures to manage sensitivity to interest rate, foreign currency exchange rate and commodity purchase price risk, which include monitoring the level of exposure to each market risk. For quantitative disclosures about market risk, refer to Note 11, "Financial Instruments," to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report for information with respect to interest rate risk and foreign currency exchange rate risk and commodity purchase price risk.

51

Interest Rate Risk

Interest rate risk is the risk that we will incur economic losses due to adverse changes in interest rates. The Company manages its interest rate risk by balancing its exposure to fixed and variable rates while attempting to optimize its interest costs. The Company selectively uses interest rate swaps to reduce market value risk associated with changes in interest rates (fair value hedges). At December 31, 2018, the amount of debt with fixed interest rates was 99.8% of total debt. Our earnings exposure related to adverse movements in interest rates is primarily derived from outstanding floating rate debt instruments that are indexed to floating money market rates. A 10% increase or decrease in the average cost of our variable rate debt resulted in a change in pre-tax interest expense of approximately $0.1 million and $0.1 million in the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.

Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk

Foreign currency exchange rate risk is the risk that we will incur economic losses due to adverse changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Currently, our most significant currency exposures relate to the Chinese Renminbi, the Euro, the Hungarian Forint, the Japanese Yen, the Mexican Peso, the Swedish Krona and the South Korean Won. We mitigate our foreign currency exchange rate risk by establishing local production facilities and related supply chain participants in the markets we serve, by invoicing customers in the same currency as the source of the products and by funding some of our investments in foreign markets through local currency loans. Such non-U.S. Dollar debt was $47.2 million and $59.2 million as of December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. We also monitor our foreign currency exposure in each country and implement strategies to respond to changing economic and political environments. The depreciation of the British Pound following the United Kingdom's 2016 vote to leave the European Union is not expected to have a significant impact on the Company since net sales from the United Kingdom represent less than 2% of the Company's net sales in 2018. In addition, the Company periodically enters into forward currency contracts in order to reduce exposure to exchange rate risk related to transactions denominated in currencies other than the functional currency. As of December 31, 2018 and 2017, the Company recorded a deferred gain related to foreign currency derivatives of $1.7 million and $1.6 million, respectively, and deferred loss related to foreign currency derivatives of $1.5 million and $3.9 million, respectively. 

The foreign currency translation adjustment loss of $147.6 million, foreign currency translation adjustment gain of $236.5 million and foreign currency translation adjustment loss of $109.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively, contained within our Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income represent the foreign currency translational impacts of converting our non-U.S. dollar subsidiaries financial statements to the Company’s reporting currency (U.S. Dollar). The 2018 foreign currency translation adjustment loss was primarily due to the impact of a strengthening U.S. dollar against the Euro and Chinese Renminbi, which increased approximately 4% and 5% and increased other comprehensive loss by approximately $102 million and $48 million, respectively. The 2017 foreign currency translation adjustment gain was primarily due to the impact of a weakening U.S. dollar against the Euro, which decreased approximately 14% and increased other comprehensive income by approximately $266 million since December 31, 2016. The 2016 foreign currency translation adjustment loss was primarily due to the impact of a strengthening U.S. dollar against the Euro and Chinese Renminbi, which increased other comprehensive loss by approximately $60 million and $45 million, respectively. 

52

Commodity Price Risk

Commodity price risk is the possibility that we will incur economic losses due to adverse changes in the cost of raw materials used in the production of our products. Commodity forward and option contracts are executed to offset our exposure to potential change in prices mainly for various non-ferrous metals and natural gas consumption used in the manufacturing of vehicle components. As of December 31, 2018 and 2017, the Company had commodity swap contracts with a total notional value of $1.7 million and a recorded short-term deferred loss of $0.2 million. As of December 31, 2017, the Company had no commodity swap contracts outstanding.

Disclosure Regarding Forward-Looking Statements

The matters discussed in this Item 7 include forward looking statements. See "Forward Looking Statements" at the beginning of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

53

Item 7A.Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk