Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A)

About Cardinal Health

Cardinal Health, Inc. is an Ohio corporation formed in 1979 and is a globally integrated healthcare services and products company providing customized solutions for hospitals, healthcare systems, pharmacies, ambulatory surgery centers, clinical laboratories and physician offices. We provide medical products and pharmaceuticals and cost-effective solutions that enhance supply chain efficiency. We connect patients, providers, payers, pharmacists and manufacturers for integrated care coordination and better patient management. We manage our business and report our financial results in two segments: Pharmaceutical and Medical.

Pharmaceutical Segment

Our Pharmaceutical segment distributes branded and generic pharmaceutical, specialty pharmaceutical and over-the-counter healthcare and consumer products in the United States. This segment also provides services to pharmaceutical manufacturers and healthcare providers for specialty pharmaceutical products; operates nuclear pharmacies and radiopharmaceutical manufacturing facilities; provides pharmacy management services to hospitals, as well as medication therapy management and patient outcomes services to hospitals, other healthcare providers and payers; and repackages generic pharmaceuticals and over-the-counter healthcare products. 

Medical Segment

Our Medical segment manufactures, sources and distributes Cardinal Health branded medical, surgical and laboratory products, which are sold in the United States, Canada, Europe, Asia and other markets. In addition to distributing Cardinal Health branded products, this segment also distributes a broad range of medical, surgical and laboratory products known as national brand products and provides supply chain services and solutions to hospitals, ambulatory surgery centers, clinical laboratories and other healthcare providers in the United States and Canada. This segment also distributes medical products to patients' homes in the United States through our Cardinal Health at-Home Solutions division.

 3Cardinal Health | Fiscal 2019 Form 10-K 

MD&AResults of Operations 

Consolidated Results

Fiscal 2019 Overview

Revenue

Revenue for fiscal 2019 was $145.5 billion, a 6 percent increase from the prior year, primarily due to sales growth from pharmaceutical distribution and specialty pharmaceutical customers, partially offset by the February 2018 divestiture of our China distribution business.

GAAP and Non-GAAP Operating Earnings

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The sum of the components may not equal the total due to rounding.

During fiscal 2019, GAAP operating earnings increased to $2.1 billion from $126 million during fiscal 2018. Non-GAAP operating earnings decreased 9 percent to $2.4 billion. The increase in GAAP operating earnings was primarily due to the goodwill impairment charge related to our Medical segment in the prior year and the current year gain from the divestiture of our naviHealth Holdings, LLC ("naviHealth") business. 

The decrease in non-GAAP operating earnings was primarily due to the negative impact of our Pharmaceutical segment generics program, performance of Medical segment Cardinal Health Brand products and the adverse impact of Pharmaceutical segment customer contract renewals. These factors were partially offset by growth from our specialty pharmaceutical products and services business within our Pharmaceutical segment, the beneficial impact of enterprise-wide cost-savings measures and higher contribution from branded pharmaceutical sales and mix.

 Cardinal Health | Fiscal 2019 Form 10-K4

MD&AResults of Operations 

GAAP and Non-GAAP Diluted EPS 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The sum of the components may not equal the total due to rounding.

During fiscal 2019, GAAP diluted earnings per share attributable to Cardinal Health, Inc. ("diluted EPS") increased to $4.53 from $0.81 during fiscal 2018. Non-GAAP diluted EPS increased 6 percent to $5.28. 

Fiscal 2019 GAAP diluted EPS increased primarily due to the increase in GAAP operating earnings and the benefits from applying a lower federal statutory tax rate to our U.S. pre-tax earnings as a result of the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act ("Tax Act"). This increase was partially offset by a $2.97 per share favorable impact in the prior year from the estimated net transitional benefit from the remeasurement of our deferred tax assets and liabilities partially offset by the repatriation tax on cash and earnings of foreign subsidiaries.

Fiscal 2019 non-GAAP diluted EPS increased primarily due to a $0.49 per share impact from a lower non-GAAP effective tax rate in the current period compared to the higher prior year non-GAAP effective tax rate. Also contributing to the increase in non-GAAP diluted EPS was a lower share count as a result of share repurchases. These factors were partially offset by the decrease in non-GAAP operating earnings. The non-GAAP effective tax rate is lower in the current year primarily because of the benefits from applying a lower federal statutory tax rate to our U.S. pre-tax earnings as a result of the Tax Act.

Cash and Equivalents

Our cash and equivalents balance was $2.5 billion at June 30, 2019 compared to $1.8 billion at June 30, 2018. The increase in cash and equivalents during fiscal 2019 was due to $2.7 billion of net cash provided by operating activities and $737 million of net cash proceeds from the sale of our naviHealth business, offset by $1.1 billion of debt repayments, $600 million of share repurchases, $577 million of dividends, and $328 million of capital expenditures.

 5Cardinal Health | Fiscal 2019 Form 10-K 

MD&AResults of Operations 

Significant Developments in Fiscal 2019 and Trends

Divestitures

naviHealth Divestiture

In August 2018, we sold our 98 percent ownership interest in naviHealth in exchange for cash proceeds of $737 million and a 44 percent equity interest in a partnership that owns 100 percent of naviHealth. We also have certain call rights to reacquire naviHealth. We recognized a pre-tax gain of $508 million related to this divestiture during fiscal 2019.

Trends

Within our Pharmaceutical segment, we expect fiscal 2020 segment profit to be less than our fiscal 2019 segment profit due to the adverse impact of recent customer contract renewals and generics program performance, which includes the negative impact of generic pharmaceutical customer pricing changes partially offset by the benefits of Red Oak Sourcing. As is generally the case, the frequency, timing, magnitude and profit impact of generic pharmaceutical customer pricing changes, customer renewals, and branded and generic pharmaceutical manufacturer pricing changes remain uncertain and their impact on Pharmaceutical segment profit and consolidated operating earnings in fiscal 2020 could be more or less than we expect. 

On August 7, 2019, we were authorized to incur restructuring costs in connection with certain cost-savings initiatives intended to optimize and simplify our operating model and cost structure. We expect these cost-savings initiatives, which will affect various functional and commercial areas across the Company, to be substantially implemented during fiscal year 2020. As a result of these initiatives, we expect to record restructuring charges of approximately $120 million to $145 million, the majority of which are expected to be expensed during fiscal year 2020. We may incur additional restructuring charges in connection with other projects.

 Cardinal Health | Fiscal 2019 Form 10-K6

MD&AResults of Operations 

Results of Operations

Revenue

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Fiscal 2019 Compared to Fiscal 2018 

Pharmaceutical Segment

Fiscal 2019 Pharmaceutical segment revenue grew primarily due to sales growth from pharmaceutical distribution and specialty pharmaceutical customers, which together increased revenue by $10.7 billion. The increases were partially offset by the February 2018 divestiture of our China distribution business.

Medical Segment

Fiscal 2019 Medical segment revenue was flat compared to fiscal 2018. Sales growth from existing customers and the benefit from one additional month of contribution from the Patient Recovery acquisition were offset by the divestitures of our China distribution and naviHealth businesses.

Fiscal 2018 Compared to Fiscal 2017 

Pharmaceutical Segment

Fiscal 2018 Pharmaceutical segment revenue grew primarily due to sales growth from pharmaceutical distribution and specialty pharmaceutical customers, which together increased revenue by $9.4 billion. The increases were partially offset by the previously announced May 2017 expiration of a large pharmaceutical distribution mail order customer contract and the February 2018 divestiture of our China distribution business.

Medical Segment

Fiscal 2018 Medical segment revenue grew mainly due to $1.9 billion of contributions from acquisitions, primarily the Patient Recovery Business acquisition.

Cost of Products Sold

Cost of products sold for fiscal 2019 and 2018 increased $9.1 billion (7 percent) and $6.2 billion (5 percent) compared to the prior-year periods, respectively, as a result of the same factors affecting the changes in revenue and gross margin.

 7Cardinal Health | Fiscal 2019 Form 10-K 

MD&AResults of Operations 

Gross Margin

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Fiscal 2019 Compared to Fiscal 2018 

Fiscal 2019 consolidated gross margin decreased $347 million (5 percent) due to lower contribution from our Pharmaceutical segment generics program, performance of Medical segment's Cardinal Health Brand products, the net impact of acquisitions and divestitures and the adverse impact of Pharmaceutical segment customer contract renewals. These factors were partially offset by sales growth from our specialty pharmaceutical products and services business and higher contribution from branded pharmaceutical sales and mix.

Gross margin rate declined during fiscal 2019 mainly due to changes in product mix, lower contribution from our Pharmaceutical segment generics program, performance of Medical segment's Cardinal Health Brand products, and the adverse impact of Pharmaceutical segment customer contract renewals.

Fiscal 2018 Compared to Fiscal 2017 

Fiscal 2018 consolidated gross margin increased $637 million (10 percent) and was favorably impacted by acquisitions ($809 million), primarily the Patient Recovery Business acquisition.

Gross margin rate grew during fiscal 2018 mainly due to acquisitions, primarily the Patient Recovery Business acquisition. Gross margin rate growth was partially offset by the negative impact of changes in pharmaceutical distribution product mix and performance in our Cordis business due to inventory challenges and increased manufacturing costs.

Distribution, Selling, General and Administrative ("SG&A") Expenses

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

Fiscal 2019 Compared to Fiscal 2018 

Fiscal 2019 SG&A expenses decreased due to the beneficial impact of divestitures and enterprise-wide cost-savings measures, largely offset by certain costs to exit transition service agreements for our Patient Recovery Business and legal expenses for opioid-related matters.

Fiscal 2018 Compared to Fiscal 2017 

Fiscal 2018 SG&A expenses increased mainly due to acquisitions ($524 million), which primarily consists of the Patient Recovery Business acquisition, and enterprise-wide compensation related items.

 Cardinal Health | Fiscal 2019 Form 10-K8

MD&AResults of Operations 

Segment Profit

We evaluate segment performance based on segment profit, among other measures. See Note 15 of the "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" for additional information on segment profit.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Fiscal 2019 Compared to Fiscal 2018 

Pharmaceutical Segment Profit

Fiscal 2019 Pharmaceutical segment profit decreased largely due to our generics program performance, the adverse impact of customer contract renewals and legal expenses for opioid-related matters. Our generics program performance includes the negative impact of generic pharmaceutical customer pricing changes partially offset by the benefits of Red Oak Sourcing. The decreases were partially offset by growth from our specialty pharmaceutical products and services business, higher contribution from our branded pharmaceutical sales and mix and the beneficial impact of enterprise-wide cost-savings measures.

Medical Segment Profit

Fiscal 2019 Medical segment profit decreased largely due to the performance of Cardinal Health Brand products, including incremental supply chain costs, charges related to an exclusive distribution agreement with a Cordis supplier, and increased commodities prices. This decrease was partially offset by the benefits from enterprise-wide and segment cost-savings measures and the prior-year impact of Cordis inventory challenges and increased operating costs specific to Cordis. Medical segment profit comparison to the prior year also benefitted from acquisitions and divestitures, net, which includes the beneficial comparison to the impact in fiscal 

2018 from the fair value step-up of inventory acquired with the Patient Recovery Business.

Corporate

The changes in Corporate during fiscal 2019 are due to the factors discussed in the Other Components of Consolidated Operating Earnings section that follows.

 9Cardinal Health | Fiscal 2019 Form 10-K 

MD&AResults of Operations 

Fiscal 2018 Compared to Fiscal 2017 

Pharmaceutical Segment Profit

Fiscal 2018 Pharmaceutical segment profit decreased largely due to our generics program performance and the adverse impact of customer contract renewals. Performance from our specialty pharmaceutical products distribution and services business positively impacted Pharmaceutical segment profit.

Medical Segment Profit

Fiscal 2018 Medical segment profit increased largely due to acquisitions, inclusive of the unfavorable cost of products sold impact from the fair value step up of inventory acquired with the Patient 

Recovery Business acquisition. The increase was partially offset by performance from the Cordis business, and to a lesser extent, performance from other Cardinal Health Brand products. The performance from the Cordis business primarily reflected inventory challenges and increased operating costs.

Corporate

The changes in Corporate during fiscal 2018 were due to the factors discussed in the Other Components of Consolidated Operating Earnings section that follows.

Other Components of Consolidated Operating Earnings

In addition to revenue, gross margin, and SG&A expenses discussed previously, consolidated operating earnings were impacted by the following:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Restructuring and Employee Severance

During fiscal 2019, we recognized $92 million of restructuring related costs in connection with enterprise-wide cost-savings measures that began in fiscal 2019. 

During fiscal 2018, we incurred $125 million of contract termination costs to transition the distribution of our Medical segment surgeon gloves in certain international markets from a third-party distribution arrangement to a direct distribution model.

Amortization and Other Acquisition-Related Costs

Amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets was $531 million, $574 million and $395 million for fiscal 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively. 

Transaction and integration costs associated with the acquisition of the Patient Recovery Business were $75 million, $109 million and $54 million during fiscal 2019, 2018, and 2017, respectively. 

Impairments and (Gain)/Loss on Disposal of Assets, Net

During fiscal 2019, we recognized a pre-tax gain of $508 million related to the divestiture of our naviHealth business.

During fiscal 2018, we recognized a $1.4 billion non-cash goodwill impairment charge related to our Medical segment, as discussed further in Note 4 of the "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements." There was no tax benefit related to this goodwill impairment charge.

Litigation (Recoveries)/Charges, Net

During fiscal 2019, 2018 and 2017, we recognized $117 million, $177 million and $24 million, respectively, of estimated losses and legal defense costs associated with inferior vena cava ("IVC") filter product liability claims.

During fiscal 2019 and 2018, we recognized income of $94 million and $22 million, respectively, for recoveries in class action antitrust lawsuits in which we were a class member.

 Cardinal Health | Fiscal 2019 Form 10-K10

MD&AResults of Operations 

Earnings/(loss) Before Income Taxes

In addition to the items discussed above, earnings/(loss) before income taxes was impacted by the following:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Interest Expense, Net

Fiscal 2019 interest expense decreased primarily due to lower debt outstanding.

Fiscal 2018 interest expense increased primarily due to new debt issued in June 2017 to fund a portion of the purchase price of the Patient Recovery Business acquisition.

 11Cardinal Health | Fiscal 2019 Form 10-K 

MD&AResults of Operations 

Provision for Income Taxes

Generally, fluctuations in the effective tax rate are due to changes in the distribution of income among taxing jurisdictions with differing income tax rates and other reconciling items.

The fluctuations in the effective tax rate from fiscal 2018 to fiscal 2019 were primarily due to the prior-year impacts of the net benefits from the enactment of the Tax Act, nondeductible goodwill impairment charge, and benefit from a capital loss due to international legal entity reorganization.

A reconciliation of the provision based on the federal statutory income tax rate to our effective income tax rate from continuing operations is as follows (see Note 7 of the "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" for additional information):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)The effective income tax rates for fiscal 2019 and 2017 represents income tax expense tax rates.

(2)The effective income tax rate for fiscal 2018 represents an income tax benefit tax rate.

Fiscal 2019 

The fiscal 2019 effective income tax rate was impacted by a lower federal statutory tax rate to our U.S. pre-tax earnings as a result of the Tax Act and net discrete benefits of $17 million, primarily related to international legal entity changes offset by increases in valuation allowances.

Ongoing Audits

The IRS is currently conducting audits of fiscal years 2008 through 2014. Years after 2014 remain open. 

Fiscal 2018 and Fiscal 2017 

The fiscal 2018 effective income tax rate was impacted by various items including benefits from the enactment of the Tax Act, the impact of nondeductible goodwill impairment charges, changes in valuation allowances and a benefit from a capital loss due to an international legal entity reorganization.

The net benefit from the Tax Act for fiscal 2018 includes a provisional net tax benefit of $977 million related to the remeasurement of our deferred tax assets and liabilities to the new federal statutory rate, the benefit from the impact of applying a lower federal tax rate to our year-to-date U.S. pre-tax earnings and a provisional tax expense of $41 million for the one-time repatriation tax applied to our undistributed foreign earnings.

Our effective tax rate for fiscal 2018 also includes $59 million of tax expense recognized in connection with the sale of our China distribution business.

The fiscal 2017 effective income tax rate was favorably impacted by the realignment of foreign subsidiaries in anticipation of closing the acquisition of the Patient Recovery Business and also from deductions related to U.S. production activities. The state and local income tax rate decreased primarily due to resolutions with state taxing authorities.

 Cardinal Health | Fiscal 2019 Form 10-K12

MD&ALiquidity and Capital Resources 

Liquidity and Capital Resources

We currently believe that, based on available capital resources (cash on hand and committed credit facilities) and projected operating cash flow, we have adequate capital resources to fund working capital needs; currently anticipated capital expenditures; currently anticipated business growth and expansion; contractual obligations; tax payments; and current and projected debt service requirements, dividends and share repurchases. If we decide to engage in one or more additional acquisitions, depending on the size and timing of such transactions, we may need to access capital markets for additional financing.

Cash and Equivalents

Our cash and equivalents balance was $2.5 billion at June 30, 2019 compared to $1.8 billion at June 30, 2018. The increase in cash and equivalents during fiscal 2019 was due to $2.7 billion of net cash provided by operating activities and $737 million of net cash proceeds from the sale of our naviHealth business, offset by $1.1 billion paid for debt repayments, $600 million paid for share repurchases, $577 million paid in dividends and $328 million paid for capital expenditures. At June 30, 2019, our cash and equivalents were held in cash depository accounts with major banks or invested in high quality, short-term liquid investments.

During fiscal 2018 our cash and cash equivalents declined $5.1 billion due to $6.1 billion deployed for acquisitions during the year, $954 million used for debt repayments, $581 million paid in dividends, $550 million paid for share repurchases and $384 million paid for capital expenditures, offset in part by $2.8 billion net cash provided by operating activities and $861 million of proceeds from the divestiture of the China distribution business. Net cash provided by operating activities increased by $1.6 billion from fiscal 2017 primarily due to working capital changes in part as a result of timing of customer and vendor payments related to the new Pharmaceutical segment finance and operating information systems. 

The increase in cash and equivalents during fiscal 2017 of $4.5 billion was due to proceeds from a $5.2 billion debt issuance and $1.2 billion provided by operating activities, partially offset by $600 million paid for share repurchases, $577 million paid in dividends and $387 million 

paid in capital expenditures and $310 million in debt repayments. The $1.8 billion decrease in net cash provided by operating activities in fiscal 2017 was primarily due to an increase in working capital as a result of changes in timing of customer and vendor payments, some of which related to implementation of the new Pharmaceutical segment finance and operating information systems.

Changes in working capital, which impact operating cash flow, can vary significantly depending on factors such as the timing of customer payments, inventory purchases and payments to vendors in the regular course of business, as well as fluctuating working capital needs driven by customer and product mix.

The cash and equivalents balance at June 30, 2019 included $575 million of cash held by subsidiaries outside of the United States. 

In June 2019, we repatriated $318 million of cash held by foreign subsidiaries.

During the year ended June 30, 2019, we completed the final calculation of the U.S. repatriation tax after the issuance of final regulations by the U.S Treasury Department under section 965. After completion of the calculation and an overall review of our cash positions and business needs globally, we changed our assertion on $309 million previously considered indefinitely reinvested as of June 30, 2018, which did not have a material impact on our provision for income taxes. See Note 7 of the "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" for additional information on the Tax Act. 

Other Financing Arrangements and Financial Instruments

Credit Facilities and Commercial Paper

In addition to cash and equivalents and operating cash flow, other sources of liquidity at June 30, 2019 include a $2.0 billion commercial paper program, backed by a $2.0 billion revolving credit facility. We also have a $1.0 billion committed receivables sales facility. At June 30, 2019, we had no amounts outstanding under our commercial paper program, revolving credit facility or our committed receivables sales facility. Under our commercial paper program, we had a maximum amount outstanding of $785 million and an average daily amount outstanding of $15 million during fiscal 2019. 

In June 2019, we extended our revolving credit facility through June 2024. The revolving credit facility requires us to maintain a maximum consolidated net leverage ratio as of the end of any calendar quarter. On June 30, 2019, the maximum permitted ratio was 4.25-to-1. The maximum permitted ratio will reduce to 4.00-to-1 in September 2019 

and to 3.75- to-1 in March 2021. As of June 30, 2019, we were in compliance with this financial covenant. 

Our committed receivables sales facility provides that, as of the end of any calendar quarter, our maximum consolidated leverage ratio may be no more than 4.25-to-1. The maximum permitted ratio will reduce to 4.00-to-1 in September 2019, to 3.75- to-1 in March 2020 and to 3.25-to-1 in September 2020. As of June 30, 2019, we were in compliance with this financial covenant. We intend to renew our committed receivables sales facility program in the first quarter of fiscal 2020. 

 13Cardinal Health | Fiscal 2019 Form 10-K 

MD&ALiquidity and Capital Resources 

Long-Term Obligations

At June 30, 2019, we had total long-term obligations, including the current portion and other short-term borrowings of $8.0 billion. In June 2019, we repaid $1.0 billion 1.948% notes at maturity. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2019, we repurchased a total of $100 million of notes due in 2022 and 2027. 

In June 2018, we repaid our $550 million 1.95% Notes due 2018 in full at maturity. In fiscal 2018 we sold our China distribution business, including its debt which was $378 million as of June 30, 2017. See Note 2 of the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” for further discussion of this divestiture.

Risk Management

We use interest rate swaps, foreign currency contracts and commodity contracts to manage our exposure to cash flow variability. We also use interest rate swaps to protect the value of our debt and use foreign currency forward contracts to protect the value of our existing and forecasted foreign currency assets and liabilities. See the "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk" section as well as Note 1 and Note 11 of the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” for information regarding the use of financial instruments and derivatives as well as foreign currency, interest rate and commodity exposures.

Capital Deployment

Capital Expenditures

Capital expenditures during fiscal 2019, 2018 and 2017 were $328 million, $384 million and $387 million, respectively.

We expect capital expenditures in fiscal 2020 to be between $320 million and $360 million primarily for information technology and infrastructure projects.

Dividends

During fiscal 2019, we paid quarterly dividends totaling $1.91 per share, an increase of 3 percent from fiscal 2018.

On May 8, 2019, our Board of Directors approved a quarterly dividend of $0.4811 per share, or $1.92 per share on an annualized basis, which was paid on July 15, 2019 to shareholders of record on July 1, 2019.

On August 7, 2019, our Board of Directors approved a quarterly dividend of $0.4811 per share, or $1.92 per share on an annualized basis, payable on October 15, 2019 to shareholders of record on October 1, 2019.

Share Repurchases

During fiscal 2019 and 2018, we repurchased $600 million and $550 million, respectively, of our common shares. We funded the repurchases with available cash and short-term borrowing. See Note 13 of the "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" for additional information. At June 30, 2019, we had $1.3 billion authorized for share repurchases remaining under all programs.

 Cardinal Health | Fiscal 2019 Form 10-K14

MD&AOther 

Contractual Obligations

At June 30, 2019, our contractual obligations, including estimated payments due by period, were as follows: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Represents maturities of our long-term debt obligations and other short-term borrowings excluding capital lease obligations described below. See Note 6 of the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” for further information.

(2)Represents maturities of our capital lease obligations included within long-term obligations in our consolidated balance sheets.

(3)Represents minimum rental payments for operating leases having initial or remaining non-cancelable lease terms as described in Note 8 of the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.”

(4)A purchase obligation is defined as an agreement to purchase goods or services that is legally enforceable and specifies all significant terms, including fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased; fixed, minimum or variable price provisions; and approximate timing of the transaction. The purchase obligation amounts disclosed above represent estimates of the minimum for which we are obligated and the time period in which cash outflows will occur. Purchase orders and authorizations to purchase that involve no firm commitment from either party are excluded from the above table. In addition, contracts that can be unilaterally canceled with no termination fee or with proper notice are excluded from our total purchase obligations except for the amount of the termination fee or the minimum amount of goods that must be purchased during the requisite notice period. Purchase obligations and other payments also includes quarterly payments of $45.6 million that we are required to pay CVS Health Corporation ("CVS") in connection with Red Oak Sourcing and will be in place for the remaining five years of the agreement. See Note 8 of the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” for additional information.

(5)Long-term liabilities, such as unrecognized tax benefits, deferred taxes and other tax liabilities, have been excluded from the above table due to the inherent uncertainty of the underlying tax positions or because of the inability to reasonably estimate the timing of any cash outflows. See Note 7 of the "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" for further discussion of income taxes.

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

We had no significant "off-balance sheet arrangements" at June 30, 2019, as that term is defined in the SEC rules.

Recent Financial Accounting Standards

See Note 1 of the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” for a discussion of recent financial accounting standards.

 15Cardinal Health | Fiscal 2019 Form 10-K 

MD&ACritical Accounting Policies and Sensitive Accounting Estimates 

Critical Accounting Policies and Sensitive Accounting Estimates

Critical accounting policies are those accounting policies that (i) can have a significant impact on our financial condition and results of operations and (ii) require the use of complex and subjective estimates based upon past experience and management’s judgment. Other people applying reasonable judgment to the same facts and circumstances could develop different estimates. Because estimates are inherently uncertain, actual results may differ. In this section, we describe the significant policies applied in preparing our consolidated financial statements that management believes are the most dependent on estimates and assumptions. For further discussion of accounting policies for items within this section and of additional accounting policies, see Note 1 of the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.”

Allowance for Doubtful Accounts

The allowance for doubtful accounts includes general and specific reserves. We determine our allowance for doubtful accounts by reviewing accounts receivable aging, industry trends, customer financial strength and credit standing, historical write-off trends and payment history. We regularly evaluate how changes in economic conditions may affect credit risks. See Note 1 of the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” for further information on our policy for Receivables and Allowance for Doubtful Accounts.

A hypothetical 0.1 percent increase or decrease in the reserve as a percentage of trade receivables at June 30, 2019, would result in an increase or decrease in bad debt expense of $9 million. We believe the reserve maintained and expenses recorded in fiscal 2019 are appropriate.

At this time, we are not aware of any analytical findings or customer issues that are likely to lead to a significant future increase in the allowance for doubtful accounts as a percentage of revenue. The following table presents information regarding the allowance for doubtful accounts over the past three fiscal years:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The sum of the components may not equal the total due to rounding.

Inventories

A substantial portion of our inventories (56 percent at both June 30, 2019 and 2018) are valued at the lower of cost, using the last-in, first-out ("LIFO") method, or market. These are primarily merchandise inventories at the core pharmaceutical distribution facilities within our Pharmaceutical segment (“distribution facilities”). The LIFO impact on the consolidated statements of earnings depends on pharmaceutical manufacturer price appreciation or deflation and our fiscal year-end inventory levels, which can be meaningfully influenced by customer buying behavior immediately preceding our fiscal year-end. Historically, prices for branded pharmaceuticals have generally tended to rise, resulting in an increase in cost of products sold, whereas prices for generic pharmaceuticals generally tend to decline, resulting in a decrease in cost of products sold. See Note 1 of the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” for further information on our policy for Inventories.

Using LIFO, if there is a decrease in inventory levels that have experienced pharmaceutical price appreciation, the result generally will be a decrease in future cost of products sold as our older inventory is held at a lower cost. Conversely, if there is a decrease in inventory levels that have experienced a pharmaceutical price decline, the result generally will be an increase in future cost of products sold as our older inventory is held at a higher cost. 

We believe that the average cost method of inventory valuation provides a reasonable approximation of the current cost of replacing inventory within these distribution facilities. As such, the LIFO reserve is the difference between (a) inventory at the lower of LIFO cost or market and (b) inventory at replacement cost determined using the average cost method of inventory valuation. If we had used the average cost method of inventory valuation for all inventory within the distribution facilities, the value of our inventories would not have changed in fiscal 2019 or 2018 because inventories valued at LIFO were $230 million and $92 million higher than the average cost value at June 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively. We do not record inventories in excess of replacement cost. As such, we did not record a LIFO reserve in fiscal 2019 or 2018. 

Our remaining inventory that is not valued at the lower of LIFO or market is stated at the lower of cost, using the first-in, first-out method, or market. Inventories presented in the consolidated balance sheets are net of reserves for excess and obsolete inventory which were $171 million and $147 million at June 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively. We reserve for inventory obsolescence using estimates based on historical experience, historical and projected sales trends, specific categories of inventory, age and expiration dates of on-hand inventory and manufacturer return policies. 

 Cardinal Health | Fiscal 2019 Form 10-K16

MD&ACritical Accounting Policies and Sensitive Accounting Estimates 

If actual conditions are less favorable than our assumptions, additional inventory reserves may be required.

Business Combinations

The assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a business combination, including identifiable intangible assets, are recorded at their estimated fair values as of the acquisition date. For further discussion of the Business Combinations accounting policy, see Note 1 of the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.” 

Critical estimates and assumptions include: expected future cash flows for customer relationships, trademarks, trade names, patents, 

developed technology, in-process research and development ("IPR&D") and other identifiable intangible assets; discount rates that reflect the risk factors associated with future cash flows; and estimates of useful lives. See Note 2 of the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” for additional information regarding our acquisitions.

Goodwill and Other Indefinite-Lived Intangible Assets

Purchased goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives are tested for impairment annually or when indicators of impairment exist. Goodwill impairment testing involves a comparison of the estimated fair value of reporting units to the respective carrying amount, which may be performed utilizing either a qualitative or quantitative assessment. Qualitative factors are first assessed to determine if it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. There is an option to bypass the qualitative assessment for any reporting unit in any period and proceed directly to performing the quantitative goodwill impairment test. We have elected to bypass the qualitative assessment for the annual goodwill impairment test in the current year. The quantitative goodwill impairment test involves a comparison of the estimated fair value of the reporting unit to the respective carrying amount. A reporting unit is defined as an operating segment or one level below an operating segment (also known as a component). 

We have two operating segments, which are the same as our reportable segments: Pharmaceutical and Medical. These operating segments are comprised of divisions (which are components), for which discrete financial information is available. Components are aggregated into reporting units for purposes of goodwill impairment testing to the extent that they share similar economic characteristics. Our reporting units are: Pharmaceutical operating segment (excluding our Nuclear and Precision Health Solutions division); Nuclear and Precision Health Solutions division; Medical operating segment (excluding our Cardinal Health at-Home Solutions division) (“Medical Unit”); and Cardinal Health at-Home Solutions division. Our Nuclear and Precision Health Solutions division was formerly referred to as our Nuclear Pharmacy Services division and our Cardinal Health at-Home Solutions division was formerly referred to as our Cardinal Health at Home division.

Goodwill impairment testing involves judgment, including the identification of reporting units, qualitative evaluation of events and circumstances to determine if it is more likely than not that an impairment exists, and, if necessary, the estimation of the fair value of the applicable reporting unit. Our qualitative evaluation considers the weight of evidence and significance of all identified events and circumstances and most relevant drivers of fair value, both positive 

and negative, in determining whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount.

Our determination of estimated fair value of our reporting units is based on a combination of the income-based and market-based approaches (using discount rates ranging from 8.5 percent to 11.5 percent). We use discount rates that are commensurate with the risks and uncertainty inherent in the respective reporting units and in our internally-developed forecasts. Under the market-based approach, we determine fair value by comparing our reporting units to similar businesses or guideline companies whose securities are actively traded in public markets. We also use the guideline transaction method to determine fair value based on pricing multiples derived from the sale of companies that are similar to our reporting units.

Estimating the fair value of reporting units requires the use of estimates and significant judgments that are based on a number of factors including actual operating results. The use of alternate estimates and assumptions or changes in the industry or peer groups could materially affect the determination of fair value for each reporting unit and potentially result in goodwill impairment. If a reporting unit fails to achieve expected earnings or otherwise fails to meet current financial plans, or if there were changes to any other key assumptions used in the tests, the reporting unit could incur a goodwill impairment in a future period. 

We performed annual impairment testing in fiscal 2019, 2018 and 2017 and, with the exception of our Medical Unit in fiscal 2018, concluded that there were no impairments of goodwill as the estimated fair value of each reporting unit exceeded its carrying value. For our annual impairment test in fiscal 2019, the fair value of our Medical Unit exceeded its carrying value of $10.8 billion by approximately 4 percent. For this test, we used a discount rate of 8.5 percent and a terminal growth rate of 2 percent. The goodwill balance for our Medical Unit is $4.2 billion. A decrease in future cash flows, an increase in the discount rate or a decrease in the terminal growth rate, among other things, could result in a goodwill impairment for the Medical Unit. For example, if we were to increase the discount rate by 0.5 percent, the carrying value would have exceeded the fair value for our Medical Unit by approximately 2 percent for fiscal 2019. Similarly, if we were to decrease the terminal growth rate by 0.5 

 17Cardinal Health | Fiscal 2019 Form 10-K 

MD&ACritical Accounting Policies and Sensitive Accounting Estimates 

percent, the carrying value would have exceeded the fair value for our Medical Unit by approximately 3 percent for fiscal 2019. For any of our other reporting units, the fair value would not have been less than the carrying amount for fiscal 2019 if we increased the discount rate by 0.5 percent or decreased the terminal growth rate by 0.5 percent. As discussed further in Note 4 of the "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements," during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018 we recognized a $1.4 billion goodwill impairment charge related to our Medical Unit, which is included in impairments and (gain)/loss on disposal of assets in our consolidated statements of earnings. There was no tax benefit related to the goodwill impairment charge.

The impairment test for indefinite-lived intangibles other than goodwill (primarily IPR&D) involves first assessing qualitative factors to determine if it is more likely than not that the fair value of the indefinite-

lived intangible asset is less than its carrying amount. If so, then a quantitative test is performed to compare the estimated fair value of the indefinite-lived intangible asset to the respective asset's carrying amount. Our qualitative evaluation requires the use of estimates and significant judgments and considers the weight of evidence and significance of all identified events and circumstances and most relevant drivers of fair value, both positive and negative, in determining whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of the indefinite-lived intangible asset is less than its carrying amount.

See Note 1 of "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" for additional information regarding goodwill and other intangible assets.

Loss Contingencies and Self-Insurance

We accrue for contingencies related to disputes, litigation and regulatory matters if it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. Because these matters are inherently unpredictable and unfavorable developments or outcomes can occur, assessing contingencies is highly subjective and requires judgments about future events.

We also self-insure for employee healthcare, certain product liability matters, auto liability, property and workers' compensation and maintain insurance for individual losses exceeding certain limits when available.

Self-insurance accruals include an estimate for expected settlements on pending claims, defense costs, administrative fees, claims adjustment costs and an estimate for claims incurred but not reported. For certain types of exposures, we develop the estimate of expected ultimate costs to settle each claim based on specific information 

related to each claim if available. Other estimates are based on an assessment of outstanding claims, historical analysis and current payment trends. For claims incurred but not reported, the liabilities are calculated and derived in accordance with generally accepted actuarial practices or using an estimated lag period.

We regularly review contingencies and self-insurance accruals to determine whether our accruals and related disclosures are adequate. Any adjustments for changes in reserves are recorded in the period in which the change in estimate occurs.

Examples of such contingencies include various lawsuits related to the distribution of prescription opioid pain medications and the Cordis IVC filter lawsuits. 

We develop and periodically update reserve estimates for Cordis IVC claims, including those received to date and expected to be received in the future and related costs. To project future Cordis IVC claim costs, we use a methodology based largely on recent experience, including claim filing rates, estimated indemnity severity by claim type, sales data and estimated defense costs. 

The amount of loss may differ from these estimates. See Note 8 of the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” for additional information regarding loss contingencies and product liability lawsuits.

 Cardinal Health | Fiscal 2019 Form 10-K18

MD&ACritical Accounting Policies and Sensitive Accounting Estimates 

Provision for Income Taxes

We account for income taxes using the asset and liability method. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates in the respective jurisdictions in which we operate. Our income tax expense, deferred income tax assets and liabilities, and unrecognized tax benefits reflect management’s assessment of estimated future taxes to be paid on items in the consolidated financial statements.

The following table presents information about our tax position at June 30:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(2)The valuation allowance primarily relates to federal, state and international loss and credit carryforwards for which the ultimate realization of future benefits is uncertain.

Expiring or unusable loss and credit carryforwards and the required valuation allowances are adjusted quarterly when it is more likely than not that at least a portion of the respective deferred tax assets will not be realized. After applying the valuation allowances, we do not anticipate any limitations on our use of any of the other net deferred income tax assets described above. We operate in a complex multinational tax environment and are subject to tax treaty arrangements and transfer pricing guidelines for intercompany transactions that are subject to interpretation. Uncertainty in a tax position may arise as tax laws are subject to interpretation. 

Tax benefits from uncertain tax positions are recognized when it is more likely than not that the position will be sustained upon examination of the technical merits of the position, including resolutions of any related appeals or litigation. The amount recognized is measured as the largest amount of tax benefit that is greater than 50 percent likely of being realized upon settlement. For tax benefits that do not qualify for recognition, we recognize a liability for unrecognized tax benefits.

Our assumptions and estimates around uncertain tax positions require significant judgment; the actual amount of tax benefit related to uncertain tax positions may differ from these estimates. See Note 7 of the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” for additional information regarding unrecognized tax benefits.

We believe that our estimates for the valuation allowances against deferred tax assets and unrecognized tax benefits are appropriate based on current facts and circumstances. The amount we ultimately pay when matters are resolved may differ from the amounts accrued. Changes in our current estimates due to unanticipated market conditions, tax law changes or other factors could have a material effect on our ability to utilize deferred tax assets. For a further 

discussion on Provision for Income Taxes, see Note 7 of the “Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.”

The calculation of our tax liabilities includes estimates for uncertainties in the application of broad and complex changes to the U.S. tax code as per the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act ("the Tax Act") as enacted by the United States government on December 22, 2017. We have made reasonable estimates and recorded amounts based on management judgment and our current understanding of the Tax Act which is subject to further interpretation by the Internal Revenue Service ("IRS"). See Note 7 of the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” for additional information regarding the Tax Act.

 19Cardinal Health | Fiscal 2019 Form 10-K 

Explanation and Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures  

Explanation and Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures

This report, including the "Fiscal 2019 Overview" section within MD&A, contains financial measures that are not calculated in accordance with GAAP. 

In addition to analyzing our business based on financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP, we use these non-GAAP financial measures internally to evaluate our performance, engage in financial and operational planning, and determine incentive compensation because we believe that these measures provide additional perspective on and, in some circumstances are more closely correlated to, the performance of our underlying, ongoing business. We provide these non-GAAP financial measures to investors as supplemental metrics to assist readers in assessing the effects of items and events on our financial and operating results on a year-over-year basis and in comparing our performance to that of our competitors. However, the non-GAAP financial measures that we use may be calculated differently from, and therefore may not be comparable to, similarly titled measures used by other companies. The non-GAAP financial measures disclosed by us should not be considered a substitute for, or superior to, financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP, and the financial results calculated in accordance with GAAP and reconciliations to those financial statements set forth below should be carefully evaluated.

Exclusions from Non-GAAP Financial Measures

Management believes it is useful to exclude the following items from the non-GAAP measures presented in this report for its own and for investors’ assessment of the business for the reasons identified below:

•LIFO charges and credits are excluded because the factors that drive last-in first-out ("LIFO") inventory charges or credits, such as pharmaceutical manufacturer price appreciation or deflation and year-end inventory levels (which can be meaningfully influenced by customer buying behavior immediately preceding our fiscal year-end), are largely out of our control and cannot be accurately predicted. The exclusion of LIFO charges and credits from non-GAAP metrics facilitates comparison of our current financial results to our historical financial results and to our peer group companies’ financial results. 

•State opioid assessment related to prior fiscal years is the portion of the New York State assessment under the Opioid Stewardship Act for prescription opioid medications that were sold or distributed in periods prior to fiscal 2019. This portion was excluded from non-GAAP financial measures because it related to sales in prior fiscal years and inclusion would have obscured analysis of the current fiscal year results of our underlying, ongoing business. Additionally, while the New York law would have required us to make payments on an ongoing basis, the portion of the assessment related to sales in periods prior to fiscal 2019 was contemplated to be a one-time, nonrecurring item. In December 2018, this assessment was declared to be unconstitutional, so during the three months ended December 31, 2018, we reversed the accrual we booked in the three months ended September 30, 2018. 

•Restructuring and employee severance costs are excluded because they are not part of the ongoing operations of our underlying business. 

•Amortization and other acquisition-related costs, which include transaction costs, integration costs, and changes in the fair value of contingent consideration obligations, are excluded because they are not part of the ongoing operations of our underlying business and to facilitate comparison of our current financial results to our historical financial results and to our peer group companies' financial results. Additionally, costs for amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets are non-cash amounts, which are variable in amount and frequency and are significantly impacted by the timing and size of acquisitions, so their exclusion facilitates comparison of historical, current and forecasted financial results. We also exclude other acquisition-related costs, which are directly related to an acquisition but do not meet the criteria to be recognized on the acquired entity’s initial balance sheet as part of the purchase price allocation. These costs are also significantly impacted by the timing, complexity and size of acquisitions. 

•Impairments and gain or loss on disposal of assets are excluded because they do not occur in or reflect the ordinary course of our ongoing business operations and are inherently unpredictable in timing and amount, and in the case of impairments, are non-cash amounts, so their exclusion facilitates comparison of historical, current and forecasted financial results. 

•Litigation recoveries or charges, net are excluded because they often relate to events that may have occurred in prior or multiple periods, do not occur in or reflect the ordinary course of our business and are inherently unpredictable in timing and amount. 

•Loss on extinguishment of debt is excluded because it does not typically occur in the normal course of business and may obscure analysis of trends and financial performance. Additionally, the amount and frequency of this type of charge is not consistent and is significantly impacted by the timing and size of debt extinguishment transactions. 

•Transitional tax benefit, net related to the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act is excluded because it results from the one-time impact of a very significant change in the U.S. federal corporate tax rate and, due to the significant size of the benefit, obscures analysis of trends and financial performance. The transitional tax benefit includes the initial estimate and subsequent adjustments for the re-

 Cardinal Health | Fiscal 2019 Form 10-K20

Explanation and Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures  

measurement of deferred tax assets and liabilities due to the reduction of the U.S. federal corporate income tax rate and the repatriation tax on undistributed foreign earnings.  

The tax effect for each of the items listed above, other than the transitional tax benefit item, is determined using the tax rate and other tax attributes applicable to the item and the jurisdiction(s) in which the item is recorded. The gross, tax and net impact of each item are presented with our GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliations. 

Definitions

Growth rate calculation: growth rates in this report are determined by dividing the difference between current period results and prior period results by prior period results.

Non-GAAP operating earnings: operating earnings excluding (1) LIFO charges/(credits), (2) state opioid assessment related to prior fiscal years, (3) restructuring and employee severance, (4) amortization and other acquisition-related costs, (5) impairments and (gain)/loss on disposal of assets, and (6) litigation (recoveries)/charges, net. 

Non-GAAP earnings before income taxes: earnings before income taxes excluding (1) LIFO charges/(credits), (2) state opioid assessment related to prior fiscal years, (3) restructuring and employee severance, (4) amortization and other acquisition-related costs, (5) impairments and (gain)/loss on disposal of assets, (6) litigation (recoveries)/charges, net, and (7) loss on extinguishment of debt. 

Non-GAAP Net Earnings attributable to Cardinal Health, Inc.: net earnings attributable to Cardinal Health, Inc. excluding (1) LIFO charges/(credits), (2) state opioid assessment related to prior fiscal years, (3) restructuring and employee severance, (4) amortization and other acquisition-related costs, (5) impairments and (gain)/loss on disposal of assets, (6) litigation (recoveries)/charges, net, (7) loss on extinguishment of debt, each net of tax, and (8) transitional tax benefit, net. 

Non-GAAP effective tax rate: provision for income taxes adjusted for (1) LIFO charges/(credits), (2) state opioid assessment related to prior fiscal years, (3) restructuring and employee severance, (4) amortization and other acquisition-related costs, (5) impairments and (gain)/loss on disposal of assets, (6) litigation (recoveries)/charges, net, (7) loss on extinguishment of debt, and (8) transitional tax benefit, (net) divided by (earnings before income taxes adjusted for the first seven items). 

Non-GAAP diluted EPS attributable to Cardinal Health, Inc.: non-GAAP net earnings attributable to Cardinal Health, Inc. divided by diluted weighted-average shares outstanding. 

 21Cardinal Health | Fiscal 2019 Form 10-K 

Explanation and Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures  

GAAP to Non-GAAP Reconciliations

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

1 attributable to Cardinal Health, Inc.

2 Reflects the net transitional benefit from the remeasurement of our deferred tax assets and liabilities partially offset by the repatriation tax on cash and earnings of foreign subsidiaries. See Note 7 of the "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" for more information on the Tax Act. 

3 Fiscal year 2018 includes a goodwill impairment charge of $1.4 billion related to our Medical segment. There was no tax benefit related to this goodwill impairment charge. 

The sum of the components may not equal the total due to rounding.

We apply varying tax rates depending on the item's nature and tax jurisdiction where it is incurred.

 Cardinal Health | Fiscal 2019 Form 10-K22

Selected Financial Data  

Selected Financial Data

The consolidated financial data below includes all business combinations as of the date of acquisition that occurred during these periods. The following selected consolidated financial data should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and related notes and MD&A.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

1During the first quarter of fiscal 2019, we sold our 98 percent ownership interest in naviHealth and recognized a pre-tax gain of $508 million ($378 million after-tax).

2During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018, we recognized a non-cash goodwill impairment charge of $1.4 billion related to our Medical segment. There was no tax benefit related to this goodwill impairment charge.

3During fiscal 2018, the United States enacted the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. See Note 7 for more information. 

 23Cardinal Health | Fiscal 2019 Form 10-K 

Disclosures about Market Risk 

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk