ITEM 7A.QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

We are subject to various market risks, including those caused by changes in interest rates, credit, foreign currency exchange rates and equity prices. 

Interest Rate Risk 

Debt outstanding at December 31, 2018 consisted of fixed-rate borrowings of $4.4 billion (in U.S. dollar equivalent). Changes in interest rates impact the fair values of fixed-rate debt, but do not impact earnings or cash flows. We did not have any variable-rate borrowings at December 31, 2018. At December 31, 2018, we maintained $389.9 million of commercial paper. Commercial paper is considered a fixed rate borrowing; however, because maturities for commercial paper are generally less than 90 days, commercial paper is considered subject to interest rate fluctuations.

Credit Risk 

CME Clearing House

Our clearing house acts as the counterparty to all trades consummated on our exchanges as well as through third party exchanges and swaps markets for which we provide clearing services. As a result, we are exposed to significant credit risk of third parties, including clearing firms. We are also exposed, indirectly, to the credit risk of customers of our clearing firms. These parties may default on their obligations due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons. 

In order to ensure performance, we establish and monitor financial requirements for our clearing firms. We set minimum performance bond requirements for exchange-traded and interest rate swaps products. For clearing firms, we establish performance bond requirements to cover at least 99% of expected price changes for a given product within a given historical period with further quantitative and qualitative considerations based on market risk. We establish haircuts applied to collateral deposited to meet performance bond requirements to cover at least 99% of expected price changes and foreign currency changes for a given asset within a given historical period with further quantitative and qualitative considerations. Haircuts vary depending on the type of collateral and maturity. We mark-to-market open positions of clearing firms at least once a day (twice a day for futures and options contracts) and require payment from clearing firms whose positions have lost value and make payments to clearing firms whose positions have gained value. We have the capability to mark-to-market more frequently as market conditions warrant. These practices allow our clearing house to quickly identify any clearing firms that may not be able to satisfy the financial obligations resulting from changes in the prices of their open positions before those financial obligations become exceptionally large and jeopardize the ability of our clearing house to ensure performance of their open positions. 

Although we have policies and procedures to help ensure that our clearing firms can satisfy their obligations, these policies and procedures may not succeed in detecting problems or preventing defaults. We also have in place various measures intended to enable us to cover any default and maintain liquidity. 

Despite our safeguards, we cannot assure you that these measures will be sufficient to protect us from a default or that we will not be materially and adversely affected in the event of a significant default.

We maintain two separate financial safeguard packages: 

•a financial safeguard package for all futures and options contracts other than cleared interest rate swap contracts (base package); and

•a financial safeguard package for cleared interest rate swap contracts.

In the unlikely event of a payment default by a clearing firm, we would first apply assets of the defaulting clearing firm to satisfy its payment obligation. These assets include the defaulting firm's guaranty fund contributions, performance bonds and any other available assets, such as assets required for clearing membership and any associated trading rights. In addition, we would make a demand for payment pursuant to any applicable guarantee provided to us by the parent company of the clearing firm. Thereafter, if the payment default remains unsatisfied, we would use our corporate contributions designated for the respective financial safeguard package. We would then use guaranty fund contributions of other clearing firms within the 

 46
respective financial safeguard package and funds collected through an assessment against solvent clearing firms within the respective financial safeguard package to satisfy the deficit.

We maintain a $7.0 billion 364-day multi-currency line of credit with a consortium of domestic and international banks to be used in certain situations by CME Clearing. We have the option to request an increase in the line from $7.0 billion to $10.0 billion. We may use the proceeds to provide temporary liquidity in the unlikely event of a clearing firm default, in the event of a liquidity constraint or default by a depositary (custodian of the collateral) or in the event of a temporary disruption with the payments systems that would delay payment of settlement variation between us and our clearing firms. The credit agreement requires us to pledge certain assets to the line of credit custodian prior to drawing on the line of credit. Pledged assets may include clearing firm guaranty fund deposits held by us in the form of cash or U.S. Treasury securities. Performance bond collateral of a defaulting clearing firm may also be used to secure a draw on the line. In addition to the 364-day multi-currency line of credit, we also have the option to use our $2.4 billion multi-currency revolving senior credit facility to provide liquidity for our clearing house in the unlikely event of default. 

At December 31, 2018, aggregate performance bond deposits for clearing firms for both financial safeguard packages was $143.2 billion including $38.2 billion of cash performance bond deposits and $2.7 billion of letters of credit. A defaulting firm's performance bond deposits can be used in the event of default of that clearing firm. 

The following shows the available assets at December 31, 2018 in the event of a payment default by a clearing firm for the base financial safeguard package after first utilizing the defaulting firm's available assets: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

_______________

(1)CME Clearing designates $100.0 million of corporate contributions to satisfy a clearing firm default in the event that the defaulting clearing firm's guaranty contributions and performance bonds do not satisfy the deficit. 

(2)Guaranty fund contributions of clearing firms include guaranty fund contributions required of clearing firms, but do not include any excess deposits held by us at the direction of clearing firms. 

(3)In the event of a clearing firm default, if a loss continues to exist after the utilization of the assets of the defaulted firm, our corporate contribution and the non-defaulting clearing firms' guaranty fund contributions, we would assess all non-defaulting clearing members as provided in the rules governing the guaranty fund. We could assess non-defaulting clearing members 275% of their existing guaranty fund requirements up to a maximum of 550% of their existing guaranty fund requirements as provided in the rules. Assessment powers are calculated to reflect the potential obligation that each clearing member could be called for in the event clearing member defaults exhaust the guaranty fund, however the total amount available would be reduced by the defaulted clearing members assessment obligations since they would no longer be able to satisfy their obligations.

The following shows the available assets for the interest rate swap financial safeguard package at December 31, 2018 in the event of a payment default by a clearing firm that clears interest rate swap contracts, after first utilizing the defaulting firm's available assets: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

_______________

(1)CME Clearing designates $150.0 million of corporate contributions to satisfy a clearing firm default in the event that the defaulting clearing firm's guaranty contributions and performance bonds do not satisfy the deficit. 

(2)Guaranty fund contributions of clearing firms for interest rate swap contracts include guaranty fund contributions required of those clearing firms. 

(3)In the event of a clearing firm default, if a loss continues to exist after the utilization of the assets of the defaulted firm, our corporate contribution and the non-defaulting firms' guaranty fund contributions, we would assess non-defaulting clearing members as provided in the rules governing the interest rate swap guaranty fund.

BrokerTec Matched Principal Business

BrokerTec maintains a matched principal business, where it serves as a fully matched counterparty to offsetting positions entered into by clients on its electronic trading platform to facilitate anonymity and access to clearing and settlement. BrokerTec uses Fixed Income Clearing Corporation (FICC), a third-party central clearing house as well as a third-party clearing 

 47
bank for the settlement of transactions and is required to post short-term margin requirements twice a day that can vary based on the size of unsettled transactions and any adverse market changes. At December 31, 2018, the balance of the collateral at FICC was $100.0 million, which was included in other current assets on the consolidated balance sheet. 

Without sufficient funds to meet its obligations, BrokerTec could be exposed to risk of breach of contract with the counterparties and the inability to continue as a member of the third-party central clearing house. Transactions with clearing house members are typically confirmed and novated shortly after execution, at which point the clearing house assumes the risk of settlement. For transactions with counterparties that are not members of the clearing house, settlement typically occurs on the day following execution and, prior to settlement, BrokerTec is exposed to the risk of loss in the event a counterparty fails to meet its obligations. If that were to occur, BrokerTec would have the right to cover or liquidate the open position but could incur a loss as a result of market movements.

Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk

Foreign Currency Transaction Risk 

We have foreign currency transaction risk related to changes in exchange rates on monetary assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses held at subsidiaries where those balances and activity are denominated in a currency other than the subsidiary's functional currency. Gains and losses on foreign currency transactions result primarily from cash, debt and other monetary assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses denominated in British pounds, euros and Japanese yen. During 2018, we maintained a restricted cash balance of $1.6 billion held for the acquisition of NEX, which was denominated in British pounds. This cash balance contributed to a significant portion of the net foreign currency transaction loss incurred in 2018.

In conjunction with the acquisition, we assumed the outstanding debt of NEX on the acquisition date, which includes a €350.0 million Eurobond maturing in March 2019, a ¥19.1 billion term loan due in March 2019 and a €15.0 million fixed rate note maturing in May 2023. Since the debt is denominated in euros and Japanese yen, we have foreign currency transaction risk related to changes in these currencies until the debt is repaid. We maintain a hedge contract on the exchange rate risk between the Japanese yen and the British pound on the maturing principal and interest payments of the Japanese yen-based term loan, but we have foreign currency transaction risk between the U.S. dollar and the British pound until the Japanese yen-based term loan is repaid. We also maintain a cross-currency swap on part of the outstanding par value on our €350.0 million Eurobond maturing in March 2019, which swaps our euro-based principal and interest payments for British pound-based payments. 

Aggregate transaction gains (losses) for 2018, 2017 and 2016 were $(73.6) million, $9.4 million and $(24.5) million, respectively. We expect the foreign currency gain/loss to continue to fluctuate as long as we continue to hold monetary assets and liabilities at those subsidiaries. 

Foreign Currency Translation Risk 

We have foreign currency translation risk related to the translation of our foreign subsidiaries' assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses from their respective functional currencies to the U.S. dollar at each reporting date. Fluctuations in exchange rates may impact the amount of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses we report on our consolidated balance sheets and consolidated statements of income. The financial statements of those foreign subsidiaries with functional currencies other than the U.S. dollar are translated into U.S. dollars using a current exchange rate. Gains and losses resulting from this translation are recognized as a foreign currency translation adjustment within accumulated other comprehensive income, which is a component of shareholders' equity and comprehensive income. Aggregate translation gains (losses), net of tax, for 2018, 2017 and 2016 were $(2.5) million, $7.5 million and $(6.9) million, respectively. 

Foreign Currency Exchange Risk Related to Customer Collateral

A portion of performance bond deposits is denominated in various foreign currencies. We mark-to-market all deposits daily and require payment from clearing firms whose collateral has lost value due to changes in foreign currency rates and price. Therefore, our exposure to foreign currency risk related to performance bond deposits is considered minimal and is not expected to be material to our financial condition or operating results.

 48
ITEM 8.FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA