Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (“MD&A”) 

This discussion contains forward-looking statements that are based upon management’s current expectations and are subject to significant uncertainties and changes in circumstances. Please review “Part I—Item 1. Business—Forward-Looking Statements” for more information on the forward-looking statements in this 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K (“this Report”). Our actual results may differ materially from those included in these forward-looking statements due to a variety of factors including, but not limited to, those described in “Part I—Item 1A. Risk Factors” in this Report. Unless otherwise specified, references to notes to our consolidated financial statements refer to the notes to our consolidated financial statements as of December 31, 2018 included in this Report.

Management monitors a variety of key indicators to evaluate our business results and financial condition. The following MD&A is intended to provide the reader with an understanding of our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity by focusing on changes from year to year in certain key measures used by management to evaluate performance, such as profitability, growth and credit quality metrics. MD&A is provided as a supplement to, and should be read in conjunction with, our audited consolidated financial statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2018 and accompanying notes. MD&A is organized in the following sections:

• Executive Summary and Business Outlook • Capital Management

• Consolidated Results of Operations • Risk Management

• Consolidated Balance Sheets Analysis • Credit Risk Profile

• Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements • Liquidity Risk Profile

• Business Segment Financial Performance • Market Risk Profile

• Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates • Supplemental Tables

• Accounting Changes and Developments • Glossary and Acronyms

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY AND BUSINESS OUTLOOK

Financial Highlights

We reported net income of $6.0 billion ($11.82 per diluted common share) on total net revenue of $28.1 billion for 2018. In comparison, we reported net income of $2.0 billion ($3.49 per diluted common share) on total net revenue of $27.2 billion for 2017, and $3.8 billion ($6.89 per diluted common share) on total net revenue of $25.5 billion for 2016.

Our common equity Tier 1 capital ratio as calculated under the Basel III Standardized Approach, including transition provisions, was 11.2% and 10.3% as of December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. See “MD&A—Capital Management” below for additional information.

On June 28, 2018, we announced that our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $1.2 billion of shares of our common stock (“2018 Stock Repurchase Program”) beginning in the third quarter of 2018 through the end of the second quarter of 2019. We completed the 2018 Stock Repurchase Program in the fourth quarter of 2018. See “MD&A—Capital Management—Dividend Policy and Stock Purchases” for additional information.

Below are additional highlights of our performance in 2018. These highlights are generally based on a comparison between the results of 2018 and 2017, except as otherwise noted. The changes in our financial condition and credit performance are generally based on our financial condition and credit performance as of December 31, 2018 compared to our financial condition and credit performance as of December 31, 2017. 

 41Capital One Financial Corporation (COF)
Total Company Performance[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

◦lower income tax provision largely due to elevated charges associated with the impacts of the Tax Act in the fourth quarter of 2017 and a tax benefit related to a tax methodology change on rewards costs;

◦lower provision for credit losses driven by allowance releases in our domestic credit card and auto loan portfolios largely due to improvements in credit trends;

◦higher non-interest income largely due to the net gains from the sales of exited businesses including sale of our consumer home loan portfolio and an increase in net interchange fees primarily due to higher purchase volume, partially offset by an impairment charge as a result of repositioning our investment securities portfolio; and 

◦higher net interest income due to growth in our domestic credit card and auto loan portfolios and higher yields on interest-earning assets as a result of higher interest rates, partially offset by higher interest expense attributable to higher interest rates.

These drivers were partially offset by higher non-interest expense largely due to increased marketing expense and a legal reserve build. 

•Loans Held for Investment:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Our 30+ day delinquency rate increased by 36 basis points to 3.84% as of December 31, 2018 from December 31, 2017 primarily driven by the impact of lower loan balances from the sale of our consumer home loan portfolio and higher delinquencies in our auto loan portfolio. [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The allowance coverage ratio remained substantially flat at 2.94% as of December 31, 2018 as allowance releases in our domestic credit card and auto loan portfolios were offset by lower loan balances largely due to the sale of our consumer home loan portfolio.

Business Outlook 

We discuss below our current expectations regarding our total company performance and the performance of each of our business segments over the near-term based on market conditions, the regulatory environment and our business strategies as of the time this Report was filed. The statements contained in this section are based on our current expectations regarding our outlook for our financial results and business strategies. Our expectations take into account, and should be read in conjunction with, our expectations regarding economic trends and analysis of our business as discussed in “Part I—Item 1. Business” and “Part II—Item 7. MD&A” in this Report. Certain statements are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Actual results could differ materially from those in our forward-looking statements. Except as otherwise disclosed, forward-looking statements do not reflect:

•any change in current dividend or repurchase strategies;

 42Capital One Financial Corporation (COF)
•the effect of any acquisitions, divestitures or similar transactions that have not been previously disclosed; or

•any changes in laws, regulations or regulatory interpretations, in each case after the date as of which such statements are made.

See “Part I—Item 1. Business—Forward-Looking Statements” in this Report for more information on the forward-looking statements included in this Report and “Part I—Item 1A. Risk Factors” in this Report for factors that could materially influence our results.

Total Company Expectations

We expect that our full-year 2019 operating efficiency ratio, net of adjustments, will improve modestly, excluding the $225 million one-time Walmart launch and integration expenses. 

While efficiency ratio can vary in any given year, over the long term, we continue to believe that we will be able to achieve gradual efficiency improvement driven by growth and digital productivity gains. 

We believe we have sufficient capital and earnings to support growth, the Walmart portfolio acquisition, the phased-in impact of adopting CECL on January 1, 2020, as well as the potential for a meaningful capital distribution in the 2019 CCAR window.

We continue to believe increases in deposit costs and deposit product mix changes will have a negative impact on our net interest margin going forward.

Business Segment Expectations

Domestic Card: In our Domestic Card business, we expect to incur approximately $225 million in one-time expenses in 2019 to launch the new Walmart originations programs and integrate the acquired portfolio. We expect these costs will ramp up over the course of 2019.

We currently estimate the initial allowance build for the acquired Walmart portfolio will be approximately $120 million. The actual impact will depend on the amount and characteristics of the receivables as well as economic conditions and our loss forecasts at the acquisition date.

Consumer Banking: In our Consumer Banking business, we expect further increases in average deposit interest rate as product mix shift continues. Increasing competition for deposits will also put upward pressure on deposit rates.

Over the longer-term, we continue to expect that the charge-off rate in our auto finance business will increase gradually.

CONSOLIDATED RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

The section below provides a comparative discussion of our consolidated financial performance for 2018 and 2017. We provide a discussion of our business segment results in the following section, “MD&A—Business Segment Financial Performance.” You should read this section together with our “MD&A—Executive Summary and Business Outlook,” where we discuss trends and other factors that we expect will affect our future results of operations.

Net Interest Income

Net interest income represents the difference between the interest income, including certain fees, earned on our interest-earning assets and the interest expense paid on our interest-bearing liabilities. Interest-earning assets include loans, investment securities and other interest-earning assets, while our interest-bearing liabilities include interest-bearing deposits, securitized debt obligations, senior and subordinated notes, other borrowings and other interest-bearing liabilities. Generally, we include in interest income any past due fees on loans that we deem collectible. Our net interest margin, based on our consolidated results, represents the difference between the yield on our interest-earning assets and the cost of our interest-bearing liabilities, including the notional impact of non-interest-bearing funding. We expect net interest income and our net interest margin to fluctuate based on changes in interest rates and changes in the amount and composition of our interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities.

 43Capital One Financial Corporation (COF)
Table 1 below presents, for each major category of our interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities, the average outstanding balance, interest income earned, interest expense incurred and average yield for 2018, 2017 and 2016. Nonperforming loans are included in the average loan balances below. 

Table 1: Average Balances, Net Interest Income and Net Interest Margin

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]__________[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(2) Some of our commercial loans generate tax-exempt income. Accordingly, we present our Commercial Banking interest income and yields on a taxable- equivalent basis, calculated using the federal statutory rate (21% for 2018 and 35% for 2017 and 2016) and state taxes where applicable, with offsetting reductions to the Other category. Taxable-equivalent adjustments included in the interest income and yield computations for our Commercial banking loans totaled approximately $82 million, $129 million and $126 million in 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively, with corresponding reductions to Other category.

(3) Interest income and interest expense and the calculation of average yields on interest-earning assets and average rates on interest-bearing liabilities include the impact of hedge accounting. In the first quarter of 2018, we adopted Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) No. 2017-12, Derivatives and Hedging (Topic 815): Targeted Improvements to Accounting for Hedging Activities. As a result, interest income and interest expense amounts shown above for the year ended December 31, 2018 includes $2 million and $38 million, respectively, related to hedge ineffectiveness that would previously have been included in other non-interest income.

 44Capital One Financial Corporation (COF)
Net interest income increased by $415 million to $22.9 billion in 2018 compared to 2017, primarily driven by higher interest income due to growth in our domestic credit card and auto loan portfolios, and higher yields as a result of higher interest rates, partially offset by higher interest expense due to higher interest rates and the reduction in net interest income from the sale of our consumer home loan portfolio. 

Net interest margin decreased by 10 basis points to 6.87% in 2018 compared to 2017, primarily driven by higher interest expense due to higher interest rates, partially offset by product mix changes and higher yields in our interest-earning assets.

Net interest income increased by $1.6 billion to $22.5 billion in 2017 compared to 2016. Net interest margin increased by 19 basis points to 6.97% in 2017 compared to 2016. These increases were primarily driven by:

•growth in our credit card and commercial loan portfolios;

•higher yields as a result of higher interest rates;

•partially offset by higher interest expense due to the net effect of higher interest rates, as well as growth and mix changes in our interest-bearing liabilities.

Table 2 displays the change in our net interest income between periods and the extent to which the variance is attributable to:

•changes in the volume of our interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities; or

•changes in the interest rates related to these assets and liabilities.

Table 2: Rate/Volume Analysis of Net Interest Income(1) 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] __________

(1) We calculate the change in interest income and interest expense separately for each item. The portion of interest income or interest expense attributable to both volume and rate is allocated proportionately when the calculation results in a positive value. When the portion of interest income or interest expense attributable to both volume and rate results in a negative value, the total amount is allocated to volume or rate, depending on which amount is positive.

(2) Some of our commercial loans generate tax-exempt income. Accordingly, we present our Commercial Banking interest income and yields on a taxable- equivalent basis, calculated using the federal statutory rate (21% for 2018 and 35% for 2017 and 2016) and state taxes where applicable, with offsetting reductions to the Other category.

 45Capital One Financial Corporation (COF)
Non-Interest Income

Table 3 displays the components of non-interest income for 2018, 2017 and 2016. Certain prior period amounts have been recast to conform to the current period presentation.

Table 3: Non-Interest Income

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Non-interest income increased by $424 million to $5.2 billion in 2018 compared to 2017 primarily due to:

•the net gains from the sales of exited businesses including the sale of our consumer home loan portfolio; and

•an increase in net interchange fees primarily due to higher purchase volume.

These drivers are partially offset by an impairment charge as a result of repositioning our investment securities portfolio.

Non-interest income increased by $149 million to $4.8 billion in 2017 compared to 2016 primarily driven by:

•an increase in net interchange fees primarily due to higher purchase volume; and

•gains from the sale of investment securities as a result of portfolio repositioning.

Provision for Credit Losses

Our provision for credit losses in each period is driven by net charge-offs, changes to the allowance for loan and lease losses, and changes to the reserve for unfunded lending commitments. We recorded a provision for credit losses of $5.9 billion, $7.6 billion and $6.5 billion in 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively. The provision for credit losses as a percentage of net interest income was 25.6%, 33.6% and 30.9% in 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively.

Our provision for credit losses decreased by $1.7 billion in 2018 compared to 2017 primarily driven by allowance releases in our domestic credit card and auto loan portfolios largely due to improvements in credit trends.

Our provision for credit losses increased by $1.1 billion in 2017 compared to 2016 primarily driven by:

•higher charge-offs in our domestic credit card loan portfolio due to growth and portfolio seasoning; 

•higher charge-offs in our auto loan portfolio due to growth; and

•partially offset by lower provision in our commercial banking loan portfolio primarily driven by stabilizing industry conditions impacting our oil and gas lending portfolio compared to adverse industry conditions in the prior year.

We provide additional information on the provision for credit losses and changes in the allowance for loan and lease losses within “MD&A—Credit Risk Profile,” “Note 4—Loans” and “Note 5—Allowance for Loan and Lease Losses and Reserve for Unfunded Lending Commitments.” For information on the allowance methodology for each of our loan categories, see “Note 1—Summary of Significant Accounting Policies.” 

 46Capital One Financial Corporation (COF)
Non-Interest Expense

Table 4 displays the components of non-interest expense for 2018, 2017 and 2016. 

Table 4: Non-Interest Expense

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Non-interest expense increased by $708 million to $14.9 billion in 2018 compared to 2017 primarily due to higher marketing expense and a legal reserve build. 

Non-interest expense increased by $636 million to $14.2 billion in 2017 compared to 2016, primarily due to:

•higher operating expenses associated with loan growth, as well as continued investments in technology and infrastructure; 

•restructuring activities, which primarily consisted of severance and related benefits pursuant to our ongoing benefit programs, that are the result of exiting certain business activities and locations; and

•partially offset by lower marketing expenses and lower amortization of intangibles.

Income Taxes

We recorded income tax provisions of $1.3 billion (17.7% effective income tax rate), $3.4 billion (61.5% effective income tax rate) and $1.7 billion (31.3% effective income tax rate) in 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively. In the fourth quarter of 2018, we completed our assessment of the impacts of the Tax Act and there were no material adjustments made to the previously recorded charges of $1.8 billion in the fourth quarter 2017.

We recorded discrete tax benefits of $318 million in 2018 primarily driven by a tax benefit of $284 million related to a tax methodology change on rewards costs, discrete tax expenses of $1.7 billion in 2017 primarily consisting of the charges of $1.8 billion for the estimated impacts of the Tax Act, and discrete tax benefits of $2 million in 2016. Our effective income tax rate, excluding the impact of discrete tax items, was 22.0%, 29.9% and 31.3% in 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively.

 47Capital One Financial Corporation (COF)
The decrease in our income tax provision and effective income tax rate in 2018 compared to 2017 was primarily due to:

•discrete tax benefits in 2018 as compared to discrete tax expenses largely due to the charges of $1.8 billion in the fourth quarter of 2017 associated with the estimated impacts of the Tax Act; and

•decrease in the federal statutory tax rate from 35% to 21% as a result of the Tax Act.

These decreases were partially offset by higher income relative to our tax credits and higher non-deductible expenses.

The increase in our income tax provision and effective income tax rate in 2017 compared to 2016 was primarily due to charges of $1.8 billion associated with the impacts of the Tax Act, partially offset by a relative increase in the amount of tax credits and tax-exempt income.

We provide additional information on items affecting our income taxes and effective tax rate in “Note 16—Income Taxes.”

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS ANALYSIS

Total assets increased by $6.8 billion to $372.5 billion as of December 31, 2018 from December 31, 2017 primarily driven by an increase in investment securities and growth in our commercial, auto and domestic credit card portfolios, partially offset by the sale of our consumer home loan portfolio.

Total liabilities increased by $3.9 billion to $320.9 billion as of December 31, 2018 from December 31, 2017 primarily driven by deposit growth, partially offset by lower securitized debt obligations due to maturities outpacing issuances.

Stockholders’ equity increased by $2.9 billion to $51.7 billion as of December 31, 2018 from December 31, 2017 primarily due to our net income of $6.0 billion in 2018, partially offset by stock repurchases and dividend payments to our stockholders.

The following is a discussion of material changes in the major components of our assets and liabilities during 2018. Period-end balance sheet amounts may vary from average balance sheet amounts due to liquidity and balance sheet management activities that are intended to support the adequacy of capital while managing our liquidity requirements, our customers and our market risk exposure in accordance with our risk appetite.

Investment Securities

Our investment securities portfolio consists primarily of the following: U.S. Treasury securities; U.S. government-sponsored enterprise or agency (“Agency”) and non-agency residential mortgage-backed securities (“RMBS”); Agency commercial mortgage-backed securities (“CMBS”); and other securities. Agency securities include Government National Mortgage Association (“Ginnie Mae”) guaranteed securities, Federal National Mortgage Association (“Fannie Mae”) and Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation (“Freddie Mac”) issued securities. The U.S. Treasury and Agency securities generally have high credit ratings and low credit risks, and our investments in U.S. Treasury and Agency securities represented 96% and 95% of our total investment portfolio, as of December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.

The fair value of our available for sale securities portfolio increased by $8.5 billion to $46.2 billion as of December 31, 2018 from December 31, 2017 primarily due to a one-time transfer of held to maturity securities to available for sale as a result of our adoption of ASU No. 2017-12. The fair value of our held to maturity securities portfolio increased by $7.2 billion to $36.6 billion as of December 31, 2018 from December 31, 2017 primarily driven by purchases in the second quarter of 2018 as we invested a portion of the proceeds from the sale of our consumer home loan portfolio into securities, partially offset by the one-time transfer to available to sale.

 48Capital One Financial Corporation (COF)
Table 5 presents the amortized cost, carrying value and fair value for the major categories of our investment securities portfolio as of December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016.

Table 5: Investment Securities

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]__________

(1)  Includes primarily supranational bonds, foreign government bonds and other asset-backed securities.

 49Capital One Financial Corporation (COF)
Loans Held for Investment

Total loans held for investment consists of both unsecuritized loans and loans held in our consolidated trusts. Table 6 summarizes the carrying value of our portfolio of loans held for investment by portfolio segment, the allowance for loan and lease losses, and net loan balance as of December 31, 2018 and 2017.

Table 6: Loans Held for Investment 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Loans held for investment decreased by $8.6 billion to $245.9 billion as of December 31, 2018 from December 31, 2017 primarily driven by the sale of our consumer home loan portfolio, partially offset by growth in our commercial, auto and domestic credit card portfolios.

We provide additional information on the composition of our loan portfolio and credit quality below in “MD&A—Credit Risk Profile,” “MD&A—Consolidated Results of Operations” and “Note 4—Loans.”

Funding Sources

Our primary source of funding comes from deposits, which provide a stable and relatively low cost of funds. In addition to deposits, we also raise funding through the issuance of securitized debt obligations and other debt. Other debt primarily consists of senior and subordinated notes, Federal Home Loan Banks (“FHLB”) advances secured by certain portions of our loan and securities portfolios, and federal funds purchased and securities loaned or sold under agreements to repurchase.

Table 7 provides the composition of our primary sources of funding as of December 31, 2018 and 2017.

Table 7: Funding Sources Composition 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]__________[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Total deposits increased by $6.1 billion to $249.8 billion as of December 31, 2018 from December 31, 2017 primarily driven by strong growth in our deposit products as a result of our national banking growth strategy in our Consumer Banking business, partially offset by a decrease in deposits from Commercial Banking business due to deposit customers rotating out of deposit products and into higher-yielding investments.

Securitized debt obligations decreased by $1.7 billion to $18.3 billion as of December 31, 2018 from December 31, 2017, as debt maturities exceeded issuances during the year ended of 2018.

Other debt remained substantially flat at $40.6 billion as of December 31, 2018. 

 50Capital One Financial Corporation (COF)
We provide additional information on our funding sources in “MD&A—Liquidity Risk Profile” and in “Note 9—Deposits and Borrowings.”

Deferred Tax Assets and Liabilities

Deferred tax assets and liabilities represent decreases or increases in taxes expected to be paid in the future because of future reversals of temporary differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities, as well as from net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. Deferred tax assets are recognized subject to management’s judgment that these future deductions are more likely than not to be realized. We evaluate the recoverability of these future tax deductions by assessing the adequacy of expected taxable income from all sources, including taxable income in carryback years, reversal of taxable temporary differences, forecasted operating earnings and available tax planning strategies. These sources of income rely heavily on estimates. We use our historical experience and our short and long-range business forecasts to provide insight.

Deferred tax assets, net of deferred tax liabilities and valuation allowances, were approximately $2.1 billion as of December 31, 2018, a decrease of $719 million from December 31, 2017. The decrease in our net deferred tax assets was primarily driven by a tax benefit of $284 million as a result of an approval from the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) related to a tax methodology change on rewards costs and the reversal of certain other items related to the sale of our consumer home loan portfolio. 

We have recorded valuation allowances of $245 million and $226 million as of December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. We expect to fully realize the 2018 net deferred tax asset amounts in future periods. If changes in circumstances lead us to change our judgment about our ability to realize deferred tax assets in future years, we will adjust our valuation allowances in the period that our change in judgment occurs and record a corresponding increase or charge to income.

We provide additional information on income taxes in “MD&A—Consolidated Results of Operations” and in “Note 16—Income Taxes.”

OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS 

In the ordinary course of business, we engage in certain activities that are not reflected on our consolidated balance sheets, generally referred to as off-balance sheet arrangements. These activities typically involve transactions with unconsolidated variable interest entities (“VIEs”) as well as other arrangements, such as letters of credit, loan commitments and guarantees, to meet the financing needs of our customers and support their ongoing operations. We provide additional information regarding these types of activities in “Note 6—Variable Interest Entities and Securitizations” and “Note 19—Commitments, Contingencies, Guarantees and Others.”

BUSINESS SEGMENT FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE

Our principal operations are organized for management reporting purposes into three major business segments, which are defined primarily based on the products and services provided or the type of customer served: Credit Card, Consumer Banking and Commercial Banking. The operations of acquired businesses have been integrated into our existing business segments. Certain activities that are not part of a segment, such as management of our corporate investment portfolio, asset/liability management by our centralized Corporate Treasury group and residual tax expense or benefit to arrive at the consolidated effective tax rate that is not assessed to our primary business segments, are included in the Other category.

The results of our individual businesses, which we report on a continuing operations basis, reflect the manner in which management evaluates performance and makes decisions about funding our operations and allocating resources. We may periodically change our business segments or reclassify business segment results based on modifications to our management reporting methodologies and changes in organizational alignment. Our business segment results are intended to reflect each segment as if it were a stand-alone business. We use an internal management and reporting process to derive our business segment results. Our internal management and reporting process employs various allocation methodologies, including funds transfer pricing, to assign certain balance sheet assets, deposits and other liabilities and their related revenue and expenses directly or indirectly attributable to each business segment. Total interest income and non-interest income are directly attributable to the segment in which they are reported. The net interest income of each segment reflects the results of our funds transfer pricing process, which is primarily based on a matched maturity method that takes into consideration market interest rates. Our funds transfer pricing process provides a funds credit for sources of funds, such as deposits generated by our Consumer Banking and Commercial Banking businesses, and a charge for the use of funds by each segment. The allocation process is unique to each business segment and acquired businesses. 

 51Capital One Financial Corporation (COF)
We regularly assess the assumptions, methodologies and reporting classifications used for segment reporting, which may result in the implementation of refinements or changes in future periods.

We refer to the business segment results derived from our internal management accounting and reporting process as our “managed” presentation, which differs in some cases from our reported results prepared based on U.S. GAAP. There is no comprehensive authoritative body of guidance for management accounting equivalent to U.S. GAAP; therefore, the managed presentation of our business segment results may not be comparable to similar information provided by other financial services companies. In addition, our individual business segment results should not be used as a substitute for comparable results determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP.

We summarize our business segment results for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 and provide a comparative discussion of these results, as well as changes in our financial condition and credit performance metrics as of December 31, 2018 compared to December 31, 2017 and 2016. We provide a reconciliation of our total business segment results to our reported consolidated results in “Note 18—Business Segments and Revenue from Contracts with Customers.”

Business Segment Financial Performance

Table 8 summarizes our business segment results, which we report based on revenue and income from continuing operations, for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016. We provide information on the allocation methodologies used to derive our business segment results in “Note 18—Business Segments and Revenue from Contracts with Customers.”

Table 8: Business Segment Results 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

__________

(1) Total net revenue consists of net interest income and non-interest income.

(2) Net income for our business segments and the Other category is based on income from continuing operations, net of tax.

(3) Some of our commercial investments generate tax-exempt income, tax credits or other tax benefits. Accordingly, we present our Commercial Banking revenue and yields on a taxable-equivalent basis, calculated using the federal statutory tax rate (21% for 2018 and 35% for 2017 and 2016) and state taxes where applicable, with offsetting reductions to the Other category.  

(4) In the first quarter of 2018, we made a change in how revenue is measured in our Commercial Banking business to include the tax benefits of losses on certain tax-advantaged investments. These tax benefits are included in revenue on a taxable-equivalent basis within our Commercial Banking business, with an offsetting reduction to the Other category. In addition, all revenue presented on a taxable-equivalent basis in our Commercial Banking business was impacted by the reduction of the federal tax rate set forth in the Tax Act. The net impact of the measurement change and the reduction of the federal tax rate was a decrease of $126 million in revenue in our Commercial Banking business for the year ended December 31, 2018, with an offsetting impact to the Other category.

Credit Card Business

The primary sources of revenue for our Credit Card business are interest income, net interchange income and fees collected from customers. Expenses primarily consist of the provision for credit losses, operating costs and marketing expenses.

Our Credit Card business generated net income from continuing operations of $3.2 billion, $1.9 billion and $2.2 billion in 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively.

 52Capital One Financial Corporation (COF)
Table 9 summarizes the financial results of our Credit Card business and displays selected key metrics for the periods indicated.

Table 9: Credit Card Business Results

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]__________[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(2) Period-end loans held for investment and average loans held for investment include billed finance charges and fees, net of the estimated uncollectible amount.

(3) Average yield on loans held for investment is calculated by dividing interest income for the period by average loans held for investment during the period. Interest income excludes various allocations including funds transfer pricing that assigns certain balance sheet assets, deposits and other liabilities and their related revenue and expenses attributable to each business segment. 

(4) Total net revenue margin is calculated by dividing total net revenue for the period by average loans held for investment during the period. Interest income also includes interest income on loans held for sale. 

(5) Purchase volume consists of purchase transactions, net of returns, for the period, and excludes cash advance and balance transfer transactions.

(6) Within our credit card loan portfolio, only certain loans in our international card businesses are classified as nonperforming. See “MD&A—Nonperforming Loans and Other Nonperforming Assets” for additional information.

Key factors affecting the results of our Credit Card business for 2018 compared to 2017, and changes in financial condition and credit performance between December 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017 include the following:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

 53Capital One Financial Corporation (COF)
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•Loans Held for Investment: [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The 30+ day delinquency rate remained substantially flat at 4.01% as of December 31, 2018. 

Key factors affecting the results of our Credit Card business for 2017 compared to 2016, and changes in financial condition and credit performance between December 31, 2017 and December 31, 2016 include the following:

•Net Interest Income: Net interest income increased by $1.0 billion to $13.6 billion in 2017 primarily driven by loan growth in our Domestic Card business.

•Non-Interest Income: Non-interest income was substantially flat at $3.3 billion in 2017 primarily driven by:

◦lower service charges and other customer-related fees, including the impact of the exit of our legacy payment protection products in our Domestic Card business during the first quarter of 2016; and

◦the absence of a gain recorded in the second quarter of 2016 related to the exchange of our ownership interest in Visa Europe with Visa Inc. as a result of Visa Inc.’s acquisition of Visa Europe.

These drivers were largely offset by an increase in net interchange fees primarily due to higher purchase volume.

•Provision for Credit Losses: The provision for credit losses increased by $1.1 billion to $6.1 billion in 2017 primarily driven by:

◦higher charge-offs in our domestic credit card loan portfolio due to growth and portfolio seasoning; and

◦a larger allowance build in our domestic credit card loan portfolio primarily due to increasing losses from recent vintages and portfolio seasoning.

•Non-Interest Expense: Non-interest expense increased by $213 million to $7.9 billion in 2017, primarily driven by higher operating expenses associated with loan growth and continued investments in technology and infrastructure.

This driver was partially offset by:

◦lower marketing expenses; and

◦lower amortization of intangibles.

•Loans Held for Investment: 

◦Period-end loans held for investment increased by $9.2 billion to $114.8 billion as of December 31, 2017 from December 31, 2016 primarily due to:

 54Capital One Financial Corporation (COF)
▪growth in our domestic credit card loan portfolio, largely driven by loans obtained in the Cabela’s acquisition; and

▪the impact of foreign exchange rates in our international card businesses driven by the weakening of the U.S. dollar in 2017.

◦Average loans held for investment increased by $6.9 billion to $103.5 billion in 2017 compared to 2016 primarily due to growth in our Domestic Card business.

•Net Charge-Off and Delinquency Metrics: The net charge-off rate increased by 79 basis points to 4.88% in 2017 compared to 2016 primarily driven by growth and seasoning of recent domestic credit card loan originations. The 30+ day delinquency rate increased by 5 basis points to 3.99% as of December 31, 2017 from December 31, 2016 primarily due to growth and seasoning of recent domestic credit card loan originations, partially offset by loans obtained in the Cabela’s acquisition.

Domestic Card Business

The Domestic Card business generated net income from continuing operations of $3.0 billion, $1.7 billion and $2.1 billion in 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively. In 2018, 2017 and 2016, Domestic Card accounted for greater than 90% of total net revenue of our Credit Card business.

Table 9.1 summarizes the financial results for Domestic Card and displays selected key metrics for the periods indicated.

Table 9.1: Domestic Card Business Results

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]__________

(1) We recognize billed finance charges and fee income on open-ended loans in accordance with the contractual provisions of the credit arrangements and estimate the uncollectible amount on a quarterly basis. The estimated uncollectible amount of billed finance charges and fees is reflected as a reduction in revenue and is not included in our net charge-offs.

(2) Period-end loans held for investment and average loans held for investment include billed finance charges and fees, net of the estimated uncollectible amount.

 55Capital One Financial Corporation (COF)
(3) Average yield on loans held for investment is calculated by dividing interest income for the period by average loans held for investment during the period. Interest income excludes various allocations including funds transfer pricing that assigns certain balance sheet assets, deposits and other liabilities and their related revenue and expenses attributable to each business segment. 

(4) Total net revenue margin is calculated by dividing total net revenue for the period by average loans held for investment during the period.

(5) Purchase volume consists of purchase transactions, net of returns, for the period, and excludes cash advance and balance transfer transactions.

Because our Domestic Card business accounts for the substantial majority of our Credit Card business, the key factors driving the results are similar to the key factors affecting our total Credit Card business. Net income for our Domestic Card business increased in 2018 compared to 2017 primarily driven by:

•lower provision for credit losses; 

•higher net interest income primarily driven by loan growth, including loans obtained in the Cabela’s acquisition; and

•higher non-interest income driven by an increase in net interchange fees primarily due to higher purchase volume.

These drivers were partially offset by higher non-interest expense primarily driven by increased marketing expense as well as higher operating expenses associated with continued investments in technology and infrastructure.

Net income for our Domestic Card business decreased in 2017 compared to 2016 primarily driven by:

•higher provision for credit losses; and

•higher operating expenses associated with loan growth and continued investments in technology and infrastructure.

These drivers were partially offset by:

•higher net interest income primarily driven by loan growth; and

•lower marketing expenses.

Consumer Banking Business

The primary sources of revenue for our Consumer Banking business are net interest income from loans and deposits and non-interest income from service charges and customer-related fees. Expenses primarily consist of the provision for credit losses, operating costs and marketing expenses.

Our Consumer Banking business generated net income from continuing operations of $1.8 billion, $1.1 billion and $870 million in 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively.

 56Capital One Financial Corporation (COF)
Table 10 summarizes the financial results of our Consumer Banking business and displays selected key metrics for the periods indicated.

Table 10: Consumer Banking Business Results 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

__________

(1) In 2018, we sold all of our consumer home loan portfolio and the related servicing. The impact of this sale is reflected in the Other category for the year ended 2018.

(2) Average yield on loans held for investment is calculated by dividing interest income for the period by average loans held for investment during the period. Interest income excludes various allocations including funds transfer pricing that assigns certain balance sheet assets, deposits and other liabilities and their related revenue and expenses attributable to each business segment. 

(3) Nonperforming assets consist of nonperforming loans, real estate owned (“REO”) and other foreclosed assets. The total nonperforming asset rate is calculated based on total nonperforming assets divided by the combined period-end total loans held for investment, REO and other foreclosed assets.

**Not meaningful.

 57Capital One Financial Corporation (COF)
Key factors affecting the results of our Consumer Banking business for 2018 compared to 2017, and changes in financial condition and credit performance between December 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017 include the following:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Consumer Banking loan yield increased by 87 basis points to 7.54% in 2018 compared to 2017. The increase was primarily driven by:

◦changes in product mix as a result of the sale of our consumer home loan portfolio; and 

◦higher yields as a result of higher interest rates.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

◦lower mortgage banking revenue as a result of our decision to cease new originations of home loan lending products in the fourth quarter of 2017; and

◦a mortgage representation and warranty reserve release in the first quarter of 2017.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

◦lower operating expenses due to our decision to cease new originations of home loan lending products in the fourth quarter of 2017 and the sale of our consumer home loan portfolio in 2018; and

◦operating efficiencies in our retail banking business.

These drivers were largely offset by higher operating expenses driven by growth in our auto loan portfolio.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The 30+ day delinquency rate increased by 202 basis points to 7.36% as of December 31, 2018 from December 31, 2017 primarily driven by lower loan balances due to the sale of our consumer home loan portfolio and higher auto delinquency inventories, partially offset by growth in our auto loan portfolio.

Key factors affecting the results of our Consumer Banking business for 2017 compared to 2016, and changes in financial condition and credit performance between December 31, 2017 and December 31, 2016 include the following:

•Net Interest Income: Net interest income increased by $551 million to $6.4 billion in 2017 primarily driven by growth in our auto loan portfolio and higher deposit volumes and margins in our retail banking business.

Consumer Banking loan yield increased by 33 basis points to 6.7% in 2017 compared to 2016. The increase was primarily driven by changes in the product mix in Consumer Banking as a result of growth in our auto loan portfolio and run-off of our acquired home loan portfolio.

 58Capital One Financial Corporation (COF)
•Non-Interest Income: Non-interest income was substantially flat at $749 million in 2017 as a mortgage representation and warranty reserve release in the first quarter of 2017 had a similar impact as the customer rewards reserve release within our retail banking business in the first quarter of 2016 related to the discontinuation of certain debit card and deposit products.

•Provision for Credit Losses: The provision for credit losses increased by $125 million to $1.2 billion in 2017 primarily driven by higher losses in our auto loan portfolio due to growth.

•Non-Interest Expense: Non-interest expense increased by $94 million to $4.2 billion in 2017 primarily due to higher operating expenses driven by growth in our auto loan portfolio and continued investment in technology and infrastructure, partially offset by operating efficiencies.

•Loans Held for Investment: Period-end loans held for investment increased by $2.0 billion to $75.1 billion as of December 31, 2017 from December 31, 2016, and average loans held for investment increased by $3.2 billion to $74.6 billion in 2017 compared to 2016. These increases were due to growth in our auto loan portfolio, partially offset by run-off of our acquired home loan portfolio.

•Deposits: Period-end deposits increased by $3.9 billion to $185.8 billion as of December 31, 2017 from December 31, 2016.

•Net Charge-Off and Delinquency Metrics: The net charge-off rate increased by 24 basis points to 1.39% in 2017 compared to 2016. This increase was primarily driven by:

◦higher losses in our auto loan portfolio due to changes in our charge-off practices for certain bankrupt accounts and growth; and

◦a greater portion of auto loans in our total consumer banking loan portfolio, which generally have higher charge-off rates than other products within this portfolio.

The 30+ day delinquency rate increased by 67 basis points to 5.34% as of December 31, 2017 from December 31, 2016 primarily attributable to higher auto delinquency inventories.

Commercial Banking Business

The primary sources of revenue for our Commercial Banking business are net interest income from loans and deposits and non-interest income from customer fees and other products and services. Because our Commercial Banking business has loans and investments that generate tax-exempt income, tax credits or other tax benefits, we present the revenues on a taxable-equivalent basis. Expenses primarily consist of the provision for credit losses, operating costs and marketing expenses.

Our Commercial Banking business generated net income from continuing operations of $889 million, $676 million and $575 million in 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively. 

 59Capital One Financial Corporation (COF)
Table 11 summarizes the financial results of our Commercial Banking business and displays selected key metrics for the periods indicated.

Table 11: Commercial Banking Business Results

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]__________

(1) Some of our commercial investments generate tax-exempt income, tax credits or other tax benefits. Accordingly, we present our Commercial Banking revenue and yields on a taxable-equivalent basis, calculated using the federal statutory tax rate (21% for 2018 and 35% for 2017 and 2016) and state taxes where applicable, with offsetting reductions to the Other category.

(2) In the first quarter of 2018, we made a change in how revenue is measured in our Commercial Banking business to include the tax benefits of losses on certain tax-advantaged investments. These tax benefits are included in revenue on a taxable-equivalent basis within our Commercial Banking business, with an offsetting reduction to the Other category. In addition, all revenue presented on a taxable-equivalent basis in our Commercial Banking business was impacted by the reduction of the federal tax rate set forth in the Tax Act. The net impact of the measurement change and the reduction of the federal tax rate 

 60Capital One Financial Corporation (COF)
was a decrease of $126 million in revenue in our Commercial Banking business for the year ended December 31, 2018, with an offsetting impact to the Other category.  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(4) Average yield on loans held for investment is calculated by dividing interest income for the period by average loans held for investment during the period. Interest income excludes various allocations including funds transfer pricing that assigns certain balance sheet assets, deposits and other liabilities and their related revenue and expenses attributable to each business segment.

(5) Nonperforming assets consist of nonperforming loans, REO and other foreclosed assets. The total nonperforming asset rate is calculated based on total nonperforming assets divided by the combined period-end total loans held for investment, REO and other foreclosed assets.

Key factors affecting the results of our Commercial Banking business for 2018 compared to 2017, and changes in financial condition and credit performance between December 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017 include the following:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•Loans Held for Investment: [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The nonperforming loan rate remained flat at 0.44% as of December 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017.

Key factors affecting the results of our Commercial Banking business for 2017 compared to 2016, and changes in financial condition and credit performance between December 31, 2017 and December 31, 2016 include the following:

•Net Interest Income: Net interest income was substantially flat at $2.3 billion in 2017.

•Non-Interest Income: Non-interest income increased by $130 million to $708 million in 2017 primarily driven by:

◦higher revenue from our commercial investments that generate tax credits; and

◦higher service charges and other customer-related fees as a result of increased activity across a broad range of products and services provided to our commercial customers.

•Provision for Credit Losses: The provision for credit losses decreased by $182 million to $301 million in 2017 primarily driven by stabilizing industry conditions impacting our oil and gas lending portfolio compared to adverse industry conditions in the prior year.

•Non-Interest Expense: Non-interest expense increased by $196 million to $1.6 billion in 2017 primarily driven by higher operating expenses associated with growth and continued investments in technology and other business initiatives.

 61Capital One Financial Corporation (COF)
•Loans Held for Investment: Period-end loans held for investment decreased by $2.3 billion to $64.6 billion as of December 31, 2017 from December 31, 2016 primarily due to:

◦paydowns in our commercial and industrial loan portfolios;

◦charge-offs in our taxi medallion lending portfolio; and

◦the transfer of the substantial majority of our remaining taxi medallion lending portfolio from loans held for investment to loans held for sale.

Average loans held for investment increased by $2.2 billion to $67.4 billion in 2017 compared to 2016 primarily driven by growth across our commercial loan portfolios.

•Deposits: Period-end deposits were substantially flat at $33.9 billion as of December 31, 2017.

•Net Charge-Off and Nonperforming Metrics: The net charge-off rate increased by 24 basis points to 0.69% in 2017 compared to 2016 primarily driven by higher charge-offs in our taxi medallion lending portfolio resulting from declines in taxi medallion values.

The nonperforming loan rate decreased by 109 basis points to 0.44% as of December 31, 2017 from December 31, 2016 primarily due to:

◦a combination of improved credit risk ratings, charge-offs and paydowns in our oil and gas portfolio; and

◦charge-offs in our taxi medallion lending portfolio resulting from declines in taxi medallion values and the impact of transferring the substantial majority of our remaining taxi medallion lending portfolio, which was downgraded to nonperforming classification in the third quarter of 2017, from loans held for investment to loans held for sale. 

Other Category

Other includes unallocated amounts related to our centralized Corporate Treasury group activities, such as management of our corporate investment portfolio, asset/liability management and certain capital management activities. Other also includes:

•foreign exchange-rate fluctuations on foreign currency-denominated balances;

•unallocated corporate revenue and expenses that do not directly support the operations of the business segments or for which the business segments are not considered financially accountable in evaluating their performance, such as certain restructuring charges;

•offsets related to certain line-item reclassifications; and

•residual tax expense or benefit to arrive at the consolidated effective tax rate that is not assessed to our primary business segments.

 62Capital One Financial Corporation (COF)
Table 12 summarizes the financial results of our Other category for the periods indicated.

Table 12: Other Category Results

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]__________

(1) Some of our commercial investments generate tax-exempt income, tax credits or other tax benefits. Accordingly, we present our Commercial Banking revenue and yields on a taxable-equivalent basis, calculated using the federal statutory tax rate (21% for 2018 and 35% for 2017 and 2016) and state taxes where applicable, with offsetting reductions to the Other category. 

(2) In the first quarter of 2018, we made a change in how revenue is measured in our Commercial Banking business to include the tax benefits of losses on certain tax-advantaged investments. These tax benefits are included in revenue on a taxable-equivalent basis within our Commercial Banking business, with an offsetting reduction to the Other category. In addition, all revenue presented on a taxable-equivalent basis in our Commercial Banking business was impacted by the reduction of the federal tax rate set forth in the Tax Act. The net impact of the measurement change and the reduction of the federal tax rate was a decrease of $126 million in revenue in our Commercial Banking business for the year ended December 31, 2018, with an offsetting impact to the Other category.

**Not meaningful.

Net income from continuing operations recorded in the Other category was $145 million in 2018 compared to net loss of $1.6 billion in 2017. The income in 2018 was primarily driven by net gains from the sales of exited businesses, including gains of $499 million on the sale of our consumer home loan portfolio and a tax benefit of $284 million related to a tax methodology change on rewards costs.

The net gains were partially offset by:

•an impairment charge as a result of repositioning our investment securities portfolio; and 

•a legal reserve build.

Net loss from continuing operations recorded in the Other category was $1.6 billion in 2017 compared to net income of $165 million in 2016. The loss in 2017 was primarily driven by:

•charges associated with the estimated impacts of the Tax Act; and 

•higher operating expenses associated with restructuring activities, which primarily consisted of severance and related benefits pursuant to our ongoing benefit programs, that are the result of exiting certain business activities and locations, as well as the realignment of resources supporting our businesses.

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES

The preparation of financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP requires management to make a number of judgments, estimates and assumptions that affect the amount of assets, liabilities, income and expenses on the consolidated financial statements. Understanding our accounting policies and the extent to which we use management judgment and estimates in applying these policies is integral to understanding our financial statements. We provide a summary of our significant accounting policies under “Note 1—Summary of Significant Accounting Policies.”

 63Capital One Financial Corporation (COF)
We have identified the following accounting policies as critical because they require significant judgments and assumptions about highly complex and inherently uncertain matters and the use of reasonably different estimates and assumptions could have a material impact on our results of operations or financial condition. These critical accounting policies govern:

•Loan loss reserves

•Asset impairment

•Fair value of financial instruments

•Customer rewards reserve

We evaluate our critical accounting estimates and judgments on an ongoing basis and update them as necessary based on changing conditions. Management has discussed our critical accounting policies and estimates with the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors.

Loan Loss Reserves

We maintain an allowance for loan and lease losses that represents management’s estimate of incurred loan and lease losses inherent in our credit card, consumer banking and commercial banking loans held for investment as of each balance sheet date. We also separately reserve for binding unfunded lending commitments, letters of credit and financial guarantees. We build our allowance for loan and lease losses and reserve for unfunded lending commitments through the provision for credit losses, which is driven by charge-offs, changes in the allowance for loan and lease losses and changes in the reserve for unfunded lending commitments. The allowance totaled $7.2 billion as of December 31, 2018, compared to $7.5 billion as of December 31, 2017.

We have an established process, using analytical tools and management judgment, to determine our allowance for loan and lease losses. At least quarterly, the Chief Risk Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Controller and representatives from Finance and Risk Management review and assess our allowance methodologies and the adequacy of the allowance for loan and lease losses. This assessment involves evaluating many factors including, but not limited to, historical loss and recovery experience, recent trends in delinquencies and charge-offs, risk ratings, the impact of bankruptcy filings, the value of collateral underlying secured loans, account seasoning, changes in our credit evaluation, underwriting and collection management policies, seasonality, general economic conditions, changes in the legal and regulatory environment and uncertainties in forecasting and modeling techniques used in estimating our allowance for loan and lease losses. Key factors that have a significant impact on our allowance for loan and lease losses include assumptions about unemployment rates, home prices and the valuation of commercial properties, consumer real estate, automobiles and other collateral.

In addition to the allowance for loan and lease losses, we review and assess our estimate of probable losses related to binding unfunded lending commitments, such as letters of credit and financial guarantees, and unfunded loan commitments on a quarterly basis. The factors impacting our assessment generally align with those considered in our evaluation of the allowance for loan and lease losses for the Commercial Banking business. Changes to the reserve for losses on unfunded lending commitments are recorded through the provision for credit losses in the consolidated statements of income and to other liabilities on the consolidated balance sheets.

Although we examine a variety of externally available data, as well as our internal loan performance data, to determine our allowance for loan and lease losses and reserve for unfunded lending commitments, our estimation process is subject to risks and uncertainties, including a reliance on historical loss and trend information that may not be representative of current conditions and indicative of future performance. Accordingly, our actual credit loss experience may not be in line with our expectations. We provide additional information on the methodologies and key assumptions used in determining our allowance for loan and lease losses for each of our loan portfolio segments in “Note 1—Summary of Significant Accounting Policies.” We provide information on the components of our allowance, disaggregated by impairment methodology, and changes in our allowance in “Note 5—Allowance for Loan and Lease Losses and Reserve for Unfunded Lending Commitments.”

Finance Charge and Fee Reserves

Finance charges and fees on credit card loans are recorded in revenue when earned. Billed finance charges and fees on credit card loans are included in loan receivables net of amounts that we consider uncollectible. Unbilled finance charges and fees on credit card loans are included in interest receivable. We continue to accrue finance charges and fees on credit card loans until the account is charged-off. However, when we do not expect full payment of billed finance charges and fees, we reduce the balance of our 

 64Capital One Financial Corporation (COF)
credit card loan receivables and revenue by the amount of finance charges and fees billed but not expected to be collected. Total net revenue was reduced by $1.3 billion, $1.4 billion and $1.1 billion in 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively, for the estimated uncollectible amount of billed finance charges and fees. The finance charge and fee reserve totaled $468 million and $491 million as of December 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively.

We review and assess the adequacy of the uncollectible finance charge and fee reserve on a quarterly basis. Our methodology for estimating the uncollectible portion of billed finance charges and fees is consistent with the methodology we use to estimate the allowance for incurred losses on the principal portion of our credit card loan receivables.

Asset Impairment

In addition to our loan portfolio, we review other assets for impairment on a regular basis in accordance with applicable accounting guidance. This process requires significant management judgment and involves various estimates and assumptions. Below we describe our process for assessing impairment of goodwill and intangible assets and the key estimates and assumptions involved in this process.

Goodwill and Intangible Assets

Goodwill represents the excess of the fair value of the consideration transferred, plus the fair value of any non-controlling interests in the acquiree, over the fair value of the net assets acquired and liabilities assumed as of the acquisition date. Intangible assets, which we report on our consolidated balance sheets as a component of other assets, consist primarily of purchased credit card relationships (“PCCR”) and other intangibles. 

Goodwill totaled $14.5 billion as of both December 31, 2018 and 2017. The net carrying amount of intangible assets decreased to $254 million as of December 31, 2018, from $421 million as of December 31, 2017 primarily due to amortization. We did not recognize any goodwill impairment in 2018, 2017 or 2016. See “Note 7—Goodwill and Intangible Assets” for additional information.

Goodwill

We perform our goodwill impairment test annually on October 1 at a reporting unit level. We are also required to test goodwill for impairment whenever events or circumstances make it more-likely-than-not that impairment may have occurred. We have four reporting units: Credit Card, Auto, Other Consumer Banking and Commercial Banking.

The goodwill impairment test is a two-step process. The first step involves a comparison of the estimated fair value of a reporting unit to its carrying amount, including goodwill. If the estimated fair value exceeds its carrying amount, goodwill of the reporting unit is not impaired. If the estimated fair value of a reporting unit is below its carrying amount, management must estimate the fair value of the assets and liabilities of that reporting unit’s balance sheet based on applicable accounting guidance in order to measure the impairment.

For the purpose of our goodwill impairment testing, we calculate the carrying amount of a reporting unit using an allocated capital approach based on each reporting unit’s specific regulatory capital requirements, economic capital requirements, and underlying risks. The carrying amount for a reporting unit is the sum of its respective capital requirements, goodwill and intangibles balances. We then compare the carrying amount to our total consolidated stockholders’ equity to assess the reasonableness of our methodology. The total carrying amount of our four reporting units was $43.3 billion, as compared to consolidated stockholder’s equity of $50.6 billion as of October 1, 2018. The $7.3 billion excess in consolidated stockholder’s equity was primarily attributable to capital allocated to our Other category and other future capital needs such as dividends or other strategic initiatives.

Determining the fair value of a reporting unit and the associated assets, liabilities and intangible assets, is a subjective process that requires the use of estimates and the exercise of significant judgment. We calculated the fair value of our reporting units using a discounted cash flow (“DCF”) calculation, a form of the income approach. This income approach calculation used projected cash flows based on each reporting unit’s internal forecast and the perpetuity growth method to calculate terminal values. Our DCF analysis required management to make estimates about future loan, deposit and revenue growth, as well as credit losses and capital rates. These cash flows and terminal values were then discounted using discount rates based on our external cost of capital with adjustments for the risk inherent in each reporting unit. The reasonableness of the DCF approach was assessed by reference to a market-based approach using comparable market multiples and recent market transactions where available. The results of the 2018 annual impairment test for the Credit Card, Auto, Other Consumer Banking and Commercial Banking reporting units indicated that the estimated fair values of these four reporting units substantially exceeded their carrying amounts.

 65Capital One Financial Corporation (COF)
Assumptions used in estimating the fair value of a reporting unit are judgmental and inherently uncertain. A significant change in the economic conditions of a reporting unit, such as declines in business performance, increases in credit losses, increases in capital requirements, deterioration of market conditions, adverse impacts of regulatory or legislative changes or increases in the estimated cost of capital, could cause the estimated fair values of our reporting units to decline in the future, and increase the risk of a goodwill impairment in a future period.

Intangible Assets

Intangible assets with definitive useful lives are amortized over their estimated lives and evaluated for potential impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances suggest that an asset’s or asset group’s carrying amount may not be fully recoverable. An impairment loss is recognized if the sum of the estimated undiscounted cash flows relating to the asset or asset group is less than the corresponding carrying amount. There were no meaningful impairments of intangible assets in 2018 and 2017. We recorded an impairment charge of $17 million in 2016 related primarily to our brokerage relationship intangibles.

See “Note 7—Goodwill and Intangible Assets” for additional information.

Fair Value

Fair value, also referred to as an exit price, is defined as the price that would be received for an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants on the measurement date. The fair value accounting guidance provides a three-level fair value hierarchy for classifying financial instruments. This hierarchy is based on the markets in which the assets or liabilities trade and whether the inputs to the valuation techniques used to measure fair value are observable or unobservable. The fair value measurement of a financial asset or liability is assigned a level based on the lowest level of any input that is significant to the fair value measurement in its entirety. The three levels of the fair value hierarchy are described below:

Level 1: Valuation is based on quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. 

Level 2: Valuation is based on observable market-based inputs other than Level 1 prices, such as quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities, quoted prices in markets that are not active, or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data for substantially the full term of the assets or liabilities. 

Level 3: Valuation is generated from techniques that use significant assumptions not observable in the market. Valuation techniques include pricing models, discounted cash flow methodologies or similar techniques. 

The degree of management judgment involved in determining the fair value of a financial instrument is dependent upon the availability of quoted prices in active markets or observable market parameters. When quoted prices and observable data in active markets are not fully available, management judgment is necessary to estimate fair value. Changes in market conditions, such as reduced liquidity in the capital markets or changes in secondary market activities, may reduce the availability and reliability of quoted prices or observable data used to determine fair value.

We have developed policies and procedures to determine when markets for our financial assets and liabilities are inactive if the level and volume of activity has declined significantly relative to normal conditions. If markets are determined to be inactive, it may be appropriate to adjust price quotes received. When significant adjustments are required to price quotes or inputs, it may be appropriate to utilize an estimate based primarily on unobservable inputs.

Significant judgment may be required to determine whether certain financial instruments measured at fair value are classified as Level 2 or Level 3. In making this determination, we consider all available information that market participants use to measure the fair value of the financial instrument, including observable market data, indications of market liquidity and orderliness, and our understanding of the valuation techniques and significant inputs used. Based upon the specific facts and circumstances of each instrument or instrument category, judgments are made regarding the significance of the Level 3 inputs to the instruments’ fair value measurement in its entirety. If Level 3 inputs are considered significant, the instrument is classified as Level 3. The process for determining fair value using unobservable inputs is generally more subjective and involves a high degree of management judgment and assumptions. We discuss changes in the valuation inputs and assumptions used in determining the fair value of our financial instruments, including the extent to which we have relied on significant unobservable inputs to estimate fair value and our process for corroborating these inputs, in “Note 17—Fair Value Measurement.”

We have a governance framework and a number of key controls that are intended to ensure that our fair value measurements are appropriate and reliable. Our governance framework provides for independent oversight and segregation of duties. Our control 

 66Capital One Financial Corporation (COF)
processes include review and approval of new transaction types, price verification, and review of valuation judgments, methods, models, process controls and results.

Groups independent of our trading and investing functions participate in the review and validation process. Tasks performed by these groups include periodic verification of fair value measurements to determine if assigned fair values are reasonable, including comparing prices from vendor pricing services to other available market information.

Our Fair Value Committee (“FVC”), which includes representation from business areas, Risk Management and Finance, provides guidance and oversight to ensure an appropriate valuation control environment. The FVC regularly reviews and approves our fair valuations to ensure that our valuation practices are consistent with industry standards and adhere to regulatory and accounting guidance.

We have a model policy, established by an independent Model Risk Office, which governs the validation of models and related supporting documentation to ensure the appropriate use of models for pricing and fair value measurements. The Model Risk Office validates all models and provides ongoing monitoring of their performance.

The fair value governance process is set up in a manner that allows the Chairperson of the FVC to escalate valuation disputes that cannot be resolved by the FVC to a more senior committee called the Valuations Advisory Committee (“VAC”) for resolution. The VAC is chaired by the Chief Financial Officer and includes other members of senior management. The VAC convenes to review escalated valuation disputes.

Customer Rewards Reserve

We offer products, primarily credit cards, which include programs that allow members to earn rewards based on account activity that can be redeemed for cash (primarily in the form of statement credits), gift cards, travel, or covering eligible charges. The amount of rewards that a customer earns varies based on the terms and conditions of the rewards program and product. The majority of our rewards do not expire and there is no limit on the amount of rewards an eligible card member can earn. Customer rewards costs, which we generally record as an offset to interchange income, are driven by various factors such as card member purchase volume, the terms and conditions of the rewards program and rewards redemption cost. We establish a customer rewards reserve that reflects management’s judgment regarding rewards earned that are expected to be redeemed and the estimated redemption cost.

We use financial models to estimate ultimate redemption rates of rewards earned to date by current card members based on historical redemption trends, current enrollee redemption behavior, card product type, year of program enrollment, enrollment tenure and card spend levels. Our current assumption is that the vast majority of all rewards earned will eventually be redeemed. We use a weighted-average redemption cost during the previous twelve months, adjusted as appropriate for recent changes in redemption costs, including the mix of rewards redeemed, to estimate future redemption costs. We continually evaluate our reserve and assumptions based on developments in redemption patterns, changes to the terms and conditions of the rewards program and other factors. We recognized customer rewards expense of $4.4 billion, $3.7 billion and $3.2 billion in 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively. Our customer rewards reserve, which is included in other liabilities on our consolidated balance sheets, totaled $4.3 billion and $3.9 billion as of December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.

ACCOUNTING CHANGES AND DEVELOPMENTS

See “Note 1—Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” for information on the accounting standards we adopted in 2018 and the expected impacts of accounting standards issued but not adopted as of December 31, 2018.

CAPITAL MANAGEMENT

The level and composition of our capital are determined by multiple factors, including our consolidated regulatory capital requirements and internal risk-based capital assessments such as internal stress testing and economic capital. The level and composition of our capital may also be influenced by rating agency guidelines, subsidiary capital requirements, business environment, conditions in the financial markets and assessments of potential future losses due to adverse changes in our business and market environments.

 67Capital One Financial Corporation (COF)
Capital Standards and Prompt Corrective Action

We are subject to capital adequacy standards adopted by the Federal Banking Agencies, including the Basel III Capital Rule. Moreover, the Banks, as insured depository institutions, are subject to PCA capital regulations.

We entered parallel run under Basel III Advanced Approaches on January 1, 2015, during which we are required to calculate capital ratios under both the Basel III Standardized Approach and the Basel III Advanced Approaches, though we continue to use the Standardized Approach for purposes of meeting regulatory capital requirements. Under the Basel III Capital Rule, when we complete our parallel run for the Advanced Approaches, our minimum risk-based capital requirement will be determined by the greater of our risk-weighted assets under the Basel III Standardized Approach and the Basel III Advanced Approaches. Once we exit parallel run, based on clarification of the Basel III Capital Rule from our regulators, any amount by which our expected credit losses exceed eligible credit reserves, as each term is defined under the Basel III Capital Rule, will be deducted from our Basel III Standardized Approach numerator, subject to transition provisions. Inclusive of this impact, based on current capital rules and our business mix, we estimate that our Basel III Advanced Approaches ratios will be lower than our Basel III Standardized Approach ratios. However, there is uncertainty whether this will remain the case in light of potential changes to the United States capital rules. 

The Basel III Capital Rule also introduced the supplementary leverage ratio for all Advanced Approaches banking organizations with a minimum requirement of 3.0%. The supplementary leverage ratio compares Tier 1 capital to total leverage exposure, which includes all on-balance sheet assets and certain off-balance sheet exposures, including derivatives and unused commitments. Given that we are in our Basel III Advanced Approaches parallel run, we calculate the ratio based on Tier 1 capital under the Standardized Approach. The minimum requirement for the supplementary leverage ratio became effective as of January 1, 2018. 

The Market Risk Rule supplements both the Basel III Standardized Approach and the Basel III Advanced Approaches by requiring institutions subject to the Market Risk Rule to adjust their risk-based capital ratios to reflect the market risk in their trading portfolios. As of December 31, 2018, the Company and CONA are subject to the Market Risk Rule. See “MD&A—Market Risk Profile” below for additional information.

In October 2018, the Federal Banking Agencies proposed to provide tailored requirements for certain of the capital rules for different categories of banking institutions. As proposed, these categories would be determined by an institution’s asset size, with adjustments to a more stringent category possible if the institution meets certain other thresholds. As a BHC with total consolidated assets of at least $250 billion, we would be a Category III institution under the Tailoring Proposed Rule. As such, we would no longer be subject to the Basel III Advanced Approaches and certain associated capital requirements, although we would remain subject to the countercyclical capital buffer and supplementary leverage ratio, which are currently required only for Basel III Advanced Approaches institutions. The financial and operational impact on us of the Tailoring Proposed Rule remains uncertain until a final rule is published. 

In December 2018, the Federal Banking Agencies issued a final rule to address regulatory capital treatment under the CECL model. The CECL model will be applicable to Capital One as of January 1, 2020. The CECL Capital Rule revises the Federal Banking Agencies’ regulatory capital rules to identify which credit loss allowances under the CECL model are eligible for inclusion in regulatory capital and to provide banking organizations the option to phase in over three years the day-one adverse effects on regulatory capital that may result from the adoption of the CECL model. The effects of the CECL Capital Rule on our capital requirements are currently uncertain.

 68Capital One Financial Corporation (COF)
Table 13 provides a comparison of our regulatory capital ratios under the Basel III Standardized Approach subject to the applicable transition provisions, the regulatory minimum capital adequacy ratios and the PCA well-capitalized level for each ratio, where applicable, as of December 31, 2018 and 2017.

Table 13: Capital Ratios under Basel III(1)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]__________

(1) Capital ratios are calculated based on the Basel III Standardized Approach framework, subject to applicable transition provisions, such as the inclusion of the unrealized gains and losses on securities available for sale included in AOCI and adjustments related to intangible assets other than goodwill. The inclusion of AOCI and the adjustments related to intangible assets are phased-in at 80% for 2017 and 100% for 2018. Capital requirements that are not applicable are denoted by “N/A.”

(2) Common equity Tier 1 capital ratio is a regulatory capital measure calculated based on common equity Tier 1 capital divided by risk-weighted assets.

(3) Tier 1 capital ratio is a regulatory capital measure calculated based on Tier 1 capital divided by risk-weighted assets.

(4) Total capital ratio is a regulatory capital measure calculated based on total capital divided by risk-weighted assets.

(5) Tier 1 leverage ratio is a regulatory capital measure calculated based on Tier 1 capital divided by adjusted average assets.

(6) Supplementary leverage ratio is a regulatory capital measure calculated based on Tier 1 capital divided by total leverage exposure.

 69Capital One Financial Corporation (COF)
Table 14 presents regulatory capital under Basel III Standardized Approach and regulatory capital metrics as of December 31, 2018 and 2017. 

Table 14: Regulatory Risk-Based Capital Components and Regulatory Capital Metrics 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

__________

(1) Amounts presented are net of tax.

(2) Amounts based on transition provisions for regulatory capital deductions and adjustments of 80% for 2017 and 100% for 2018.

The Company exceeded the minimum capital requirements and each of the Banks exceeded the minimum regulatory requirements and were well capitalized under PCA requirements as of both December 31, 2018 and 2017. 

The Basel III Capital Rule requires banks to maintain a capital conservation buffer, composed of common equity Tier 1 capital, of 2.5% above the regulatory minimum ratios. The capital conservation buffer was 1.875% in 2018 and is fully phased-in at 2.5% as of January 1, 2019.

For banks subject to the Advanced Approaches, including the Company and the Banks, the capital conservation buffer may be supplemented by an incremental countercyclical capital buffer of up to 2.5% composed of common equity Tier 1 capital and set at the discretion of the Federal Banking Agencies. As of December 31, 2018, the countercyclical capital buffer was zero percent in the United States. A determination to increase the countercyclical capital buffer generally would be effective twelve months after the announcement of such an increase, unless the Federal Banking Agencies set an earlier effective date.

For 2018, the minimum capital requirement plus capital conservation buffer and countercyclical capital buffer for common equity Tier 1 capital, Tier 1 capital and total capital ratios were 6.375%, 7.875% and 9.875%, respectively, for the Company and the Banks. A common equity Tier 1 capital ratio, Tier 1 capital ratio, or total capital ratio below the applicable regulatory minimum ratio plus the applicable capital conservation buffer and the applicable countercyclical buffer (if set to an amount greater than zero percent) might restrict a bank’s ability to distribute capital and make discretionary bonus payments. As of December 31, 2018, the Company and each of the Banks were all above the applicable combined thresholds.

 70Capital One Financial Corporation (COF)
Capital Planning and Regulatory Stress Testing

On April 5, 2018, we submitted our capital plan to the Federal Reserve as part of the 2018 CCAR cycle. On June 28, 2018, the Federal Reserve informed us that they had “no objection” to our CCAR 2018 Capital Plan submission. As a result of this non-objection to our capital plan, the Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $1.2 billion of shares of our common stock beginning in the third quarter of 2018 through the end of the second quarter of 2019. The Board of Directors also authorized the dividend on our common stock of $0.40 per share in each quarter in 2018. For the description of the regulatory capital planning rules we are subject to, see “Part I—Item 1. Business—Supervision and Regulation.” 

Dividend Policy and Stock Purchases

For the year ended December 31, 2018, we declared and paid common stock dividends of $776 million, or $1.60 per share, and preferred stock dividends of $265 million. The following table summarizes the dividends paid per share on our various preferred stock series in each quarter of 2018.

Table 15: Preferred Stock Dividends Paid Per Share 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The declaration and payment of dividends to our stockholders, as well as the amount thereof, are subject to the discretion of our Board of Directors and depend upon our results of operations, financial condition, capital levels, cash requirements, future prospects and other factors deemed relevant by the Board of Directors. As a BHC, our ability to pay dividends is largely dependent upon the receipt of dividends or other payments from our subsidiaries. Regulatory restrictions exist that limit the ability of the Banks to transfer funds to our BHC. As of December 31, 2018, funds available for dividend payments from COBNA and CONA were $3.2 billion and $2.2 billion, respectively. There can be no assurance that we will declare and pay any dividends to stockholders. Consistent with our 2018 Stock Repurchase Program, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $1.2 billion of shares of common stock beginning in the third quarter of 2018 through the end of the second quarter of 2019. We completed the 2018 Stock Repurchase Program in the fourth quarter of 2018. 

The timing and exact amount of any future common stock repurchases will depend on various factors, including regulatory approval, market conditions, opportunities for growth, our capital position and the amount of retained earnings. Our stock repurchase program does not include specific price targets, may be executed through open market purchases or privately negotiated transactions, including utilizing Rule 10b5-1 programs, and may be suspended at any time. For additional information on dividends and stock repurchases, see “PART I—Item 1. Business—Supervision and Regulation—Dividends, Stock Repurchases and Transfers of Funds.”

 71Capital One Financial Corporation (COF)
RISK MANAGEMENT

Risk Framework

We use a risk framework to provide an overall enterprise-wide approach for effectively managing risk. We execute against our risk framework with the “Three Lines of Defense” risk management model to demonstrate and structure the roles, responsibilities and accountabilities in the organization for taking and managing risk. 

The “First Line of Defense” is comprised of the business areas that through their day-to-day business activities take risk on our behalf. As the business owner, the first line is responsible for identifying, assessing, managing and controlling that risk. This principle places ultimate accountability for the management of risks and ownership of risk decisions with the CEO and business heads. The “Second Line of Defense” provides oversight of first line risk taking and management, and is primarily comprised of our Risk Management organization. The second line assists in determining risk appetite and the strategies, policies and structures for managing risks. The second line is both an “expert advisor” to the first line and an “effective challenger” of first line risk activities. The “Third Line of Defense” is comprised of our Internal Audit and Credit Review functions. The third line provides independent and objective assurance to senior management and to the Board of Directors that first and second line risk management and internal control systems and its governance processes are well-designed and working as intended.

The risk framework is also used to guide design of risk programs and performance of risk activity within each risk category and across the entire enterprise. 

Our risk framework, which is built around governance, processes and people, consists of the following eight key elements: 

Establish Governance Processes, Accountabilities and Risk Appetites

The starting point of our risk framework is the establishment of governance processes, accountabilities and risk appetites. Our Board of Directors and senior management establish the tone at the top regarding the importance of internal control, including standards of conduct and the integrity and ethical values of the Company. Management reinforces expectations at the various levels of the organization. This portion of the framework sets the foundation for the methods for governing risk taking, the interactions within and among the lines of defense, and the risk appetites and tolerance limits for risk taking.

Identify and Assess Risks and Ownership

Identifying and assessing risks and ownership is the beginning of the more detailed day-to-day process of managing risk. This portion of the framework clarifies the importance of strong first-line management and accountability for identifying and assessing risk while specifying the role of the second line to identify and assess risk, particularly when taking on new initiatives.

Develop and Operate Controls, Monitoring and Mitigation Plans

We develop, operate and monitor controls to manage risk within tolerance levels. The first line develops controls to oversee and manage identified risks. Controls may prevent risks from occurring or measure the amount of risk being taken so that the amount may be proactively managed. Whenever possible, plans are implemented to mitigate risks or reduce them to lower levels. The first line leads mitigation, control and monitoring actions. The second line is a consultant on control design when needed.

Test and Detect Control Gaps and Perform Corrective Action

While the first line is principally accountable for taking, controlling and monitoring risk, the second line oversees and monitors first line risk taking, including the effectiveness of first line controls, and the third line independently tests and oversees first and second line risk taking. These activities provide the second and third lines of defense with the ability to reduce the likelihood of unauthorized or unplanned risk taking within the organization. Control gaps are closed by first line corrective action.

Escalate Key Risks and Gaps to Executive Management and When Appropriate, the Board of Directors

Escalation is an important component of our risk framework. Use of escalation is encouraged and does not necessarily indicate a failure on the part of first, second, or third line risk management. Through escalation in the first line, decisions requiring judgment can be raised to executives who have the broadest possible context and experience to make challenging decisions. Escalation in the second and third lines of defense can also demonstrate part of their core responsibilities of effective challenge. If appropriate, 

 72Capital One Financial Corporation (COF)
risks are escalated to the Board of Directors to ensure alignment with the most material risk decisions and/or transparency to the largest risks facing the organization.

Calculate and Allocate Capital in Alignment with Risk Management and Measurement Processes (including Stress Testing)

Capital ultimately is held to protect the company from unforeseen risks or unexpected risk severity. As such, it is important that capital planning processes be well linked with risk management practices to ensure the appropriate capital protections are in place for the safety and soundness of the company. Stress testing and economic capital measurement, both of which incorporate inputs from across the risk spectrum, are key tools for evaluating our capital position and risk adjusted returns.

Support with the Right Culture, Talent and Skills

The right culture, talent and skills are critical to effective risk management. Our risk framework is supported with the right culture that promotes the foundation and values of the risk management organization. Skills necessary to effectively manage risk are reinforced through performance management systems. When needed, risk talent is augmented through recruitment of industry experts as well as training and development of internal associates.

Enabled by the Right Data, Infrastructure and Programs

Data, infrastructure and programs are key enablers of our risk management processes and practices. These core requirements enable effective risk modeling, efficient first, second and third line risk activity performance, and cross-line interaction. In addition, effective program design of each risk category is regularly assessed to ensure risk practices continue to evolve with leading industry practices, and continue to interact across categories as desired for a strong overall risk management program.

Risk Appetite

Risk appetite defines the parameters for taking and accepting risks and are used by management and our Board of Directors to make business decisions. Risk appetite refers to the level of risk our business is willing to take in pursuit of our corporate business objectives. The Board of Directors approves our risk appetite including risk appetite statements and associated metrics, Board Notification Thresholds, and Board Limits for each of our eight risk categories. We communicate risk appetite statements, limits and thresholds to the appropriate levels in the organization and monitor adherence. While first line executives manage risk on a day-to-day basis, the Chief Risk Officer provides effective challenge and independent oversight to ensure that risks are within the appetite and specific limits established by the Board of Directors. The Chief Risk Officer reports to the Board of Directors regularly on the nature and level of risk across all eight risk categories. In addition to his broader management responsibilities, our Chief Executive Officer is responsible for developing the strategy and mission of our organization, determining and leading our culture, and reviewing and providing input into our risk appetite. 

Risk Categories

We apply our risk framework to protect our company from the eight major categories of risk that we are exposed to through our business activities. Our eight major categories of risk are:

•Compliance Risk: Compliance risk is the risk to current or anticipated earnings or capital arising from violations of laws, rules, or regulations. Compliance risk can also arise from nonconformance with prescribed practices, internal policies and procedures, contractual obligations, or ethical standards that reinforce those laws, rules, or regulations;

•Credit Risk: Credit risk is the risk to current or projected financial condition and resilience arising from an obligor’s failure to meet the terms of any contract with the Company or otherwise perform as agreed;

•Legal Risk: Legal risk is the risk of material adverse impact due to: new and changed laws and regulations; interpretations of law; drafting, interpretation and enforceability of contracts; adverse decisions/consequences arising from litigation or regulatory action; the establishment, management and governance of our legal entity structure; and the failure to seek/follow appropriate legal counsel when needed;

•Liquidity Risk: Liquidity risk is the risk that the Company will not be able to meet its future financial obligations as they come due, or invest in future asset growth because of an inability to obtain funds at a reasonable price within a reasonable time period;

 73Capital One Financial Corporation (COF)
•Market Risk: Market risk is the risk that an institution’s earnings or the economic value of equity could be adversely impacted by changes in interest rates, foreign exchange rates, or other market factors;

•Operational Risk: Operational risk is the risk of loss, capital impairment, adverse customer experience, or reputational impact resulting from failure to comply with policies and procedures, failed internal processes or systems, or from external events;

•Reputation Risk: Reputation risk is the risk to market value, recruitment and retention of talented associates and maintenance of a loyal customer base due to the negative perceptions of our internal and external constituents regarding our business strategies and activities; and

•Strategic Risk: Strategic risk is the risk of a material impact on current or anticipated earnings, capital, franchise or enterprise value arising from: (i) the Company’s competitive and market position and evolving forces in the industry that can affect that position; (ii) lack of responsiveness to these conditions; (iii) strategic decisions to change the Company’s scale, market position or operating model; or (iv) failure to appropriately consider implementation risks inherent in the Company’s strategy.

Below we provide an overview of how we manage our eight primary risk categories.

Compliance Risk Management

We recognize that compliance requirements for financial institutions are increasingly complex and that there are heightened expectations from our regulators and our customers. In response, we continuously evaluate the regulatory environment and proactively adjust our compliance risk program to fully address these expectations.

Our Compliance Management Program establishes expectations for determining compliance requirements, assessing the risk of new product offerings, creating appropriate controls and training to address requirements, monitoring for control performance, and independently testing for adherence to compliance requirements. The program also establishes regular compliance reporting to senior business leaders, the executive committee and the Board of Directors.

The Chief Compliance Officer is responsible for establishing and overseeing our Compliance Risk Management Program. Business areas incorporate compliance requirements and controls into their business policies, standards, processes and procedures. They regularly monitor and report on the efficacy of their compliance controls and Corporate Compliance periodically independently tests to validate the effectiveness of business controls.

Credit Risk Management

We recognize that we are exposed to cyclical changes in credit quality. Consequently, we try to ensure our credit portfolio is resilient to economic downturns. Our most important tool in this endeavor is sound underwriting. In unsecured consumer loan underwriting, we generally assume that loans will be subject to an environment in which losses are higher than those prevailing at the time of underwriting. In commercial underwriting, we generally require strong cash flow, collateral, covenants and guarantees. In addition to sound underwriting, we continually monitor our portfolio and take steps to collect or work out distressed loans.

The Chief Risk Officer, in conjunction with the Consumer and Commercial Chief Credit Officers, is responsible for establishing credit risk policies and procedures, including underwriting and hold guidelines and credit approval authority, and monitoring credit exposure and performance of our lending related transactions. These responsibilities are fulfilled by the Chief Consumer Credit Officer and the Chief Commercial Credit Officer who are responsible for evaluating the risk implications of credit strategy and for oversight of credit for both the existing portfolio and any new credit investments. The Chief Consumer Credit Officer and the Chief Commercial Credit Officer have formal approval authority for various types and levels of credit decisions, including individual commercial loan transactions. Division Presidents within each segment are responsible for managing the credit risk within their divisions and maintaining processes to control credit risk and comply with credit policies and guidelines. In addition, the Chief Risk Officer establishes policies, delegates approval authority and monitors performance for non-loan credit exposure entered into with financial counterparties or through the purchase of credit sensitive securities in our investment portfolio. 

Our credit policies establish standards in five areas: customer selection, underwriting, monitoring, remediation and portfolio management. The standards in each area provide a framework comprising specific objectives and control processes. These standards are supported by detailed policies and procedures for each component of the credit process. Starting with customer selection, our goal is to generally provide credit on terms that generate above hurdle returns. We use a number of quantitative and qualitative factors to manage credit risk, including setting credit risk limits and guidelines for each of our lines of business. We monitor 

 74Capital One Financial Corporation (COF)
performance relative to these guidelines and report results and any required mitigating actions to appropriate senior management committees and our Board of Directors. 

Legal Risk Management

The General Counsel provides legal evaluation and guidance to the enterprise and business areas and partners with other risk management functions such as Compliance and Internal Audit. This evaluation and guidance is based on an assessment of the type and degree of legal risk associated with the internal business area practices and activities and of the controls the business has in place to mitigate legal risks.

Liquidity Risk Management

We manage liquidity risk by applying our Liquidity Adequacy Framework (the “Framework”). The Framework uses internal and regulatory stress testing and the evaluation of other balance sheet metrics to confirm that we maintain a fortified balance sheet that is resilient to uncertainties that may arise as a consequence of systemic or idiosyncratic liquidity events. We continuously monitor market and economic conditions to evaluate emerging stress conditions and appropriate action plans in accordance with our Contingency Funding Plan, which includes the Company’s policies, procedures and action plans for managing liquidity stress events. The Framework enables us to manage our liquidity risk in accordance with regulatory requirements.

Additionally, the Framework establishes governing principles that apply to the management of liquidity risk. We use these principles to monitor, measure and report liquidity risk; to develop funding and investment strategies that enable us to maintain an adequate level of liquidity to support our businesses and satisfy regulatory requirements; and to protect us from a broad range of liquidity events should they arise.

The Chief Risk Officer, in conjunction with the Chief Market and Liquidity Risk Officer, is responsible for the establishment of liquidity risk management policies and standards for governance and monitoring of liquidity risk at a corporate level. We assess liquidity strength by evaluating several different balance sheet metrics under severe stress scenarios to ensure we can withstand significant funding degradation through idiosyncratic, systemic, and combined liquidity stress scenarios. Management reports liquidity metrics to appropriate senior management committees and our Board of Directors no less than quarterly. 

We seek to mitigate liquidity risk strategically and tactically. From a strategic perspective, we have acquired and built deposit gathering businesses and actively monitor our funding concentration. From a tactical perspective, we have accumulated a sizable liquidity reserve comprised of cash and cash equivalents, high-quality, unencumbered securities and committed collateralized credit lines. We also continue to maintain access to secured and unsecured debt markets through regular issuance. This combination of stable and diversified funding sources and our stockpile of liquidity reserves enable us to maintain confidence in our liquidity position.

Market Risk Management

The Chief Financial Officer and the Chief Risk Officer are responsible for the establishment of market risk management policies and standards for the governance and monitoring of market risk at a corporate level. Market risk is inherent from the financial instruments associated with our business operations and activities including loans, deposits, securities, short-term borrowings, long-term debt and derivatives. We manage market risk exposure, which is principally driven by balance sheet interest rate risk, centrally and establish quantitative risk limits to monitor and control our exposure. 

We recognize that interest rate and foreign exchange risk is inherent in the banking business due to the nature of the assets and liabilities of banks. Banks typically manage the trade-off between near-term earnings volatility and market value volatility by targeting moderate levels of each. In addition to using industry accepted techniques to analyze and measure interest rate and foreign exchange risk, we perform sensitivity analysis to identify our risk exposures under a broad range of scenarios. Investment securities and derivatives are the main levers for the management of interest rate and foreign exchange risk.

The market risk positions for the Company and each of the Banks are calculated separately and in aggregate, and analyzed against pre-established limits. Results are reported to the Asset Liability Committee monthly and to the Risk Committee of the Board of Directors no less than quarterly. Management is authorized to utilize financial instruments as outlined in our policy to actively manage market risk exposure.

 75Capital One Financial Corporation (COF)
Operational Risk Management

We recognize the criticality of managing operational risk on both a strategic and day-to-day basis and that there are heightened expectations from our regulators and our customers. We have implemented appropriate operational risk management policies, standards, processes and controls to enable the delivery of high quality and consistent customer experiences and to achieve business objectives in a controlled manner.

The Chief Operational Risk Officer is responsible for establishing and overseeing our Operational Risk Management Program. In accordance with Basel III Advanced Approaches requirements, the program establishes practices for assessing the operational risk profile and executing key control processes for operational risks. Corporate Operational Risk Management enforces these practices and delivers reporting of operational risk results to senior business leaders, the executive committee and the Board of Directors.

Reputation Risk Management

We recognize that reputation risk is of particular concern for financial institutions and, increasingly, technology companies, in the current environment. Areas of concern have expanded to include company policies, practices and values and, with the growing use of social and digital platforms, public corporations face a new level of scrutiny and channels for activism and advocacy. The heightened expectations of internal and external stakeholders have made corporate culture, values and conduct pressure points for individuals and advocates voicing concerns or seeking change. We manage both strategic and tactical reputation issues and build our relationships with government officials, media, community and consumer advocates, customers and other constituencies to help strengthen the reputations of both our company and industry. Our actions include implementing pro-customer practices in our business and serving low to moderate income communities in our market area consistent with a quality bank and an innovative technology leader. The Executive Vice President of External Affairs is responsible for managing our overall reputation risk program. Day-to-day activities are controlled by the frameworks set forth in our Reputation Risk Management Policy and other risk management policies.

Strategic Risk Management

We monitor external market and industry developments to identify potential areas of strategic opportunity or risk. These items provide input for development of the Company’s strategy led by the Chief Executive Officer and other senior executives. Through the ongoing development and vetting of the corporate strategy, the Chief Risk Officer identifies and assesses risks associated with the strategy across all risk categories and monitors them throughout the year.

CREDIT RISK PROFILE

Our loan portfolio accounts for the substantial majority of our credit risk exposure. Our lending activities are governed under our credit policy and are subject to independent review and approval. Below we provide information about the composition of our loan portfolio, key concentrations and credit performance metrics.

We also engage in certain non-lending activities that may give rise to credit and counterparty settlement risk, including the purchase of securities for our investment securities portfolio, entering into derivative transactions to manage our market risk exposure and to accommodate customers, short-term advances on syndication activity (including bridge financing transactions we have underwritten), certain operational cash balances in other financial institutions, foreign exchange transactions and customer overdrafts. We provide additional information on credit risk related to our investment securities portfolio under “MD&A—Consolidated Balance Sheets Analysis—Investment Securities” and credit risk related to derivative transactions in “Note 10—Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities.”

Primary Loan Products 

We provide a variety of lending products. Our primary loan products include credit cards, auto loans and commercial lending products. We sold all of our consumer home loan portfolio and the related servicing during 2018. 

•Credit cards: We originate both prime and subprime credit cards through a variety of channels. Our credit cards generally have variable interest rates. Credit card accounts are primarily underwritten using an automated underwriting system based on predictive models that we have developed. The underwriting criteria, which are customized for individual products and marketing programs, are established based on an analysis of the net present value of expected revenues, expenses and losses, subject to further analysis using a variety of stress conditions. Underwriting decisions are generally based on credit bureau 

 76Capital One Financial Corporation (COF)
information, including payment history, debt burden and credit scores, such as FICO, and on other factors, such as applicant income. We maintain a credit card securitization program and selectively sell charged-off credit card loans.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•Commercial: We offer a range of commercial lending products, including loans secured by commercial real estate and loans to middle market commercial and industrial companies. Our commercial loans may have a fixed or variable interest rate; however, the majority of our commercial loans have variable rates. Our underwriting standards require an analysis of the borrower’s financial condition and prospects, as well as an assessment of the industry in which the borrower operates. Where relevant, we evaluate and appraise underlying collateral and guarantees. We maintain underwriting guidelines and limits for major types of borrowers and loan products that specify, where applicable, guidelines for debt service coverage, leverage, LTV ratio and standard covenants and conditions. We assign a risk rating and establish a monitoring schedule for loans based on the risk profile of the borrower, industry segment, source of repayment, the underlying collateral and guarantees, if any, and current market conditions. Although we generally retain commercial loans, we may syndicate positions for risk mitigation purposes, including bridge financing transactions we have underwritten. In addition, we originate and service multifamily commercial real estate loans which are sold to government-sponsored enterprises.

 77Capital One Financial Corporation (COF)
Loans Held for Investment Portfolio Composition

Our loan portfolio consists of loans held for investment, including loans held in our consolidated trusts, and loans held for sale. Table 16 presents the composition of our portfolio of loans held for investment by portfolio segment as of December 31, 2018 and 2017. Table 16 and the credit metrics presented in this section exclude loans held for sale, which are carried at lower of cost or fair value and totaled $1.2 billion and $971 million as of December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.

Table 16: Loans Held for Investment Portfolio Composition 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

We market our credit card products throughout the United States, Canada and the United Kingdom. Our credit card loan portfolio is geographically diversified due to our product and marketing approach, with higher concentrations in California, Texas, New York, Florida, Illinois, Pennsylvania and Ohio.

Our auto loan portfolio is originated in most regions of the United States with a concentration in Texas, California, Florida, Georgia, Ohio, Louisiana and Illinois. Retail banking includes small business loans and other consumer lending products originated through our branch network with a concentration in New York, Louisiana, Texas, New Jersey, Maryland and Virginia.

Our commercial banking loan portfolio is originated in most regions of the United States with a concentration in the tri-state area of New York, New Jersey and Connecticut, as well as in Texas, California and Virginia. 

We provide additional information on the geographic concentration, by loan category, of our loan portfolio in “Note 4—Loans.”

 78Capital One Financial Corporation (COF)
 Commercial Loans

Table 17 summarizes our commercial loans held for investment portfolio by industry classification as of December 31, 2018 and 2017. Industry classifications below are based on our interpretation of the North American Industry Classification System codes as they pertain to each individual loan.

Table 17: Commercial Loans by Industry

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Loan Maturity Profile

Table 18 presents the maturities of our loans held for investment portfolio as of December 31, 2018.

Table 18: Loan Maturity Schedule

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]__________

(1) Due to the revolving nature of credit card loans, we report the majority of our variable-rate credit card loans as due in one year or less. We report fixed-rate credit card loans with introductory rates that expire after a certain period of time as due in one year or less. We assume that the rest of our remaining fixed-rate credit card loans will mature within one to three years.

 79Capital One Financial Corporation (COF)
Credit Risk Measurement

We closely monitor economic conditions and loan performance trends to assess and manage our exposure to credit risk. Key metrics we track in evaluating the credit quality of our loan portfolio include delinquency and nonperforming asset rates, as well as net charge-off rates and our internal risk ratings of larger-balance commercial loans. Trends in delinquency rates are one of the primary indicators of credit risk within our consumer loan portfolios, particularly in our credit card loan portfolios, as changes in delinquency rates can provide an early warning of changes in credit losses. The primary indicator of credit risk in our commercial loan portfolios is our internal risk ratings. Because we generally classify loans that have been delinquent for an extended period of time and other loans with significant risk of loss as nonperforming, the level of nonperforming assets represents another indicator of the potential for future credit losses. In addition to delinquency rates, the geographic distribution of our loans provides insight as to the exposure of the portfolio to regional economic conditions.

We underwrite most consumer loans using proprietary models, which are typically based on credit bureau data, including borrower credit scores, along with application information and, where applicable, collateral and deal structure data. We continuously adjust our management of credit lines and collection strategies based on customer behavior and risk profile changes. We also use borrower credit scores for subprime classification, for competitive benchmarking and, in some cases, to drive product segmentation decisions. 

Table 19 provides details on the credit scores of our domestic credit card and auto loans held for investment portfolios as of December 31, 2018 and 2017.

Table 19: Credit Score Distribution

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]__________

(1) Percentages represent period-end loans held for investment in each credit score category. Domestic card credit scores generally represent FICO scores. These scores are obtained from one of the major credit bureaus at origination and are refreshed monthly thereafter. We approximate non-FICO credit scores to comparable FICO scores for consistency purposes. Balances for which no credit score is available or the credit score is invalid are included in the 660 or below category.

(2) Percentages represent period-end loans held for investment in each credit score category. Auto credit scores generally represent average FICO scores obtained from three credit bureaus at the time of application and are not refreshed thereafter. Balances for which no credit score is available or the credit score is invalid are included in the 620 or below category.

We present information in the section below on the credit performance of our loan portfolio, including the key metrics we use in tracking changes in the credit quality of our loan portfolio.

See “Note 4—Loans” in this Report for additional credit quality information, and see “Note 1—Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” for information on our accounting policies for delinquent and nonperforming loans, charge-offs and troubled debt restructurings (“TDRs”) for each of our loan categories.

Delinquency Rates

We consider the entire balance of an account to be delinquent if the minimum required payment is not received by the customer’s due date, measured at each balance sheet date. Our 30+ day delinquency metrics include all loans held for investment that are 30 or more days past due, whereas our 30+ day performing delinquency metrics include loans that are 30 or more days past due but are currently classified as performing and accruing interest. The 30+ day delinquency and 30+ day performing delinquency metrics are the same for domestic credit card loans, as we continue to classify these loans as performing until the account is charged off, typically when the account is 180 days past due. See “Note 1—Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” for information on 

 80Capital One Financial Corporation (COF)
our policies for classifying loans as nonperforming for each of our loan categories. We provide additional information on our credit quality metrics above under “MD&A—Business Segment Financial Performance.”

Table 20 presents our 30+ day performing delinquency rates and 30+ day delinquency rates of our portfolio of loans held for investment, by portfolio segment, as of December 31, 2018 and 2017.

Table 20: 30+ Day Delinquencies

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]__________

(1) Delinquency rates are calculated by dividing delinquency amounts by period-end loans held for investment for each specified loan category, including purchased credit-impaired (“PCI”) loans as applicable.

Table 21 presents our 30+ day delinquent loans, by aging and geography, as of December 31, 2018 and 2017.

Table 21: Aging and Geography of 30+ Day Delinquent Loans 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]__________

(1) Delinquency rates are calculated by dividing delinquency amounts by total period-end loans held for investment, including PCI loans as applicable.

 81Capital One Financial Corporation (COF)
Table 22 summarizes loans that were 90+ days delinquent as to interest or principal, and still accruing interest as of December 31, 2018 and 2017. These loans consist primarily of credit card accounts between 90 days and 179 days past due. As permitted by regulatory guidance issued by the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council, we continue to accrue interest and fees on domestic credit card loans through the date of charge-off, which is typically in the period the account becomes 180 days past due. While domestic credit card loans typically remain on accrual status until the loan is charged off, we reduce the balance of our credit card receivables by the amount of finance charges and fees billed but not expected to be collected and exclude this amount from revenue.

Table 22: 90+ Day Delinquent Loans Accruing Interest 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]__________ 

(1) Delinquency rates are calculated by dividing delinquency amounts by period-end loans held for investment for each specified loan category, including PCI loans as applicable.

Nonperforming Loans and Nonperforming Assets

Nonperforming assets consist of nonperforming loans, foreclosed properties, repossessed assets, and the net realizable value of certain partially charged off auto loans. Nonperforming loans include loans that have been placed on nonaccrual status. See “Note 1—Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” for information on our policies for classifying loans as nonperforming for each of our loan categories.

Table 23 presents comparative information on nonperforming loans, by portfolio segment, and other nonperforming assets as of December 31, 2018 and 2017. We do not classify loans held for sale as nonperforming, as they are recorded at the lower of cost or fair value. We provide additional information on our credit quality metrics above under “MD&A—Business Segment Financial Performance.”

 82Capital One Financial Corporation (COF)
Table 23: Nonperforming Loans and Other Nonperforming Assets(1)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]__________ [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(2) Nonperforming loan rates are calculated based on nonperforming loans for each category divided by period-end total loans held for investment for each respective category.

(3) Beginning in the first quarter of 2017, partially charged-off auto loans previously presented within other assets were prospectively included within loans held for investment. Other assets includes repossessed assets obtained in satisfaction of auto loans and the net realizable value of certain partially charged-off auto loans, which will continue to decline over time.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(5) The denominators used in calculating nonperforming asset rates consist of total loans held for investment and total other nonperforming assets.  

 83Capital One Financial Corporation (COF)
Net Charge-Offs

Net charge-offs consist of the unpaid principal balance of loans held for investment that we determine to be uncollectible, net of recovered amounts. We charge off loans as a reduction to the allowance for loan and lease losses when we determine the loan is uncollectible and record subsequent recoveries of previously charged-off amounts as increases to the allowance for loan and lease losses. Uncollectible finance charges and fees are reversed through revenue and certain fraud losses are recorded in other non-interest expense. Generally, costs to recover charged-off loans are recorded as collection expenses as incurred and included in our consolidated statements of income as a component of other non-interest expense. Our charge-off policy for loans varies based on the loan type. See “Note 1—Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” for information on our charge-off policy for each of our loan categories.

Table 24 presents our net charge-off amounts and rates, by portfolio segment, in 2018, 2017 and 2016.

Table 24: Net Charge-Offs (Recoveries)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]__________

(1) Net charge-off rate is calculated by dividing net charge-offs (recoveries) by average loans held for investment for the period for each loan category.

 84Capital One Financial Corporation (COF)
Troubled Debt Restructurings

As part of our loss mitigation efforts, we may provide short-term (three to twelve months) or long-term (greater than twelve months) modifications to a borrower experiencing financial difficulty to improve long-term collectability of the loan and to avoid the need for foreclosure or repossession of collateral.

Table 25 presents our recorded investment of loans modified in TDRs as of December 31, 2018 and 2017, which excludes loan modifications that do not meet the definition of a TDR, and PCI loans, which we track and report separately.

Table 25: Troubled Debt Restructurings

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

In our Credit Card business, the majority of our credit card loans modified in TDRs involve reducing the interest rate on the account and placing the customer on a fixed payment plan not exceeding 60 months. The effective interest rate in effect immediately prior to the loan modification is used as the effective interest rate for purposes of measuring impairment using the present value of expected cash flows. If the customer does not comply with the modified payment terms, then the credit card loan agreement may revert to its original payment terms, generally resulting in any loan outstanding reflected in the appropriate delinquency category and charged off in accordance with our standard charge-off policy.

In our Consumer Banking business, the majority of our loans modified in TDRs receive an extension, an interest rate reduction or principal reduction, or a combination of these concessions. In addition, TDRs also occur in connection with bankruptcy of the borrower. In certain bankruptcy discharges, the loan is written down to the collateral value and the charged-off amount is reported as principal reduction. Impairment is determined using the present value of expected cash flows or a collateral evaluation for certain auto and home loans where the collateral value is lower than the recorded investment.

In our Commercial Banking business, the majority of loans modified in TDRs receive an extension, with a portion of these loans receiving an interest rate reduction or a gross balance reduction. The impairment on modified commercial loans is generally determined based on the underlying collateral value.

We provide additional information on modified loans accounted for as TDRs, including the performance of those loans subsequent to modification, in “Note 4—Loans.”

Impaired Loans

A loan is considered to be impaired when, based on current information and events, it is probable that we will be unable to collect all amounts due from the borrower in accordance with the original contractual terms of the loan. Generally, we report loans as impaired based on the method for measuring impairment in accordance with applicable accounting guidance. Loans defined as individually impaired include larger-balance commercial nonperforming loans and TDRs. Loans held for sale are not reported as impaired, as these loans are recorded at lower of cost or fair value. Impaired loans also exclude PCI loans, which are accounted for based on expected cash flows because this accounting methodology takes into consideration future credit losses expected to be incurred.

 85Capital One Financial Corporation (COF)
Impaired loans totaled $1.8 billion and $2.4 billion as of December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. These amounts include TDRs of $1.6 billion and $2.2 billion as of December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. We provide additional information on our impaired loans, including the allowance for loan and lease losses established for these loans, in “Note 4—Loans” and “Note 5—Allowance for Loan and Lease Losses and Reserve for Unfunded Lending Commitments.”

Allowance for Loan and Lease Losses and Reserve for Unfunded Lending Commitments

Our allowance for loan and lease losses represents management’s best estimate of incurred loan and lease credit losses inherent to our held for investment portfolio as of each balance sheet date. The allowance for loan and lease losses is increased through the provision for credit losses and reduced by net charge-offs. We provide additional information on the methodologies and key assumptions used in determining our allowance for loan and lease losses under “Note 1—Summary of Significant Accounting Policies.”

Table 26 presents changes in our allowance for loan and lease losses and reserve for unfunded lending commitments for 2018 and 2017, and details by portfolio segment for the provision for credit losses, charge-offs and recoveries.

 86Capital One Financial Corporation (COF)
Table 26: Allowance for Loan and Lease Losses and Reserve for Unfunded Lending Commitments Activity

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]__________[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(2) Includes the legacy loan portfolio of our discontinued GreenPoint mortgage operations.

(3) The amount and timing of recoveries is impacted by our collection strategies, which are based on customer behavior and risk profile and include direct customer communications, repossession of collateral, the periodic sale of charged-off loans as well as additional strategies, such as litigation.

(4) Represents foreign currency translation adjustments and the net impact of loan transfers and sales where applicable.

 87Capital One Financial Corporation (COF)
Allowance coverage ratios are calculated based on the allowance for loan and lease losses for each specified portfolio segment divided by period-end loans held for investment within the specified loan category. Table 27 presents the allowance coverage ratios as of December 31, 2018 and 2017.

Table 27: Allowance Coverage Ratios

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]__________

(1) Represents period-end 30+ day delinquent loans for our credit card and consumer banking loan portfolios, nonperforming loans for our commercial banking loan portfolio and total loans held for investment for the total ratio.

Our allowance for loan and lease losses decreased by $282 million to $7.2 billion as of December 31, 2018 compared to December 31, 2017 primarily driven by allowance releases in our domestic credit card and auto loan portfolios largely due to improvements in credit trends.

The allowance coverage ratio remained substantially flat at 2.94% as of December 31, 2018 from December 31, 2017 as allowance releases in our domestic credit card and auto loan portfolios were offset by lower loan balances largely due to the sale of our consumer home loan portfolio.

LIQUIDITY RISK PROFILE

We have established liquidity practices that are intended to ensure that we have sufficient asset-based liquidity to cover our funding requirements and maintain adequate reserves to withstand the potential impact of deposit attrition or diminished liquidity in the funding markets. In addition to our cash position, we maintain reserves in the form of available for sale securities, held to maturity securities and certain loans that are either readily-marketable or pledgeable.

Table 28 below presents the composition of our liquidity reserves as of December 31, 2018 and 2017.

Table 28: Liquidity Reserves

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Our liquidity reserves increased by $5.3 billion to $89.6 billion as of December 31, 2018 from December 31, 2017 primarily driven by an increase in our investment securities portfolio. The increase in our investment securities portfolio and the decrease in our FHLB borrowing capacity secured by loans were primarily due to the sale of our consumer home loan portfolio during 2018. See “MD&A—Risk Management” for additional information on our management of liquidity risk.

 88Capital One Financial Corporation (COF)
Liquidity Coverage Ratio

We are subject to the Liquidity Coverage Ratio Rule (“LCR Rule”) as implemented by the Federal Reserve and OCC. The LCR Rule requires us to calculate our LCR daily and to publicly disclose, on a quarterly basis, our LCR, certain related quantitative liquidity metrics, and a qualitative discussion of our LCR. Our average LCR during the fourth quarter of 2018 exceeded the LCR requirement of 100%. The calculation and the underlying components are based on our interpretations, expectations and assumptions of relevant regulations, as well as interpretations provided by our regulators, and are subject to change based on changes to future regulations and interpretations. See “Part I—Item 1. Business—Supervision and Regulation” for additional information.

Borrowing Capacity

We maintain a shelf registration with the SEC that we may periodically offer and sell an indeterminate aggregate amount of senior or subordinated debt securities, preferred stock, depositary shares, common stock, purchase contracts, warrants and units. There is no limit under this shelf registration to the amount or number of such securities that we may offer and sell, subject to market conditions. In addition, we also maintain a shelf registration that allows us to periodically offer and sell up to $25 billion of securitized debt obligations from our credit card loan securitization trust and a shelf registration that allows us to periodically offer and sell up to $20 billion in securitized auto loans.

In addition to our issuance capacity under the shelf registration statements, we also have access to FHLB advances. The ability to draw down funding is based on membership status and the amount is dependent upon the Banks’ ability to post collateral. As of December 31, 2018, we pledged both loans and securities to FHLB to secure a maximum borrowing capacity of $19.3 billion, of which $9.5 billion was still available to us to borrow. Our FHLB membership is supported by our investment in FHLB stock of $415 million and $360 million as of December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively, which was determined in part based on our outstanding advances. In addition, we have access to the Federal Reserve Discount Window through which we had a borrowing capacity of $7.6 billion as of December 31, 2018. Our membership with the Federal Reserve is supported by our investment in Federal Reserve stock, totaling $1.3 billion and $1.2 billion as of December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. 

Funding

Our primary source of funding comes from deposits, which provide a stable and relatively low cost of funds. In addition to deposits, we raise funding through the issuance of senior and subordinated notes, securitized debt obligations and brokered deposits, as well as federal funds purchased, securities loaned or sold under agreements to repurchase, and FHLB advances secured by certain portions of our loan and securities portfolios. A key objective in our use of these markets is to maintain access to a diversified mix of wholesale funding sources. See “MD&A—Consolidated Balance Sheets Analysis—Funding Sources Composition” for additional information on our primary sources of funding.

 89Capital One Financial Corporation (COF)
Deposits

Table 29 provides a comparison of average balances, interest expense and average deposit interest rates for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016.

Table 29: Deposits Composition and Average Deposits Interest Rates

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]__________

(1) Includes negotiable order of withdrawal accounts.

(2) Includes money market deposit accounts.

The FDIC limits the acceptance of brokered deposits by well-capitalized insured depository institutions and, with a waiver from the FDIC, by adequately-capitalized institutions. COBNA and CONA were well-capitalized, as defined under the federal banking regulatory guidelines, as of December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. See “Part I—Item 1. Business—Supervision and Regulation” for additional information. We provide additional information on the composition of deposits under “MD&A—Consolidated Balance Sheets Analysis—Funding Sources Composition” and in “Note 9—Deposits and Borrowings.”

Table 30 presents the contractual maturities of large-denomination domestic time deposits of $100,000 or more as of December 31, 2018 and 2017. Our funding and liquidity management activities factor into the expected maturities of these deposits. 

Table 30: Maturities of Large-Denomination Domestic Time Deposits—$100,000 or More

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Short-Term Borrowings and Long-Term Debt

We access the capital markets to meet our funding needs through the issuance of senior and subordinated notes, securitized debt obligations, and federal funds purchased and securities loaned or sold under agreements to repurchase. In addition, we may utilize short-term and long-term FHLB advances secured by certain of our investment securities, multifamily real estate loans, and commercial real estate loans. Substantially all of our long-term FHLB advances are structured with either a monthly or a quarterly call option at our discretion.

Our short-term borrowings include those borrowings with an original contractual maturity of one year or less and do not include the current portion of long-term debt. The short-term borrowings, which consist of short-term FHLB advances and federal funds purchased, securities loaned or sold under agreements to repurchase, increased by $8.8 billion to $9.4 billion as of December 31, 2018 from December 31, 2017 driven by an increase in our short-term FHLB advances outstanding.

 90Capital One Financial Corporation (COF)
Our long-term debt, which primarily consists of securitized debt obligations, senior and subordinated notes, and long-term FHLB advances, decreased by $10.2 billion to $49.5 billion as of December 31, 2018 from December 31, 2017, primarily driven by a decrease in our long-term FHLB advances outstanding and maturities in our securitized debt obligations.

The following table summarizes issuances of securitized debt obligations, senior and subordinated notes, and FHLB advances and their respective maturities or redemptions for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017.

Table 31: Long-Term Funding

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]_________

(1) Includes $2.5 billion of securitized debt assumed in the Cabela’s acquisition for the year ended December 31, 2017.

Credit Ratings

Our credit ratings impact our ability to access capital markets and our borrowing costs. Rating agencies base their ratings on numerous factors, including liquidity, capital adequacy, asset quality, quality of earnings and the probability of systemic support. Significant changes in these factors could result in different ratings.

Table 32 provides a summary of the credit ratings for the senior unsecured long-term debt of Capital One Financial Corporation, COBNA and CONA as of December 31, 2018 and 2017.

Table 32: Senior Unsecured Long-Term Debt Credit Ratings

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

As of February 15, 2019, Moody’s Investors Service (“Moody’s”), S&P and Fitch Ratings (“Fitch”) have us on a stable outlook. 

Contractual Obligations

In the normal course of business, we enter into various contractual obligations that may require future cash payments that affect our short-term and long-term liquidity and capital resource needs. Our future cash outflows primarily relate to deposits, borrowings and operating leases. Table 33 summarizes, by remaining contractual maturity, our significant contractual cash obligations as of December 31, 2018. The actual timing and amounts of future cash payments may differ from the amounts presented below due to a number of factors, such as discretionary debt repurchases. Table 33 excludes short-term obligations such as trade payables, commitments to fund certain equity investments, obligations for pension and post-retirement benefit plans, and representation and warranty reserves, which are discussed in more detail in “Note 6—Variable Interest Entities and Securitizations,” “Note 15—Employee Benefit Plans” and “Note 19—Commitments, Contingencies, Guarantees and Others.”

 91Capital One Financial Corporation (COF)
Table 33: Contractual Obligations

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]__________

(1) Includes only those interest-bearing deposits which have a contractual maturity date.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(3) Other borrowings primarily consists of FHLB advances.

(4) Represents substantial agreements to purchase goods or services that are enforceable and legally binding and specify all significant terms. Purchase obligations are included through the termination date of the agreements even if the contract is renewable.

MARKET RISK PROFILE

Market risk is inherent in the financial instruments associated with our operations and activities, including loans, deposits, securities, short-term borrowings, long-term debt and derivatives. Below we provide additional information about our primary sources of market risk, our market risk management strategies and the measures we use to evaluate our market risk exposure.

Primary Market Risk Exposures

Our primary source of market risk is interest rate risk. We also have exposure to foreign exchange risk and customer-related trading risk, both of which we believe are minimal after considering the impact of our associated risk management activities discussed below.

Interest Rate Risk

Interest rate risk, which represents exposure to instruments whose yield or price varies with the volatility of interest rates, is our most significant source of market risk exposure. Banks are inevitably exposed to interest rate risk due to differences in the timing between the maturities or re-pricing of assets and liabilities.

Foreign Exchange Risk

Foreign exchange risk represents exposure to changes in the values of current holdings and future cash flows denominated in other currencies. Our primary exposure to foreign exchange risk is related to the operations of our international businesses in the U.K. and Canada. The largest foreign exchange exposure arising from these operations is the funding they are provided in the Great British pound (“GBP”) and the Canadian dollar (“CAD”), respectively. We also have foreign exchange exposure through our net equity investments in these operations and through the dollar-denominated value of future earnings and cash flows they generate.

Our intercompany funding exposes our consolidated statements of income to foreign exchange transaction risk, while our equity investments in our foreign operations result in translation risk exposure in our AOCI and capital ratios. We manage our transaction risk by entering into forward foreign currency derivative contracts to hedge our exposure to variability in cash flows related to foreign currency-denominated intercompany borrowings. We use foreign currency derivative contracts as net investment hedges 

 92Capital One Financial Corporation (COF)
to manage our AOCI exposure. We apply hedge accounting to both our intercompany funding hedges and our net investment hedges, with the primary net investments subject to hedging denominated in GBP.

We measure our total exposure from non-dollar-denominated intercompany borrowings to our international businesses by regularly tracking the value of the loans made to our foreign operations and the associated forward foreign currency derivative contracts we use to hedge them. We apply a 1% U.S. dollar appreciation shock against these exposures to measure the impact to our consolidated statements of income from foreign exchange transaction risk. The intercompany borrowings to our international businesses were 756 million GBP and 741 million GBP as of December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively, and 6.5 billion CAD and 6.4 billion CAD as of December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.

We measure our total exposure in non-dollar-denominated equity by regularly tracking the value of net equity invested in our foreign operations largely in the U.K. and Canada. Our measurement of net equity includes the impact of net investment hedges where applicable. We apply a 30% U.S. dollar appreciation shock against these net investment exposures, which we believe approximates a significant adverse foreign exchange movement over a one-year time horizon. Our gross equity exposures in our U.K. and Canadian operations were 1.6 billion GBP as of both December 31, 2018 and 2017, and 1.2 billion CAD and 1.0 billion CAD as of December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.

As a result of our derivative management activities, we believe our net exposure to foreign exchange risk is minimal.

Customer-Related Trading Risk

We offer various interest rate, foreign exchange rate and commodity derivatives as an accommodation to customers within our Commercial Banking business and offset the majority of these exposures through derivative transactions with other counterparties. These exposures are measured and monitored on a daily basis. As a result of offsetting our customer exposures with other counterparties, we believe our net exposure to customer-related trading risk is minimal.

We employ value-at-risk (“VaR”) as the primary method to both measure and monitor the market risk in our customer-related trading activities. VaR is a statistical-based risk measure used to estimate the potential loss from adverse market movements in a normal market environment. We employ a historical simulation approach using the most recent 500 business days and use a 99 percent confidence level and a holding period of one business day. We use internal models to produce a daily VaR measure of the market risk of all customer-related trading exposures.

For further information on our customer-related trading exposures, see “Note 10—Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities.”

Market Risk Management

We employ several techniques to manage our interest rate and foreign exchange risk, which include, but are not limited to, altering the duration and re-pricing characteristics of our various assets and liabilities and mitigating the foreign exchange exposure of certain non-dollar-denominated equity or transactions. Derivatives are the primary tools that we use for managing interest rate and foreign exchange risk. Use of derivatives is included in our current market risk management policies. We execute our derivative contracts in both over-the-counter and exchange-traded derivative markets and have exposure to both bilateral and clearinghouse counterparties. Although the majority of our derivatives are interest rate swaps, we also use a variety of other derivative instruments, including caps, floors, options, futures and forward contracts, to manage both our interest rate and foreign currency risk. The outstanding notional amount of our derivative contracts increased to $212.5 billion as of December 31, 2018 from $196.6 billion as of December 31, 2017 primarily driven by an increase in our customer accommodation activities.

Market Risk Measurement

We have risk management policies and limits established by our market risk management policies and approved by the Board of Directors. Our objective is to manage our asset and liability risk position and exposure to market risk in accordance with these policies and prescribed limits based on prevailing market conditions and long-term expectations. Because no single measure can reflect all aspects of market risk, we use various industry standard market risk measurement techniques and analysis to measure, assess and manage the impact of changes in interest rates on our net interest income and our economic value of equity and the impact of changes in foreign exchange rates on our non-dollar-denominated earnings and non-dollar equity investments in foreign operations. We provide additional information below in “Economic Value of Equity.”

 93Capital One Financial Corporation (COF)
We consider the impact on both net interest income and economic value of equity in measuring and managing our interest rate risk. As interest rates have increased in 2018, we have incorporated a 200 basis points decline scenario into our interest rate sensitivity analysis. We use this 200 basis points decrease as our largest magnitude declining interest rate scenario and in scenarios where a 200 basis points decline would result in a rate less than 0%, we assume a rate of 0%.

Net Interest Income Sensitivity

This sensitivity measure estimates the impact on our projected 12-month baseline interest rate-sensitive revenue resulting from movements in interest rates. Interest rate-sensitive revenue consists of net interest income and certain components of other non-interest income significantly impacted by movements in interest rates, including changes in the fair value of free-standing interest rate swaps. In addition to our existing assets and liabilities, we incorporate expected future business growth assumptions, such as loan and deposit growth and pricing, and plans for projected changes in our funding mix in our baseline forecast. In measuring the sensitivity of interest rate movements on our projected interest rate-sensitive revenue, we assume a hypothetical instantaneous parallel shift in the level of interest rates of +200 basis points, +100 basis points, +50 basis points, -50 basis points, -100 basis points and -200 basis points to spot rates, with the lower rate scenario limited to zero as described above. At the current level of interest rates, our net interest income remains largely unchanged in most scenarios and decreases in the -200 basis points scenario.

Economic Value of Equity

Our economic value of equity sensitivity measure estimates the impact on the net present value of our assets and liabilities, including derivative hedging activity, resulting from movements in interest rates. Our economic value of equity sensitivity measures are calculated based on our existing assets and liabilities, including derivatives, and do not incorporate business growth assumptions or projected plans for funding mix changes. In measuring the sensitivity of interest rate movements on our economic value of equity, we assume a hypothetical instantaneous parallel shift in the level of interest rates of +200 basis points, +100 basis points, +50 basis points, -50 basis points, -100 basis points and -200 basis points to spot rates, with the lower rate scenario limited to zero as described above.

Calculating our economic value of equity and its sensitivity to interest rates requires projecting cash flows for assets, liabilities and derivative instruments and discounting those cash flows at the appropriate discount rates. Key assumptions in our economic value of equity calculation include projecting rate sensitive prepayments for mortgage securities, loans and other assets, term structure modeling of interest rates, discount spreads, and deposit volume and pricing assumptions.

Our current economic value of equity sensitivity profile demonstrates that our economic value of equity generally decreases as interest rates increase indicating that the economic value of our assets and derivative positions is more sensitive to interest rate changes than our liabilities.

 94Capital One Financial Corporation (COF)
Table 34 shows the estimated percentage impact on our projected baseline net interest income and economic value of equity calculated under the methodology described above as of December 31, 2018 and 2017. 

Table 34: Interest Rate Sensitivity Analysis

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

In addition to these industry standard measures, we will continue to factor into our internal interest rate risk management decisions, the potential impact of alternative interest rate scenarios, such as stressed rate shocks, as well as steepening and flattening yield curve scenarios.

Limitations of Market Risk Measures

The interest rate risk models that we use in deriving these measures incorporate contractual information, internally-developed assumptions and proprietary modeling methodologies, which project borrower and depositor behavior patterns in certain interest rate environments. Other market inputs, such as interest rates, market prices and interest rate volatility, are also critical components of our interest rate risk measures. We regularly evaluate, update and enhance these assumptions, models and analytical tools as we believe appropriate to reflect our best assessment of the market environment and the expected behavior patterns of our existing assets and liabilities.

There are inherent limitations in any methodology used to estimate the exposure to changes in market interest rates. The sensitivity analysis described above contemplates only certain movements in interest rates and is performed at a particular point in time based on the existing balance sheet and, in some cases, expected future business growth and funding mix assumptions. The strategic actions that management may take to manage our balance sheet may differ significantly from our projections, which could cause our actual earnings and economic value of equity sensitivities to differ substantially from the above sensitivity analysis.

 95Capital One Financial Corporation (COF)
SUPPLEMENTAL TABLES

Table A—Loans Held for Investment Portfolio Composition 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

 96Capital One Financial Corporation (COF)
Table B—Performing Delinquencies 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]__________ [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(3) Delinquency rates are calculated by dividing loans in each delinquency status category and geographic region as of the end of the period by the total loan portfolio.

 97Capital One Financial Corporation (COF)
Table C—Nonperforming Loans and Other Nonperforming Assets 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]__________

(1) Beginning in the first quarter of 2017, partially charged-off auto loans previously presented within other assets were prospectively included within loans held for investment. Other assets includes repossessed assets obtained in satisfaction of auto loans and the net realizable value of certain partially charged-off auto loans, which will continue to decline over time.

(2) Nonperforming loan rate is calculated based on total nonperforming loans divided by period-end total loans held for investment.

(3) The denominator used in calculating the total nonperforming assets ratio consists of total loans held for investment and total other nonperforming assets.

 98Capital One Financial Corporation (COF)
Table D—Net Charge-Offs

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

 99Capital One Financial Corporation (COF)
Table E—Summary of Allowance for Loan and Lease Losses and Reserve for Unfunded Lending Commitments 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

 100Capital One Financial Corporation (COF)
Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Measures

The following non-GAAP measures consist of TCE, tangible assets and metrics computed using these amounts, which include tangible book value per common share, return on average tangible assets, return on average TCE and TCE ratio. We consider these metrics to be key financial performance measures that management uses in assessing capital adequacy and the level of returns generated. While these non-GAAP measures are widely used by investors, analysts and bank regulatory agencies to assess the capital position of financial services companies, our measures may not be comparable to similarly-titled measures reported by other companies. The following tables present reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures to the applicable amounts measured in accordance with GAAP.

Table F—Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Measures

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]__________

(1) Includes impact of related deferred taxes.

(2) TCE ratio is a non-GAAP measure calculated based on TCE divided by tangible assets.

 101Capital One Financial Corporation (COF)
Table G—Selected Quarterly Financial Information

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]__________

(1) Dividends and undistributed earnings allocated to participating securities and earnings per share are computed independently for each period. Accordingly, the sum of each quarterly amount may not agree to the year-to-date total.

 102Capital One Financial Corporation (COF)
Glossary and Acronyms

2018 Stock Repurchase Program: On June 28, 2018, we announced that our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $1.2 billion of shares of our common stock from the third quarter of 2018 through the end of the second quarter of 2019.

Annual Report: References to our “2018 Form 10-K” or “2018 Annual Report” are to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018. 

Banks: Refers to COBNA and CONA.

Basel Committee: The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision.

Basel III Advanced Approaches: The Basel III Advanced Approaches is mandatory for those institutions with consolidated total assets of $250 billion or more or consolidated total on-balance sheet foreign exposure of $10 billion or more. The Basel III Capital Rule modified the Advanced Approaches version of Basel II to create the Basel III Advanced Approaches.

Basel III Capital Rule: The Federal Banking Agencies issued a rule in July 2013 implementing the Basel III capital framework developed by the Basel Committee as well as certain Dodd-Frank Act and other capital provisions.

Basel III Standardized Approach: The Basel III Capital Rule modified Basel I to create the Basel III Standardized Approach, which requires for Basel III Advanced Approaches banking organizations that have yet to exit parallel run to use the Basel III Standardized Approach to calculate regulatory capital, including capital ratios, subject to transition provisions.

Bass Pro acquisition: On October 5, 2018, we completed the acquisition of the Bass Pro cobrand credit card portfolio.

Cabela’s acquisition: On September 25, 2017, we completed the acquisition from Synovus Bank of credit card assets and the related liabilities of World’s Foremost Bank, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Cabela’s Incorporated.

Capital One: Capital One Financial Corporation and its subsidiaries.

Carrying value (with respect to loans): The amount at which a loan is recorded on the consolidated balance sheets. For loans recorded at amortized cost, carrying value is the unpaid principal balance net of unamortized deferred loan origination fees and costs, and unamortized purchase premium or discount. For loans that are or have been on nonaccrual status, the carrying value is also reduced by any net charge-offs that have been recorded and the amount of interest payments applied as a reduction of principal under the cost recovery method. For credit card loans, the carrying value also includes interest that has been billed to the customer. For loans classified as held for sale, carrying value is the lower of carrying value as described in the sentences above, or fair value. For PCI loans, carrying value represents the present value of all expected cash flows including interest that has not yet been accrued, discounted at the effective interest rate, including any valuation allowance for impaired loans.

CECL: In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-13, Financial Instruments—Credit Losses (Topic 326): Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments. This ASU requires an impairment model (known as the current expected credit loss (“CECL”) model) that is based on expected rather than incurred losses, with an anticipated result of more timely loss recognition. This guidance is effective for us on January 1, 2020, with early adoption permitted no earlier than January 1, 2019.

COBNA: Capital One Bank (USA), National Association, one of our fully owned subsidiaries, which offers credit and debit card products, other lending products and deposit products.

Common equity Tier 1 capital: Calculated as the sum of common equity, related surplus and retained earnings, and accumulated other comprehensive income net of applicable phase-ins, less goodwill and intangibles net of associated deferred tax liabilities and applicable phase-ins, less other deductions, as defined by regulators.

Company: Capital One Financial Corporation and its subsidiaries.

CONA: Capital One, National Association, one of our fully owned subsidiaries, which offers a broad spectrum of banking products and financial services to consumers, small businesses and commercial clients.

Credit risk: The risk of loss from an obligor’s failure to meet the terms of any contract or otherwise fail to perform as agreed.

Derivative: A contract or agreement whose value is derived from changes in interest rates, foreign exchange rates, prices of securities or commodities, credit worthiness for credit default swaps or financial or commodity indices.

 103Capital One Financial Corporation (COF)
Discontinued operations: The operating results of a component of an entity, as defined by Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) 205, that are removed from continuing operations when that component has been disposed of or it is management’s intention to sell the component.

Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (“Dodd-Frank Act”): Regulatory reform legislation signed into law on July 21, 2010. This law broadly affects the financial services industry and contains numerous provisions aimed at strengthening the sound operation of the financial services sector.

Exchange Act: The Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.

eXtensible Business Reporting Language (“XBRL”): A language for the electronic communication of business and financial data.

Federal Banking Agencies: The Federal Reserve, Office of the Comptroller of the Currency and Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.

Federal Reserve: The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System.

FICO score: A measure of consumer credit risk provided by credit bureaus, typically produced from statistical modeling software created by FICO (formerly known as “Fair Isaac Corporation”) utilizing data collected by the credit bureaus.

Foreign currency derivative contracts: An agreement to exchange contractual amounts of one currency for another currency at one or more future dates.

Foreign exchange contracts: Contracts that provide for the future receipt or delivery of foreign currency at previously agreed-upon terms.

GSE or Agency: A government-sponsored enterprise or agency is a financial services corporation created by the United States Congress. Examples of U.S. government agencies include Federal National Mortgage Association (“Fannie Mae”), Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation (“Freddie Mac”), Government National Mortgage Association (“Ginnie Mae”) and the Federal Home Loan Banks (“FHLB”).

Impaired loans: A loan is considered impaired when, based on current information and events, it is probable that we will not be able to collect all amounts due from the borrower in accordance with the original contractual terms of the loan.

Interest rate sensitivity: The exposure to interest rate movements.

Interest rate swaps: Contracts in which a series of interest rate flows in a single currency are exchanged over a prescribed period. Interest rate swaps are the most common type of derivative contract that we use in our asset/liability management activities.

Investment grade: Represents Moody’s long-term rating of Baa3 or better; and/or a Standard & Poor’s or DBRS long-term rating of BBB- or better; or if unrated, an equivalent rating using our internal risk ratings. Instruments that fall below these levels are considered to be non-investment grade.

Investor entities: Entities that invest in community development entities (“CDE”) that provide debt financing to businesses and non-profit entities in low-income and rural communities.

LCR Rule: In September 2014, the Federal Banking Agencies issued final rules implementing the Basel III Liquidity Coverage Ratio in the United States. The LCR is calculated by dividing the amount of an institution’s high quality, unencumbered liquid assets by its estimated net cash outflow, as defined and calculated in accordance with Final LCR Rule. 

Leverage ratio: Tier 1 capital divided by average assets after certain adjustments, as defined by the regulators. 

Liquidity risk: The risk that the Company will not be able to meet its future financial obligations as they come due, or invest in future asset growth because of an inability to obtain funds at a reasonable price within a reasonable time period.

Loan-to-value (“LTV”) ratio: The relationship, expressed as a percentage, between the principal amount of a loan and the appraised value of the collateral securing the loan.

Managed presentation: A non-GAAP presentation of financial results that includes reclassifications to present revenue on a fully taxable-equivalent basis. Management uses this non-GAAP financial measure at the segment level, because it believes this provides information to enable investors to understand the underlying operational performance and trends of the particular business segment and facilitates a comparison of the business segment with the performance of competitors.

 104Capital One Financial Corporation (COF)
Market risk: The risk that an institution’s earnings or the economic value of equity could be adversely impacted by changes in interest rates, foreign exchange rates or other market factors.

Master netting agreement: An agreement between two counterparties that have multiple contracts with each other that provides for the net settlement of all contracts through a single payment in the event of default or termination of any one contract.

Mortgage-backed security (“MBS”): An asset-backed security whose cash flows are backed by the principal and interest payments of a set of mortgage loans.

Mortgage servicing rights (“MSR”): The right to service a mortgage loan when the underlying loan is sold or securitized. Servicing includes collections for principal, interest and escrow payments from borrowers and accounting for and remitting principal and interest payments to investors.

Net interest margin: The result of dividing net interest income by average interest-earning assets.

Nonperforming loans: Generally include loans that have been placed on nonaccrual status. We also do not report loans classified as held for sale as nonperforming.

Option-ARM loans: The option-ARM real estate loan product is an adjustable-rate mortgage loan that initially provides the borrower with the monthly option to make a fully-amortizing, interest-only or minimum fixed payment. After the initial payment option period, usually five years, the recalculated minimum payment represents a fully-amortizing principal and interest payment that would effectively repay the loan by the end of its contractual term.

Other-than-temporary impairment (“OTTI”): An impairment charge taken on a security whose fair value has fallen below the carrying value on the balance sheet and whose value is not expected to recover through the holding period of the security.

Public Funds deposits: Deposits that are derived from a variety of political subdivisions such as school districts and municipalities. 

Purchased credit-impaired (“PCI”) loans: Loans acquired in a business combination that were recorded at fair value at acquisition and subsequently accounted for based on cash flows expected to be collected in accordance with ASC 310-30, Loans and Debt Securities Acquired with Deteriorated Credit Quality.

Purchase volume: Consists of purchase transactions, net of returns, for the period, and excludes cash advance and balance transfer transactions.

Rating agency: An independent agency that assesses the credit quality and likelihood of default of an issue or issuer and assigns a rating to that issue or issuer.

Recorded investment: The amount of the investment in a loan which includes any direct write-down of the investment.

Repurchase agreement: An instrument used to raise short-term funds whereby securities are sold with an agreement for the seller to buy back the securities at a later date. 

Restructuring charges: Charges associated with the realignment of resources supporting various businesses, primarily consisting of severance and related benefits pursuant to our ongoing benefit programs and impairment of certain assets related to business locations and activities being exited.

Return on average assets: Calculated based on income from continuing operations, net of tax, for the period divided by average total assets for the period.

Return on average common equity: Calculated based on (i) income from continuing operations, net of tax; (ii) less dividends and undistributed earnings allocated to participating securities; (iii) less preferred stock dividends, for the period, divided by average common equity. Our calculation of return on average common equity may not be comparable to similarly-titled measures reported by other companies.

Return on average tangible common equity: A non-GAAP financial measure calculated based on (i) income from continuing operations, net of tax; (ii) less dividends and undistributed earnings allocated to participating securities; (iii) less preferred stock dividends, for the period, divided by average tangible common equity. Our calculation of return on average tangible common equity may not be comparable to similarly-titled measures reported by other companies.

Risk-weighted assets: On- and off-balance sheet assets that are assigned to one of several broad risk categories and weighted by factors representing their risk and potential for default. 

Securitized debt obligations: A type of asset-backed security and structured credit product constructed from a portfolio of fixed-income assets.

 105Capital One Financial Corporation (COF)
Subprime: For purposes of lending in our Credit Card business, we generally consider FICO scores of 660 or below, or other equivalent risk scores, to be subprime. For purposes of auto lending in our Consumer Banking business, we generally consider FICO scores of 620 or below to be subprime.

Tangible common equity (“TCE”): A non-GAAP financial measure. Common equity less goodwill and intangible assets adjusted for deferred tax liabilities associated with non-tax deductible intangible assets and tax deductible goodwill.

Tax Act: The Act to provide for reconciliation pursuant to titles II and V of the concurrent resolution on the budget for fiscal year 2018 enacted on December 22, 2017.

Troubled debt restructuring (“TDR”): A TDR is deemed to occur when the contractual terms of a loan agreement are modified by granting a concession to a borrower that is experiencing financial difficulty.

Unfunded commitments: Legally binding agreements to provide a defined level of financing until a specified future date.

U.K. PPI Reserve: U.K. payment protection insurance customer refund reserve.

U.S. GAAP: Accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Accounting rules and conventions defining acceptable practices in preparing financial statements in the U.S.

Variable interest entity (“VIE”): An entity that (i) lacks enough equity investment at risk to permit the entity to finance its activities without additional financial support from other parties; (ii) has equity owners that lack the right to make significant decisions affecting the entity’s operations; and/or (iii) has equity owners that do not have an obligation to absorb or the right to receive the entity’s losses or return.

 106Capital One Financial Corporation (COF)
Acronyms

AWS: Amazon Web Services, Inc.

ABS: Asset-backed security

AML: Anti-money laundering

AOCI: Accumulated other comprehensive income

ARM: Adjustable rate mortgage

ASU: Accounting Standards Update

ASC: Accounting Standards Codification

BHC: Bank holding company

bps: Basis points

CAD: Canadian dollar

CAP: Compliance assurance process

CCAR: Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review

CCP: Central Counterparty Clearinghouse, or Central Clearinghouse

CCPA: California Consumer Privacy Act of 2018

CDE: Community development entities 

CECL: Current expected credit loss

CEO: Chief Executive Officer

CFPB: Consumer Financial Protection Bureau

CFTC: Commodity Futures Trading Commission

CMBS: Commercial mortgage-backed securities

CME: Chicago Mercantile Exchange

COEP: Capital One (Europe) plc

COF: Capital One Financial Corporation

COSO: Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission

CRA: Community Reinvestment Act

CVA: Credit valuation adjustment

DCF: Discounted cash flow

DCM: Designated contract market

DDOS: Distributed denial of service

DIF: Deposit insurance fund

DRP: Dividend Reinvestment and Stock Purchase Plan

DRR: Designated reserve ratio

DUS: Delegated Underwriting and Servicing 

DVA: Debit valuation adjustment

EGRRCPA: Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief, and Consumer Protection Act

EU: European Union

Fannie Mae: Federal National Mortgage Association

FASB: Financial Accounting Standards Board

FCA: U.K. Financial Conduct Authority

FCAC: Financial Consumer Agency of Canada

FCM: Futures commission merchant

FDIC: Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation

FDICIA: The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of 1991

 107Capital One Financial Corporation (COF)
FFIEC: Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council

FHC: Financial holding company

FHFA: Federal Housing Finance Agency

FHLB: Federal Home Loan Banks

FIS: Fidelity Information Services

FIRREA: Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery and Enforcement Act

Fitch: Fitch Ratings

FOS: Financial Ombudsman Service

Freddie Mac: Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation

FSOC: Financial Stability Oversight Council

FVC: Fair Value Committee

GBP: Great British pound

GDPR: General Data Protection Regulation

Ginnie Mae: Government National Mortgage Association

G-SIBs: Global systemically important banks

GSE or Agency: Government-sponsored enterprise

LCH: LCH Group

LCR: Liquidity coverage ratio

LIBOR: London Interbank Offered Rate

Moody’s: Moody’s Investors Service

MSR: Mortgage servicing rights

NSFR: Net stable funding ratio

NYSE: New York Stock Exchange

OCC: Office of the Comptroller of the Currency 

OCI: Other comprehensive income 

OTC: Over-the-counter 

OTTI: Other-than-temporary impairment

PCA: Prompt corrective action

PCAOB: Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States)

PCI: Purchased credit-impaired

PCCR: Purchased credit card relationship

PPI: Payment protection insurance

PSA: Performance share award

PSD2: The Payment Services Regulations 2017

PSU: Performance share unit

REO: Real estate owned 

RMBS: Residential mortgage-backed securities

RSA: Restricted stock award

RSU: Restricted stock unit

S&P: Standard & Poor’s

SEC: U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission

SEF: Swap execution facility

TCE: Tangible common equity

TDR: Troubled debt restructuring

 108Capital One Financial Corporation (COF)
TILA: Truth in Lending Act

TSYS: Total Systems Services, Inc.

U.K.: United Kingdom

U.S.: United States of America

VAC: Valuations Advisory Committee

 109Capital One Financial Corporation (COF)
Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk