ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

Market Risk

The market risk inherent in our financial instruments represents the potential loss in fair value, earnings or cash flows, arising from adverse changes in foreign currency exchange rates or interest rates. The Company manages these exposures through operating and financing activities and, when appropriate, through the use of derivative financial instruments. The use of derivative financial instruments is in accordance with the Company's risk management policies, and we do not enter into derivative transactions for speculative or trading purposes.

The quantitative disclosures in the following discussion are based on quoted market prices obtained through independent pricing sources for the same or similar types of financial instruments, taking into consideration the underlying terms and maturities and theoretical pricing models. These quantitative disclosures do not represent the maximum possible loss or any expected loss that may occur, since actual results may differ from those estimates.

Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk

Foreign currency exposures arise from transactions, including firm commitments and anticipated contracts, denominated in a currency other than the entity’s functional currency, and from foreign-denominated revenues and expenses translated into U.S. dollars. The majority of the Company's purchases and sales involving international parties, excluding international consumer sales, are denominated in U.S. dollars and, therefore, our foreign currency exchange risk is limited. The Company is exposed to risk from foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations resulting from its operating subsidiaries’ transactions denominated in foreign currencies. To mitigate such risk, certain subsidiaries enter into forward currency contracts. As of June 29, 2019 and June 30, 2018, forward currency contracts designated as cash flow hedges with a notional amount of $398.4 million and $257.4 million, respectively, were outstanding. As a result of the use of derivative instruments, we are exposed to the risk that counterparties to the derivative instruments will fail to meet their contractual obligations. To mitigate the counterparty credit risk, we only enter into derivative contracts with carefully selected financial institutions. The Company also reviews the creditworthiness of our counterparties on a regular basis. As a result of the above considerations, we do not believe that we are exposed to any undue concentration of counterparty credit risk associated with our derivative contracts as of June 29, 2019.

The Company is also exposed to transaction risk from foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations with respect to various cross-currency intercompany loans. This primarily includes exposure to exchange rate fluctuations in the Chinese Renminbi. To manage the exchange rate risk related to these loans, the Company enters into forward currency contracts. As of June 29, 2019 and June 30, 2018, the total notional values of outstanding forward foreign currency contracts related to these loans were $14.5 million and $160.7 million, respectively.

The fair value of outstanding forward currency contracts included in current assets at June 29, 2019 and June 30, 2018 was $1.1 million and $6.0 million, respectively. The fair value of outstanding foreign currency contracts included in current liabilities at June 29, 2019 and June 30, 2018 was $4.9 million and $2.4 million, respectively. The fair value of these contracts is sensitive to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. A sensitivity analysis of the effects of foreign exchange rate fluctuations on the fair values of our derivative contracts was performed to assess the risk of loss. As of June 29, 2019, a 10% devaluation of the U.S. Dollar against the exchange rates for foreign currencies under contract would result in an immaterial impact on derivative contract fair values.

Interest Rate Risk

The Company is exposed to interest rate risk in relation to its Revolving Credit Facility entered into under the credit agreement dated May 30, 2017, the 2025 Senior Notes, 2022 Senior Notes, 2027 Senior Notes (collectively the "Senior Notes") and investments.

Our exposure to changes in interest rates is primarily attributable to debt outstanding under the Revolving Credit Facility. Borrowings under the Facility bear interest at a rate per annum equal to, at the Company’s option, either (a) an alternate base rate (which is a rate equal to the greatest of (i) the Prime Rate in effect on such day, (ii) the Federal Funds Effective Rate in effect on such day plus ½ of 1% or (iii) the Adjusted LIBO Rate for a one month Interest Period on such day plus 1%) or (b) a rate based on the rates applicable for deposits in the interbank market for U.S. dollars or the applicable currency in which the loans are made plus, in each case, an applicable margin. The applicable margin will be determined by reference to a grid, as defined in the Credit Agreement, based on the ratio of (a) consolidated debt plus 600% of consolidated lease expense to (b) consolidated EBITDAR. A hypothetical 10% change in the credit agreement interest rate would have resulted in an immaterial change in interest expense in fiscal 2019. 

The Company is exposed to changes in interest rates related to the fair value of the Senior Notes. At June 29, 2019, the fair value of the 2025 Senior Notes, 2022 Senior Notes and 2027 Senior Notes was approximately $630 million, $399 million and $606 million, respectively. At June 30, 2018, the fair value of the 2025 Senior Notes, 2022 Senior Notes and 2027 Senior Notes was approximately $593 million, $389 million and $574 million, respectively. These fair values are based on external pricing data, 

47

including available quoted market prices of these instruments, and consideration of comparable debt instruments with similar interest rates and trading frequency, among other factors, and are classified as Level 2 measurements within the fair value hierarchy. The interest rate payable on the 2022 and 2027 Senior Notes will be subject to adjustments from time to time if either Moody’s or S&P or a substitute rating agency (as defined in the Prospectus Supplement furnished with the SEC on June 7, 2017) downgrades (or downgrades and subsequently upgrades) the credit rating assigned to the respective Senior Notes of such series.

The Company’s investment portfolio is maintained in accordance with the Company’s investment policy, which defines our investment principles including credit quality standards and limits the credit exposure of any single issuer. The primary objective of our investment activities is the preservation of principal while maximizing interest income and minimizing risk. We do not hold any investments for trading purposes.

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA