Item 1A. Risk Factors  

The Companies’ businesses are influenced by many factors that are difficult to predict, involve uncertainties that may materially affect actual results and are often beyond their control. A number of these factors have been identified below. For other factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in any forward-looking statement or projection contained in this report, see Forward-Looking Statements in Item 7. MD&A.  

The Companies’ results of operations can be affected by changes in the weather. Fluctuations in weather can affect demand for the Companies’ services. For example, milder than normal weather can reduce demand for electricity and gas transmission and distribution services. In addition, severe weather, including hurricanes, winter storms, earthquakes, floods and other natural disasters can stress systems, disrupt operation of the Companies’ facilities and cause service outages, production delays and property damage that require incurring additional expenses. Changes in weather conditions can result in reduced water levels or changes in water temperatures that could adversely affect operations at some of the Companies’ power stations. Furthermore, the Companies’ operations could be adversely affected and their physical plant placed at greater risk of damage should changes in global climate produce, among other possible conditions, unusual variations in temperature and weather patterns, resulting in more intense, frequent and extreme weather events, abnormal levels of precipitation and, for operations located on or near coastlines, a change in sea level or sea temperatures. 

The rates of Dominion Energy and Dominion Energy Gas’ gas transmission and distribution operations and Dominion Energy and Virginia Power’s electric transmission, distribution and generation operations are subject to regulatory review. Revenue provided by Dominion Energy and Virginia Power’s electric transmission, distribution and generation operations and Dominion Energy and Dominion Energy Gas’ gas transmission and distribution operations is based primarily on rates approved by state and federal regulatory agencies. However, certain large scale customers are able to enter into negotiated-rate contracts rather than pay cost-of-service rates which are subject to regulatory review. The profitability of these businesses is dependent on their ability, through the rates that they are permitted to charge, to recover costs and earn a reasonable rate of return on their capital investment.  

Dominion Energy and Virginia Power’s wholesale rates for electric transmission service are updated on an annual basis through operation of a FERC-approved formula rate mechanism. Through this mechanism, Dominion Energy and Virginia Power’s wholesale rates for electric transmission reflect the estimated cost-of-service for each calendar year. The difference in the estimated cost-of-service and actual cost-of-service for each calendar year is included as an adjustment to the wholesale rates for electric transmission service in a subsequent calendar year. These wholesale rates are subject to FERC review and prospective adjustment in the event that customers and/or interested state commissions file a complaint with FERC and are able to demonstrate that Dominion Energy or Virginia Power’s wholesale revenue requirement is no longer just and reasonable. They are also subject to retroactive corrections to the extent that the formula rate was not properly populated with the actual costs.  

Similarly, various rates and charges assessed by Dominion Energy and Dominion Energy Gas’ gas transmission businesses are subject to review by FERC. In addition, the rates of Dominion Energy and Dominion Energy Gas’ gas distribution businesses are subject to state regulatory review in the jurisdictions in which they operate. A failure by Dominion Energy or Dominion Energy Gas to support these rates could result in rate decreases from current rate levels, which could adversely affect Dominion Energy and Dominion Energy Gas’ results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.  

Virginia Power’s base rates, terms and conditions for generation and distribution services to customers in Virginia are reviewed by the Virginia Commission in a proceeding that involves the determination of Virginia Power’s actual earned ROE during a historic test period, and the determination of Virginia Power’s authorized ROE prospectively. Under certain circumstances described in the Regulation Act, Virginia Power may be required to share a portion of its earnings with customers through a refund process.  

Dominion Energy and Virginia Power’s retail electric base rates for bundled generation, transmission, and distribution services to customers in South Carolina and North Carolina, respectively, are regulated on a cost-of-service/rate-of-return basis subject to South Carolina and North Carolina statutes, and the rules and procedures of the South Carolina and North Carolina Commissions. If retail electric earnings exceed the returns established by the South Carolina Commission and the North Carolina Commission, retail electric rates may be subject to review and 

 29  

 possible reduction by the South Carolina Commission and the North Carolina Commission, which may decrease Dominion Energy and Virginia Power’s future earnings, respectively. Additionally, if the South Carolina and the North Carolina Commission do not allow recovery through base rates, on a timely basis, of costs incurred in providing service, Dominion Energy and Virginia Power’s future earnings could be negatively impacted.  

Governmental officials, stakeholders and advocacy groups may challenge these regulatory reviews. Such challenges may lengthen the time, complexity and costs associated with such regulatory reviews.  

The Companies are subject to complex governmental regulation, including tax regulation, that could adversely affect their results of operations and subject the Companies to monetary penalties. The Companies’ operations are subject to extensive federal, state and local regulation and require numerous permits, approvals and certificates from various governmental agencies. Such laws and regulations govern the terms and conditions of the services we offer, our relationships with affiliates, protection of our critical electric infrastructure assets and pipeline safety, among other matters. These operations are also subject to legislation governing taxation at the federal, state and local level. They must also comply with environmental legislation and associated regulations. Management believes that the necessary approvals have been obtained for existing operations and that the business is conducted in accordance with applicable laws. The Companies’ businesses are subject to regulatory regimes which could result in substantial monetary penalties if any of the Companies is found not to be in compliance, including mandatory reliability standards and interaction in the wholesale markets. New laws or regulations, the revision or reinterpretation of existing laws or regulations, changes in enforcement practices of regulators, or penalties imposed for non-compliance with existing laws or regulations may result in substantial additional expense. Recent legislative and regulatory changes that are impacting the Companies include the 2017 Tax Reform Act and tariffs imposed on imported solar panels by the U.S. government in 2018.  

The 2017 Tax Reform Act could have a material impact on our operations, cash flows, and financial results. Reductions in the estimated annual cost-of-service effect (commonly referred to as the gross-up factor) due to the reduction in the corporate income tax rates to 21% under the provisions of the 2017 Tax Reform Act have been recognized as a regulatory liability and are expected to be refunded to customers, generally through reductions in future rates or in the form of credits to customer bills. In addition, the Companies’ regulators may require the reduction in accumulated deferred income tax balances under the provisions of the 2017 Tax Reform Act to be shared with customers, generally through reductions in future rates or in the form of credits to customer bills. The 2017 Tax Reform Act includes provisions that stipulate how these excess deferred taxes may be passed back to customers for certain accelerated tax depreciation benefits. Potential reductions in future rates attributable to other, non-plant related excess deferred taxes may be determined by our regulators.  

The 2017 Tax Reform Act could have a material impact on Dominion Energy and Dominion Energy Gas’ FERC-regulated gas operations including rates charged to customers. In light of the reduction in the income tax rate in the 2017 Tax Reform Act, our FERC-regulated gas subsidiaries were required to file 

 informational reports to substantiate the rates charged for transportation and storage of natural gas in interstate commerce, when viewed holistically, are “just and reasonable” taking into account the effects of the 2017 Tax Reform Act and all other drivers. It is unclear if FERC will mandate a one-time rate reset or Section 5 rate case for Dominion Energy and Dominion Energy Gas’ FERC-regulated gas subsidiaries; however, any such action could have a material impact on our operations, cash flows and financial results.  

The interpretation of provisions of the 2017 Tax Reform Act that take effect in 2019 may significantly impact our operations. The 2017 Tax Reform Act contains provisions that limit the deductibility of interest expense. The provisions generally limit the interest deduction on business interest to (1) business interest income, plus (2) 30 percent of the taxpayer’s adjusted taxable income. Business interest and business interest income is defined as that allocable to a trade or business and not investment interest and income. Dominion Energy is a consolidated group with both regulated and nonregulated lines of businesses. In November 2018, the U.S. Department of Treasury issued proposed regulations defining interest as any amounts associated with the time value of money or use of funds. These proposed regulations provide guidance for purposes of the exception to the interest limitation for regulated public utilities, the application of the interest limitation to consolidated groups, such as Dominion Energy, and the interest limitation with respect to partnerships and partners in those partnerships. It is unclear when that guidance may be finalized, or whether that guidance could result in a disallowance of a portion of our interest deductions in the future.  

Dominion Energy and Virginia Power’s generation business may be negatively affected by possible FERC actions that could change market design in the wholesale markets or affect pricing rules or revenue calculations in the RTO markets. Dominion Energy and Virginia Power’s generation stations operating in RTO markets sell capacity, energy and ancillary services into wholesale electricity markets regulated by FERC. The wholesale markets allow these generation stations to take advantage of market price opportunities, but also expose them to market risk. Properly functioning competitive wholesale markets depend upon FERC’s continuation of clearly identified market rules. From time to time FERC may investigate and authorize RTOs to make changes in market design. FERC also periodically reviews Dominion Energy’s authority to sell at market-based rates. Material changes by FERC to the design of the wholesale markets or its interpretation of market rules, Dominion Energy or Virginia Power’s authority to sell power at market-based rates, or changes to pricing rules or rules involving revenue calculations, could adversely impact the future results of Dominion Energy or Virginia Power’s generation business. For example, in June 2018, FERC issued an order on PJM’s Minimum Offer Price Rule proposals finding the PJM tariff unjust and unreasonable because state out-of-market support for resources is suppressing PJM capacity prices and the current tariff provisions do not adequately address the price suppression. FERC is evaluating an alternative that would pull any state supported resource out of the capacity market along with an equivalent amount of load. In addition, there have been changes to the interpretation and application of FERC’s market manipulation rules. A failure to comply with these rules could lead to civil and criminal penalties. 

 30          

The Companies’ infrastructure build and expansion plans often require regulatory approval, including environmental permits, before commencing construction and completing projects. The Companies may not complete facility construction, pipeline, conversion or other infrastructure projects that they commence, or they may complete projects on materially different terms or timing than initially anticipated, and they may not be able to achieve the intended benefits of any such project, if completed. Several facility construction, pipeline, electric transmission line, expansion, conversion and other infrastructure projects have been announced and additional projects may be considered in the future. The Companies compete for projects with companies of varying size and financial capabilities, including some that may have competitive advantages. Commencing construction on announced and future projects may require approvals from applicable state and federal agencies, and such approvals could include mitigation costs which may be material to the Companies. Projects may not be able to be completed on time as a result of weather conditions, delays in obtaining or failure to obtain regulatory approvals, delays in obtaining key materials, labor difficulties, difficulties with partners or potential partners, a decline in the credit strength of counterparties or vendors, or other factors beyond the Companies’ control. For example, Atlantic Coast Pipeline has experienced certain delays in obtaining permits necessary for construction along with construction delays due to judicial actions which has impacted the cost and schedule for the Atlantic Coast Pipeline Project. Even if facility construction, pipeline, expansion, electric transmission line, conversion and other infrastructure projects are completed, the total costs of the projects may be higher than anticipated and the performance of the business of the Companies following completion of the projects may not meet expectations. Start-up and operational issues can arise in connection with the commencement of commercial operations at our facilities. Such issues may include failure to meet specific operating parameters, which may require adjustments to meet or amend these operating parameters. Additionally, the Companies may not be able to timely and effectively integrate the projects into their operations and such integration may result in unforeseen operating difficulties or unanticipated costs. Further, regulators may disallow recovery of some of the costs of a project if they are deemed not to be prudently incurred. Any of these or other factors could adversely affect the Companies’ ability to realize the anticipated benefits from the facility construction, pipeline, electric transmission line, expansion, conversion and other infrastructure projects.  

The development, construction and commissioning of several large-scale infrastructure projects simultaneously involves significant execution risk. The Companies are currently simultaneously developing, constructing or commissioning several major projects, including the Atlantic Coast Pipeline Project, the Supply Header project and the Coastal Virginia Offshore Wind project. Several of the Companies’ key projects are increasingly large-scale, complex and being constructed in constrained geographic areas or in difficult terrain, for example, the Atlantic Coast Pipeline Project. The advancement of the Companies’ ventures is also affected by the interventions, litigation or other activities of stakeholder and advocacy groups, some of which oppose natural gas-related and energy infrastructure projects. For example, certain landowners and stakeholder groups oppose the Atlantic Coast Pipeline 

 Project, which could impede construction activities or the acquisition of rights-of-way and other land rights on a timely basis or on acceptable terms. Given that these projects provide the foundation for the Companies’ strategic growth plan, if the Companies are unable to obtain or maintain the required approvals, develop the necessary technical expertise, allocate and coordinate sufficient resources, adhere to budgets and timelines, effectively handle public outreach efforts, or otherwise fail to successfully execute the projects, there could be an adverse impact to the Companies’ financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Failure to comply with regulatory approval conditions or an adverse ruling in any future litigation could adversely affect the Companies’ ability to execute their business plan.  

The Companies are dependent on their contractors for the successful and timely completion of large-scale infrastructure projects. The construction of such projects is expected to take several years, is typically confined within a limited geographic area or difficult terrain and could be subject to delays, cost overruns, labor disputes and other factors that could cause the total cost of the project to exceed the anticipated amount and adversely affect the Companies’ financial performance and/or impair the Companies’ ability to execute the business plan for the project as scheduled.  

Further, an inability to obtain financing or otherwise provide liquidity for the projects on acceptable terms could negatively affect the Companies’ financial condition, cash flows, the projects’ anticipated financial results and/or impair the Companies’ ability to execute the business plan for the projects as scheduled.  

The Companies’ operations and construction activities are subject to a number of environmental laws and regulations which impose significant compliance costs to the Companies. The Companies’ operations and construction activities are subject to extensive federal, state and local environmental statutes, rules and regulations relating to air quality, water quality, waste management, natural resources, and health and safety. Compliance with these legal requirements requires the Companies to commit significant capital toward permitting, emission fees, environmental monitoring, installation and operation of environmental control equipment and purchase of allowances and/or offsets. Additionally, the Companies could be responsible for expenses relating to remediation and containment obligations, including at sites where they have been identified by a regulatory agency as a potentially responsible party. Expenditures relating to environmental compliance have been significant in the past, and the Companies expect that they will remain significant in the future. Certain facilities have become uneconomical to operate and have been shut down, converted to new fuel types or sold. These types of events could occur again in the future.  

We expect that existing environmental laws and regulations may be revised and/or new laws may be adopted including regulation of GHG emissions which could have an impact on the Companies’ business. Risks relating to expected regulation of GHG emissions from existing fossil fuel-fired electric generating units are discussed below. In addition, further regulation of air quality and GHG emissions under the CAA have been imposed on the natural gas sector, including rules to limit methane leakage. The Companies are also subject to federal water and waste regulations, including regulations concerning cooling water intake structures, coal combustion by-product handling and disposal 

 31  

 practices, wastewater discharges from steam electric generating stations, management and disposal of hydraulic fracturing fluids and the potential further regulation of polychlorinated biphenyls.  

Compliance costs cannot be estimated with certainty due to the inability to predict the requirements and timing of implementation of any new environmental rules or regulations. Other factors which affect the ability to predict future environmental expenditures with certainty include the difficulty in estimating clean-up costs and quantifying liabilities under environmental laws that impose joint and several liabilities on all responsible parties. However, such expenditures, if material, could make the Companies’ facilities uneconomical to operate, result in the impairment of assets, or otherwise adversely affect the Companies’ results of operations, financial performance or liquidity.  

Any additional federal and/or state requirements imposed on energy companies mandating limitations on GHG emissions or requiring efficiency improvements may result in compliance costs that alone or in combination could make some of the Companies’ electric generation units or natural gas facilities uneconomical to maintain or operate. The EPA has proposed the Affordable Clean Energy rule targeted at reducing CO2 emissions from existing fossil fuel-fired power generation facilities as a replacement for the Clean Power Plan which has been stayed. The Affordable Clean Energy rule would require states to develop plans within three years of the final rule to implement these performance standards. States are also contemplating regulations regarding GHG emissions. For example, the Virginia General Assembly recently considered legislation which would authorize the state to directly join the RGGI program as a full participant. Compliance with the proposed Affordable Clean Energy rule or other federal or state carbon regulations is expected to require increasing the energy efficiency of equipment at facilities, committing significant capital toward carbon reduction programs, purchase of allowances and/or emission rate credits, fuel switching, and/or retirement of high-emitting generation facilities and potential replacement with lower-emitting generation facilities. Given these developments and uncertainties, Dominion Energy and Virginia Power cannot estimate the aggregate effect of such requirements on their results of operations, financial condition or their customers. However, such expenditures, if material, could make Dominion Energy and Virginia Power’s generation facilities uneconomical to operate, result in the impairment of assets, or otherwise adversely affect Dominion Energy or Virginia Power’s results of operations, financial performance or liquidity.  

There are also potential impacts on Dominion Energy and Dominion Energy Gas’ natural gas businesses as federal or state GHG regulations may require GHG emission reductions from the natural gas sector which, in addition to resulting in increased costs, could affect demand for natural gas. Additionally, GHG requirements could result in increased demand for energy conservation and renewable products, which could impact the natural gas businesses.  

Dominion Energy and Virginia Power are subject to risks associated with the disposal and storage of coal ash. Dominion Energy and Virginia Power historically produced and continue to produce coal ash, or CCRs, as a by-product of their coal-fired generation operations. The ash is stored and managed in 

 impoundments (ash ponds) and landfills located at 11 different facilities, eight of which are at Virginia Power.  

The EPA has issued regulations concerning the management and storage of CCRs, which Virginia has adopted. These CCR regulations require Dominion Energy and Virginia Power to make additional capital expenditures and increase operating and maintenance expenses. In addition, Dominion Energy and Virginia Power will incur expenses and other costs associated with closing, corrective action and ongoing monitoring of certain ash ponds. Dominion Energy and Virginia Power also may face litigation concerning their coal ash facilities.  

Further, while Dominion Energy and Virginia Power operate their ash ponds and landfills in compliance with applicable state safety regulations, a release of coal ash with a significant environmental impact, such as the Dan River ash basin release by a neighboring utility, could result in remediation costs, civil and/or criminal penalties, claims, litigation, increased regulation and compliance costs, and reputational damage, and could impact the financial condition of Dominion Energy and/or Virginia Power.  

The Companies’ operations are subject to operational hazards, equipment failures, supply chain disruptions and personnel issues which could negatively affect the Companies. Operation of the Companies’ facilities involves risk, including the risk of potential breakdown or failure of equipment or processes due to aging infrastructure, fuel supply, pipeline integrity or transportation disruptions, accidents, labor disputes or work stoppages by employees, acts of terrorism or sabotage, construction delays or cost overruns, shortages of or delays in obtaining equipment, material and labor, operational restrictions resulting from environmental limitations and governmental interventions, changes to the environment and performance below expected levels. The Companies’ businesses are dependent upon sophisticated information technology systems and network infrastructure, the failure of which could prevent them from accomplishing critical business functions. Because the Companies’ transmission facilities, pipelines and other facilities are interconnected with those of third parties, the operation of their facilities and pipelines could be adversely affected by unexpected or uncontrollable events occurring on the systems of such third parties.  

Operation of the Companies’ facilities below expected capacity levels could result in lost revenues and increased expenses, including higher maintenance costs. Unplanned outages of the Companies’ facilities and extensions of scheduled outages due to mechanical failures or other problems occur from time to time and are an inherent risk of the Companies’ business. Unplanned outages typically increase the Companies’ operation and maintenance expenses and may reduce their revenues as a result of selling less output or may require the Companies to incur significant costs as a result of operating higher cost units or obtaining replacement output from third parties in the open market to satisfy forward energy and capacity or other contractual obligations. Moreover, if the Companies are unable to perform their contractual obligations, penalties or liability for damages could result.  

In addition, there are many risks associated with the Companies’ operations and the transportation, storage and processing of natural gas and NGLs, including nuclear accidents, fires, explosions, uncontrolled release of natural gas and other environ-

 32          

 mental hazards, pole strikes, electric contact cases, the collision of third party equipment with pipelines and avian and other wildlife impacts. Such incidents could result in loss of human life or injuries among employees, customers or the public in general, environmental pollution, damage or destruction of facilities or business interruptions and associated public or employee safety impacts, loss of revenues, increased liabilities, heightened regulatory scrutiny and reputational risk. Further, the location of pipelines and storage facilities, or generation, transmission, substations and distribution facilities near populated areas, including residential areas, commercial business centers and industrial sites, could increase the level of damages resulting from these risks.  

Dominion Energy and Virginia Power have substantial ownership interests in and operate nuclear generating units; as a result, each may incur substantial costs and liabilities. Dominion Energy and Virginia Power’s nuclear facilities are subject to operational, environmental, health and financial risks such as the on-site storage of spent nuclear fuel, the ability to dispose of such spent nuclear fuel, the ability to maintain adequate reserves for decommissioning, limitations on the amounts and types of insurance available, potential operational liabilities and extended outages, the costs of replacement power, the costs of maintenance and the costs of securing the facilities against possible terrorist attacks. Dominion Energy and Virginia Power maintain decommissioning trusts and external insurance coverage to minimize the financial exposure to these risks; however, it is possible that future decommissioning costs could exceed amounts in the decommissioning trusts and/or damages could exceed the amount of insurance coverage. If Dominion Energy and Virginia Power’s decommissioning trust funds are insufficient, and they are not allowed to recover the additional costs incurred through insurance or regulatory mechanisms, their results of operations could be negatively impacted.  

Dominion Energy and Virginia Power’s nuclear facilities are also subject to complex government regulation which could negatively impact their results of operations. The NRC has broad authority under federal law to impose licensing and safety-related requirements for the operation of nuclear generating facilities. In the event of noncompliance, the NRC has the authority to impose fines, set license conditions, shut down a nuclear unit, or take some combination of these actions, depending on its assessment of the severity of the situation, until compliance is achieved. Revised safety requirements promulgated by the NRC could require Dominion Energy and Virginia Power to make substantial expenditures at their nuclear plants. In addition, although the Companies have no reason to anticipate a serious nuclear incident at their plants, if an incident did occur, it could materially and adversely affect their results of operations and/or financial condition. A major incident at a nuclear facility anywhere in the world, such as the nuclear events in Japan in 2011, could cause the NRC to adopt increased safety regulations or otherwise limit or restrict the operation or licensing of domestic nuclear units.  

Sustained declines in natural gas and NGL prices have resulted in, and could result in further, curtailments of third-party producers’ drilling programs, delaying the production of volumes of natural gas and NGLs that Dominion Energy and Dominion Energy Gas gather, process, and transport and reducing the value of NGLs retained by Dominion Energy Gas, which may adversely affect Dominion Energy and Dominion 

 Energy Gas’ revenues and earnings. Dominion Energy and Dominion Energy Gas obtain their supply of natural gas and NGLs from numerous third-party producers. Most producers are under no obligation to deliver a specific quantity of natural gas or NGLs to Dominion Energy and Dominion Energy Gas’ facilities. A number of other factors could reduce the volumes of natural gas and NGLs available to Dominion Energy and Dominion Energy Gas’ pipelines and other assets. Increased regulation of energy extraction activities could result in reductions in drilling for new natural gas wells, which could decrease the volumes of natural gas supplied to Dominion Energy and Dominion Energy Gas. Producers with direct commodity price exposure face liquidity constraints, which could present a credit risk to Dominion Energy and Dominion Energy Gas. Producers could shift their production activities to regions outside Dominion Energy and Dominion Energy Gas’ footprint. In addition, the extent of natural gas reserves and the rate of production from such reserves may be less than anticipated. If producers were to decrease the supply of natural gas or NGLs to Dominion Energy and Dominion Energy Gas’ systems and facilities for any reason, Dominion Energy and Dominion Energy Gas could experience lower revenues to the extent they are unable to replace the lost volumes on similar terms. In addition, Dominion Energy Gas’ revenue from processing and fractionation operations largely results from the sale of commodities at market prices. Dominion Energy Gas receives the wet gas product from producers and may retain the extracted NGLs as compensation for its services. This exposes Dominion Energy Gas to commodity price risk for the value of the spread between the NGL products and natural gas, and relative changes in these prices could adversely impact Dominion Energy Gas’ results.  

Dominion Energy’s merchant power business operates in a challenging market, which could adversely affect its results of operations and future growth. The success of Dominion Energy’s merchant power business depends upon favorable market conditions including the ability to sell power at prices sufficient to cover its operating costs. Dominion Energy operates in active wholesale markets that expose it to price volatility for electricity and nuclear fuel as well as the credit risk of counterparties. Dominion Energy attempts to manage its price risk by entering into hedging transactions, including short-term and long-term fixed price sales and purchase contracts.  

In these wholesale markets, the spot market price of electricity for each hour is generally determined by the cost of supplying the next unit of electricity to the market during that hour. In many cases, the next unit of electricity supplied would be provided by generating stations that consume fossil fuels, primarily natural gas. Consequently, the open market wholesale price for electricity generally reflects the cost of natural gas plus the cost to convert the fuel to electricity. Therefore, changes in the price of natural gas generally affect the open market wholesale price of electricity. To the extent Dominion Energy does not enter into long-term power purchase agreements or otherwise effectively hedge its output, these changes in market prices could adversely affect its financial results.  

Dominion Energy purchases nuclear fuel primarily under long-term contracts. Dominion Energy is exposed to nuclear fuel cost volatility for the portion of its nuclear fuel obtained through short-term contracts or on the spot market, including as a result 

 33  

 of market supply shortages. Nuclear fuel prices can be volatile and the price that can be obtained for power produced may not change at the same rate as nuclear fuel costs, thus adversely impacting Dominion Energy’s financial results. In addition, in the event that any of the merchant generation facilities experience a forced outage, Dominion Energy may not receive the level of revenue it anticipated.  

The Companies’ financial results can be adversely affected by various factors driving supply and demand for electricity and gas and related services. Technological advances required by federal laws mandate new levels of energy efficiency in end-use devices, including lighting, furnaces and electric heat pumps and could lead to declines in per capita energy consumption. Additionally, certain regulatory and legislative bodies have introduced or are considering requirements and/or incentives to reduce energy consumption by a fixed date. Further, Virginia Power’s business model is premised upon the cost efficiency of the production, transmission and distribution of large-scale centralized utility generation. However, advances in distributed generation technologies, such as solar cells, gas microturbines and fuel cells, may make these alternative generation methods competitive with large-scale utility generation, and change how customers acquire or use our services. Virginia Power has an exclusive franchise to serve retail electric customers in Virginia. However, Virginia’s Retail Access Statutes allow certain Power Generation customers exceptions to this franchise. As market conditions change, Virginia Power’s customers may further pursue exceptions and Virginia Power’s exclusive franchise may erode.  

Reduced energy demand or significantly slowed growth in demand due to customer adoption of energy efficient technology, conservation, distributed generation, regional economic conditions, or the impact of additional compliance obligations, unless substantially offset through regulatory cost allocations, could adversely impact the value of the Companies’ business activities.  

Dominion Energy Gas has experienced a decline in demand for certain of its processing services due to competing facilities operating in nearby areas.  

Dominion Energy and Dominion Energy Gas may not be able to maintain, renew or replace their existing portfolio of customer contracts successfully, or on favorable terms. Upon contract expiration, customers may not elect to re-contract with Dominion Energy and Dominion Energy Gas as a result of a variety of factors, including the amount of competition in the industry, changes in the price of natural gas, their level of satisfaction with Dominion Energy and Dominion Energy Gas’ services, the extent to which Dominion Energy and Dominion Energy Gas are able to successfully execute their business plans and the effect of the regulatory framework on customer demand. The failure to replace any such customer contracts on similar terms or with counterparties with similar credit profiles could result in a loss of revenue for Dominion Energy and Dominion Energy Gas and related decreases in their earnings and cash flows.  

Certain of Dominion Energy and Dominion Energy Gas’ gas pipeline services are subject to long-term, fixed-price “negotiated rate” contracts that are not subject to adjustment, even if the cost to perform such services exceeds the revenues received from such contracts. Under FERC policy, a regulated service provider and a customer may mutually agree to sign a contract for service at a “negotiated rate” which may be above or 

 below the FERC regulated, cost-based recourse rate for that service. These “negotiated rate” contracts are not generally subject to adjustment for increased costs which could be produced by inflation or other factors relating to the specific facilities being used to perform the services. Any shortfall of revenue as a result of these “negotiated rate” contracts could decrease Dominion Energy and Dominion Energy Gas’ earnings and cash flows.  

Dominion Energy and Dominion Energy Gas conduct certain operations through joint ventures that may limit our operational flexibility. Certain operations are conducted through joint venture arrangements, such as Atlantic Coast Pipeline and Iroquois, to which Dominion Energy and Dominion Energy Gas have significant influence but do not control the operations of such entities. The joint ventures operate in accordance with the applicable governing provisions of each entity. Accordingly, Dominion Energy and Dominion Energy Gas may have limited ability to influence or control certain day to day activities affecting the operations and do have not unilateral control over decisions that may have a material financial impact on the joint venture participants. Dominion Energy and Dominion Energy Gas are dependent upon third parties satisfying their respective obligations, including, as applicable, funding of their required share of capital expenditures. In addition, Dominion Energy and Dominion Energy Gas may be subject to restrictions or limitations on their ability to sell or transfer their interests in the joint venture arrangements. The third-party participants in the joint ventures have their own interests and objectives which may differ from those of Dominion Energy and Dominion Energy Gas. Accordingly, any disputes amongst the joint venture partners may result in delays, litigation or operational impasses.  

Exposure to counterparty performance may adversely affect the Companies’ financial results of operations. The Companies are exposed to credit risks of their counterparties and the risk that one or more counterparties may fail or delay the performance of their contractual obligations, including but not limited to payment for services. Some of Dominion Energy’s operations are conducted through less than wholly-owned subsidiaries, as noted above. Counterparties could fail or delay the performance of their contractual obligations for a number of reasons, including the effect of regulations on their operations. Defaults or failure to perform by customers, suppliers, contractors, joint venture partners, financial institutions or other third parties may adversely affect the Companies’ financial results.  

Dominion Energy is exposed to counterparty credit risk relating to the terminal services agreements for the Liquefaction Project. While the counterparties’ obligations are supported by parental guarantees and letters of credit, there is no assurance that such credit support would be sufficient to satisfy the obligations in the event of a counterparty default. In addition, if a controversy arises under either agreement resulting in a judgment in Dominion Energy’s favor, Dominion Energy may need to seek to enforce a final U.S. court judgment in a foreign tribunal, which could involve a lengthy process.  

Market performance and other changes may decrease the value of Dominion Energy and Virginia Power’s decommissioning trust funds and Dominion Energy and Dominion Energy Gas’ benefit plan assets or increase Dominion Energy and Dominion Energy Gas’ liabilities, which could then require significant additional funding. The performance of the capital markets affects the value of the assets that are held in trusts to 

 34          

 satisfy future obligations to decommission Dominion Energy and Virginia Power’s nuclear plants and under Dominion Energy and Dominion Energy Gas’ pension and other postretirement benefit plans. The Companies have significant obligations in these areas and hold significant assets in these trusts. These assets are subject to market fluctuation and will yield uncertain returns, which may fall below expected return rates.  

With respect to decommissioning trust funds, a decline in the market value of these assets may increase the funding requirements of the obligations to decommission Dominion Energy and Virginia Power’s nuclear plants or require additional NRC-approved funding assurance.  

A decline in the market value of the assets held in trusts to satisfy future obligations under Dominion Energy and Dominion Energy Gas’ pension and other postretirement benefit plans may increase the funding requirements under such plans. Additionally, changes in interest rates will affect the liabilities under Dominion Energy and Dominion Energy Gas’ pension and other postretirement benefit plans; as interest rates decrease, the liabilities increase, potentially requiring additional funding. Further, changes in demographics, including increased numbers of retirements or changes in mortality assumptions, may also increase the funding requirements of the obligations related to the pension and other postretirement benefit plans.  

If the decommissioning trust funds and benefit plan assets are negatively impacted by market fluctuations or other factors, the Companies’ results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flows could be negatively affected.  

The use of derivative instruments could result in financial losses and liquidity constraints. The Companies use derivative instruments, including futures, swaps, forwards, options and FTRs, to manage commodity, currency and financial market risks. In addition, Dominion Energy and Dominion Energy Gas purchase and sell commodity-based contracts for hedging purposes.  

The Dodd-Frank Act was enacted into law in July 2010 in an effort to improve regulation of financial markets. The CEA, as amended by Title VII of the Dodd-Frank Act, requires certain over-the-counter derivatives, or swaps, to be cleared through a derivatives clearing organization and, if the swap is subject to a clearing requirement, to be executed on a designated contract market or swap execution facility. Non-financial entities that use swaps to hedge or mitigate commercial risk, often referred to as end users, may elect the end-user exception to the CEA’s clearing requirements. The Companies have elected to exempt their swaps from the CEA’s clearing requirements. If, as a result of changes to the rulemaking process, the Companies’ derivative activities are not exempted from the clearing, exchange trading or margin requirements, the Companies could be subject to higher costs due to decreased market liquidity or increased margin payments. In addition, the Companies’ swap dealer counterparties may attempt to pass-through additional trading costs in connection with changes to or the elimination of rulemaking that implements Title VII of the Dodd-Frank Act.  

Changing rating agency requirements could negatively affect the Companies’ growth and business strategy. In order to maintain appropriate credit ratings to obtain needed credit at a reasonable cost in light of existing or future rating agency requirements, the Companies may find it necessary to take steps or change their 

 business plans in ways that may adversely affect their growth and earnings. A reduction in the Companies’ credit ratings could result in an increase in borrowing costs, loss of access to certain markets, or both, thus adversely affecting operating results and could require the Companies to post additional collateral in connection with some of its price risk management activities.  

An inability to access financial markets could adversely affect the execution of the Companies’ business plans. The Companies rely on access to short-term money markets and longer-term capital markets as significant sources of funding and liquidity for business plans with increasing capital expenditure needs, normal working capital and collateral requirements related to hedges of future sales and purchases of energy-related commodities. Deterioration in the Companies’ creditworthiness, as evaluated by credit rating agencies or otherwise, or declines in market reputation either for the Companies or their industry in general, or general financial market disruptions outside of the Companies’ control could increase their cost of borrowing or restrict their ability to access one or more financial markets. Further market disruptions could stem from delays in the current economic recovery, the bankruptcy of an unrelated company, general market disruption due to general credit market or political events, or the failure of financial institutions on which the Companies rely. Increased costs and restrictions on the Companies’ ability to access financial markets may be severe enough to affect their ability to execute their business plans as scheduled.  

Potential changes in accounting practices may adversely affect the Companies’ financial results. The Companies cannot predict the impact that future changes in accounting standards or practices may have on public companies in general, the energy industry or their operations specifically. New accounting standards could be issued that could change the way they record revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities. These changes in accounting standards could adversely affect earnings or could increase liabilities.  

War, acts and threats of terrorism, intentional acts and other significant events could adversely affect the Companies’ operations. The Companies cannot predict the impact that any future terrorist attacks may have on the energy industry in general, or on the Companies’ business in particular. Any retaliatory military strikes or sustained military campaign may affect the Companies’ operations in unpredictable ways, such as changes in insurance markets and disruptions of fuel supplies and markets. In addition, the Companies’ infrastructure facilities, including projects under construction, could be direct targets of, or indirect casualties of, an act of terror. For example, there have been multiple instances of vandalism or attempted sabotage on third-party oil and gas pipelines either under construction or in operation. Furthermore, the physical compromise of the Companies’ facilities could adversely affect the Companies’ ability to manage these facilities effectively. Instability in financial markets as a result of terrorism, war, intentional acts, pandemic, credit crises, recession or other factors could result in a significant decline in the U.S. economy and increase the cost of insurance coverage. This could negatively impact the Companies’ results of operations and financial condition.  

Hostile cyber intrusions could severely impair the Companies’ operations, lead to the disclosure of confidential information, damage the reputation of the Companies and otherwise have an adverse effect on the Companies’ business. 

 35  

 The Companies own assets deemed as critical infrastructure, the operation of which is dependent on information technology systems. Further, the computer systems that run the Companies’ facilities are not completely isolated from external networks. There appears to be an increasing level of activity, sophistication and maturity of threat actors, in particular nation state actors, that wish to disrupt the U.S. bulk power system and the U.S. gas transmission or distribution system. Such parties could view the Companies’ computer systems, software or networks as attractive targets for cyber attack. For example, malware has been designed to target software that runs the nation’s critical infrastructure such as power transmission grids and gas pipelines. In addition, the Companies’ businesses require that they and their vendors collect and maintain sensitive customer data, as well as confidential employee and shareholder information, which is subject to electronic theft or loss.  

A successful cyber attack on the systems that control the Companies’ electric generation, electric or gas transmission or distribution assets could severely disrupt business operations, preventing the Companies from serving customers or collecting revenues. The breach of certain business systems could affect the Companies’ ability to correctly record, process and report financial information. A major cyber incident could result in significant expenses to investigate and repair security breaches or system damage and could lead to litigation, fines, other remedial action, heightened regulatory scrutiny and damage to the Companies’ reputation. In addition, the misappropriation, corruption or loss of personally identifiable information and other confidential data at the Companies or one of their vendors could lead to significant breach notification expenses and mitigation expenses such as credit monitoring. While the Companies maintain property and casualty insurance, along with other contractual provisions, that may cover certain damage caused by potential cyber incidents, all damage and claims arising from such incidents may not be covered or may exceed the amount of any insurance available. For these reasons, a significant cyber incident could materially and adversely affect the Companies’ business, financial condition and results of operations.  

Failure to attract and retain key executive officers and an appropriately qualified workforce could have an adverse effect on the Companies’ operations. The Companies’ business strategy is dependent on their ability to recruit, retain and motivate employees. The Companies’ key executive officers are the CEO, CFO and presidents and those responsible for financial, operational, legal, regulatory and accounting functions. Competition for skilled management employees in these areas of the Companies’ business operations is high. Certain events, such as an aging workforce, mismatch of skill set, or unavailability of contract resources may lead to operating challenges and increased costs. The challenges include lack of resources, loss of knowledge base and the length of time required for skill development. In this case, costs, including costs for contractors to replace employees, productivity costs and safety costs, may rise. Failure to hire and adequately train replacement employees, including the transfer of significant internal historical knowledge and expertise to new employees, or future availability and cost of contract labor may adversely affect the ability to manage and operate the Companies’ business. In addition, certain specialized knowledge is required of the Companies’ technical employees for construction and oper-

 ation of transmission, generation and distribution assets. The Companies’ inability to attract and retain these employees could adversely affect their business and future operating results.  

Following the SCANA Combination, Dominion Energy may be unable to successfully integrate SCANA’s businesses. Dominion Energy is devoting significant management attention and resources to integrating SCANA’s businesses. While Dominion Energy has assumed that a certain level of transaction and integration expenses will be incurred, there are a number of factors beyond its control that could affect the total amount or the timing of its integration expenses. Potential difficulties Dominion Energy may encounter in the integration process include the following:  

 •   The complexities associated with integrating SCANA, including its utility businesses, while at the same time continuing to provide consistent, high quality services;  

 •   The complexities of integrating a company with different markets and customers;  

 •   The inability to attract and retain key employees;  

 •   Potential unknown liabilities and unforeseen increased expenses associated with the SCANA Combination;  

 •   Difficulties in managing political and regulatory conditions related to SCANA’s utility businesses;  

 •   The moratorium on filing requests for adjustments in SCE&G’s base electric rates until May 2020 with no changes in rates until January 1, 2021, which limits Dominion Energy’s ability to recover increases in non-fuel related costs of electric operations for SCE&G’s customers;  

 •   The stipulation agreement approved by the North Carolina Commission, which provides for a rate moratorium at PSNC until November 1, 2021, with certain exceptions; and  

 •   Performance shortfalls as a result of the diversion of Dominion Energy management’s attention caused by integrating SCANA’s businesses.  

For these reasons, it is possible that the integration process could result in the distraction of Dominion Energy’s management, the disruption of Dominion Energy’s ongoing business or inconsistencies in its services, standards, controls, procedures and policies, any of which could adversely affect the ability of Dominion Energy to maintain or establish relationships with current and prospective customers, vendors and employees or could otherwise adversely affect the business and financial results of Dominion Energy.  

Dominion Energy may be materially adversely affected by negative publicity related to the SCANA Combination and in connection with other related matters, including the abandonment of the NND Project. From time to time, political and public sentiment in connection with the merger and in connection with other matters, including the abandonment of the NND Project, may result in a significant amount of adverse press coverage and other adverse public statements affecting Dominion Energy. Adverse press coverage and other adverse statements, whether or not driven by political or public sentiment, may also result in investigations by regulators, legislators and law enforcement officials or in legal claims. Responding to these investigations and lawsuits, regardless of the ultimate outcome of the proceedings, as well as responding to and addressing adverse press coverage and other adverse public statements, can divert the time and effort of senior management from the management of Dominion Energy’s business. 

 36          

Addressing any adverse publicity, governmental scrutiny or enforcement or other legal proceedings is time consuming and expensive and, regardless of the factual basis for the assertions being made, can have a negative impact on the reputation of Dominion Energy, on the morale and performance of their employees and on their relationships with their respective regulators, customers and commercial counterparties. It may also have a negative impact on their ability to take timely advantage of various business and market opportunities. The direct and indirect effects of negative publicity, and the demands of responding to and addressing it, may have a material adverse effect on Dominion Energy’s business, financial condition and results of operations.  

The SCANA Combination may not be accretive to operating earnings and may cause dilution to Dominion Energy’s earnings per share, which may negatively affect the market price of Dominion Energy common stock. Dominion Energy currently anticipates that the SCANA Combination will be immediately accretive to Dominion Energy’s forecasted operating earnings per share on a standalone basis. This expectation is based on preliminary estimates, which may materially change. Dominion Energy may encounter additional transaction and integration-related costs, may fail to realize all of the benefits anticipated in the merger or be subject to other factors that affect preliminary estimates or its ability to realize operational efficiencies. Any of these factors could cause a decrease in Dominion Energy’s operating earnings per share or decrease or delay the expected accretive effect of the merger and contribute to a decrease in the price of Dominion Energy’s common stock. Dominion Energy expects the initial effect of the SCANA Combination on its GAAP earnings will be a decrease in such earnings due to the anticipated charges for refunds to SCE&G customers and transaction and transition costs.  

Through the SCANA Combination, Dominion Energy acquired SCANA and SCE&G which are subject to numerous legal proceedings and ongoing governmental investigations and examinations. SCANA and SCE&G are defendants in numerous federal and state legal proceedings and governmental investigations relating to the decision to abandon construction at the 

 NND Project. Among other things, the lawsuits and investigations allege misrepresentation, failure to properly manage the NND Project, unfair trade practices and violation of anti-trust laws. The plaintiffs seek a judgment that SCE&G may not charge its customers for any past or continuing costs of the NND Project, among other remedies.  

Additionally, SCANA and SCE&G are defendants in federal and state legal proceedings relating to the SCANA Combination. Among other things, the lawsuits allege breaches of various fiduciary duties. Remedies sought include rescinding the SCANA Combination.  

The outcome of these legal proceedings, investigations and examinations is uncertain and may adversely affect Dominion Energy’s financial condition or results of operation.  

Dominion Energy has goodwill and other intangible assets on its balance sheet, and these amounts will increase as a result of the SCANA Combination. If its goodwill or other intangible assets become impaired in the future, Dominion Energy may be required to record a significant, non-cash charge to earnings and reduce its shareholders’ equity. Dominion Energy will record as goodwill the excess of the purchase price paid by Dominion Energy over the fair value of SCANA’s assets and liabilities as determined for financial accounting purposes in its Consolidated Balance Sheet beginning in the first quarter of 2019. Under GAAP, intangible assets are reviewed for impairment on an annual basis or more frequently whenever events or circumstances indicate that its carrying value may not be recoverable. If Dominion Energy’s intangible assets, including goodwill as a result of the SCANA Combination, are determined to be impaired in the future, Dominion Energy may be required to record a significant, non-cash charge to earnings during the period in which the impairment is determined.  

Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments  

None. 

 37  

Item 2. Properties