Item 7.Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our audited consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this annual report on Form 10-K. Some of the information contained in this discussion and analysis constitutes forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results could differ materially from those discussed in these forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to these differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed below and elsewhere in this annual report on Form 10-K particularly under “Risk Factors” and “Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements,” which immediately follows “Risk Factors.” Unless otherwise specified, references to Notes to our consolidated financial statements are to the Notes to our audited consolidated financial statements as of December 31, 2018 and 2017 and for years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016.

Introduction and Overview

Discover Financial Services (“DFS”) is a direct banking and payment services company. We provide direct banking products and services and payment services through our subsidiaries. We offer our customers credit card loans, private student loans, personal loans, home equity loans and deposit products. We also operate the Discover Network, the PULSE network (“PULSE”) and Diners Club International (“Diners Club”). The Discover Network processes transactions for Discover-branded credit and debit cards and provides payment transaction processing and settlement services. PULSE operates an electronic funds transfer network, providing financial institutions issuing debit cards on the PULSE network with access to ATMs domestically and internationally, as well as point-of-sale (“POS”) terminals at retail locations throughout the U.S. for debit card transactions. Diners Club is a global payments network of licensees, which are generally financial institutions, that issue Diners Club branded charge cards and/or provide card acceptance services.

Our primary revenues consist of interest income earned on loan receivables and fees earned from customers, financial institutions, merchants and issuers. The primary expenses required to operate our business include funding costs (interest expense), loan loss provisions, customer rewards and expenses incurred to grow, manage and service our loan receivables and networks. Our business activities are funded primarily through consumer deposits, securitization of loan receivables and the issuance of unsecured debt.

2018 Highlights[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Prior Year Highlights

•Net income was $2.1 billion and $2.4 billion, or $5.42 and $5.77 per diluted share in 2017 and 2016, respectively.

•Total loans grew $7.0 billion in 2017, or 9%, from 2016 to $84.2 billion.

•Credit card loans grew $5.8 billion in 2017, or 9%, from 2016 to $67.3 billion.

•The total net charge-off rate increased 54 basis points in 2017 from 2016 to 2.70%.

•The net charge-off rate for credit card loans increased 57 basis points in 2017 from 2016 to 2.91% and the delinquency rate for credit card loans over 30 days past due increased 24 basis points to 2.28%.

•Direct-to-consumer deposits grew $3.4 billion in 2017, or 9%, from 2016 to $39.4 billion.

•Payment Services transaction volume for the segment was $202.9 billion in 2017, up 12% from 2016.

-46-
•During 2017, the effective tax rate increased 6.2 percentage points, primarily driven by a one-time adjustment of $179 million as a result of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (“TCJA”).

Outlook

We continue to focus on disciplined capital deployment through profitable organic loan growth and execution of our capital plan. Our marketing strategy remains focused on expanding wallet share with existing customers and adding new accounts to achieve continued loan growth in 2019. 

Total expenses are expected to increase in 2019 as we continue to invest in business growth and technology, including the deployment of advanced analytics and automation. We expect the rewards rate to modestly increase in 2019 largely resulting from the ongoing shift in product mix to the Discover it platform. 

The total net charge-off rate in 2019 is expected to increase in comparison to the prior year and we expect to add to the loan loss reserve due to the seasoning of continued loan growth and supply-driven credit normalization. We expect net interest margin in 2019 to remain relatively flat.

In our payments segment, we will continue to pursue new ways to drive volume growth in a competitive environment. We continue to leverage our network to support our card-issuing business.

Regulatory Environment and Developments

Federal banking regulators continue to propose and implement new regulations and supervisory guidance, including under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the "Dodd-Frank Act"), and modify their examination and enforcement priorities. The Dodd-Frank Act created a framework for regulation of large systemically significant financial firms, including Discover, through a variety of measures, including increased capital and liquidity requirements and limits on leverage and enhanced supervisory authority. The impact of the evolving regulatory environment on our business and operations depends upon a number of factors, including supervisory priorities and actions, our actions, those of our competitors and other marketplace participants, and the behavior of consumers.

On May 24, 2018, the President signed into law a package of legislative reforms titled the Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief, and Consumer Protection Act (“EGRRCPA”), which are intended to promote economic growth, provide tailored regulatory relief for smaller and less complex financial institutions, and enhance consumer protections. Among other provisions, the new law raises the asset threshold for automatically designating a bank holding company as “systemically important” from $50 billion to $250 billion. The new law became effective immediately for bank holding companies with assets less than $100 billion and will become effective 18 months from its enactment for banks with assets of $100 billion or more. Upon effectiveness of the new law, bank holding companies with assets less than $250 billion will no longer automatically be subject to regulatory requirements that establish enhanced prudential standards pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act. However, the extent of relief afforded to Discover under the law will depend on how it is implemented. On October 31, 2018, the Federal Reserve and other federal banking regulators issued proposals to tailor the existing regulatory requirements related to capital, liquidity and enhanced prudential standards to an institution’s risk and complexity profile for banking institutions with total assets of $100 billion or more. The timing and substance of any final rules are currently unknown. On February 5, 2019, the Federal Reserve announced that certain less complex firms subject to Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review (“CCAR”), generally those with total consolidated assets between $100 billion and $250 billion, have been provided relief from certain components of the Federal Reserve’s capital planning and stress testing framework for the 2019 stress test cycle. The Federal Reserve issued a temporary order granting Discover relief from the regulatory requirements related to supervisory stress testing and company-run stress testing for the 2019 stress test cycle and provided Discover a one-year extension of the requirement to submit a capital plan to the Federal Reserve until April 5, 2020. Additionally, Discover is not required to participate in the 2019 CCAR process. For more information, see “Business — Supervision and Regulation — Bank Holding Company Regulation.”

Another provision contained in the EGRRCPA authorizes the Social Security Administration to modernize the process in which it verifies information to help financial institutions detect and prevent the unauthorized use of Social Security numbers to open fraudulent accounts. While improvements to processes and procedures are underway, the timing and impact is uncertain.

Policymakers at the federal and state levels are increasingly focused on measures to enhance data security and data breach incident response requirements as a result of growing cybersecurity threats and the number of incidents 

-47-
involving unauthorized access to consumer information. Furthermore, regulations and legislation at various levels of government have been proposed to create data privacy standards. For example, the California Consumer Privacy Act (“CCPA”) creates a broad set of privacy rights and remedies modeled in part on the European Union's General Data Protection Regulation. The CCPA goes into effect on January 1, 2020. While it is too early to know their full impact, these developments could ultimately result in the imposition of requirements on Discover and other providers of consumer financial services or networks that could increase costs or otherwise adversely affect our businesses.

The impact of the evolving regulatory environment on our business and operations depends upon a number of factors, including supervisory priorities and actions, our actions, actions of our competitors and other marketplace participants, and the behavior of consumers. For more information on how the regulatory environment, enforcement actions, findings and ratings could also have an impact on our strategies, the value of our assets, or otherwise adversely affect our business see “Risk Factors — Current Economic and Regulatory Environment”. For more information on recent matters affecting us, see Note 19: Litigation and Regulatory Matters to our consolidated financial statements.

Consumer Financial Services

The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (the “CFPB”) regulates consumer financial products and services, as well as certain financial services providers, including Discover. The CFPB has rulemaking and interpretive authority under the Dodd-Frank Act and other federal consumer financial services laws, as well as broad supervisory, examination and enforcement authority over designated financial services providers, including Discover. The CFPB’s regulatory authority includes the exercise of rulemaking, supervision and enforcement powers with respect to “unfair, deceptive or abusive acts or practices” and consumer access to fair, transparent and competitive financial products and services. Historically, the CFPB’s policy priorities focused on several financial products of the type we offer (e.g. credit cards and student loans).

On December 6, 2018, a new director of the CFPB was confirmed. The new director has indicated that her initial priorities include ensuring that the CFPB is fair and transparent in taking actions to empower consumers and provides certainty for market participants, including through the use of cost-benefit analysis and rulemaking processes. Previously, the CFPB issued formal requests for information on various topics, which are expected to continue. Despite the changes in the CFPB’s leadership, the CFPB is required by statute to undertake certain actions such as its bi-annual review of the consumer credit card market.

There continues to be legislative and regulatory focus on the private student loan market, including by some state legislatures and state attorneys general. Recent areas of focus have included servicing, payments and collection practices, which have resulted in an increase in supervisory examinations of Discover related to private student loans. Legislative focus on student loans has resulted in the enactment of student loan servicing laws in several states, and consideration of new licensing, servicing, reporting and regulatory oversight requirements for student loan servicers. Such legislation, regulation or guidance may increase the complexity and expense of servicing student loans and impact the entire student loan market, which could cause us to change our private student loan products or servicing practices in ways that we may not currently anticipate.

Payment Networks

The Dodd-Frank Act contains several provisions impacting the debit card market, including network participation requirements and interchange fee limitations. The changing debit card environment, including competitor actions related to merchant and acquirer pricing and transaction routing strategies, has adversely affected, and is expected to continue to adversely affect, our PULSE network's business practices, network transaction volume, revenue and prospects for future growth. We continue to closely monitor competitor pricing and technology development strategies in order to assess their impact on our business and on competition in the marketplace. Following an inquiry by the U.S. Department of Justice into some of these competitor pricing strategies, PULSE filed a lawsuit against Visa in late 2014 with respect to these competitive concerns. The Court granted summary judgment in favor of Visa on August 31, 2018. PULSE filed an appeal on January 17, 2019. Visa also faces ongoing merchant litigation as it relates to the underlying anticompetitive behavior that is the subject of PULSE’s case against Visa. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act's network participation requirements impact PULSE's ability to enter into exclusivity arrangements, which affects PULSE's current business practices and may materially adversely affect its network transaction volume and revenue. 

-48-
Banking

Capital

Discover Financial Services and Discover Bank are subject to regulatory capital requirements that became effective January 1, 2015 under final rules issued by the Federal Reserve and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”) to implement the provisions under the Basel Committee’s December 2010 framework (referred to as “Basel III”). The final capital rules ("Basel III rules") require minimum risk-based capital and leverage ratios and define what constitutes capital for purposes of calculating those ratios. In addition, the Basel III rules establish a capital conservation buffer (“CCB”) above the regulatory minimum capital requirements, which must consist entirely of Common Equity Tier 1 ("CET1") capital and result in higher required minimum ratios by at least 2.5%. The new CCB requirement became effective January 2016; however, the buffer threshold amounts have been subject to a gradual phase-in period. The full 2.5% buffer requirement is fully phased-in as of January 2019. A banking organization is subject to limitations on paying dividends, engaging in share repurchases and paying discretionary bonuses if its capital level falls below any of the minimum capital requirements, taking into account the applicable CCB thresholds. Based on our current capital composition and levels and business plans, we are and expect to continue to be in compliance with the requirements for the foreseeable future. For additional information, see "— Liquidity and Capital Resources — Capital."

On April 10, 2018, the Federal Reserve issued a notice of proposed rulemaking that would significantly revise the regulatory capital and stress testing frameworks for mid-sized bank holding companies such as Discover Financial Services by, among other things, imposing new “stress buffer” requirements and revising certain assumptions used in supervisory stress tests. The proposal is intended to make regulatory capital requirements more forward-looking, risk-sensitive and firm-specific by linking them to the annual CCAR stress testing and capital plan review process. The timing and substance of any final rulemaking is uncertain at this time. 

On December 21, 2018, federal banking agencies adopted a joint final rule that will, among other things, give bank holding companies and banks, including Discover and its bank subsidiaries, the option to phase in the regulatory capital impacts of implementing the current expected credit loss ("CECL") approach over a three-year transition period. Recognition would be on a straight-line basis (i.e., 25% in year one, 50% in year two, 75% in year three and 100% thereafter). The final rule will become effective on April 1, 2019, although public companies such as Discover are not required to implement CECL until 2020. Separately on December 21, 2018, the Federal Reserve announced that it will not incorporate CECL into its supervisory stress tests until at least 2022 to reduce uncertainty, allow for better capital planning at affected firms and allow the Federal Reserve to gather additional information on the impact of CECL. The Federal Reserve will still require banking institutions subject to Dodd-Frank Act company-run stress test requirements to incorporate CECL into their internal stress testing processes beginning in 2020. For more information on CECL and how it may affect Discover, see Note 1: Background and Basis of Presentation to our consolidated financial statements.

Liquidity

We are currently subject to the U.S. liquidity coverage ratio rule issued by federal banking regulators. This quantitative requirement is designed to promote the short-term resilience of the liquidity risk profile of large and internationally active banking organizations in the United States. The rule requires covered banks to maintain an amount of high-quality liquid assets sufficient to cover projected net cash outflows during a prospective 30-day calendar period under an acute, hypothetical liquidity stress scenario. Given our current asset size, we are subject to a modified liquidity coverage ratio requirement, which requires a lower level of high-quality liquid assets to meet the minimum ratio requirement due to adjustments to the net cash outflow amount. The Federal Reserve issued a proposal on October 31, 2018 that would exempt bank holding companies with less than $250 billion in assets and less than $75 billion in certain other exposures from the liquidity coverage ratio rule. The timing and substance of any final rulemaking is unknown.

-49-
Results of Operations

The discussion below provides a summary of our results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to our results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2017 and year ended December 31, 2016. The discussion also provides information about our loan receivables as of December 31, 2018 compared to December 31, 2017 and December 31, 2016. 

Segments

We manage our business activities in two segments, Direct Banking and Payment Services, based on the products and services provided. For a detailed description of the operations of each segment, as well as the allocation conventions used in our business segment reporting, see Note 22: Segment Disclosures to our consolidated financial statements.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

-50-
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Diners Club volume is derived from data provided by licensees for Diners Club branded cards issued outside North America and is subject to subsequent revision or amendment.

(2)Represents gross proprietary sales volume on the Discover Network.

(3)Represents Discover card activity related to net sales, balance transfers, cash advances and other activity.

(4)Represents Discover card activity related to net sales.

Direct Banking

For the Year Ended December 31, 2018 compared to the Year Ended December 31, 2017

Our Direct Banking segment reported pretax income of $3.4 billion for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017. 

Net interest income increased for the year ended December 31, 2018 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2017 primarily driven by loan growth and higher yields on credit card loans, partially offset by higher funding costs. Interest income increased over the prior year due to continued loan growth and yield expansion resulting from prime rate increases. Interest expense increased during the year primarily due to higher market rates and a larger funding base.

For the year ended December 31, 2018, the provision for loan loss dollars increased as compared to the year ended December 31, 2017 primarily due to higher levels of net charge-offs, partially offset by a lower reserve build. For a detailed discussion on provision for loan losses, see “— Loan Quality — Provision and Allowance for Loan Losses.”

Total other income increased for the year ended December 31, 2018 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2017 primarily due to higher discount and interchange revenue and loan fee income. The increase in discount and interchange revenue is partially offset by higher rewards, both of which were primarily the result of higher sales volume. Loan fee income increased primarily as the result of an increase in late fees due to a higher number of delinquent accounts.

Total other expense increased for the year ended December 31, 2018 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2017 primarily due to higher employee compensation and benefits, marketing and business development costs, other expenses and information processing and communications. Employee compensation and benefits increased due to additional headcount for business growth and technological capabilities, as well as higher average salaries. The increase in marketing and business development costs was primarily due to higher acquisition costs and brand advertising targeting loan and deposit growth. The increase in other expense was largely driven by an increase in incentives supporting global merchant acceptance. Information processing and communications increased as the result of higher investments in infrastructure and analytic capabilities. 

-51-
Discover card sales volume was $139.0 billion for the year ended December 31, 2018, which was an increase of 7.9% as compared to the year ended December 31, 2017. This volume growth was driven primarily by growth in active cardmembers.

For the Year Ended December 31, 2017 compared to the Year Ended December 31, 2016 

Our Direct Banking segment reported pretax income of $3.4 billion for the year ended December 31, 2017 as compared to $3.5 billion for the year ended December 31, 2016.

Net interest income increased for the year ended December 31, 2017 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2016 primarily driven by loan growth and higher yields on credit card loans, partially offset by higher funding costs. The increase in credit card yields was primarily due to prime rate increases and a higher portion of revolving card receivables, partially offset by the portfolio mix and higher interest charge-offs. Interest income increased during the year ended December 31, 2017 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2016 due to loan growth and higher yields. Interest expense increased during the year ended December 31, 2017 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2016 primarily due to increased borrowings to fund asset growth, higher market rates and a change in funding mix.

For the year ended December 31, 2017, the provision for loan loss dollars increased as compared to the year ended December 31, 2016 due to higher levels of net charge-offs combined with a larger build of the allowance for loan losses as compared to 2016. For a detailed discussion on provision for loan losses, see “— Loan Quality — Provision and Allowance for Loan Losses.”

Total other income remained relatively flat for the year ended December 31, 2017 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2016. Discount and interchange revenue remained flat for the year ended December 31, 2017 in comparison to the year ended December 31, 2016 with offsetting increases in gross discount and interchange revenue and rewards, both of which were primarily the result of higher sales volume. Loan fee income increased for the year ended December 31, 2017 as compared to the previous year primarily due to an increase in late fees.

Total other expense increased for the year ended December 31, 2017 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2016 primarily due to an increase in employee compensation and benefits, professional fees, marketing and business development costs, offset by a decrease in information processing and communications. The increase in employee compensation and benefits was driven by the impact of additional headcount for regulatory and compliance needs and business growth, higher average salaries and a one-time special bonus for eligible employees in response to the TCJA in 2017. The increase in professional fees was driven primarily by investments in technology and infrastructure, offset by the completion of a look back project related to anti-money laundering remediation in 2016. The increase in marketing and business development was primarily the result of higher brand advertising and loan acquisition costs that contributed to loan growth. The decrease in information processing and communications was primarily the result of infrastructure efficiencies.

Discover card sales volume was $128.8 billion for the year ended December 31, 2017, which was an increase of 6.1% as compared to the year ended December 31, 2016. This volume growth was driven primarily by an increase in active cardmembers.

Payment Services

For the Year Ended December 31, 2018 compared to the Year Ended December 31, 2017

Our Payment Services segment reported pretax income of $152 million for the year ended December 31, 2018 as compared to pretax income of $145 million for the year ended December 31, 2017. The increase in segment pretax income was primarily due to higher other income driven by higher transaction volume across multiple channels.

Downturns in the global economy or negative impacts in foreign currency may adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations in our Payment Services segment. We continue to work with our Diners Club licensees with regard to their ability to maintain financing sufficient to support business operations. We may continue to provide additional support in the future, including loans, facilitating transfer of ownership, or acquiring assets or licensees, which may cause us to incur losses. The licensees that we currently consider to be of concern accounted for approximately 4% of Diners Club revenue for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017.

-52-
For the Year Ended December 31, 2017 compared to the Year Ended December 31, 2016 

Our Payment Services segment reported pretax income of $145 million for the year ended December 31, 2017 as compared to pretax income of $107 million the year ended December 31, 2016. The increase in segment pretax income was primarily driven by an increase in transaction processing revenue due to higher POS transactions and lower expense.

Critical Accounting Estimates

In preparing our consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (“GAAP”), management must make judgments and use estimates and assumptions about the effects of matters that are uncertain. For estimates that involve a high degree of judgment and subjectivity, it is possible that different estimates could reasonably be derived for the same period. For estimates that are particularly sensitive to changes in economic or market conditions, significant changes to the estimated amount from period to period are also possible. Management believes the current assumptions and other considerations used to estimate amounts reflected in our consolidated financial statements are appropriate. However, if actual experience differs from the assumptions and other considerations used in estimating amounts in our consolidated financial statements, the resulting changes could have a material effect on our consolidated results of operations and, in certain cases, could have a material effect on our consolidated financial condition. Management has identified the estimates related to our allowance for loan losses, the evaluation of goodwill for potential impairment and the accrual of income taxes as critical accounting estimates.

Allowance for Loan Losses 

We base our allowance for loan losses on several analyses that help us estimate incurred losses as of the balance sheet date. In deriving this estimate, we consider the collectibility of principal, interest and fees associated with our loan receivables. While our estimation process includes historical data and analysis, there is a significant amount of judgment applied in selecting inputs and analyzing the results produced to determine the allowance. We use a migration analysis to estimate the likelihood that a loan will progress through the various stages of delinquency. Management also estimates loss emergence by using other analyses to estimate losses incurred from non-delinquent accounts. The considerations in these analyses include past and current loan performance, loan seasoning and growth, current risk management practices, account collection strategies, economic conditions, bankruptcy filings, policy changes and forecasting uncertainties. Given the same information, others may reach different reasonable estimates.

If management used different assumptions in estimating incurred net loan losses, the impact to the allowance for loan losses could have a material effect on our consolidated financial condition and results of operations. For example, a 10% change in management’s estimate of incurred net loan losses could have resulted in a change of approximately $304 million in the allowance for loan losses at December 31, 2018, with a corresponding change in the provision for loan losses. See “— Loan Quality” and Note 2: Summary of Significant Accounting Policies to our consolidated financial statements for further details about our allowance for loan losses. 

Goodwill 

We recognize goodwill when the purchase price of an acquired business exceeds the total of the fair values of the acquired net assets. As required by GAAP, we test goodwill for impairment annually, or more often if indicators of impairment exist. In evaluating goodwill for impairment, management must estimate the fair value of the reporting unit(s) to which the goodwill relates. Because market data concerning acquisitions of comparable businesses typically are not readily obtainable, other valuation techniques such as earnings multiples and cash flow models are used in estimating the fair values of these reporting units. In applying these techniques, management considers historical results, business forecasts, market and industry conditions and other factors. We may also consult independent valuation experts where needed in applying these valuation techniques. The valuation methodologies we use involve assumptions about business performance, revenue and expense growth, capital expenditures, discount rates and other assumptions that are judgmental in nature.

-53-
At December 31, 2018, we reported goodwill of $255 million associated with our PULSE network. The estimated fair value of the PULSE reporting unit was more than four times its carrying value as of October 1, 2018, and there are no present conditions that we believe would cause the fair value of this reporting unit to fall below its carrying value. However, competitive pressures leading to significant declines in revenue, significant increases in the cost of equity, deteriorating economic conditions, or other events adversely impacting the assumptions used by management in the valuation, could cause the fair value of the reporting unit or the associated goodwill to decline in the future, which could result in an impairment loss. At December 31, 2018, based on the annual impairment testing performed, there was no impairment identified. See Note 7: Goodwill and Intangible Assets to our consolidated financial statements for further details about goodwill and the related impairment testing.

Income Taxes 

We are subject to the income tax laws of the jurisdictions where we have business operations, primarily the United States, its states and municipalities. We must make judgments and interpretations about the application of these inherently complex tax laws when determining the provision for income taxes and must also make estimates about when in the future certain items will affect taxable income in the various taxing jurisdictions. Disputes over interpretations of the tax laws may be settled with the taxing authority upon examination or audit. We regularly evaluate the likelihood of assessments in each of the taxing jurisdictions resulting from current and subsequent years’ examinations, and tax reserves are established as appropriate. 

Changes in the estimate of income taxes can occur due to tax rate changes, interpretations of tax laws, the status and resolution of examinations by the taxing authorities, and newly enacted laws and regulations that impact the relative merits of tax positions taken. When such changes occur, such as the recent rate change enacted with the TCJA, the effect on our consolidated financial condition and results of operations can be significant. See Note 15: Income Taxes to our consolidated financial statements for additional information about income taxes.

Earnings Summary

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Net Interest Income

The tables that follow this section have been provided to supplement the discussion below and provide further analysis of net interest income, net interest margin and the impact of rate and volume changes on net interest income. Net interest income represents the difference between interest income earned on our interest-earning assets and the interest expense incurred to finance those assets. We analyze net interest income in total by calculating net interest margin (net interest income as a percentage of average total loan receivables) and net yield on interest-earning assets (net interest income as a percentage of average total interest-earning assets). We also separately consider the impact of the level of loan receivables and the related interest yield and the impact of the cost of funds related to each of our funding sources, along with the income generated by our liquidity portfolio, on net interest income.

-54-
Our interest-earning assets consist of: (i) cash and cash equivalents primarily related to amounts on deposit with the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia, (ii) restricted cash, (iii) other short-term investments, (iv) investment securities and (v) loan receivables. Our interest-bearing liabilities consist primarily of deposits, both direct-to-consumer and brokered, and long-term borrowings, including amounts owed to securitization investors. Net interest income is influenced by the following:

•The level and composition of loan receivables, including the proportion of credit card loans to other loans, as well as the proportion of loan receivables bearing interest at promotional rates as compared to standard rates;

•The credit performance of our loans, particularly with regard to charge-offs of finance charges, which reduce interest income;

•The terms of long-term borrowings and certificates of deposit upon initial offering, including maturity and interest rate;

•The interest rates necessary to attract and maintain direct-to-consumer deposits;

•The level and composition of other interest-earning assets, including our liquidity portfolio and interest-bearing liabilities;

•Changes in the interest rate environment, including the levels of interest rates and the relationships among interest rate indices, such as the prime rate, the Federal Funds rate, interest rate on excess reserves and London Interbank Offered Rate; 

•The effectiveness of interest rate swaps in our interest rate risk management program; and 

•The difference between the carrying amount and future cash flows expected to be collected on purchased credit-impaired (“PCI”) loans.

For the Year Ended December 31, 2018 compared to the Year Ended December 31, 2017 

Net interest income increased for the year ended December 31, 2018 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2017 primarily driven by loan growth and higher yields on credit card loans, partially offset by higher funding costs. Interest income increased over the prior year due to continued loan growth and yield expansion resulting from prime rate increases. Interest expense increased during the year primarily due to higher market rates and a larger funding base.

For the Year Ended December 31, 2017 compared to the Year Ended December 31, 2016 

Net interest income increased for the year ended December 31, 2017 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2016 primarily driven by loan growth and higher yields on credit card loans, partially offset by higher funding costs. The increase in credit card yields was primarily due to prime rate increases and a higher portion of revolving card receivables, partially offset by the portfolio mix and higher interest charge-offs. Interest income increased during the year ended December 31, 2017 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2016 due to loan growth and higher yields. Interest expense increased during the year ended December 31, 2017 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2016 primarily due to increased borrowings to fund asset growth, higher market rates and a change in funding mix.

-55-
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Average balances of loan receivables include non-accruing loans, which are included in the yield calculations. If the non-accruing loan balances were excluded, there would not be a material impact on the amounts reported above. [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(3)Includes the impact of interest rate swap agreements used to change a portion of fixed-rate funding to floating-rate funding.

(4)Includes the impact of interest rate swap agreements used to change a portion of floating-rate funding to fixed-rate funding.

(5)Includes the impact of FDIC insurance premiums and Large Institution Surcharge. As of October 2018, the FDIC no longer assesses a Large Institution Surcharge. 

(6)Net interest margin represents net interest income as a percentage of average total loan receivables.

(7)Net yield on interest-earning assets represents net interest income as a percentage of average total interest-earning assets.

(8)Interest rate spread represents the difference between the rate on total interest-earning assets and the rate on total interest-bearing liabilities.

-56-
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)The rate/volume variance for each category has been allocated on a consistent basis between rate and volume variances between the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 based on the percentage of the rate or volume variance to the sum of the two absolute variances.

-57-
Loan Quality

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

(1)On June 16, 2015, we announced the closing of our mortgage origination business. Pursuant to that announcement, we sold all mortgage loans held for sale in our portfolio and ceased originating new mortgages.

(2)Represents PCI private student loans. See Note 4: Loan Receivables to our consolidated financial statements for more information regarding PCI loans.

Provision and Allowance for Loan Losses

Provision for loan losses is the expense related to maintaining the allowance for loan losses at an appropriate level to absorb the estimated probable losses in the loan portfolio at each period end date. While establishing the estimate for probable losses requires significant management judgment, the factors that influence the provision for loan losses include:

•The impact of general economic conditions on the consumer, including national and regional conditions, unemployment levels, bankruptcy trends and interest rate movements;

•Changes in consumer spending, payment and credit utilization behaviors;

•Changes in our loan portfolio, including the overall mix of accounts, products and loan balances within the portfolio and maturation of the loan portfolio;

•The level and direction of historical and anticipated loan delinquencies and charge-offs;

•The credit quality of the loan portfolio, which reflects, among other factors, our credit granting practices and effectiveness of collection efforts; and

•Regulatory changes or new regulatory guidance.

In determining the allowance for loan losses, we estimate probable losses separately for segments of the loan portfolio that have similar risk characteristics. We use a migration analysis to estimate the likelihood that a loan will progress through the various stages of delinquency. We use other analyses to estimate losses incurred from non-delinquent accounts, which adds to the identification of loss emergence. We use these analyses together as a basis for determining our allowance for loan losses.

The provision for loan losses is the amount of expense realized after considering the level of net charge-offs in the period and the required amount of allowance for loan losses at the balance sheet date. For the year ended December 31, 2018, the provision for loan losses increased by $456 million, or 18%, as compared to the year ended December 31, 2017 primarily due to higher levels of net charge-offs, partially offset by a lower reserve build. For the year ended December 31, 2017, the provision for loan losses increased by $720 million, or 39%, as compared to the year ended December 31, 2016 primarily due to higher levels of net charge-offs combined with a larger build of the allowance for loan losses.

The allowance for loan losses was $3.0 billion at December 31, 2018, which reflects a $420 million reserve build over the amount of the allowance for loan losses at December 31, 2017. The reserve build, which related 

-58-
primarily to credit card loans, was because of seasoning of continued loan growth and supply-driven credit normalization, due to increasing consumer leverage.

The allowance for loan losses was $2.6 billion at December 31, 2017, which reflected a $454 million reserve build over the amount of the allowance for loan losses at December 31, 2016. The reserve build, which related primarily to credit card loans along with builds in personal and student loan reserves, was due to was due to seasoning of continued loan growth and increasing consumer leverage.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

-59-
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Includes both PCI and non-PCI private student loans.

Net Charge-offs

Our net charge-offs include the principal amount of losses charged off less principal recoveries and exclude charged-off and recovered interest and fees and fraud losses. Charged-off and recovered interest and fees are recorded in interest income and loan fee income, respectively, which is effectively a reclassification of the provision for loan losses, while fraud losses are recorded in other expense. Credit card loan receivables are charged off at the end of the month during which an account becomes 180 days contractually past due. Personal loans and private student loans, which are closed-end consumer loan receivables, are generally charged off at the end of the month during which an account becomes 120 days contractually past due. Generally, customer bankruptcies and probate accounts are charged off at the end of the month 60 days following the receipt of notification of the bankruptcy or death but not later than the 180-day or 120-day contractual time frame.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

(1)See Note 4: Loan Receivables to our consolidated financial statements for information regarding the accounting for charge-offs on PCI loans.

The net charge-off rates on our credit card and personal loans increased by 35 and 85 basis points, respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2018 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2017 as a result of seasoning of 

-60-
continued loan growth and supply-driven credit normalization. Net charge-offs on our private student loans remained relatively flat for the year ended December 31, 2018 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2017.

The net charge-off rates on our credit card, personal and private student loans increased by 57, 75 and 11 basis points, respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2017 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2016 as a result of seasoning of continued loan growth and increasing consumer leverage.

Delinquencies

Delinquencies are an indicator of credit quality at a point in time. A loan balance is considered delinquent when contractual payments on the loan become 30 days past due.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

(1)Excludes PCI loans, which are accounted for on a pooled basis. Since a pool is accounted for as a single asset with a single composite interest rate and aggregate expectation of cash flows, the past-due status of a pool, or that of the individual loans within a pool, is not meaningful. Because we are recognizing interest income on a pool of loans, it is all considered to be performing. [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The 30-day and 90-day delinquency rates for credit card and personal loans at December 31, 2018 increased as compared to December 31, 2017. For private student loans, the 30-day delinquency rate decreased and the 90-day delinquency rate was relatively flat at December 31, 2018 as compared to December 31, 2017. Delinquency rates were generally higher due to seasoning of continued loan growth and supply-driven credit normalization.

The 30-day delinquency rates for credit card, personal and private student loans along with the 90-day delinquency rates for credit card and personal loans at December 31, 2017 increased as compared to December 31, 2016 primarily due to seasoning of continued loan growth and increasing consumer leverage. The amount of private student loans that were 90 or more days delinquent was relatively flat in December 31, 2017 as compared to December 31, 2016.

-61-
The restructured credit card, personal and private student loan balances increased at December 31, 2018 as compared to December 31, 2017 due to seasoning of continued loan growth and greater utilization of programs available to assist borrowers having difficulties meeting payment obligations.

The restructured credit card and personal loan balances increased at December 31, 2017 as compared to December 31, 2016 due to loan growth and seasoning. The restructured private student loan balance increased at December 31, 2017 as compared to December 31, 2016 as a result of greater utilization of programs available as more loans have entered into repayment.

Maturities and Sensitivities of Loan Receivables to Changes in Interest Rates 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Because of the uncertainty regarding loan repayment patterns, the above amounts have been calculated using contractually required minimum payments. Historically, actual loan repayments have been higher than such minimum payments and, therefore, the above amounts may not necessarily be indicative of our actual loan repayments.

At December 31, 2018, approximately $42.7 billion of our loan portfolio due after one year had interest rates tied to an index and approximately $23.3 billion were fixed-rate loans.

Modified and Restructured Loans

For information regarding modified and restructured loans, see Note 4: Loan Receivables to our consolidated financial statements.

Other Income

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

For a detailed description of our revenue recognition accounting policies for other income, see Note 2: Summary of Significant Accounting Policies to our consolidated financial statements.

Total other income increased $58 million for the year ended December 31, 2018 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2017, which was primarily driven by higher discount and interchange revenue and loan fee income. The increase in discount and interchange revenue is partially offset by higher rewards, both of which were primarily the 

-62-
result of higher sales volume. Loan fee income increased primarily as the result of an increase in late fees due to a higher number of delinquent accounts. 

Total other income stayed relatively flat for the year ended December 31, 2017 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2016. Discount and interchange revenue remained flat for the year ended December 31, 2017 in comparison to the year ended December 31, 2016 with offsetting increases in gross discount and interchange revenue and rewards, both of which were primarily the result of higher sales volume. Loan fee income increased for the year ended December 31, 2017 as compared to the previous year primarily due to an increase in late fees.

Other Expense

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Total other expense increased $296 million for the year ended December 31, 2018 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2017. The increase was primarily driven by higher employee compensation and benefits, marketing and business development costs, other expenses and information processing and communications. Employee compensation and benefits increased due to additional headcount for business growth and technological capabilities, as well as higher average salaries. The increase in marketing and business development costs was primarily due to higher acquisition costs and brand advertising targeting loan and deposit growth. The increase in other expense was largely driven by an increase in incentives supporting global merchant acceptance. Information processing and communications increased as the result of higher investments in infrastructure and analytic capabilities. 

Total other expense increased $197 million for the year ended December 31, 2017 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2016. The increase was primarily driven by an increase in employee compensation and benefits, professional fees, marketing and business development costs, offset by a decrease in information processing and communications. The increase in employee compensation and benefits was driven by the impact of additional headcount for regulatory and compliance needs and business growth, higher average salaries and a one-time special bonus for eligible employees in response to the TCJA in 2017. The increase in professional fees was driven primarily by investments in technology and infrastructure, offset by the completion of a look back project related to anti-money laundering remediation in 2016. The increase in marketing and business development was primarily the result of higher brand advertising and loan acquisition costs that contributed to loan growth. The decrease in information processing and communications was primarily the result of infrastructure efficiencies.

-63-
Income Tax Expense

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)See Note 3: Investments — Other Investments to our consolidated financial statements for a description of these investments.

For the year ended December 31, 2018, income tax expense decreased $583 million, or 40.5%, and the effective income tax rate decreased 16.9 percentage points as compared to the year ended December 31, 2017. The decrease in both the effective tax rate and income tax expense is primarily due to a reduction in the U.S. federal statutory income tax rate from 35% to 21% and other impacts of TCJA.

Income tax expense increased $175 million, or 13.9%, and the effective income tax rate increased 6.2 percentage points for the year ended December 31, 2017 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2016. The increase in both the effective tax rate and income tax expense is primarily due to the revaluation of net deferred tax assets and certain investments as a result of a reduction in the U.S. federal statutory income tax rate from 35% to 21% under the TCJA.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

Funding and Liquidity

We seek to maintain stable, diversified and cost-effective funding sources and a strong liquidity profile in order to fund our business and repay or refinance our maturing obligations under both normal operating conditions and periods of economic or financial stress. In managing our liquidity risk, we seek to maintain a prudent liability maturity profile and ready access to an ample store of primary and contingent liquidity sources. Our primary funding sources include direct-to-consumer and brokered deposits, public term asset-backed securitizations and other short-term and long-term borrowings. Our primary liquidity sources include a liquidity portfolio comprised of highly liquid, unencumbered assets, including cash and cash equivalents and investment securities, and borrowing capacity through private term asset-backed securitizations. In addition, we have unused borrowing capacity with the Federal Reserve discount window, which provides another source of contingent liquidity.

Funding Sources

Deposits

We offer deposit products to customers through two channels: (i) through direct marketing, internet origination and affinity relationships (“direct-to-consumer deposits”); and (ii) indirectly through contractual arrangements with securities brokerage firms (“brokered deposits”). Direct-to-consumer deposits include online savings accounts, certificates of deposit, money market accounts, IRA certificates of deposit and checking accounts, while brokered deposits include certificates of deposit and sweep accounts. At December 31, 2018, we had $44.7 billion of direct-to-consumer deposits and $23.1 billion of brokered and other deposits.

Credit Card Securitization Financing

We securitize credit card receivables as a source of funding. We access the asset-backed securitization market using the Discover Card Master Trust I (“DCMT”) and the Discover Card Execution Note Trust (“DCENT”), through which we issue DCENT DiscoverSeries notes in both public and private transactions. From time to time, we may add credit card receivables to these trusts to create sufficient funding capacity for future securitizations while managing 

-64-
seller’s interest. We retain significant exposure to the performance of trust assets through holdings of the seller’s interest and subordinated security classes of DCENT.

The securitization structures include certain features designed to protect investors. The primary feature relates to the availability and adequacy of cash flows in the securitized pool of receivables to meet contractual requirements, the insufficiency of which triggers early repayment of the securities. We refer to this as “economic early amortization”, which is based on excess spread levels. Excess spread is the amount by which income received by a trust during a collection period, including interest collections, fees and interchange, exceeds the fees and expenses of the trust during such collection period, including interest expense, servicing fees and charged-off receivables. In the event of an economic early amortization, which would occur if the excess spread fell below 0% on a three-month rolling average basis, we would be required to repay the affected outstanding securitized borrowings using available collections received by the trust; the period of ultimate repayment would be determined by the amount and timing of collections received. An early amortization event would impair our liquidity, and may require us to utilize our available non-securitization related contingent liquidity or rely on alternative funding sources, which may or may not be available at the time. As of December 31, 2018, the DiscoverSeries three-month rolling average excess spread was 13.49%.

We may elect to add receivables to the restricted pool of receivables, subject to certain requirements. Through our wholly-owned indirect subsidiary, Discover Funding LLC, we are required to maintain a contractual minimum level of receivables in the trust in excess of the face value of outstanding investors’ interests. This excess is referred to as the minimum seller’s interest. The required minimum seller’s interest in the pool of trust receivables, which is included in credit card loan receivables restricted for securitization investors, is set at approximately 7% in excess of the total investors’ interests (which includes interests held by third parties as well as those interests held by us). If the level of receivables in the trust were to fall below the required minimum, we would be required to add receivables from the unrestricted pool of receivables, which would increase the amount of credit card loan receivables restricted for securitization investors. A decline in the amount of the excess seller’s interest could occur if balance repayments and charge-offs exceeded new lending on the securitized accounts or as a result of changes in total outstanding investors’ interests. Seller’s interest is impacted by seasonality as higher balance repayments tend to occur in the first calendar year quarter. If we could not add enough receivables to satisfy the minimum seller’s interest requirement, an early amortization (or repayment) of investors’ interests would be triggered. During 2018, we elected to add $3.0 billion of credit card loan receivables to the securitization trust, which increased seller’s interest. The addition increases capacity to issue notes to investors, including draws on commitments through privately placed securitizations, and results in a decrease in receivables pledged at the Federal Reserve discount window.

At December 31, 2018, we had $16.8 billion of outstanding public asset-backed securities and $5.2 billion of outstanding subordinated asset-backed securities that had been issued to our wholly-owned subsidiaries.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The triple-A rating of DCENT Class A Notes issued to date has been based, in part, on an FDIC rule, which created a safe harbor that provides that the FDIC, as conservator or receiver, will not, using its power to disaffirm or repudiate contracts, seek to reclaim or recover assets transferred in connection with a securitization, or recharacterize them as assets of the insured depository institution, provided such transfer satisfies the conditions for sale accounting treatment under previous GAAP. Although the implementation of the Financial Accounting Standards Board Accounting Standards Codification Topic 860, Transfers and Servicing, no longer qualified certain transfers of assets for sale accounting treatment, the FDIC approved a final rule that preserved the safe-harbor treatment applicable to revolving trusts and master trusts, including DCMT, so long as those trusts would have satisfied the original FDIC safe harbor if evaluated under GAAP pertaining to transfers of financial assets in effect prior to December 1, 2009. Other legislative and regulatory developments may, however, impact our ability and/or desire to issue asset-backed securities in the future.

-65-
Other Long-Term Borrowings—Student Loans

At December 31, 2018, $198 million of remaining principal balance was outstanding on securitized debt assumed as part of our acquisition of The Student Loan Corporation. Principal and interest payments on the underlying student loans will reduce the balance of these secured borrowings over time. 

Other Long-Term Borrowings—Corporate and Bank Debt

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Certain Discover Financial Services senior notes require us to offer to repurchase the notes at a price equal to 101% of their aggregate principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest in the event of a change of control involving us and a corresponding ratings downgrade to below investment grade.

Short-Term Borrowings

As part of our regular funding strategy, we may from time to time borrow short-term funds in the federal funds market or the repurchase (“repo”) market through repurchase agreements. Federal funds are short-term, unsecured loans between banks or other financial entities with a Federal Reserve account. Funds borrowed in the repo market are short-term, collateralized loans, usually secured with highly-rated investment securities such as U.S. Treasury bills or notes, or federal agency mortgage bonds or debentures. At December 31, 2018, there were no outstanding balances in the federal funds market or repurchase agreements.

Additional Funding Sources

Private Asset-Backed Securitizations

We have access to committed borrowing capacity through privately placed asset-backed securitizations. At December 31, 2018, we had total committed capacity of $6.0 billion, $500 million of which was drawn. While we may utilize funding from these private securitizations from time to time for normal business operations, their committed nature also makes them a reliable contingency funding source. Therefore, we reserve some undrawn capacity, informed by our liquidity stress testing results, for potential contingency funding needs. We also seek to ensure the stability and reliability of these securitizations by staggering their maturity dates, renewing them approximately one year prior to their scheduled maturity dates and periodically drawing them for operational testing purposes and seasonal funding needs.

Federal Reserve

Discover Bank has access to the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia’s discount window. As of December 31, 2018, Discover Bank had $31.5 billion of available borrowing capacity through the discount window based on the amount and type of assets pledged, primarily consumer loans. We have no borrowings outstanding under the discount window and reserve this capacity as a source of contingent liquidity.

Funding Uses

Our primary uses of funds include the extensions of loans and credit, primarily through Discover Bank, the purchase of investment securities for our liquidity portfolio, working capital, and debt and capital service. We assess funding uses and liquidity needs under stressed and normal operating conditions, considering primary uses of funding, such as on-balance sheet loans, and contingent uses of funding, such as the need to post additional collateral for derivatives positions. In order to anticipate funding needs under stress, we conduct liquidity stress testing to assess the 

-66-
impact of idiosyncratic, systemic and hybrid (idiosyncratic and systemic) scenarios with varying levels of liquidity risk reflecting a range of stress severity.

Credit Ratings

Our borrowing costs and capacity in certain funding markets, including those for securitizations and unsecured senior and subordinated debt, may be affected by the credit ratings of DFS, Discover Bank and the securitization trusts. Downgrades in these credit ratings could result in higher interest expense on our unsecured debt and asset securitizations, as well as higher collateral enhancement requirements for both our public and private asset securitizations. In addition to increased funding costs, deterioration in credit ratings could reduce our borrowing capacity in the unsecured debt and asset securitization capital markets.

We also maintain agreements with certain of our derivative counterparties that contain provisions that require DFS and Discover Bank to maintain an investment grade credit rating from specified major credit rating agencies. At December 31, 2018, Discover Bank’s credit rating met specified thresholds set by its counterparties. However, if its credit ratings were to fall below investment grade, Discover Bank would be required to post additional collateral, which, as of December 31, 2018, would have been $20 million. DFS (Parent Company) had no outstanding derivatives as of December 31, 2018, and therefore, no collateral was required.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)An “sf” in the rating denotes rating agency identification for structured finance product ratings.

A credit rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities, may be subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating organization, and each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating.

Liquidity

We seek to ensure that we have adequate liquidity to sustain business operations, fund asset growth and satisfy debt obligations under stressed and normal operating conditions. In addition to the funding sources discussed in the previous section, we also maintain highly liquid, unencumbered assets in our liquidity portfolio that we expect to be able to convert to cash quickly and with little loss of value using either the repo market or outright sales.

We maintain a liquidity risk and funding management policy, which outlines the overall framework and general principles we follow in managing liquidity risk across our business. The policy is approved by the Board of Directors with implementation responsibilities delegated to the Asset and Liability Management Committee (the “ALCO”). Additionally, we maintain a liquidity management framework document, which outlines the general strategies, objectives and principles we utilize to manage our liquidity position and the various liquidity risks inherent in our business model. We seek to balance the trade-offs between maintaining too much liquidity, which may be costly, with having too little liquidity, which could cause financial distress. Liquidity risk is centrally managed by the ALCO, which is chaired by our Treasurer and has cross-functional membership. The ALCO monitors the liquidity risk profiles of DFS and Discover Bank and oversees any actions Corporate Treasury may take to ensure that we maintain ready access to our 

-67-
funding sources and sufficient liquidity to meet current and projected needs. In addition, the ALCO and our Board of Directors regularly review our compliance with our liquidity limits at DFS and Discover Bank, which are established in accordance with the liquidity risk appetite set by our Board of Directors.

We employ a variety of metrics to monitor and manage liquidity. We utilize early warning indicators (“EWIs”) to detect the initial phases of liquidity stress events and a reporting and escalation process that is designed to be consistent with regulatory guidance. The EWIs include both idiosyncratic and systemic measures, and are monitored on a daily basis and reported to the ALCO regularly. A warning from one or more of these indicators triggers prompt review and decision-making by our senior management team, and in certain instances may lead to the convening of a senior-level response team and activation of our contingency funding plan.

In addition, we conduct liquidity stress testing regularly and ensure contingency funding is in place to address potential liquidity shortfalls. We evaluate a range of stress scenarios that are designed in accordance with regulatory requirements, including idiosyncratic, systemic and a combination of such events that could impact funding sources and our ability to meet liquidity needs. These scenarios measure the projected liquidity position at DFS and Discover Bank across a range of time horizons by comparing estimated contingency funding needs to available contingent liquidity. 

Our primary contingent liquidity sources include our liquidity portfolio and private securitizations with unused borrowing capacity. In addition, we have unused borrowing capacity with the Federal Reserve discount window, which provides an additional source of contingent liquidity. We seek to maintain sufficient liquidity to be able to satisfy all maturing obligations and fund business operations for at least 12 months in a severe stress environment. In such an environment, we may also take actions to curtail the size of our balance sheet, which would reduce the need for funding and liquidity.

At December 31, 2018, our liquidity portfolio is comprised of highly liquid, unencumbered assets, including cash and cash equivalents and investment securities. Cash and cash equivalents were primarily in the form of deposits with the Federal Reserve. Investment securities primarily included debt obligations of the U.S. Treasury and residential mortgage-backed securities issued by U.S. government housing agencies or government-sponsored enterprises. These investments are considered highly liquid, and we expect to have the ability to raise cash by selling them, utilizing repurchase agreements or pledging certain of these investments to access secured funding. The size and composition of our liquidity portfolio may fluctuate based upon the size of our balance sheet as well as operational requirements and market conditions.

At December 31, 2018, our liquidity portfolio and undrawn credit facilities were $52.9 billion, which was $4.2 billion higher than the balance at December 31, 2017. During the year ended December 31, 2018, the average balance of our liquidity portfolio was $16.6 billion.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Cash in the process of settlement and restricted cash are excluded from cash and cash equivalents for liquidity purposes.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(3)See “— Additional Funding Sources” for additional information.

Bank Holding Company Liquidity

The primary uses of funds at the unconsolidated DFS level include debt service obligations (interest payments and return of principal) and capital service and management activities, which include dividend payments on capital 

-68-
instruments and the periodic repurchase of shares of our common stock. Our primary sources of funds at the bank holding company level include the proceeds from the issuance of unsecured debt and capital securities, as well as dividends from our subsidiaries, particularly Discover Bank. Under periods of idiosyncratic or systemic stress, the bank holding company could lose or experience impaired access to the capital markets. In addition, our regulators have the discretion to restrict dividend payments from Discover Bank to the bank holding company.

We utilize a measure referred to as Number of Months of Pre-Funding to determine the length of time Discover Financial Services can meet upcoming funding obligations including common and preferred stock dividend payments and debt service obligations using existing cash resources. At December 31, 2018, Discover Financial Services had sufficient cash resources to fund the dividend and debt service payments for more than 18 months.

We structure our debt maturity schedule to minimize the amount of debt maturing within a short period of time. See Note 9: Long-Term Borrowings to our consolidated financial statements for further information regarding our debt. 

Capital

Our primary sources of capital are the earnings generated by our businesses and the proceeds from issuances of capital securities. We seek to manage capital to a level and composition sufficient to support the growth and risks of our businesses and to meet regulatory requirements, rating agency targets and debt investor expectations. Within these constraints, we are focused on deploying capital in a manner that provides attractive returns to our stockholders. The level, composition and utilization of capital are influenced by changes in the economic environment, strategic initiatives, and legislative and regulatory developments. 

Under regulatory capital requirements adopted by the Federal Reserve and the FDIC, DFS, along with Discover Bank, must maintain minimum levels of capital. Failure to meet minimum capital requirements can result in the initiation of certain mandatory and possibly additional discretionary actions by regulators that, if undertaken, could limit our business activities and have a direct material effect on our financial position and results. We must meet specific capital requirements that involve quantitative measures of assets, liabilities and certain off-balance sheet items, as calculated under regulatory guidance and regulations. Current or future legislative or regulatory initiatives may require us to hold more capital in the future, such as future implementation of the CECL methodology for loan loss reserves.

In 2013, the Federal Reserve, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, and the FDIC issued the Basel III rules applicable to DFS and Discover Bank. Under those rules, DFS and Discover Bank are classified as “Standardized Approach” entities, defined as U.S. banking organizations with consolidated total assets over $50 billion but not exceeding $250 billion and consolidated total on-balance sheet foreign exposures less than $10 billion. Additional phase-in requirements related to components of the final capital rules will become effective through 2019. The Basel III rules revised minimum and “well-capitalized” risk-based capital and leverage ratios, effective January 1, 2015, and refined the definition of what constitutes “capital” for purposes of calculating those ratios of which certain requirements are subject to phase-in periods through the end of 2018 (the “transition period”). During the transition period, the effects of the changes to capital (i.e., certain deductions and adjustments) were recognized in 20% increments from 2015 through 2018. For example, one of the deductions from CET1 capital, intangibles, was subject to a 40% of total deduction in 2015 that increased to 60% in 2016 and so on, until reaching 100% deduction of total in 2018. For additional information regarding the risk-based capital and leverage ratios, see Note 17: Capital Adequacy to our consolidated financial statements.

The Basel III rules also introduced a CCB on top of the minimum risk-weighted asset ratios. The buffer is designed to absorb losses during periods of economic stress. The calculation of the buffer started to phase in beginning on January 1, 2016 at the rate of 0.625% and increases by 0.625% on each subsequent January 1 until it reaches the maximum 2.5% on January 1, 2019. When the CCB is fully phased-in on January 1, 2019, this will effectively result in minimum ratios (including the CCB) of (i) CET1 to risk-weighted assets of at least 7.0%, (ii) Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets of at least 8.5% and (iii) Total capital to risk-weighted assets of at least 10.5%. Banking institutions with a capital ratio below the required amount will face constraints on dividends, equity repurchases and compensation based on the amount of the shortfall. There is a proposal under regulatory review that is expected to replace the CCB with a Stress Capital Buffer (“SCB”).

Another main component of the Basel III rules is a prescribed “Standardized Approach” for calculating risk-weighted assets that expands the risk-weight range from 0% to 1,250%. The new range is intended to be more risk-sensitive and the risk weight assigned depends on the nature of the asset in question.

-69-
The Basel III rules provide for certain threshold based deductions from and adjustments to CET1, to the extent that any one such category exceeds 10% of CET1 or all such categories in the aggregate exceed 15%. In September 2017, federal banking regulators issued a notice of proposed rulemaking that would, among other things, revise certain capital requirements for Standardized Approach banks by raising the 10% of CET1 deduction threshold for certain items to 25% and eliminating the 15% combined deduction threshold applying to these items. These proposed changes are open for public comment and have not yet been implemented. 

Basel III also requires disclosures relating to market discipline. This series of disclosures is commonly referred to as “Pillar 3.” The objective is to increase transparency of capital requirements for banking organizations. We are required to make prescribed regulatory disclosures on a quarterly basis regarding our capital structure, capital adequacy, risk exposures and risk-weighted assets. The Pillar 3 disclosures are made publicly available on our website in a report called “Basel III Regulatory Capital Disclosures.”

At December 31, 2018, DFS and Discover Bank met the requirements for “well-capitalized” status under Regulation Y and the prompt corrective action rules, respectively, exceeding the regulatory minimums to which they were subject under the applicable rules. 

We disclose tangible common equity, which represents common equity less goodwill and intangibles. Management believes that common stockholders’ equity excluding goodwill and intangibles is a more meaningful measure to investors of our true net asset value. As of December 31, 2018, tangible common equity is not formally defined by U.S. GAAP or codified in the federal banking regulations and, as such, is considered to be a non-GAAP financial measure. Other financial services companies may also disclose this metric and definitions may vary, so we advise users of this information to exercise caution in comparing this metric for different companies. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Total common stockholders’ equity is calculated as total stockholders’ equity less preferred stock.

Additionally, we are subject to regulatory requirements imposed by the Federal Reserve as part of its stress testing framework and its CCAR program. In 2018, we were required to submit a capital plan to the Federal Reserve that included an assessment of our expected uses and sources of capital over a nine-quarter planning horizon. We submitted our capital plan to the Federal Reserve in April 2018 for the 2018 CCAR cycle and received notice in June 2018 that the Federal Reserve does not object to our proposed capital plan, including planned quarterly capital distributions through June 30, 2019. Our ability to make capital distributions, including our ability to pay dividends on or repurchase shares of our common stock, will continue to be subject to regulatory limitations imposed by the Federal Reserve. We have been notified that we are not required to participate in CCAR or submit to supervisory stress tests for the 2019 stress test cycle. However, our capital distributions for the period between July 1, 2019 and June 30, 2020 will be limited based on a formula that is largely based on results from the Federal Reserve’s 2018 supervisory stress test.

In June 2018, the Federal Reserve published the results of its annual supervisory stress tests for bank holding companies with $50 billion or more in total consolidated assets, including DFS. At that same time, we published company-run stress test results for DFS and Discover Bank. Under rules in effect in 2018, DFS was required to publish company-run stress tests results twice each year and Discover Bank was required to publish bank-run stress tests annually. Certain statutory changes under the EGRRCPA and proposed changes to regulatory rules, if adopted, would substantially change the stress testing and capital planning requirements applicable to us for 2020 and beyond.

We recently declared a quarterly cash dividend on our common stock of $0.40 per share, payable on March 7, 2019 to holders of record on February 21, 2019, which is consistent with the amount paid in the third and fourth quarters of 2018. We also recently declared a semi-annual cash dividend on our preferred stock of $2,750 per share, equal to $27.50 per depositary share, payable on April 30, 2019 to holders of record on April 15, 2019, which is 

-70-
consistent with the amount paid in the second and fourth quarters of 2018.

On July 19, 2018, our Board of Directors approved a share repurchase program authorizing the repurchase of up to $3.0 billion of our outstanding shares of common stock. The program expires on January 31, 2020 and may be terminated at any time. This program replaced the prior $2.8 billion share repurchase program, which had $611 million of remaining authorization. During the year ended December 31, 2018, we repurchased approximately 27 million shares, or 8%, of our outstanding common stock for $2.0 billion. We expect to continue to repurchase shares under our program from time to time based on market conditions and other factors, subject to legal and regulatory requirements and restrictions, including non-objection from the Federal Reserve as described above. Share repurchases under the program may be made through a variety of methods, including open market purchases, privately negotiated transactions or other purchases, including block trades, accelerated share repurchase transactions, or any combination of such methods.

The amount and size of any future dividends and share repurchases will depend upon our results of operations, financial condition, capital levels, cash requirements, future prospects and other factors. The declaration and payment of future dividends, as well as the amount thereof, are subject to the discretion of our Board of Directors. Holders of our shares of common stock are subject to the prior dividend rights of holders of our preferred stock or the depositary shares representing such preferred stock outstanding, and if full dividends have not been declared and paid on all outstanding shares of preferred stock in any dividend period, no dividend may be declared or paid or set aside for payment on our common stock. In addition, as noted above, banking laws and regulations and our banking regulators may limit our ability to pay dividends and make share repurchases, including limitations on the extent to which our banking subsidiaries can provide funds to us through dividends, loans or otherwise. Further, current or future regulatory initiatives may require us to hold more capital in the future. There can be no assurance that we will declare and pay any dividends or repurchase any shares of our common stock in the future. For more information, including conditions and limits on our ability to pay dividends and repurchase our stock, see “Business — Supervision and Regulation — Capital, Dividends and Share Repurchases,” “Risk Factors — Credit, Market and Liquidity Risk — We may be limited in our ability to pay dividends on and repurchase our stock” and “— We are a holding company and depend on payments from our subsidiaries” and Note 17: Capital Adequacy to our consolidated financial statements.

Certain Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

Guarantees

Guarantees are contracts or indemnification agreements that contingently require us to make payments to a guaranteed party based on changes in an underlying asset, liability, or equity security of a guaranteed party, rate or index. Also included in guarantees are contracts that contingently require the guarantor to make payments to a guaranteed party based on another entity’s failure to perform under an agreement. Our guarantees relate to transactions processed on the Discover Network and certain transactions processed by PULSE and Diners Club. See Note 18: Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees to our consolidated financial statements for further discussion regarding our guarantees.

-71-
Contractual Obligations and Contingent Liabilities and Commitments

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Deposits do not include interest payments because payment amounts and timing cannot be reasonably estimated as certain deposit accounts have early withdrawal rights and the option to roll interest payments into the balance.

(2)Deposits due in less than one year include deposits with indeterminate maturities.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(4)Purchase obligations for goods and services include payments under, among other things, consulting, outsourcing, data, advertising, sponsorship, software license, telecommunications agreements and global acceptance contracts. Purchase obligations also include payments under rewards program agreements with merchants. Purchase obligations at December 31, 2018 reflect the minimum purchase obligation under legally binding contracts with contract terms that are both fixed and determinable. These amounts exclude obligations for goods and services that already have been incurred and are reflected on our consolidated statement of financial condition. 

(5)Other liabilities include our expected future contributions to our pension plan, the contingent liability associated with our other investments accounted for under the equity method and a commitment to purchase certain when-issued mortgage-backed securities under an agreement with the Delaware State Housing Authority as part of our community reinvestment initiatives.

As of December 31, 2018 our consolidated statement of financial condition reflects a liability for unrecognized tax benefits of $83 million and approximately $18 million of accrued interest and penalties. Since the ultimate amount and timing of any future cash settlements cannot be predicted with reasonable certainty, the estimated income tax obligations about which there is uncertainty have been excluded from the contractual obligations table. See Note 15: Income Taxes to our consolidated financial statements for further information concerning our tax obligations. 

We extend credit for consumer loans, primarily arising from agreements with customers for unused lines of credit on certain credit cards and certain other loan products, provided there is no violation of conditions established in the related agreement. At December 31, 2018, our unused credit arrangements were approximately $196.4 billion. These arrangements, substantially all of which we can terminate at any time and which do not necessarily represent future cash requirements, are periodically reviewed based on account usage, customer creditworthiness and loan qualification. In addition, in the ordinary course of business, we guarantee payment on behalf of subsidiaries relating to contractual obligations with external parties. The activities of the subsidiaries covered by any such guarantees are included in our consolidated financial statements.

Item 7A.Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk