ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

We are exposed to market risks from changes in currency exchange rates and certain commodity prices. In order to manage these risks, we operate a centralized risk management program that consists of entering into a variety of derivative contracts with the intent of mitigating our risk to fluctuations in currency exchange rates and commodity prices. We do not enter into derivative transactions for speculative or trading purposes.

A discussion of our accounting policies for derivative instruments is included in Note 2. Significant Accounting Policies to the audited consolidated financial statements included herein and further disclosure is provided in Note 17. Derivatives and Hedging Activities to the audited consolidated financial statements included herein. We maintain risk management control systems to monitor exchange and commodity risks and related hedge positions. Positions are monitored using a variety of analytical techniques including market value and sensitivity analysis. The following analyses are based on sensitivity tests, which assume instantaneous, parallel shifts in currency exchange rates and commodity prices. For options and instruments with non-linear returns, appropriate models are utilized to determine the impact of shifts in rates and prices. 

65
We have currency exposures related to buying, selling and financing in currencies other than the local currencies in which we operate. Historically, we have reduced our exposure through financial instruments (hedges) that provide offsets or limits to our exposures, which are opposite to the underlying transactions. We also face an inherent business risk of exposure to commodity prices risks, and have historically offset our exposure, particularly to changes in the price of various non-ferrous metals used in our manufacturing operations, through fixed price purchase agreements, commodity swaps and option contracts. We continue to manage our exposures to changes in currency rates and commodity prices using these derivative instruments.

Currency Exchange Rate Risk

Currency exposures may impact future earnings and/or operating cash flows. We have currency exposures related to buying, selling and financing in currencies other than the local functional currencies in which we operate (“transactional exposure”). We also have currency exposures related to the translation of the financial statements of our foreign subsidiaries that use the local currency as their functional currency into U.S. dollars, the Company’s reporting currency (“translational exposure”). The impact of translational exposure is recorded within currency translation adjustment in the Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income. During the year ended December 31, 2018, the foreign currency translation adjustment loss of $194 million was primarily due to the impact of a strengthening U.S. dollar, which increased approximately 5% in relation to both the Euro and the Chinese Yuan Renminbi from December 31, 2017.

As described in Note. 17. Derivatives and Hedging Activities to the audited consolidated financial statements included herein, in order to manage certain translational exposure, we have designated the 2015 Euro-denominated Senior Notes and the 2016 Euro-denominated Senior Notes as net investment hedges of the foreign currency exposure of our investments in certain Euro-denominated subsidiaries. We have also entered into forward contracts designated as net investment hedges of the foreign currency exposure of our investments in certain Chinese Yuan Renminbi-denominated subsidiaries. The effective portion of the gains or losses on instruments designated as net investment hedges are recognized within the cumulative translation adjustment component in the Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income to offset changes in the value of the net investment in these foreign currency-denominated operations.

In some instances, we choose to reduce our transactional exposures through financial instruments (hedges) that provide offsets or limits to our exposures. Currently our most significant hedged currency exposures relate to the Mexican Peso, Chinese Yuan Renminbi, Polish Zloty, Euro and Turkish Lira. As of December 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017 the net fair value liability of all financial instruments, including hedges and underlying transactions, with exposure to currency risk was approximately $1,412 million and $1,397 million, respectively. The potential loss or gain in fair value for such financial instruments from a hypothetical 10% adverse or favorable change in quoted currency exchange rates would be approximately $131 million and $156 million at December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. The impact of a 10% change in rates on fair value differs from a 10% change in the net fair value asset due to the existence of hedges. The model assumes a parallel shift in currency exchange rates; however, currency exchange rates rarely move in the same direction. The assumption that currency exchange rates change in a parallel fashion may overstate the impact of changing currency exchange rates on assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar.

Commodity Price Risk

Commodity swaps/average rate forward contracts are executed to offset a portion of our exposure to the potential change in prices mainly for various non-ferrous metals used in the manufacturing of automotive components, primarily copper. The net fair value of our contracts was a liability of approximately $22 million and an asset of approximately $35 million at December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. If the price of the commodities that are being hedged by our commodity swaps/average rate forward contracts changed adversely or favorably by 10%, the fair value of our commodity swaps/average rate forward contracts would decrease or increase by $25 million and $19 million at December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. A 10% change in the net fair value liability differs from a 10% change in rates on fair value due to the relative differences between the underlying commodity prices and the prices in place in our commodity swaps/average rate forward contracts. These amounts exclude the offsetting impact of the price risk inherent in the physical purchase of the underlying commodities.

Interest Rate Risk

Our exposure to market risk associated with changes in interest rates relates primarily to our debt obligations. We do not use interest rate swap or other derivative contracts to manage our exposure to fluctuations in interest rates. As of December 31, 2018, we had approximately $385 million of floating rate debt, related to the Credit Agreement. The Credit Agreement carries an interest rate, at our option, on Tranche A term loan borrowings of either (a) the ABR plus 0.25% per annum, or (b) LIBOR plus 1.25% per annum, and on Revolving Credit Facility borrowings of either (a) the ABR plus 0.10% per annum, or (b) LIBOR plus 1.10% per annum.

The interest rate period with respect to the LIBOR interest rate option can be set at one-, two-, three-, or six-months as selected by us in accordance with the terms of the Credit Agreement (or other period as may be agreed by the applicable lenders), but payable no less than quarterly. We may elect to change the selected interest rate over the term of the Credit 

66
Facilities in accordance with the provisions of the Credit Agreement. The applicable interest rates listed above for the Revolving Credit Facility and the Tranche A Term Loan may increase or decrease from time to time in increments of 0.10% to 0.25%, up to a maximum of 0.50% based on changes to our corporate credit ratings. Accordingly, the interest rate will fluctuate during the term of the Credit Agreement based on changes in the Alternate Base Rate, LIBOR or future changes in our corporate credit ratings.

The table below indicates interest rate sensitivity on interest expense to floating rate debt based on amounts outstanding as of December 31, 2018.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

67
ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA