Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.

Forward-looking statements

This Annual Report on Form 10-K, including this Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, contains statements that are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws. All statements that do not concern historical facts are forward-looking statements and include, among other things, statements about our expectations, beliefs, intentions and/or strategies for the future. These forward-looking statements may include statements regarding our future operations, financial condition and prospects, such as expectations for treatment growth rates, revenue per treatment, expense growth, levels of the provision for uncollectible accounts receivable, operating income, cash flow, operating cash flow, earnings per share, estimated tax rates, estimated charges and accruals, capital expenditures, the development of new dialysis centers and dialysis center acquisitions, government and commercial payment rates, revenue estimating risk, the impact of our level of indebtedness on our financial performance, our stock repurchase program, our advocacy costs, and the pending DMG sale transaction. These statements involve substantial known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements, including risks resulting from the concentration of profits generated by higher-paying commercial payor plans for which there is continued downward pressure on average realized payment rates, and a reduction in the number of patients under such plans, including as a result of restrictions or prohibitions on the use and/or availability of charitable premium assistance, which may result in the loss of revenues or patients, or our making incorrect assumptions about how our patients will respond to any change in financial assistance from charitable organizations; the extent to which the ongoing implementation of healthcare exchanges or changes in or new legislation, regulations or guidance, or enforcement thereof, including among other things those regarding the exchanges, results in a reduction in reimbursement rates for our services from and/or the number of patients enrolled in higher-paying commercial plans; a reduction in government payment rates under the Medicare End Stage Renal Disease program or other government-based programs; the impact of the Medicare Advantage benchmark structure; risks arising from potential and proposed federal and/or state legislation, regulation or ballot or other initiatives, including healthcare-related and labor-related legislation, regulation or ballot or other initiatives; the impact of the changing political environment and related developments on the current health care marketplace and on our business, including with respect to the future of the Affordable Care Act, the exchanges and many other core aspects of the current health care marketplace; uncertainties related to the impact of federal tax reform legislation; changes in pharmaceutical practice patterns, reimbursement and payment policies and processes, or pharmaceutical pricing, including with respect to calcimimetics; legal compliance risks, such as our continued compliance with complex government regulations and the provisions of our current Corporate Integrity Agreement (CIA) and current or potential investigations by various government entities and related government or private party proceedings, and restrictions on our business and operations required by our CIA and other current or potential settlement terms and the financial impact thereof and our ability to recover any losses related to such legal matters from third parties; continued increased competition from dialysis providers and others, and other potential marketplace changes; our ability to reduce administrative expenses while maintaining targeted levels of service and operating performance, including our ability to achieve anticipated savings from our recent restructurings; our ability to maintain contracts with physician medical directors, changing affiliation models for physicians, and the emergence of new models of care introduced by the government or private sector that may erode our patient base and reimbursement rates, such as accountable care organizations (ACOs), independent practice associations (IPAs) and integrated delivery systems; our ability to complete acquisitions, mergers or dispositions that we might announce or be considering, on terms favorable to us or at all, or to integrate and successfully operate any business we may acquire or have acquired, or to successfully expand our operations and services in markets outside the United States, or to businesses outside of dialysis; noncompliance by us or our business associates with any privacy laws or any security breach by us or a third party involving the misappropriation, loss or other unauthorized use or disclosure of confidential information; the variability of our cash flows; the risk that we may not be able to generate sufficient cash in the future to service our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs, and the risk that we may not be able to refinance our indebtedness as it becomes due, on terms favorable to us or at all; factors that may impact our ability to repurchase stock under our stock repurchase program and the timing of any such stock repurchases, including market conditions, the price of our common stock, our cash flow position, borrowing capacity and leverage ratios, and legal, regulatory and contractual requirements; the risk that we might invest material amounts of capital and incur significant costs in connection with the growth and development of our international operations, yet we might not be able to consistently operate them profitably anytime soon, if at all; risks arising from the use of accounting estimates, judgments and interpretations in our financial statements; impairment of our goodwill, investments or other assets; the risks and uncertainties associated with the timing, conditions and receipt of regulatory approvals and satisfaction of other closing conditions of the DMG sale transaction and continued disruption in connection with the DMG sale transaction making it more difficult to maintain business and operational relationships; risks and uncertainties related to our ability to complete the DMG sale transaction on the timetable expected, and on the terms set forth in the equity purchase agreement or at all; uncertainties related to our liquidity following the close of the DMG sale transaction and our planned subsequent entry into new external financing arrangements, which may be less than we anticipate; uncertainties related to our use of the proceeds from the DMG sale transaction and other available 

70

funds, including external financing and cash flow from operations, which may be used in ways that may not improve our results of operations or enhance the value of our common stock; risks related to certain contractual restrictions on the conduct of DMG's business while the DMG sale transaction is pending; the risk that we may recognize additional valuation adjustments or goodwill impairment related to DMG; the risk that laws regulating the corporate practice of medicine could restrict the manner in which DMG conducts its business; the risk that the cost of providing services under DMG’s agreements may exceed our compensation; the risk that any reductions in reimbursement rates, including Medicare Advantage rates, and future regulations may negatively impact DMG’s business, revenue and profitability; the risk that DMG may not be able to successfully establish a presence in new geographic regions or successfully address competitive threats that could reduce its profitability; the risk that a disruption in DMG’s healthcare provider networks could have an adverse effect on DMG’s business operations and profitability; the risk that reductions in the quality ratings of health plans DMG serves or healthcare services that DMG provides could have an adverse effect on DMG’s business; the risk that health plans that acquire health maintenance organizations may not be willing to contract with DMG or may be willing to contract only on less favorable terms; and the other risk factors set forth in Part I, Item 1A. of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We base our forward-looking statements on information currently available to us, and we undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of changes in underlying factors, new information, future events or otherwise. 

The following should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements.

71

Company overview

The Company consists of two major divisions, DaVita Kidney Care (Kidney Care) and DaVita Medical Group (DMG). Kidney Care is comprised of our U.S. dialysis and related lab services, our ancillary services and strategic initiatives, including our international operations, and our corporate administrative support. Our U.S. dialysis and related lab services business is our largest line of business and is a leading provider of kidney dialysis services in the U.S. for patients suffering from chronic kidney failure, also known as end stage renal disease (ESRD). DMG is a patient- and physician-focused integrated healthcare delivery and management company with over two decades of providing coordinated, outcomes-based medical care in a cost-effective manner.

In December 2017, we entered into an equity purchase agreement to sell our DMG division to Optum, a subsidiary of UnitedHealth Group Inc., subject to receipt of required regulatory approvals and other customary closing conditions. As a result, the DMG business has been classified as held for sale and its results of operations are reported as discontinued operations for all periods presented and DMG is not included in our Management's Discussion and Analysis below. 

Our overall financial performance in 2018 benefited from the administration of calcimimetics, increased treatment volume from acquired and non-acquired growth in both our U.S. dialysis and related lab services and our international businesses, and a corresponding increase in revenue. This was offset by increases in labor costs, benefit costs due to the implementation of a 401(k) matching program, pharmaceutical costs due to the administration of calcimimetics, other center related costs and advocacy costs to counter certain union policy initiatives. 

Some of our major accomplishments and financial operating performance indicators in 2018 and year over year were as follows:

•improved key clinical outcomes in our U.S. dialysis operations, including that we were an industry leader for the sixth consecutive year in CMS’ Quality Incentive Program and for the last five years under the CMS Five-Star Quality Rating system;[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•Proposition 8, a California state-wide ballot initiative that sought to limit the amount of revenue dialysis providers could retain from caring for patients with commercial insurance, was defeated in California; and[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

We believe we will face challenges in 2019 similar to those we faced in 2018. We expect to see an increase in dialysis treatment volume and expect U.S. dialysis revenue per treatment to be up slightly from 2018. We expect revenue per treatment to be favorably impacted by an increase in Medicare ESRD rates of approximately 1.2%, offset by anticipated downward pressure on commercial payor rates due to a shift of out-of-network patients to in-network. We expect patient care costs to increase due to inflation and a tight labor market and do not foresee an opportunity to fully offset these pressures with productivity or pharmaceutical cost improvements. In addition, we expect to continue to incur advocacy costs in connection with union policy initiatives, such as AB 290 in California and other potential ballot or other legislative initiatives. As a result of expected costs continuing to outpace our expected revenue increases, we anticipate that margins will continue to experience pressure. We remain committed to our plans for international expansion in certain regions, which will continue to require investment.

72

Following is a summary of our consolidated operating results for reference in the discussion that follows. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Certain columns, rows or percentages may not sum or recalculate due to the use of rounded numbers.

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The following table summarizes our consolidated revenues among our reportable segments:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Certain columns, rows or percentages may not sum or recalculate due to the use of rounded numbers.

(1)On January 1, 2018, we adopted Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606) using the cumulative effect method for those contracts that were not substantially completed as of January 1, 2018. Results related to performance obligations satisfied beginning on 

73

and after January 1, 2018 are presented under Topic 606, while results related to the satisfaction of performance obligations in prior periods continue to be reported in accordance with our historical accounting under Revenue Recognition (Topic 605). See Notes 1 and 2 of the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of our adoption of Topic 606.

The following table summarizes our consolidated operating income and adjusted consolidated operating income: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Certain columns, rows or percentages may not sum or recalculate due to the use of rounded numbers.

(1)For the periods presented in the table above adjusted operating income is defined as operating income before certain items which we do not believe are indicative of ordinary results, including goodwill impairment charges, investment and other asset impairments, restructuring charges, a net settlement gain, net gain (loss) on changes in ownership interests and estimated accruals for certain legal matters. Adjusted operating income as so defined is a non-GAAP measure and is not intended as a substitute for GAAP operating income. We have presented these adjusted amounts because management believes that these presentations enhance a user’s understanding of our normal consolidated operating income by excluding certain items which we do not believe are indicative of our ordinary results of operations. As a result, adjusting for these amounts allows for comparison to our normalized prior period results.

Consolidated revenues

Consolidated revenues for 2018 increased by approximately $528 million, or 4.9%, from 2017. This increase in consolidated revenues was due to an increase in U.S. dialysis and related lab services revenues of approximately $976 million, principally due to the administration of calcimimetics, an increase in Medicare bad debt revenue, and volume growth from additional treatments in 2018, as discussed below. Revenue for 2018 was negatively impacted by a decrease of approximately $400 million from 2017 in our ancillary services and strategic initiatives driven primarily from decreases in revenue from our pharmacy business due to changes in reimbursement for calcimimetics, as well as restructuring of our pharmacy business, partially offset by an increase in revenues from expansion in our international business and an increase in revenues in DaVita IKC, as described below.

Effective January 1, 2018, both oral and IV forms of calcimimetics, a drug class taken by many patients with ESRD to treat mineral bone disorder, became the financial responsibility of our U.S. dialysis and lab services business for our Medicare 

74

patients and are now reimbursed under Medicare Part B. During an initial pass-through period, Medicare payment for calcimimetics will be based on a pass-through rate of the average sales price plus approximately 4%. CMS has stated intentions to enter calcimimetics into the ESRD bundle two years after transitioning to Part B. Previously, calcimimetics were reimbursed for Medicare patients through Part D once dispensed from traditional pharmacies, including DaVita Rx.

Consolidated revenues for 2017 increased by approximately $170 million, or 1.6%, from 2016. This increase in consolidated revenues was due to an increase in U.S. dialysis and related lab services revenues of approximately $222 million, principally resulting from solid volume growth from additional treatments, partially offset by a decrease of approximately $5 in average dialysis net patient service revenue per treatment and by one less treatment day in 2017, as discussed below. Revenue for 2017 was negatively impacted by a decrease of approximately $25 million from 2016 in our ancillary services and strategic initiatives driven primarily from decreases in revenue from our pharmacy business, partially offset by an increase in revenues from expansion in our international business and increases in DaVita IKC revenues, as described below.

Consolidated operating income

Consolidated operating income of $1.526 billion for 2018, which included a net gain on changes in ownership interests of $61 million, other asset impairment charges of $17 million and restructuring charges of $11 million related to our pharmacy business, an equity investment loss due to the sale of our India business in our APAC JV of $9 million, an equity investment loss related to impairments at our APAC JV of $8 million and a goodwill impairment charge of $3 million, as discussed below, decreased by $287 million as compared to 2017, which included goodwill impairment charges of $35 million related to our vascular access reporting unit, an equity investment loss of $6 million for goodwill impairments at our APAC JV, an impairment of $280 million on our investment in the APAC JV, an asset impairment of $15 million related to the restructuring of our pharmacy business, restructuring charges in our international business of $3 million, a net gain on settlement of $530 million, and a gain adjustment on the 2016 ownership change of our APAC JV of $6 million. Excluding these items from their respective periods, adjusted consolidated operating income for 2018 decreased by approximately $103 million as compared to 2017 due to a decrease in adjusted operating income in U.S. dialysis and related lab services of $86 million, an increase in expenses in our corporate administrative support of $45 million, partially offset by a decrease in adjusted operating losses in our ancillary and strategic initiatives of $29 million, as described below.

Consolidated operating income of $1.813 billion for 2017, which included goodwill impairment charges of $35 million related to our vascular access reporting unit, an equity investment loss of $6 million for goodwill impairments at our APAC JV, an impairment of $280 million on our investment in the APAC JV, an asset impairment of $15 million related to the restructuring of our pharmacy business, restructuring charges in our international business of $3 million, a net gain on settlement of $530 million, and a gain adjustment on the 2016 ownership change of our APAC JV of $6 million, as discussed below, decreased by approximately $217 million from 2016, which included goodwill impairment charges of $28 million, an investment impairment of $15 million, an estimated gain on the ownership change of our APAC JV of $374 million and estimated accruals for legal matters of $16 million. Excluding these items from their respective periods, adjusted consolidated operating income for 2017 decreased by approximately $99 million due to an increase in adjusted operating losses in our ancillary and strategic initiatives of $59 million, an increase in expenses in our corporate administrative support of $31 million, and a decrease in adjusted operating income in U.S. dialysis and related lab services of $9 million, as described below.

U.S. dialysis and related lab services business

Our U.S. dialysis and related lab services business is a leading provider of kidney dialysis services through a network of 2,664 outpatient dialysis centers which we own and manage through management services agreements, in 46 states and the District of Columbia, serving a total of approximately 202,700 patients. We also provide acute inpatient dialysis services in approximately 900 hospitals. We estimate that we have approximately a 37% share of the U.S. dialysis market based upon the number of patients we serve. In 2018, our overall network of U.S. outpatient dialysis centers increased by 154 dialysis centers, primarily as a result of opening new dialysis centers and from acquisitions of existing dialysis centers. The overall number of patients that we serve in the U.S. increased by approximately 2.5% in 2018 as compared to 2017.

The stated mission of our U.S. dialysis and related lab services business is to be the provider, partner and employer of choice. We believe our attention to these three stakeholders—our patients, our business partners, and our teammates—represents a major driver of our long-term performance, although we are subject to the impact of external factors such as government policy, physician practice patterns, commercial payor payment rates and the mix of commercial and government patients, as further described in Item 1A Risk Factors. Two principal non-financial metrics we track are quality clinical outcomes and teammate turnover. We have developed our own composite index for measuring improvements in our clinical outcomes, which we refer to as the DaVita Quality Index. Our key measures for clinical outcomes have improved over each of the past several years. In addition, our patient mortality percentages have decreased from 19.0% in 2001 to 14.0% in 2017. For the sixth year in a row, we were an industry leader in QIP standards and for the last five years, we have been a leader under the 

75

CMS Five-Star Quality Rating system. Over the last two years our clinical teammate turnover has increased slightly due to increased competition for skilled clinical personnel. We will continue to focus on these three stakeholders and our clinical outcomes as we believe these are fundamental long-term value drivers.

We believe our national scale and commitment to our patients, among other things, allows us to provide industry-leading quality care with superior clinical outcomes that attracts patients, referring physicians, and qualified medical directors to our network, which in turn provides our dialysis patient base with a large number of outpatient dialysis centers to choose from with convenient locations and access to a full range of other integrated services, which in turn provides us the ability to effectively and efficiently manage a patient’s care and certain costs.

The following graph summarizes our U.S. dialysis patient services revenues by modality for the year ended December 31, 2018:

Approximately 90% of our 2018 consolidated revenues were derived directly from our U.S. dialysis and related lab services business. Approximately 79% of our 2018 dialysis patient services revenues were derived from outpatient hemodialysis services in our 2,630 consolidated U.S. dialysis centers. Other dialysis services, which are operationally integrated with our dialysis operations, are peritoneal dialysis, home-based hemodialysis, hospital inpatient hemodialysis and management and administrative services provided to dialysis centers in which we own a noncontrolling interest or which are wholly owned by third parties. These services collectively accounted for the balance of our 2018 U.S. dialysis and related lab services revenues.

The principal drivers of our U.S. dialysis and related lab services revenues are:

•the number of treatments, which is primarily a function of the number of chronic patients requiring approximately three treatments per week as well as, to a lesser extent, the number of treatments for peritoneal dialysis and home-based dialysis and hospital inpatient dialysis; and

•average dialysis net patient service revenue per treatment, including the mix of commercial and government patients.

Based on the most recent 2018 annual data report from the USRDS, the U.S. ESRD dialysis patient population has grown at an approximate compound rate of 3.8% from 2000 to 2016. The ESRD dialysis patient base has been a relatively stable and growing factor; however, more recent preliminary data from the USRDS suggest that the rate of growth of the ESRD patient population may be declining. 

We believe our ability to maintain a stable or growing share of the U.S. dialysis patient base is influenced by the quality of our clinical care, which can lead to reduced patient mortality rates, as described above, our patient, medical director and physician retention, as well as our ability to open and acquire new dialysis centers, among other things. If we experience significant patient attrition as a result of new business activities, new technology or other forms of competition, reduced prevalence of ESRD or other reductions in demand for dialysis treatments, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. For further discussion regarding the competitive pressures we face and related risks, see the risk factor in Item 1A Risk Factors under the heading “If we are unable to compete 

76

successfully, including implementing our growth strategy and/or retaining our physicians and patients, it could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.”

Our average U.S. dialysis and related lab services net patient service revenue per treatment can be significantly impacted by several major factors, including our commercial payment rates; government payment policies regarding reimbursement amounts for dialysis treatments covered under Medicare’s bundled payment rate system, including our ability to capture certain patient characteristics; and changes in the mix of government and commercial patients and the number of commercial patients that are either covered under commercial contracts or are out-of-network.

Government dialysis-related payment rates in the U.S. are principally determined by federal Medicare and state Medicaid policy. For further discussion of government reimbursement and the Medicare ESRD bundled payment system, including QIP, see the discussion in Item 1. Business under the heading “Kidney Care Division-Sources of revenue-concentrations and risks.” For a discussion of operational, clinical and financial risks and uncertainties that we face in connection with the Medicare ESRD bundled payment system, see the risk factor in Item 1A. Risk Factors under the heading “Changes in the structure of and payment rates under the Medicare ESRD program could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.” 

The CMS Innovation Center is currently working with various healthcare providers to develop, refine and implement ACOs and other innovative models of care for Medicare and Medicaid beneficiaries. We are uncertain of the extent to which the long-term operation and evolution of these models of care, including ACOs, the CEC Model (which includes the development of ESCOs), the Duals Demonstration and other models, will impact the healthcare market over time. We are currently participating in the CEC Model with the Innovation Center in certain geographies, and our U.S. dialysis business may choose to participate in additional models either as a partner with other providers or independently. Even in areas where we are not directly participating in these or other Innovation Center models, some of our patients may be assigned to an ACO, another ESRD Care Model or another program, in which case the quality and cost of care that we furnish will be included in an ACO’s, another ESRD Care Model’s or other program’s calculations. In addition to the aforementioned new models of care, federal bipartisan legislation in the form of the PATIENTS Act has been proposed. The PATIENTS Act builds on prior coordinated care models, such as the CEC Model, and would establish a demonstration program for the provision of integrated care to Medicare ESRD patients. We have made and continue to make investments in building our integrated care capabilities, but there can be no assurances that initiatives such as the PATIENTS Act or similar legislation will be passed. If such legislation is passed, there can be no assurances that we will be able to successfully provide integrated care on the broader scale contemplated by this legislation.

On average, dialysis-related payment rates from contracted commercial payors are significantly higher than Medicare, Medicaid and other government program payment rates, and therefore the percentage of commercial patients in relation to total patients represents a major driver of our total average dialysis net patient service revenue per treatment. The percentage of commercial patients covered under contracted plans as compared to commercial patients with out-of-network providers has continued to increase, which can significantly affect our average dialysis net patient service revenue per treatment since commercial payment rates for patients with out-of-network providers are on average higher than in-network payment rates that are covered under commercial contracted plans. 

Dialysis payment rates from commercial payors vary and a major portion of our commercial rates are set at contracted amounts with payors and are subject to intense negotiation pressure. As discussed above, our commercial payment rates also include payments for out-of-network patients that on average are higher than our in-network commercial contract rates. Some of our commercial contracts pay us a single bundled payment rate for all dialysis services provided to covered patients. However, some of our commercial contracts also pay us for certain other services and pharmaceuticals in addition to the bundled payment. We are continuously in the process of negotiating agreements with our commercial payors, and if our negotiations result in overall commercial contract payment rate reductions in excess of our commercial contract payment rate increases, or if commercial payors implement plans that restrict access to coverage or the duration or breadth of benefits or impose restrictions or limitations on patient access to non-contracted or out-of-network providers, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. In addition, if there is an increase in job losses in the U.S., or depending upon changes to the healthcare regulatory system by CMS and/or the impact of healthcare insurance exchanges, we could experience a decrease in the number of patients covered under commercial insurance plans and/or an increase in uninsured or underinsured patients. Patients with commercial insurance who cannot otherwise maintain coverage frequently rely on financial assistance from charitable organizations, such as the American Kidney Fund. If these patients are unable to obtain or continue to receive or receive for a limited duration such financial assistance, or if our assumptions about how patients will respond to any change in such financial assistance are incorrect, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. For further details, see the risk factor in Item 1A Risk Factors under the heading “If patients in commercial plans are subject to restriction in plan designs or the average 

77

rates that commercial payors pay us decline significantly, it would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.”

Our operating performance with respect to dialysis services billing and collection can also be a significant factor in the average U.S. dialysis and related lab services net patient service revenue per treatment we recognize and are able to collect. For example, as payors change their systems and requirements, such as changes to what is included in the bundled payment from Medicare, we could experience a negative impact to our cash collection performance, which would affect our average U.S. dialysis and related lab services net patient service revenue per treatment.

Our U.S. dialysis and related lab services revenue recognition involves significant estimation risks. Our estimates are developed based on the best information available to us and our best judgment as to the reasonably assured collectability of our billings as of the reporting date based upon our actual historical collection experience. Changes in estimates are reflected in the then-current period financial statements based upon on-going actual experience and trends, or subsequent settlements and realizations depending on the nature and predictability of the estimates and contingencies.

Our annual average U.S. dialysis and related lab services net patient service revenue per treatment was approximately $350, $330 and $336 for 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively. In 2018, our average U.S. dialysis and related lab services net patient service revenue per treatment increased by approximately $20 per treatment primarily related to the administration of calcimimetics, as discussed above, as well as an increase in Medicare bad debt revenue due to a policy election made under the new revenue recognition accounting standards. In 2017, our average U.S. dialysis and related lab services net patient service revenue per treatment decreased by approximately $5 per treatment due to a decrease in our commercial treatment volume, a decline in our commercial payor mix, including exchange patients, and an increase in our provision for uncollectible accounts.

We anticipate that we will continue to experience increases in our operating costs in 2019 that may outpace any net Medicare rate increases that we may receive, which could significantly impact our operating results. In particular, we expect to continue experiencing increases in operating costs that are subject to inflation, such as labor and supply costs, including increases in maintenance costs, regardless of whether there is a compensating inflation-based increase in Medicare payment rates or in payments under the ESRD bundled payment rate system. We also expect to continue to incur capital expenditures to improve, renovate and maintain our facilities, equipment and information technology to meet changing regulatory requirements.

The principal drivers of our U.S. dialysis and related lab services patient care costs are clinical hours per treatment, labor rates, vendor pricing of pharmaceuticals, utilization levels of pharmaceuticals, business infrastructure costs, which include the operating costs of our dialysis centers, and certain professional fees. However, other cost categories can also present significant cost variability, such as employee benefit costs, payroll taxes, insurance costs and medical supply costs. In addition, proposed ballot initiatives or referendums, legislation, regulations or policy changes could cause us to incur substantial costs to challenge and prepare for and, if implemented, impose additional requirements on our operations, including increases in the required staffing levels or staffing ratios for clinical personnel, minimum transition times between treatments, limits on how much patients may be charged for care, limitations as to the amount that can be spent on certain medical costs, and limitations on the amount of revenue that providers can retain. Changes such as these could materially reduce our revenues and increase our operating expenses and impact our ability to staff our clinics to any new, elevated staffing levels, in particular given the ongoing nationwide shortage of healthcare workers, especially nurses. 

Our average clinical hours per treatment increased in 2018 compared to 2017. We are always striving for improved productivity levels, however, changes in federal and state policies or regulatory billing requirements can lead to increased labor costs in order to implement these new requirements, which can adversely impact our ability to achieve optimal productivity levels. In addition, improvements in the U.S. economy have stimulated additional competition for skilled clinical personnel resulting in slightly higher teammate turnover in 2018, which we believe negatively affected productivity levels. In 2018 and 2017, we experienced an increase in our clinical labor rates of approximately 3.0% and 4.0%, respectively, consistent with general industry trends, mainly due to the high demand for and nationwide shortage of skilled clinical personnel, along with general inflation increases. In 2018, we experienced an increase in benefit costs due to the implementation of a 401(k) matching program that went into effect January 1, 2018. We also continue to experience increases in the infrastructure and operating costs of our dialysis centers, primarily due to the number of new dialysis centers opened, and general increases in rent, utilities and repairs and maintenance. In 2018, we continued to implement certain cost control initiatives to manage our overall operating costs, including labor productivity.

Our U.S. dialysis and related lab services general and administrative expenses represented 8.1% of our U.S. dialysis and related lab services revenues in both 2018 and 2017. Increases in general and administrative expenses over the last several years were primarily related to strengthening our dialysis business by improving our regulatory compliance and other operational processes, responding to certain legal and compliance matters, professional fees associated with enhancing our 

78

information technology systems and more recent costs to counter union policy efforts. We expect that these levels of general and administrative expenses will continue in 2019 and could possibly increase as we seek out new business opportunities within the dialysis industry and continue to invest in improving our information technology infrastructure and maintaining the level of support required for our regulatory compliance and legal matters.

Results of Operations

The following table reflects the results of operations for our U.S. dialysis and related lab services business:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Certain columns, rows or percentages may not sum or recalculate due to the use of rounded numbers.

(1)On January 1, 2018, we adopted Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606) using the cumulative effect method for those contracts that were not substantially completed as of January 1, 2018. Results related to performance obligations satisfied beginning on and after January 1, 2018 are presented under Topic 606, while results related to the satisfaction of performance obligations in prior periods continue to be reported in accordance with our historical accounting under Revenue Recognition (Topic 605). See Notes 1 and 2 of the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of our adoption of Topic 606.

(2)For the periods presented in the table above, adjusted operating income is defined as operating income before certain items which we do not believe are indicative of ordinary results, including a non-cash gain on changes in ownership interests and a net settlement gain. Adjusted operating income as so defined is a non-GAAP measure and is not intended as a substitute for GAAP operating income. We have presented these adjusted amounts because management believes that these presentations enhance a user’s understanding of our normal consolidated operating income by excluding certain items which we do not believe are indicative of our ordinary results of operations. As a result, adjusting for these amounts allows for comparison to our normalized prior period results.

Revenues

U.S. dialysis and related lab services revenues for 2018 increased by approximately $976 million, or 10.4%, from 2017. This increase in revenues was primarily driven by an increase of approximately $20 in average dialysis net patient service 

79

revenue per treatment due to the administration of calcimimetics, as discussed above, an increase in Medicare bad debt revenue of $36 million due to a policy election made under the new revenue recognition accounting standards and volume growth from additional treatments of approximately 4.1% due to an increase in acquired and non-acquired treatments.

U.S. dialysis and related lab services revenues for 2017 increased by approximately $222 million, or 2.4%, from 2016. This increase in revenues was primarily driven by solid volume growth from additional treatments of approximately 4.1% due to an increase in acquired and non-acquired treatments, including the acquisition of Renal Ventures. U.S. dialysis and related lab services’ revenues was negatively impacted by approximately one less treatment day in 2017 as compared to 2016, and a decrease in the average dialysis net patient service revenue per treatment of approximately $5, primarily due to a decrease in our commercial payor mix, including exchange patients. In addition, our provision for uncollectible accounts increased by $52 million in 2017.

The following table summarizes our U.S. dialysis and related lab patient services revenues by source:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Approximately 69% of our total U.S. dialysis and related lab patient services revenues for the year ended December 31, 2018 were from government-based programs, principally Medicare, Medicaid, Medicare-assigned and managed Medicaid plans, representing approximately 89.6% of our total patients. Over the last year, we have seen a decline in the growth of our commercial patients, which has been outpaced by the growth of our government-based patients. Less than 1% of our U.S. dialysis and related lab services revenues are due directly from patients. There is no single commercial payor that accounted for more than 10% of total U.S. dialysis and related lab services revenues for the year ended December 31, 2018.

On average, dialysis-related payment rates from contracted commercial payors are significantly higher than Medicare, Medicaid and other government program payment rates, and therefore the percentage of commercial patients as a relationship to total patients represents a major driver of our total average dialysis net patient service revenue per treatment. For a patient covered by a commercial insurance plan, Medicare generally becomes the primary payor after 33 months, which includes the three month waiting period, or earlier if the patient’s commercial insurance plan coverage terminates. When Medicare becomes the primary payor, the payment rates we receive for that patient shift from the commercial insurance plan rates to Medicare payment rates, which on average are significantly lower than commercial insurance rates. Medicare payment rates are insufficient to cover our costs associated with providing dialysis services, and we therefore lose money on each Medicare treatment that we provide.

Nearly all of our net earnings from our U.S. dialysis and related lab services are derived from commercial payors, some of which pay at established contract rates and others of which pay negotiated payment rates based on an established fee schedule for out-of-network patients, which are typically higher than commercial contracted rates. If we experience an overall net reduction in our contracted and non-contracted commercial payment rates as a result of negotiations, restrictions or changes to the healthcare regulatory system, including the potential impact of healthcare insurance exchanges, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.

Operating expenses and charges

Patient care costs. U.S. dialysis and related lab services patient care costs are those costs directly associated with operating and supporting our dialysis centers and consist principally of labor, benefits, pharmaceuticals, medical supplies and other operating costs of the dialysis centers. U.S. dialysis and related lab services patient care costs on a per treatment basis were $247 and $224 for 2018 and 2017, respectively. The $23 increase in per treatment costs in 2018 as compared to 2017 was primarily related to the administration of calcimimetics, an increase in labor and benefits costs due to an increase in teammate headcount and the transition to the 401(k) matching program, as described above, as well as an increase in other direct operating expenses associated with our dialysis centers. These increases were partially offset by a decrease in other pharmaceutical costs.

U.S. dialysis and related lab services patient care costs on a per treatment basis were $224 and $226 for 2017 and 2016, respectively. The $2 decrease in per treatment costs in 2017 as compared to 2016 was primarily attributable to a decrease in 

80

pharmaceutical unit costs due to a net price reduction as well as a decrease in profit sharing expense. These decreases were partially offset by an increase in labor and benefit costs due to an increase in teammates and clinical labor rates, and an increase in other direct operating expenses associated with our dialysis centers, including the impact of the hurricanes during the third quarter of 2017.

General and administrative expenses. U.S. dialysis and related lab services general and administrative expenses in 2018 increased by approximately $76 million as compared to 2017. This increase was primarily due to increases in advocacy costs, benefit costs related to the 401(k) matching program that began in 2018, occupancy costs and consulting fees, partially offset by a decrease in labor costs. The increase in advocacy spending was primarily due to our efforts to oppose certain legislative and ballot initiatives.

U.S. dialysis and related lab services general and administrative expenses in 2017 increased by approximately $9 million as compared to 2016. This increase was primarily due to an increase in our labor and benefit costs and occupancy costs, partially offset by a decrease in long-term incentive compensation, profit sharing and travel expenses.

Depreciation and amortization. U.S. dialysis and related lab services depreciation and amortization expenses increased by approximately $38 million for both 2018 as compared to 2017 and 2017 as compared to 2016. The increases were primarily due to growth through new dialysis center developments and acquisitions, as well as additional informational technology initiatives.

Gain on changes in ownership interests, net. During 2018 we acquired a controlling interest in a previously nonconsolidated dialysis partnership. As a result of this transaction, we consolidated this partnership and recognized a non-cash gain of $28 million on our previously held ownership interest in the partnership.

Gain on settlement, net. During 2017, we reached an agreement with the government for amounts owed to us for dialysis services provided from 2005 through 2011 to patients covered by the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). As a result of this settlement we recognized a one-time net gain of $527 million as well as equity investment income of $3 million for our share of the settlement recognized by our nonconsolidated joint ventures. As such, the total effect of this settlement on our operating income was an increase of $530 million.

Equity investment income. Equity investment income was approximately $20 million, $25 million and $18 million in 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively. The decrease in equity investment income in 2018 as compared to 2017 was primarily due to our receipt in 2017 of equity investment income related to the VA settlement of $3 million. The increase in equity investment income in 2017 compared to 2016 was primarily due to the increase in the number of our nonconsolidated dialysis joint ventures and an increase in profitability at some of these joint ventures.

Segment operating income

U.S. dialysis and related lab services operating income for 2018, which includes a gain on ownership changes of $28 million, decreased by approximately $587 million as compared to 2017, which includes a net gain on the VA settlement of $530 million. Excluding these items from their respective periods, U.S. dialysis and related lab services adjusted operating income decreased by approximately $86 million from 2017. This decrease in adjusted operating income was primarily due to an increase in labor and benefits costs, an increase in other direct operating expenses and increases in advocacy costs, occupancy costs and consulting fees, as described above. This decrease was partially offset by a net increase related to the administration of calcimimetics and additional treatment growth, as described above. 

U.S. dialysis and related lab services operating income for 2017, which includes a net gain on the VA settlement of $530 million, increased by approximately $520 million as compared to 2016. Excluding this item from 2017, U.S. dialysis and related lab services adjusted operating income decreased by approximately $9 million from 2016. This decrease in adjusted operating income was primarily due to a decrease in the average dialysis net patient service revenue per treatment of approximately $5, one less treatment day, partially offset by treatment growth, as described above. Adjusted operating income also decreased due to an increase in general and administrative expenses, partially offset by lower patient care costs, as described above.

Other—Ancillary services and strategic initiatives business

Our other operations include ancillary services and strategic initiatives which are primarily aligned with our core business of providing dialysis services to our network of patients. As of December 31, 2018, these consisted primarily of disease management services, vascular access services, clinical research programs, physician services, ESRD seamless care organizations, and comprehensive care as well as our international operations. These ancillary services and strategic initiatives, 

81

including our international operations and our pharmacy business, generated approximately $1.196 billion of revenues in 2018, representing approximately 10% of our consolidated revenues. If any of our ancillary services or strategic initiatives, such as our international operations, are unsuccessful, it would have a negative impact on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows, and we may determine to exit that line of business, which could result in significant termination costs. In addition, we may incur a material write-off or an impairment of our investment, including goodwill, in one or more of our ancillary services or strategic initiatives. In that regard, we have incurred, and may in the future incur, impairment and restructuring charges in addition to those incurred by our pharmacy business, described below.

Recent changes in the oral pharmacy space, including reimbursement rate pressures, have negatively affected the economics of our pharmacy services business. As a result, we have transitioned the customer service and fulfillment functions of this business to third parties and have ceased our distribution operation, which will result in a decline in revenues and costs. In 2018, we recognized restructuring charges of $11 million and other asset impairment charges of $17 million related to our pharmacy services business.

We expect to add additional service offerings to our business and pursue additional strategic initiatives in the future as circumstances warrant, which could include healthcare services not related to dialysis. In addition, in connection with our previously announced capital allocation strategy, in 2019 we plan to continue our evaluation of strategic alternatives for various assets in our portfolio. In the second quarter of 2018, we sold Paladina Health (described below), our direct primary care business, as a result of the implementation of this strategy.

As of December 31, 2018, our international dialysis operations provided dialysis and administrative services through a network of 241 outpatient dialysis centers located in nine countries outside of the U.S. The total revenues generated from our international operations, as reflected below, were approximately 4% of our 2018 consolidated revenues.

82

The following table reflects the results of operations for the ancillary services and strategic initiatives: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Certain columns, rows or percentages may not sum or recalculate due to the use of rounded numbers.

(1)On January 1, 2018, we adopted Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606) using the cumulative effect method for those contracts that were not substantially completed as of January 1, 2018. Results related to performance obligations satisfied beginning on and after January 1, 2018 are presented under Topic 606, while results related to the satisfaction of performance obligations in prior periods continue to be reported in accordance with our historical accounting under Revenue Recognition (Topic 605). See Notes 1 and 2 of the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of our adoption of Topic 606.

83

(2)For the periods presented in the table above adjusted operating loss is defined as operating loss before certain items which we do not believe are indicative of ordinary results, including goodwill impairment charges, investment and other asset impairments, restructuring charges, gains on ownership changes and accruals for legal matters. Adjusted operating loss as so defined is a non-GAAP measure and is not intended as a substitute for GAAP operating (loss) income. We have presented these adjusted amounts because management believes that these presentations enhance a user’s understanding of our normal consolidated operating (loss) income by excluding certain items which we do not believe are indicative of our ordinary results of operations. As a result, adjusting for these amounts allows for comparison to our normalized prior period results.

Revenues

Ancillary services and strategic initiatives revenues for 2018 decreased by approximately $400 million, or 25.1%, as compared to 2017. This decrease was primarily due to a decline in volume in our pharmacy business due to changes in calcimimetics reimbursement, as well as the restructuring of our pharmacy business, as discussed above, a decrease in our shared savings revenue from our ESCO joint ventures and a decrease in revenue related to the sale of our direct primary care business in the second quarter of 2018. These decreases were partially offset by an increase in revenues from our international expansion due to acquired and non-acquired growth and an increase in DaVita IKC revenues from special needs plans.

Ancillary services and strategic initiatives revenues for 2017 decreased by approximately $25 million, or 1.5%, as compared to 2016. This decrease was primarily related to a decrease in volume in our pharmacy business, partially offset by an increase in pharmaceutical rates, an increase in DaVita IKC special needs plan revenues, an increase in shared savings revenue recognized by our ESCO joint ventures and an increase in revenues from expansions in our international business and other strategic initiatives.

Operating and general expenses

Ancillary services and strategic initiatives operating and general expenses for 2018, which included restructuring charges of $11 million related to our pharmacy business, an equity investment loss on the sale of our India business in our APAC JV of $9 million and an equity investment loss of $8 million related to impairments at our APAC JV, decreased by approximately $409 million compared to 2017, which included restructuring charges in our international business of $3 million and an equity investment loss of $6 million for goodwill impairments at our APAC JV. Excluding these items from their respective periods, ancillary services and strategic initiatives adjusted operating and general expenses decreased by $428 million compared to 2017. This decrease was primarily due to a decrease in pharmaceutical costs due to decreased volume related to the changes in calcimimetics reimbursement and restructuring at our pharmacy business, as discussed above, a decrease in expenses related to the sale of our direct primary care business and decreases in labor and benefit costs and professional fees. These decreases in operating expenses were partially offset by an increase in expenses associated with growth in our international operations, an increase in medical costs at DaVita IKC related to the cost of calcimimetics and an increase in members in our special needs plans.

Ancillary services and strategic initiatives operating and general expenses for 2017, which included restructuring charges in our international business of $3 million, as discussed below, and an equity investment loss of $6 million for goodwill impairments at our APAC JV, increased by approximately $25 million from 2016, which included an estimated accrual for certain legal matters of $16 million. Excluding these items from their respective periods, ancillary services and strategic initiatives adjusted operating and general expenses increased by $32 million. This increase in adjusted operating and general expenses was primarily related to an increase in medical costs at DaVita IKC, an increase in labor and benefits costs and additional expenses associated with our international dialysis growth, including losses from adverse changes in foreign exchange rates included in equity investment income, partially offset by a decrease in pharmaceutical costs due to decreased volume in our pharmacy services business. 

Goodwill impairment charges. During the year ended December 31, 2018, we recognized a goodwill impairment charge of $3 million at our German other health operations, and during the year ended December 31, 2017, we recognized a goodwill impairment charge of $2 million at one of our international kidney care businesses. 

During the years ended December 31, 2017 and December 31, 2016, we also recognized goodwill impairment charges of $35 million and $28 million, respectively, at our vascular access reporting unit. These charges resulted primarily from changes in future governmental reimbursement rates for this business and our then-evolving plans and expected ability to mitigate them. As of December 31, 2017, there was no goodwill remaining at our vascular access reporting unit.

Restructuring charges and other impairments. During the year ended December 31, 2018, we announced a plan to restructure our pharmacy business, as discussed above. As a result of this plan, we recognized restructuring charges of $11 million which are included in operating and other general expenses. We also recognized other asset impairment charges of $17 million and $15 million in 2018 and 2017, respectively, related to the restructuring of our pharmacy business.

84

During the year ended December 31, 2017, we recognized restructuring charges related to our international business of $2 million and recognized equity investment losses of $1 million related to restructuring charges at our APAC JV. These restructuring charges were related to a reorganization of our international general and administrative infrastructure at the global, regional and country level in order to improve efficiency. 

During the year ended December 31, 2017, we recognized a non-cash other-than-temporary impairment charge of $280 million on our investment in the APAC JV. This charge resulted from changes in our expectations for the joint venture based on continuing market research and assessments by both us and DaVita Care Pte. Ltd. (the APAC JV) concerning the size of the addressable market available to the joint venture at attractive risk-adjusted returns. We estimated the fair value of our retained interest in the APAC JV with the assistance of an independent third party valuation firm based on information available to management as of December 31, 2017. 

During the year ended December 31, 2016, we recognized an impairment of $15 million related to an investment in one of our international reporting units.

Gain on changes in ownership interests, net. We sold 100% of the stock of Paladina Health, our direct primary care business, effective June 1, 2018 and recognized a gain of approximately $34 million on this transaction. In addition, we recognized a loss of approximately $1 million related to the unwinding of an international business in the second quarter of 2018.

 During the year ended December 31, 2017, we recognized a $6 million non-cash gain related to the 2016 formation of the APAC JV which resulted from a change in estimate for post-closing adjustments that were pending at the formation of this joint venture. 

In 2016, we deconsolidated our Asia Pacific dialysis business and recognized an initial non-cash non-taxable estimated gain of $374 million on our retained investment in the APAC JV net of contingent obligations as a result of adjusting the carrying value of our retained interest in the APAC JV to our proportionate share of the estimated fair value of the business. 

Segment operating (loss) income

Ancillary services and strategic initiatives operating results for 2018, which included a net gain on changes in ownership interests of $32 million, other asset impairment charges of $17 million and restructuring charges of $11 million related to our pharmacy business, an equity investment loss due to the sale of our India business in our APAC JV of $9 million, an equity investment loss related to impairments at our APAC JV of $8 million and a goodwill impairment charge of $3 million, increased by approximately $345 million from the same period in 2017, which included goodwill impairment charges of $35 million related to our vascular access reporting unit, an impairment of $280 million on our investment in the APAC JV, an asset impairment of $15 million related to the restructuring of our pharmacy business, an equity investment loss of $6 million related to goodwill impairments at our APAC JV, restructuring charges in our international business of $3 million, and an adjustment to the gain on the 2016 ownership change of our APAC JV of $6 million. Excluding these items from their respective periods, adjusted operating losses decreased by $29 million, primarily due to an improvement in our international business, an increase from DaVita IKC revenues from special needs plans, partially offset by a decrease in our shared savings revenue from our ESCO joint ventures, as described above. 

Ancillary services and strategic initiatives operating results for 2017, which included goodwill impairment charges of $35 million related to our vascular access reporting unit, an impairment of $280 million on our investment in the APAC JV, an asset impairment of $15 million related to the restructuring of our pharmacy business, an equity investment loss of $6 million related to goodwill impairments at our APAC JV, restructuring charges in our international business of $3 million, and an adjustment to the gain on the 2016 ownership change of our APAC JV of $6 million, decreased by approximately $706 million from 2016, which included an estimated gain on the ownership change of our APAC JV of $374 million, goodwill impairment charges of $28 million at our vascular access reporting unit, estimated accruals for legal matters of $16 million and an investment impairment of $15 million. Excluding these items from their respective periods, adjusted operating losses increased by $59 million, primarily due to a decrease in revenues in our pharmacy services business, an increase in medical costs, higher labor and benefits costs, and additional expenses associated with our international operations, partially offset by an increase in DaVita IKC special needs plan revenues, an increase in shared savings revenue recognized by our ESCO joint ventures, an increase in revenues from expansion in our international business, and a decrease in pharmaceutical costs due to decreased volume in our pharmacy services business.

85

Corporate level charges

Debt expense. Debt expense for 2018, 2017, and 2016 consisted of interest expense of approximately $462 million, $407 million and $394 million, respectively, and amortization and accretion of debt discounts and premiums, amortization of deferred financing costs and amortization of interest rate cap agreements of approximately $26 million, $24 million, and $20 million, respectively. The increase in debt expense in 2018 as compared to 2017 was primarily due to an increase in our average interest rate and an increase in our average outstanding debt balance. Our overall weighted average effective interest rate in 2018 was 4.96% as compared to 4.70% in 2017.

The increase in debt expense in 2017 as compared to 2016 was primarily due to an increase in our average interest rate, partially offset by a decrease in our average outstanding debt balance. Our overall weighted average effective interest rate in 2017 was 4.70% as compared to 4.43% in 2016.

Corporate administrative support. Corporate administrative support consists primarily of labor, benefits and long-term incentive compensation expense, as well as professional fees for departments which provide support to all of our various operating lines of business. This is partially offset by internal management fees charged to our other lines of business for that support. 

Corporate administrative support costs were approximately $90 million in 2018 and $45 million in 2017. Corporate administrative support costs increased $45 million due to an increase in long-term incentive compensation expense due to the adoption of a retirement policy for certain executive officers, as discussed below in "Long-term incentive compensation", as well as a reduction in internal management fees charged to our ancillary lines of business, partially offset by a decrease in legal fees. 

Corporate administrative support costs were approximately $45 million in 2017 and $14 million in 2016. Corporate administrative support costs increased $31 million due to a decrease in internal management fees charged to our ancillary lines of business and increases in long-term incentive compensation expense and labor and benefits expenses, partially offset by decreases in professional fees and other general and administrative expenses. 

Other income. Other income was approximately $10 million in 2018, $18 million in 2017 and $8 million in 2016, and consisted principally of interest income on cash and cash-equivalents and short- and long-term investments, other non-operating gains from investment transactions, and foreign currency transaction gains and losses. Other income in 2018 as compared to 2017 decreased approximately $8 million, primarily due to an increase of recognized losses on the sale and market valuation of investments and an increase in foreign currency transaction losses. Other income in 2017 as compared to 2016 increased approximately $10 million primarily due to a decrease in foreign currency transaction losses.

Provision for income taxes. The provision for income taxes for 2018, 2017 and 2016 represented an effective annualized tax rate of 24.6%, 23.1% and 26.6% of income from continuing operations, respectively. The 2018 effective tax rate is higher than the 2017 effective tax rate primarily due to the fact that the 2017 effective tax rate reflects a $252 million tax benefit recognized in 2017 related to the enactment of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act in 2017 (“2017 Tax Act”). Excluding this item, our effective tax rate from continuing operations for 2017 was 41.1%. The decrease in our effective tax rate in 2018 compared to this adjusted effective income tax rate in 2017 of 41.1% was primarily driven by the lower corporate statutory tax rate of 21%, partially offset by an increase in certain items that are no longer deductible under the 2017 Tax Act. The effective tax rate in 2016 was lower than the 2017 adjusted effective tax rate of 41.1%, primarily due to the gain on the APAC JV ownership changes, partially offset by goodwill impairment charges, as discussed above. See Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements for further information. 

Noncontrolling interests

Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests for 2018, 2017 and 2016 was approximately $174 million, $167 million and $153 million, respectively. The increase in noncontrolling interests in 2018 as compared to 2017 was primarily due to an increase in earnings at our DMG physician groups offset by a decrease in noncontrolling interests due to one-time items impacting 2017 including the impairment of our vascular access reporting unit, which reduced income to noncontrolling interests by $10 million, partially offset by the additional income to noncontrolling interests due to the net gain on the settlement with the VA of $24 million.

The increase in noncontrolling interests in 2017 as compared to 2016 was primarily due to additional income to noncontrolling interests related to the net gain on the settlement with the VA of $24 million, partially offset by the impairment of our vascular access reporting unit, which impacted income to noncontrolling interests by $10 million in 2017 and $8 million in 2016, for a net impact of $2 million. 

86

The percentage of net U.S. dialysis and related lab services revenues generated from dialysis-related joint ventures was approximately 25% in 2018, 24% in 2017 and 23% in 2016.

Accounts receivable

Our consolidated accounts receivable balances at December 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017 were $1.859 billion and $1.715 billion, respectively, representing approximately 62 days and 57 days of revenue (DSO), respectively, net of the allowance for uncollectible accounts. The increase in consolidated DSO was primarily due to higher DSO at our international operations and the cessation of operations at our pharmacy business. Historically, our pharmacy business experienced relatively lower DSO than the rest of our business. Our DSO calculation is based on the current quarter’s average revenues per day. There were no significant changes during 2018 from 2017 in the amount of unreserved accounts receivable over one year old or the amounts pending approval from third-party payors.

As of December 31, 2018 and 2017, our net patient services accounts receivable balances more than six months old represents approximately 18% and 21% of our dialysis accounts receivable balances, respectively. The decrease was primarily due to collections at DaVita Health Solutions and in certain international operations. Substantially all revenue realized is from government and commercial payors, as discussed above. There were no significant unreserved balances over one year old. Less than 1% of our revenues are classified as patient pay.

Amounts pending approval from third-party payors associated with Medicare bad debt claims as of December 31, 2018 and 2017, other than the standard monthly billing, consisted of approximately $136 million and $104 million, respectively, and are classified as other receivables. A significant portion of our Medicare bad debt claims are typically paid to us before the Medicare fiscal intermediary audits the claims but are subject to adjustment based upon the actual results of these audits. Such audits typically occur one to four years after the claims are filed.

Liquidity and capital resources

Available liquidity. As of December 31, 2018, our Kidney Care cash balance was $323 million and Kidney Care also had approximately $3 million in short-term investments. As of December 31, 2018, our DMG cash balance was $415 million and DMG also had approximately $4 million in short-term investments. As of December 31, 2018, we had $175 million drawn on our $1.0 billion revolving line of credit under our senior secured credit facilities, in addition to the approximately $14 million committed for outstanding letters of credit. As of December 31, 2018, we also have approximately $23 million of additional outstanding letters of credit under a separate bilateral secured letter of credit facility and $0.2 million of committed outstanding letters of credit which are backed by a certificate of deposit. 

Consolidated cash flows from operations during 2018 was $1.8 billion, of which $1.5 billion was from continuing operations, compared with consolidated cash flows from operations of $1.9 billion for 2017, of which $1.6 billion was from continuing operations. Consolidated cash flows decreased due to increases in DSO, cash interest payments, advocacy spend and the timing of other working capital items partially offset by a decrease in cash taxes. Cash flows from operations in 2018 included cash interest payments of approximately $489 million and cash tax payments of $93 million. Cash flows from operations in 2017 included cash interest payments of approximately $425 million and cash tax payments of $387 million.

Non-operating cash outflows in 2018 included $987 million for capital asset expenditures, including $528 million for new center developments and relocations and $459 million for maintenance and information technology. We also spent an additional $183 million for acquisitions. In addition, during 2018 we received $14 million associated with stock award exercises and other share issuances. We also made distributions to noncontrolling interests of $196 million and received contributions from noncontrolling interests of $52 million associated with new or existing joint ventures. We also repurchased a total of 16,844,067 shares of our common stock for $1.2 billion, or an average price of $68.48 per share, in 2018. In addition, we settled $8 million in share repurchases related to 2017. Our proceeds from the sale of self-developed properties in 2018 was $45 million.

Consolidated cash flows from operations during 2017 was $1.9 billion, of which $1.6 billion was from continuing operations, compared with cash flows from operations of $2.0 billion for 2016, of which $1.7 billion was from continuing operations. Consolidated cash flows declined due to an increase in DSO and the timing of other working capital items, partially offset by the payment received from the settlement with the VA, net of associated tax payments. Cash flows from operations in 2017 included cash interest payments of approximately $425 million and cash tax payments of $387 million. Cash flows from operations in 2016 included cash interest payments of approximately $407 million and cash tax payments of $339 million.

Non-operating cash outflows in 2017 included $905 million for capital asset expenditures, including $559 million for new center developments and relocations and $346 million for maintenance and information technology. We also spent an 

87

additional $804 million for acquisitions in 2017. In addition, during 2017 we received $21 million associated with stock award exercises and other share issuances. We also made distributions to noncontrolling interests of $211 million, which included $24 million related to the noncontrolling interest portion of the VA settlement gain, and received contributions from noncontrolling interests of $75 million associated with new or existing joint ventures. We also repurchased a total of 12,966,672 shares of our common stock for $811 million, or an average price of $62.54 per share, of which $8 million was unsettled at December 31, 2017. Our proceeds from the sale of self-developed properties in 2017 was $58 million.

During 2018, in the U.S. we opened 152 dialysis centers, acquired 18 dialysis centers, closed and merged eight dialysis centers, closed two dialysis centers, sold one dialysis center, and terminated management and administrative services agreements covering five dialysis centers. In addition, our international dialysis operations acquired 28 dialysis centers, developed three dialysis centers, and closed two dialysis centers. Our APAC JV also acquired two dialysis centers, closed five dialysis centers and sold 22 dialysis centers.

During 2018, our DMG business acquired one primary care physician practice and four private medical practices.

In December 2017, we entered into an equity purchase agreement to sell our DMG division to Optum, a subsidiary of UnitedHealth Group Inc., subject to receipt of required regulatory approvals and other customary closing conditions. On December 11, 2018, we entered into an amendment to the equity purchase agreement, which, among other things, reduced the purchase price for DMG from $4.900 billion to $4.340 billion. 

During 2017, in the U.S. we opened 121 dialysis centers, acquired 66 dialysis centers, including dialysis centers associated with the acquisition of Renal Ventures, closed and merged ten dialysis centers, closed nine dialysis centers, divested six dialysis centers, deconsolidated seven dialysis centers which we continue to operate under management services agreements, and terminated two management services agreements. In addition, our international dialysis operations acquired 68 dialysis centers, opened eight dialysis centers, and closed one dialysis center. Our APAC JV acquired two dialysis centers, opened nine dialysis centers and closed three dialysis centers.

During 2017, our DMG business acquired four primary care physician practices, including the acquisition of Magan, seven private medical practices and one independent physician association.

During the year ended December 31, 2018, we made mandatory principal payments under our senior secured credit facilities totaling $100 million on Term Loan A and $35 million on Term Loan B. During the year ended December 31, 2017, we made mandatory principal payments under our senior secured credit facilities totaling $88 million on Term Loan A and $35 million on Term Loan B.

Interest rate cap agreements

As of December 31, 2018, we maintain several interest rate cap agreements that were entered into in October 2015 with notional amounts totaling $3.5 billion. These cap agreements became effective June 29, 2018, have the economic effect of capping the LIBOR variable component of our interest rate at a maximum of 3.50% on an equivalent amount of our debt, and expire on June 30, 2020. As of December 31, 2018, the total fair value of these cap agreements was an asset of approximately $0.9 million. During the year ended December 31, 2018, we recognized debt expense of $4.3 million from these cap agreements and recorded a loss of $0.2 million in other comprehensive income due to a decrease in the unrealized fair value of these cap agreements.

Previously, we maintained other interest rate cap agreements that were entered into in November 2014 with notional amounts also totaling $3.5 billion. These cap agreements had the economic effect of capping the LIBOR variable component of our interest rate at a maximum of 3.50% on an equivalent amount of our debt and expired on June 30, 2018. During the year ended 2018, we recognized debt expense of $4.1 million from these cap agreements and recorded an immaterial loss in other comprehensive income due to a decrease in the unrealized fair value of these cap agreements through expiration.

Other items

As of December 31, 2018, our Term Loan B debt bears interest at LIBOR plus an interest rate margin of 2.75%. Term Loan B is subject to an interest rate cap if LIBOR should rise above 3.50%. Term Loan A bears interest at LIBOR plus an interest rate margin of 2.00% and Term Loan A-2 bears interest at LIBOR plus an interest rate margin of 1.00%. The capped portion of Term Loan A if LIBOR should rise above 3.50% is $157.5 million. Both the uncapped portion of Term Loan A of $517.5 million and the entire balance of Term Loan A-2 are subject to the variability of LIBOR. Interest rates on our Senior Notes are fixed by their terms.

88

Our overall weighted average effective interest rate on the senior secured credit facilities at the end of 2018 was 5.11%, based upon the current margins in effect of 2.00% for Term Loan A, 1.00% for Term Loan A-2 and 2.75% for Term Loan B.

As of December 31, 2018, the interest rates were fixed on approximately 48% of our total debt, and were fixed and economically fixed, including via interest rate cap agreements, on approximately 82% of our total debt.

Our overall weighted average effective interest rate during the year ended December 31, 2018 was 4.96% and as of December 31, 2018 was 5.19%.

As of December 31, 2018, we had $175 million drawn on our $1.0 billion revolving line of credit under our senior secured credit facilities, in addition to approximately $14 million committed for outstanding letters of credit. As of December 31, 2018, we also have approximately $23 million of additional outstanding letters of credit under a separate bilateral secured letter of credit facility, and $0.2 million of committed outstanding letters of credit which are backed by a certificate of deposit.

We believe that our cash flow from operations and other sources of liquidity, including from amounts available under our existing credit facilities and anticipated debt refinancing, as well as proceeds from the anticipated sale of our DMG business if consummated, will be sufficient to fund our scheduled debt service under the terms of our debt agreements and other obligations for the foreseeable future, including the next 12 months. However, our primary recurrent sources of liquidity are cash from operations and cash from borrowings, which are subject to general, economic, financial, competitive, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control, as described in Item 1A Risk Factors under the heading "The level of our current and future debt could have an adverse impact on our business and our ability to generate cash to service our indebtedness and for other intended purposes depends on many factors beyond our control."

Goodwill

We elected to early adopt ASU No. 2017-04, Intangibles-Goodwill and Other (Topic 350): Simplifying the Test for Goodwill Impairment, effective January 1, 2017. The amendments in this ASU simplify the test for goodwill impairment by eliminating the second step in the assessment. All goodwill impairment tests performed since adoption of this ASU were performed under this new guidance.

During the year ended December 31, 2018, we performed annual and other impairment assessments for various reporting units. As a result of these assessments, we recognized a goodwill impairment charge of $3 million at our German other health operations during the year ended December 31, 2018. We also recognized a goodwill impairment charge of $2 million at one of our international kidney care businesses during the year ended December 31, 2017.

During the years ended December 31, 2017 and December 31, 2016, we recognized goodwill impairment charges of $35 million and $28 million, respectively, at our vascular access reporting unit. These charges resulted primarily from changes in future governmental reimbursement rates for this business and our then-evolving plans and expected ability to mitigate them. As of December 31, 2017, there was no goodwill remaining at our vascular access reporting unit.

Based on our most recent assessments, we determined that reductions in reimbursement rates, changes in actual or expected growth rates, or other significant adverse changes in expected future cash flows or valuation assumptions could result in goodwill impairment charges in the future for the following reporting units, which remain at risk of goodwill impairment as of December 31, 2018:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Excess of estimated fair value of the reporting unit over its carrying amount as of the latest assessment date.

(2)Potential impact on estimated fair value of a sustained, long-term reduction of 3% in operating income as of the latest assessment date.

(3)Potential impact on estimated fair value of an increase in discount rates of 100 basis points as of the latest assessment date.

There were no major changes in the business, prospects, or expected future results of these reporting units from their latest assessment date through December 31, 2018.

89

Except as described above, none of our various other reporting units was considered at risk of significant goodwill impairment as of December 31, 2018. Since the dates of our last annual goodwill impairment tests, there have been certain developments, events, changes in operating performance and other changes in key circumstances that have affected our businesses. However, except as further described above, these did not cause management to believe it is more likely than not that the fair values of any of our reporting units would be less than their respective carrying amounts as of December 31, 2018.

Long-term incentive compensation

Long-term incentive program (LTIP) compensation includes both stock-based awards (principally stock-settled stock appreciation rights, restricted stock units and performance stock units) as well as long-term performance-based cash awards. Long-term incentive compensation expense, which was primarily general and administrative in nature, was attributed among our U.S. dialysis and related lab services business, corporate administrative support, and the ancillary services and strategic initiatives.

Our stock-based compensation expense for stock-settled awards are measured at the estimated fair value of awards on the date of grant and recognized on a cumulative straight-line basis over the vesting terms of the awards unless the stock awards are based on non-market based performance metrics, in which case expense is adjusted for expected ultimate payouts as of the end of each reporting period. Stock-based compensation expense for cash-settled awards is based on the estimated fair values as of the end of each reporting period. The expense for all stock-based awards is recognized net of expected forfeitures.

During 2018, we granted 1,902,652 stock-settled stock appreciation rights with an aggregate grant-date fair value of $30.9 million and a weighted-average expected life of approximately 4.2 years and 1,101,388 stock units with an aggregate grant-date fair value of $72.9 million and a weighted-average expected life of approximately 3.3 years. We did not grant any cash-settled stock-based awards during 2018.

For the year ended December 31, 2018, long-term incentive compensation expense of $85.8 million increased by approximately $23.8 million as compared to 2017. This increase in long-term incentive compensation expense was primarily due to the adoption of a retirement policy (Rule of 65 policy). The Rule of 65 policy generally provides that Section 16 executive officers that are a minimum age of 55 with five years of continuous service with the Company receive certain benefits with respect to their outstanding equity awards upon a qualifying retirement if the sum of their age plus years of service is greater than or equal to 65. These benefits include accelerated vesting of restricted stock unit awards, continued vesting of stock-settled stock appreciation rights and performance stock unit awards and an exercise window from the original vest date through the original expiration date regardless of continued employment, with pro rata vesting for a Rule of 65 retirement within one year of the award grant date. The adoption of the Rule of 65 policy resulted in a $14.7 million modification charge and a net acceleration of expense of $9.7 million during the year ended December 31, 2018 that is included in the expense amounts reported above. Future equity awards to Rule of 65 eligible executives will be expensed over the period during which risk of forfeiture exists.

For the year ended December 31, 2017, long-term incentive compensation expense of $62.0 million decreased by approximately $3.0 million as compared to 2016. This decrease in long-term incentive compensation expense was primarily due to cumulative revaluation of liability-based awards for reductions in estimated ultimate payouts, as well as the final vesting of a prior broad grant that is no longer contributing expense.

As of December 31, 2018, there was $99.9 million in total estimated but unrecognized long-term incentive compensation expense for LTIP awards outstanding, including $88.6 million relating to stock-based awards under our equity compensation plans. We expect to recognize the performance-based cash component of this LTIP expense over a weighted average remaining period of 0.8 years and the stock-based component of this LTIP expense over a weighted average remaining period of 1.5 years.

For the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, we received $8.0 million, $13.5 million and $28.4 million, respectively, in actual tax benefits upon the exercise of stock awards. Since we issue stock-settled stock appreciation rights rather than stock options, we did not receive cash proceeds from stock option exercises during the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016.

Stock repurchases

We repurchased a total of 16,844,067 shares for $1.2 billion, or an average price of $68.48, during the year ended December 31, 2018. We also repurchased a total of 12,966,672 shares for $811 million, or an average price of $62.54, during the year ended December 31, 2017 and a total of 16,649,090 shares for $1.1 billion, or an average price of $64.41, during the 

90

year ended December 31, 2016. Subsequent to December 31, 2018, we have not repurchased any shares of our common stock through February 22, 2019. We retired all shares held in treasury effective December 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017.

On July 11, 2018, our Board of Directors approved an additional share repurchase authorization in the amount of $1.4 billion. This share repurchase authorization was in addition to the $110 million remaining at that time under our Board of Directors' prior share repurchase authorization approved in October 2017. Accordingly, as of February 22, 2019, we have a total of $1.4 billion available under the current Board repurchase authorizations for additional share repurchases. Although these share repurchase authorizations do not have expiration dates, we remain subject to share repurchase limitations under the terms of our senior secured credit facilities and the indentures governing our senior notes.

Off-balance sheet arrangements and aggregate contractual obligations

In addition to the debt obligations reflected on our balance sheet, we have commitments associated with operating leases and letters of credit, as well as potential obligations associated with our equity investments in nonconsolidated businesses and to dialysis centers that are wholly-owned by third parties. Substantially all of our U.S. dialysis facilities are leased. We have potential obligations to purchase the noncontrolling interests held by third parties in several of our majority-owned joint ventures and other nonconsolidated entities. These obligations are in the form of put provisions that are exercisable at the third-party owners’ discretion within specified periods as outlined in each specific put provision. If these put provisions were exercised, we would be required to purchase the third-party owners’ equity interests at either the appraised fair market value or a predetermined multiple of earnings or cash flows attributable to the equity interests put to us, which is intended to approximate fair value. The methodology we use to estimate the fair values of noncontrolling interests subject to put provisions assumes the higher of either a liquidation value of net assets or an average multiple of earnings, based on historical earnings, patient mix and other performance indicators that can affect future results, as well as other factors. The estimated fair values of noncontrolling interests subject to put provisions are a critical accounting estimate that involves significant judgments and assumptions and may not be indicative of the actual values at which the noncontrolling interests may ultimately be settled, which could vary significantly from our current estimates. The estimated fair values of noncontrolling interests subject to put provisions can fluctuate and the implicit multiple of earnings at which these noncontrolling interests obligations may be settled will vary significantly depending upon market conditions including potential purchasers’ access to the capital markets, which can impact the level of competition for dialysis and non-dialysis related businesses, the economic performance of these businesses and the restricted marketability of the third-party owners’ equity interests. The amount of noncontrolling interests subject to put provisions that employ a contractually predetermined multiple of earnings rather than fair value are immaterial. For additional information see Note 18 to the consolidated financial statements.

We also have certain other potential commitments to provide operating capital to several dialysis centers that are wholly-owned by third parties or businesses in which we own a noncontrolling equity interest as well as to physician-owned vascular access clinics or medical practices that we operate under management and administrative services agreements.

91

The following is a summary of these contractual obligations and commitments as of December 31, 2018:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

In addition to the commitments listed above, we have an agreement with Fresenius Medical Care (FMC) to purchase a certain amount of dialysis equipment, parts and supplies from FMC, which was extended through December 31, 2020. The actual amount of purchases in future years from FMC will depend upon a number of factors, including the operating requirements of our centers, the number of centers we acquire, and growth of our existing centers.

We also have an agreement with Baxter Healthcare Corporation (Baxter) that commits us to purchase a certain amount of peritoneal dialysis supplies at fixed prices through 2022.

In 2017, we entered into a Sourcing and Supply Agreement with Amgen USA Inc. (Amgen) that expires on December 31, 2022. Under the terms of this agreement, we will purchase EPO in amounts necessary to meet no less than 90% of our requirements for erythropoiesis stimulating agents (ESAs) through the expiration of the contract with Amgen. The actual amount of EPO that we will purchase will depend upon the amount of EPO administered during dialysis as prescribed by physicians and the overall number of patients that we serve.

Settlements of approximately $49 million of existing income tax liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits, including interest, penalties and other long-term tax liabilities, are excluded from the above table as reasonably reliable estimates of their timing cannot be made.

Supplemental information concerning certain physician groups and unrestricted subsidiaries

The following information is presented as supplemental data as required by the indentures governing our senior notes.

We provide services to certain physician groups, including those within our DMG business, which while consolidated in our financial statements for financial reporting purposes, are not subsidiaries of or owned by us, do not constitute “Subsidiaries” as defined in the indentures governing our outstanding senior notes, and do not guarantee those senior notes. In addition, we have entered into management agreements with these physician groups pursuant to which we receive management fees from the physician groups.

92

As of December 31, 2018, if these physician groups were not consolidated in our financial statements, our consolidated assets would have been approximately $18.578 billion and our consolidated other liabilities would have been approximately $3.571 billion. Our consolidated indebtedness would have remained approximately $10.154 billion since almost all of these physician groups are classified as held for sale and the remainder of them do not carry third party debt. For the year ended December 31, 2018, if these physician groups were not consolidated in our financial statements, our consolidated net income would have been reduced by approximately $30 million. Our consolidated total net revenues and consolidated operating income would have remained approximately $11.405 billion and $1.526 billion, respectively, since almost all of these physician groups are being reported as discontinued operations. 

In addition, our DMG business owns a 67% equity interest in California Medical Group Insurance (CMGI), which is an Unrestricted Subsidiary as defined in the indentures governing our outstanding senior notes, and does not guarantee those senior notes. DMG's equity interest in CMGI is accounted for under the equity method of accounting, meaning that, although CMGI is not consolidated in our financial statements for financial reporting purposes, our consolidated income statement reflects our pro rata share of CMGI’s net income within net loss from discontinued operations.

For the year ended December 31, 2018, excluding DMG's equity investment income attributable to CMGI, our consolidated net income would be decreased by approximately $92 thousand. See Note 29 to the consolidated financial statements for further details.

Contingencies

The information in Note 17 to the consolidated financial statements included in this report is incorporated by reference in response to this item.

Critical accounting policies, estimates and judgments

Our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes are prepared in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles. These accounting principles require us to make estimates, judgments and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of revenues, expenses, assets, liabilities, contingencies and temporary equity. All significant estimates, judgments and assumptions are developed based on the best information available to us at the time made and are regularly reviewed and updated when necessary. Actual results will generally differ from these estimates, and such differences may be material. Changes in estimates are reflected in our financial statements in the period of change based upon on-going actual experience trends, or subsequent settlements and realizations depending on the nature and predictability of the estimates and contingencies. Interim changes in estimates are applied prospectively within annual periods. Certain accounting estimates, including those concerning revenue recognition and accounts receivable, impairments of goodwill and investments, accounting for income taxes, consolidation of variable interest entities, and fair value estimates are considered to be critical to evaluating and understanding our financial results because they involve inherently uncertain matters and their application requires the most difficult and complex judgments and estimates.

Dialysis and related lab services revenue recognition and accounts receivable. There are significant estimating risks associated with the amount of dialysis and related lab services revenue that we recognize in a given reporting period. Payment rates are often subject to significant uncertainties related to wide variations in the coverage terms of the commercial healthcare plans under which we receive payments. In addition, ongoing insurance coverage changes, geographic coverage differences, differing interpretations of contract coverage, and other payor issues complicate the billing and collection process. Net revenue recognition and allowances for uncollectible billings require the use of estimates of the amounts that will ultimately be realized considering, among other items, retroactive adjustments that may be associated with regulatory reviews, audits, billing reviews and other matters.

Revenues associated with Medicare and Medicaid programs are recognized based on (a) the payment rates that are established by statute or regulation for the portion of the payment rates paid by the government payor (e.g., 80% for Medicare patients) and (b) for the portion not paid by the primary government payor, the estimated amounts that will ultimately be collectible from other government programs paying secondary coverage (e.g., Medicaid secondary coverage), the patient’s commercial health plan secondary coverage, or the patient. Our dialysis related reimbursements from Medicare are subject to certain variations under Medicare’s single bundled payment rate system whereby our reimbursements can be adjusted for certain patient characteristics and certain other factors. Our revenue recognition depends upon our ability to effectively capture, document and bill for Medicare’s base payment rate and these other factors. In addition, as a result of the potential range of variations that can occur in our dialysis-related reimbursements from Medicare under the single bundled payment rate system, our revenue recognition is subject to a greater degree of estimating risk.

93

Commercial healthcare plans, including contracted managed-care payors, are billed at our usual and customary rates; however, revenue is recognized based on estimated net realizable revenue for the services provided. Net realizable revenue is estimated based on contractual terms for the patients covered under commercial healthcare plans with which we have formal agreements, non-contracted commercial healthcare plan coverage terms if known, estimated secondary collections, historical collection experience, historical trends of refunds and payor payment adjustments (retractions), inefficiencies in our billing and collection processes that can result in denied claims for payments, a slowdown in collections, a reduction in the amounts that we expect to collect and regulatory compliance issues. Determining applicable primary and secondary coverage for our approximately 202,700 U.S. dialysis patients at any point in time, together with the changes in patient coverages that occur each month, requires complex, resource-intensive processes. Collections, refunds and payor retractions typically continue to occur for up to three years or longer after services are provided.

We generally expect the range of our dialysis and related lab services revenues estimating risk to be within 1% of its revenue, which can represent as much as approximately 5% of dialysis and related lab services’ adjusted operating income. Changes in estimates are reflected in the then-current financial statements based on on-going actual experience trends, or subsequent settlements and realizations depending on the nature and predictability of the estimates and contingencies. Changes in revenue estimates for prior periods are separately disclosed and reported if material to the current reporting period and longer term trend analyses, and have not been significant.

Laboratory service revenues for current period dates of services are recognized at the estimated net realizable amounts to be received.

Impairments of goodwill and investments. We account for impairments of goodwill and equity method and other investments in accordance with the provisions of applicable accounting guidance. Goodwill is not amortized, but is assessed for impairment when changes in circumstances warrant and at least annually. An impairment charge is recorded when and to the extent a reporting unit's carrying amount is determined to exceed its estimated fair value. Equity method and other investments are assessed for other-than-temporary impairment when changes in circumstances warrant. An other-than-temporary impairment charge is recorded when the fair value of an investment has fallen below its carrying amount and the shortfall is expected to be indefinitely or permanently unrecoverable.

Such changes in circumstance can include, among others, changes in the legal environment, addressable market, business strategy, development or business plans, reimbursement structure, operating performance, future prospects, relationships with partners, and/or market value indications for the subject business. We use a variety of factors to assess changes in the financial condition, future prospects and other circumstances concerning the subject businesses and to estimate their fair value when applicable. Any change in the factors, assessments or assumptions involved could affect a determination of whether and when to assess goodwill or an investment for impairment as well as the outcome of such an assessment. These assessments and the related valuations can involve significant uncertainties and require significant judgment on various matters, some of which could be subject to reasonable disagreement.

Accounting for income taxes. Our income tax expense, deferred tax assets and liabilities, and liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits reflect management’s best assessment of estimated current and future taxes to be paid. We are subject to income taxes in the United States and numerous state and foreign jurisdictions, and changes in tax laws or regulations may be proposed or enacted that could adversely affect our overall tax liability. The actual impact of any such laws or regulations could be materially different from our current estimates.

Significant judgments and estimates are required in determining our consolidated income tax expense. Deferred income taxes arise from temporary differences between the tax basis of assets and liabilities and their reported amounts in the financial statements, which will result in taxable or deductible amounts in the future. In evaluating our ability to recover our deferred tax assets within the jurisdiction from which they arise, we consider all available positive and negative evidence, including scheduled reversals of deferred tax liabilities, projected future taxable income, tax planning strategies, results of recent operations, and assumptions about the amount of future federal, state, and foreign pre-tax operating income adjusted for items that do not have tax consequences. The assumptions about future taxable income require significant judgments and are consistent with the plans and estimates we use to manage the underlying businesses. To the extent that recovery is not likely, a valuation allowance is established. The allowance is regularly reviewed and updated for changes in circumstances that would cause a change in judgment about the realizability of the related deferred tax assets.

Consolidation of variable interest entities. We rely on the operating activities of certain entities that we do not directly own or control, but over which we have indirect influence and of which we are considered the primary beneficiary. Under accounting guidance applicable to variable interest entities, we have determined that these entities are to be included in our consolidated financial statements. The analyses upon which these determinations rest are complex, involve uncertainties, and require judgment on various matters, some of which could be subject to reasonable disagreement. While these determinations 

94

have a meaningful effect on the description and classification of various amounts in our consolidated financial statements, non-consolidation of these entities would not have had a material effect on our results of operations.

Fair value estimates. The FASB defines fair value generally as the amount at which an asset (or liability) could be bought (or incurred) or sold (or settled) in a current transaction between willing parties, that is, other than in a forced or liquidation sale. It also defines fair value more specifically for most purposes as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. 

We rely on fair value measurements and estimates for purposes that require the recording, reassessment, or adjustment of the carrying amounts of certain assets, liabilities and noncontrolling interests subject to put provisions (temporary equity). These purposes can include the accounting for business combination transactions; impairment assessments for goodwill, other intangible assets, and other long-lived assets; recurrent revaluation of investments in debt and equity securities, interest rate cap agreements or other derivative instruments, contingent earn-out obligations, and noncontrolling interests subject to put provisions; and the accounting for equity method and other investments and stock-based compensation, among others. The criticality of a particular fair value estimate to our consolidated financial statements depends upon the nature and size of the item being measured, the extent of uncertainties involved and the nature and magnitude or potential effect of assumptions and judgments required. Critical fair value estimates can involve significant uncertainties and require significant judgment on various matters, some of which could be subject to reasonable disagreement.

Significant new accounting standards

See Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements included in this report for information regarding certain recent financial accounting standards that have been issued by the FASB.

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk.