ITEM 7: MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS 

This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, including statements that involve expectations, plans or intentions (such as those relating to future business, future results of operations or financial condition, new or planned features or services, or management strategies). You can identify these forward-looking statements by words such as “may,” “will,” “would,” “should,” “could,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “believe,” “estimate,” “intend,” “plan” and other similar expressions. These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in our forward-looking statements. Such risks and uncertainties include, among others, those discussed in “Item 1A: Risk Factors” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, as well as in our consolidated financial statements, related notes, and the other information appearing elsewhere in this report and our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We do not intend, and undertake no obligation, to update any of our forward-looking statements after the date of this report to reflect actual results or future events or circumstances. Given these risks and uncertainties, readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements. You should read the following Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and the related notes included in this report. 

OVERVIEW

Business

eBay Inc. is a global commerce leader, which includes our Marketplace, StubHub and Classifieds platforms. Our Marketplace platforms include our online marketplace located at www.ebay.com, its localized counterparts and the eBay suite of mobile apps. Our StubHub platforms include our online ticket platform located at www.stubhub.com, its localized counterparts and the StubHub mobile apps. Our Classifieds platforms include a collection of brands such as Mobile.de, Kijiji, Gumtree, Marktplaats, eBay Kleinanzeigen and others.

Seasonality

We expect transaction activity patterns on our platforms to mirror general consumer buying patterns and expect that these trends will continue. The following table sets forth, for the periods presented, our total net revenues and the sequential quarterly movements of these net revenues (in millions, except percentages):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

36

Impact of Foreign Currency Exchange Rates

Our commerce platforms operate globally, resulting in certain revenues that are denominated in foreign currencies, primarily the euro, British pound, Korean won and Australian dollar, subjecting us to foreign currency risk which may impact our financial results. Because of this and the fact that we generate a majority of our net revenues internationally, including during the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, we are subject to the risks related to doing business in foreign countries as discussed under “Item 1A: Risk Factors.”

In addition to the corresponding measures under generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”), management uses non-GAAP measures in reviewing our financial results. The foreign exchange neutral (“FX-Neutral”), or constant currency, net revenue amounts discussed below are non-GAAP financial measures and are not in accordance with, or an alternative to, measures prepared in accordance with GAAP. Accordingly, the FX-Neutral information appearing in the following discussion of our results of operations should be read in conjunction with the information provided below in “Non-GAAP Measures of Financial Performance,” which includes reconciliations of FX-Neutral financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures. We calculate the year-over-year impact of foreign currency movements using prior period foreign currency rates applied to current year transactional currency amounts. 

The effect of foreign currency exchange rate movements during 2018 was primarily attributable to the weakening of the U.S. dollar against the euro, British pound and Korean won. 

Fiscal Year Highlights

Net revenues increased 8% to $10.7 billion in 2018 compared to 2017, primarily driven by Marketplace net transaction revenues and Classifieds marketing services and other revenues. FX-Neutral net revenue (as defined below) increased 6% in 2018 compared to 2017. Operating margin decreased to 20.7% in 2018 compared to 22.8% in 2017. 

In the third quarter of 2018, we sold our investment in Flipkart and received gross proceeds of $1.0 billion. We generated cash flow from continuing operating activities of $2.7 billion in 2018 compared to $3.1 billion in 2017, ending the year with cash, cash equivalents and non-equity investments of $8.6 billion.

In the fourth quarter of 2018, we completed our analysis of the impacts of U.S. tax reform in the fourth quarter and recognized a $463 million reduction to the provisional tax amounts recorded in the fourth quarter of 2017, which is included as a component of income tax expense from continuing operations. 

Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations was $2.55 in 2018 compared to diluted loss per share of $0.95 in 2017. In January 2019, our Board of Directors initiated a quarterly cash dividend of $0.14 per share of common stock to be paid on or about March 20, 2019 to shareholders of record as of March 1, 2019.

37

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Net Revenues

We generate two types of net revenues: net transaction revenues and marketing services and other (“MS&O”) revenues. Net transaction revenues are derived principally from final value fees (which are fees payable on transactions closed on our Marketplace and StubHub platforms), listing fees and other service fees. MS&O revenues consist of Marketplace, StubHub and Classifieds revenue principally from the sale of advertisements, vehicles classifieds listing on Marketplace platforms, revenue sharing arrangements, classifieds fees and marketing service fees. Revenues are attributed to U.S. and international geographies primarily based upon the country in which the seller, platform that displays advertising, other service provider or customer, as the case may be, is located. To drive traffic to our platforms, we provide incentives to our users, including discounts, coupons and rewards. If an incentive is considered a payment to a customer it is treated as a reduction in revenue. 

The following table presents net revenues by type and geography (in millions, except percentages):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

**Not meaningful[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

38

The following table presents certain key operating metrics that we believe are significant factors affecting our net transaction revenues (in millions, except percentages):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)We define Gross Merchandise Volume (“GMV”) as the total value of all successfully closed transactions between users on our Marketplace and StubHub platforms during the applicable period regardless of whether the buyer and seller actually consummated the transaction. We believe that GMV provides a useful measure of the overall volume of closed transactions that flow through our platforms in a given period, notwithstanding the inclusion in GMV of closed transactions that are not ultimately consummated.

(2)We define Marketplace transaction take rate as Marketplace net transaction revenues divided by Marketplace GMV.

(3)We define StubHub transaction take rate as StubHub net transaction revenues divided by StubHub GMV.

(4)We define total transaction take rate as total net transaction revenues divided by GMV.

Net Transaction Revenues

The following table presents total net transaction revenues and supplemental operating data (in millions, except percentages):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The changes in net transaction revenues and total transaction take rate were primarily driven by our Marketplace platform as further discussed below.

Net transaction revenues earned internationally totaled $4.7 billion, $4.2 billion and $4.0 billion in 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively, representing 55%, 54% and 55% of total net transaction revenues in the respective periods. The increase in net transaction revenues earned internationally as a percentage of total net transaction revenues in 2018 compared to 2017 was primarily driven by a favorable impact from foreign currency movements relative to the U.S. dollar. The decrease in net transaction revenues earned internationally as a percentage of total net transaction revenue in 2017 compared to 2016 was primarily driven by an unfavorable impact from foreign currency movements relative to the U.S. dollar. 

39

Marketplace Net Transaction Revenues

The following table presents Marketplace net transaction revenues and supplemental operating data (in millions, except percentages):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The increase in Marketplace net transaction revenues in 2018 compared to 2017 was primarily due to an increase in Marketplace GMV and a favorable impact from foreign currency movements relative to the U.S. dollar. Marketplace transaction take rate was higher in 2018 compared to 2017, primarily due to growth in promoted listing fees, which along with final value fees are calculated as a percentage of an items sale price, and a decrease in seller incentives, partially offset by a decrease in revenues from final value fees attributable to pricing and category mix. 

The increase in Marketplace net transaction revenues in 2017 compared to 2016 was primarily due to Marketplace GMV growth, partially offset by hedging activity and an unfavorable impact from foreign currency movements relative to the U.S. dollar. Marketplace transaction take rate in 2017 compared to 2016 was relatively flat.

StubHub Net Transaction Revenues

The following table presents StubHub net transaction revenues and supplemental operating data (in millions, except percentages):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The increase in StubHub net transaction revenues in 2018 compared to 2017 was primarily due to an increase in StubHub GMV. The increase in StubHub GMV in 2018 compared to 2017 was primarily driven by concerts and sporting events. The increase in StubHub transaction take rate in 2018 compared to 2017 was primarily due to pricing changes on the platform. 

The increase in StubHub net transaction revenues in 2017 compared to 2016 was primarily due to an increase in StubHub take rate and StubHub GMV. The increase in StubHub transaction take rate in 2017 compared to 2016 was primarily due to pricing changes and a decrease in our buyer incentives, which are accounted for as a reduction of revenue. The increase in StubHub GMV in 2017 compared to 2016 was primarily driven by theater and concerts, partially offset by sporting events.

40

Marketing Services and Other Revenues

The following table presents MS&O revenues (in millions, except percentages):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Marketplace MS&O Revenues

The increase in Marketplace MS&O revenues in 2018 compared to 2017 was primarily driven by an increase in revenues attributable to our first-party inventory program in Korea and revenue sharing arrangements, particularly shipping, partially offset by a decrease in advertising revenues that was driven by our ongoing shift to promoted listing fees, which are recognized in net transaction revenues. The increase in Marketplace MS&O revenues in 2017 compared to 2016 was primarily driven by an increase in revenues attributable to our first-party inventory program in Korea and, to a lesser extent, our Brands4friends online shopping community. 

Classifieds MS&O Revenues

The increases in Classifieds MS&O revenues in 2018 compared to 2017 and in 2017 compared to 2016 was primarily driven by increased revenue from our Classifieds horizontal and vertical motors platforms primarily in Germany. 

Cost of Net Revenues

Cost of net revenues primarily consists of costs associated with customer support, site operations, costs of goods sold and payment processing. Significant components of these costs include employee compensation, contractor costs, facilities costs, depreciation of equipment and amortization expense, first party inventory costs, bank transaction fees, and credit card interchange and assessment fees. The following table presents cost of net revenues (in millions, except percentages): 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The increase in cost of net revenues in 2018 compared to 2017 was primarily due to an increase in site operation and payment processing costs as we increased our investments in our business, and an increase in costs of goods sold driven by our first-party inventory program in Korea. 

The increase in cost of net revenues in 2017 compared to 2016 was primarily due to an increase in costs of goods sold driven by our first-party inventory program in Korea and our Brands4friends online shopping community and increased investments in site operations. 

Cost of net revenues was unfavorably impacted by $34 million attributable to foreign currency movements relative to the U.S. dollar in 2018. Cost of net revenues, net of $3 million from hedging activities, was unfavorably impacted by $19 million attributable to foreign currency movements relative to the U.S. dollar in 2017 compared to 2016. There was no hedging activity within cost of net revenues in 2018. 

41

Operating Expenses

The following table presents operating expenses (in millions, except percentages): 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Operating expenses were unfavorably impacted by $68 million attributable to foreign currency movements relative to the U.S. dollar in 2018 compared to 2017. Operating expenses, net of $8 million from hedging activities, were unfavorably impacted by $14 million attributable to foreign currency movements relative to the U.S. dollar in 2017 compared to 2016. There was no hedging activity within operating expenses in 2018.

Sales and Marketing

Sales and marketing expenses primarily consist of advertising and marketing program costs (both online and offline), employee compensation, certain user coupons and rewards, contractor costs, facilities costs and depreciation on equipment. Online marketing expenses represent traffic acquisition costs in various channels such as paid search, affiliates marketing and display advertising. Offline advertising primarily includes brand campaigns and buyer/seller communications.

The increase in sales and marketing expense in 2018 compared to 2017 was primarily due to an increase in user coupons and rewards and traffic acquisition costs. The increase in sales and marketing expense in 2017 compared to 2016 was primarily due to an increase in brand spend and employee-related costs. 

Product Development

Product development expenses primarily consist of employee compensation, contractor costs, facilities costs and depreciation on equipment. Product development expenses are net of required capitalization of major platform and other product development efforts, including the development and maintenance of our technology platform. Our top technology priorities include payment intermediation capabilities and improved seller tools and buyer experiences built on a foundation of structured data and leveraging artificial intelligence and computer vision.

Capitalized internal use and platform development costs were $147 million and $140 million in 2018 and 2017, respectively, and are primarily reflected as a cost of net revenues when amortized in future periods.

The increase in product development expenses in 2018 compared to 2017 was primarily due to an increase in employee-related costs, partially offset by a decrease in depreciation on equipment. The increase in product development expenses in 2017 compared to 2016 was primarily due to an increase in employee-related costs.

General and Administrative

General and administrative expenses primarily consist of employee compensation, contractor costs, facilities costs, depreciation of equipment, employer payroll taxes on stock-based compensation, legal expenses, restructuring, insurance premiums and professional fees. Our legal expenses, including those related to various ongoing legal proceedings, may fluctuate substantially from period to period.

42

The increase in general and administrative expenses in 2018 compared to 2017 was primarily due to restructuring costs related to our global workforce reduction and an increase in employee-related costs. For additional details related to the restructuring, refer to “Note 17 – Restructuring” to the consolidated financial statements included in this report.

The increase in general and administrative expenses in 2017 compared to 2016 was primarily due to increased data, information security and employee-related costs, as well as costs related to the integration of prior period acquisitions and realignment of our legal structure. 

Provision for Transaction Losses

Provision for transaction losses primarily consists of transaction loss expense associated with our buyer protection programs, fraud and bad debt expense associated with our accounts receivable balance. We expect our provision for transaction losses to fluctuate depending on many factors, including changes to our protection programs and the impact of regulatory changes.

The increase in provision for transaction losses in 2018 compared to 2017 was not significant. The increase in provision for transaction losses in 2017 compared to 2016 was primarily due to higher customer protection program costs and an increase in costs related to uncollectible accounts. 

Interest and Other, Net

Interest and other, net primarily consists of interest earned on cash, cash equivalents and investments, as well as foreign exchange transaction gains and losses, gains and losses due to changes in fair value of the warrant received from a service provider, our portion of operating results from investments accounted for under the equity method of accounting, investment gain/loss on acquisitions or disposals and interest expense, consisting of interest charges on any amounts borrowed and commitment fees on unborrowed amounts under our credit agreement and interest expense on our outstanding debt securities and commercial paper, if any. The following table presents interest and other, net (in millions, except percentages):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The increase in interest and other, net in 2018 compared to 2017 was primarily attributable to the $313 million gain recognized on the sale of our investment in Flipkart and $266 million gain recognized upon relinquishment of our existing equity method investment in Giosis and $104 million gain recognized due to the change in fair value of the warrant.

The decrease in interest and other, net in 2017 compared to 2016 was primarily due to the $1.3 billion pre-tax gain from the sale of our equity holdings of MercadoLibre, Inc. in 2016. 

43

Income Tax Provision

The following table presents provision for income taxes (in millions, except percentages):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The decrease in our effective tax rate in 2018 compared to 2017 was primarily due to the $3.1 billion provisional tax charge related to the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the “Act” or “U.S. tax reform”) recorded in 2017. In 2018, as we completed our analysis of U.S. tax reform, we recorded a $463 million reduction to the provisional tax amounts recorded in 2017. Further, the 2018 effective tax rate was favorably impacted by U.S. tax reform and the gain recognized from the relinquishment of our existing equity method investment in Giosis in the second quarter 2018 that is not subject to U.S. federal income tax on a current basis.

The increase in our effective tax rate in 2017 compared to 2016 was primarily due to a $3.1 billion provisional tax charge for the impacts of U.S. tax reform. Additionally, the 2017 effective tax rate was impacted by the increase in our foreign tax rate as we no longer benefit from certain tax rulings and a noncash income tax charge of $376 million due to the foreign exchange remeasurement of our deferred tax assets, partially offset by the recognition in the first quarter of 2017 of deferred tax assets of approximately $695 million.

As a result of the realignment of our legal structure in 2016 and 2017, we no longer benefit from tax rulings previously concluded in several different jurisdictions. Without the benefit of the rulings, the noncash tax impacts of the realignment in our foreign eBay and Classifieds platforms have increased our income tax rate in certain foreign jurisdictions, most significantly Switzerland. The higher rate results from eBay being subject to a higher enacted tax rate for the foreseeable future.

 While our tax rate is higher, the realignment allows us to achieve certain foreign cash tax benefits due to the step-up in tax basis achieved in certain foreign jurisdictions. We expect these cash tax benefits to remain consistent, subject to the performance of our foreign platforms, for a period in excess of 10 years. The realignment was substantially completed in 2018 and primarily impacted our international entities. However, U.S. tax reform and the new U.S. minimum tax on foreign earnings has reduced our expected consolidated cash tax benefits. 

On December 22, 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act was enacted. U.S. tax reform, among other things, reduces the U.S. federal income tax rate from 35% to 21% in 2018, instituted a dividends received deduction for foreign earnings with a related tax for the deemed repatriation of unremitted foreign earnings in 2017 and created a new U.S. minimum tax on earnings of foreign subsidiaries. We recognized a provisional income tax charge of $3.1 billion in the fourth quarter of 2017, which was included as a component of the income tax provision on our consolidated statement of income. We completed our analysis of the impacts of U.S. tax reform in the fourth quarter of 2018 and recognized a $463 million reduction to the provisional tax amounts recorded in the fourth quarter of 2017, which is included as a component of income tax expense from continuing operations.

Included in the provisional amount was $1.4 billion for the income tax on the deemed repatriation of unremitted foreign earnings. We completed the computation of this amount as part of the 2017 income tax return filing and reduced the provisional amount by $18 million. Additionally, we utilized $213 million of foreign tax credits to reduce the net liability.

The remaining provisional amount of $1.7 billion was for the deferred income tax effects of the Act, primarily the impact of the new U.S. minimum tax on foreign earnings, partially offset by the reversal of our existing deferred tax liability associated with repatriation of unremitted foreign earnings. We completed our analysis of the components of the deferred tax computation in the fourth quarter of 2018 and recognized a tax benefit of $445 million as a reduction to the provisional amounts recorded in the fourth quarter of 2017 for the deferred income tax effects of the Act. This amount includes a $389 million tax benefit as a result of clarification by Swiss tax authorities regarding the applicability of withholding tax to repatriated earnings in October 2018.

44

As a result of U.S. tax reform, our earnings in foreign jurisdictions are taxed at substantially the same rate as the U.S. federal statutory tax rate of 21%. In prior years, our provision for income taxes differed from the provision computed by applying the U.S. federal statutory rate of 35% primarily due to lower tax rates associated with certain earnings from our operations in jurisdictions outside the U.S. The impact on our provision for income taxes of foreign income being taxed at different rates that the U.S. federal statutory rate was a benefit of approximately $217 million in 2017 and $451 million in 2016. In those years, the foreign jurisdictions with lower tax rates that had the most significant impact on our provision for income taxes in the periods presented include Switzerland. See “Note 14 - Income Taxes” to the consolidated financial statements included in this report for more information on our tax rate reconciliation.

Our relative pretax earnings and revenues attributable to the U.S. as compared to the rest of the world may differ over time. In general, these differences are attributable to higher amortization of U.S. based intangible assets, larger stock-based compensation expense recorded in the U.S. for U.S. based employees, overhead related to our corporate operations which are primarily U.S. based and higher average margins earned by non-U.S. businesses. Our U.S. share of pretax income and net revenues was 11.0% and 40.7%, respectively for 2018 and 18.4% and 42.8% for 2017. The difference in relative pretax income and net revenues attributable to the U.S. as compared to the rest of the world for 2018 and 2017 was primarily due to the general drivers discussed above. 

From time to time we engage in certain intercompany transactions. We consider many factors when evaluating these transactions. These transactions may impact our tax rate and/or result in additional cash tax payments. The impact in any period may be significant. These transactions are complex and the impact of such transactions on future periods may be difficult to estimate.

We are regularly under examination by tax authorities both domestically and internationally. We believe that adequate amounts have been reserved for any adjustments that may ultimately result from these examinations, although we cannot assure you that this will be the case given the inherent uncertainties in these examinations. Due to the ongoing tax examinations, it is generally impractical to determine the amount and timing of these adjustments. However, we expect several tax examinations to close within the next twelve months. See “Note 14 - Income Taxes” to the consolidated financial statements included in this report for more information on estimated settlements within the next twelve months.

Non-GAAP Measures of Financial Performance

To supplement our consolidated financial statements presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles we use FX-Neutral net revenues, which are non-GAAP financial measures. Management uses the foregoing non-GAAP measures in reviewing our financial results. We define FX-Neutral net revenues as net revenues minus the exchange rate effect. We define exchange rate effect as the year-over-year impact of foreign currency movements using prior period foreign currency rates applied to current year transactional currency amounts, excluding hedging activity.

These non-GAAP measures are not in accordance with, or an alternative to, measures prepared in accordance with GAAP and may be different from non-GAAP measures used by other companies. In addition, these non-GAAP measures are not based on any comprehensive set of accounting rules or principles. Non-GAAP measures have limitations in that they do not reflect all of the amounts associated with our results of operations as determined in accordance with GAAP. These measures should only be used to evaluate our results of operations in conjunction with the corresponding GAAP measures. 

These non-GAAP measures are provided to enhance investors’ overall understanding of our current financial performance and its prospects for the future. Specifically, we believe these non-GAAP measures provide useful information to both management and investors by excluding the foreign currency exchange rate impact that may not be indicative of our core operating results and business outlook. In addition, because we have historically reported certain non-GAAP results to investors, we believe that the inclusion of these non-GAAP measures provide consistency in our financial reporting. 

45

The following tables set forth a reconciliation of FX-Neutral GMV and FX-Neutral net revenues (each as defined below) to our reported GMV and net revenues for the periods presented (in millions, except percentages):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)We define exchange rate effect as the year-over-year impact of foreign currency movements using prior period foreign currency rates applied to current year transactional currency amounts, excluding hedging activity. 

(2)We define FX-Neutral GMV as GMV minus the exchange rate effect. We define the non-GAAP financial measures of FX-Neutral net revenues as net revenues minus the exchange rate effect.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

46

Liquidity and Capital Resources

Cash Flows 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Continuing Operating Activities

Cash provided by continuing operating activities of $2.7 billion in 2018 was primarily attributable to net income of $2.5 billion with adjustments of $696 million in depreciation and amortization, $538 million in stock-based compensation and $286 million in provision for transaction losses, partially offset by a decrease of $577 million in changes in assets and liabilities, net of acquisition effects, and adjustments of $572 million for gain on investments, $153 million for deferred income taxes and $104 million for changes in fair value of the warrant.

The net cash provided by continuing operating activities of $3.1 billion in 2017 was primarily due to $1.1 billion of changes in assets and liabilities, net of acquisition effects, and a net loss of $1.0 billion offset by adjustments of $1.7 billion in deferred income taxes, $676 million in depreciation and amortization and $483 million in stock-based compensation.

The net cash provided by continuing operating activities of $2.8 billion in 2016 was primarily due to net income of $7.3 billion with adjustments for $682 million in depreciation and amortization, $416 million in stock-based compensation and $20 million in changes in assets and liabilities, net of acquisition effects, partially offset by a decrease of $4.6 billion related to deferred income taxes and $1.2 billion related to gain on sale of investments.

Cash paid for income taxes in 2018 was $597 million, which included tax payments related to our liability for deemed repatriation of foreign earnings under U.S. tax reform of $168 million, including a prepayment of $72 million. Cash paid for income taxes in 2017 and 2016 was $308 million and $492 million, respectively. 

Investing Activities

Cash provided by investing activities of $2.9 billion in 2018 was primarily attributable to proceeds of $30.9 billion from the maturities and sales of investments and $1.0 billion from the sale of equity investment in Flipkart, partially offset by cash paid for purchases of investments of $28.1 billion, property and equipment of $651 million and acquisitions of $302 million. 

The net cash used in investing activities of $1.3 billion in 2017 was primarily due to cash paid for property and equipment of $666 million and cash paid for our equity investment in Flipkart of $514 million.

The net cash used in investing activities of $2.0 billion in 2016 was primarily due to cash paid for investments of $11.2 billion, property and equipment of $626 million and net cash paid for acquisition of businesses of $212 million, partially offset by proceeds of $10.1 billion from the maturities and sales of investments.

The largely offsetting effects of purchases of investments and maturities and sale of investments results from the management of our investments. As our immediate cash needs change, purchase and sale activity will fluctuate. 

47

Financing Activities

Cash used in financing activities of $5.4 billion in 2018 was primarily used to repurchase $4.5 billion of common stock and repay $750 million of our outstanding senior notes.

The net cash used in financing activities of $1.8 billion in 2017 was primarily due to $2.7 billion of cash used to repurchase common stock and $1.5 billion of cash used to repay outstanding debt, partially offset by $2.5 billion of cash proceeds from debt issuances. 

The net cash used in financing activities of $744 million in 2016 was primarily due to $2.9 billion of cash paid to repurchase common stock, partially offset by $2.2 billion of proceeds from debt issuances.

The negative effect of exchange rate movements on cash and cash equivalents was due to the strengthening of the U.S. dollar against other currencies, primarily the euro, Korean won and British pound, during 2018. The positive effect of exchange rate movements on cash and cash equivalents was due to the weakening of the U.S. dollar against other currencies, primarily the euro and Korean won, during 2017. The negative impact of currency exchange rates on our cash and cash equivalents during 2016 was due to the strengthening of the U.S. dollar against other currencies, primarily the euro. 

Stock Repurchases

In July 2017, our Board authorized a $3.0 billion stock repurchase program and in January 2018, our Board authorized an additional $6.0 billion stock repurchase program. These stock repurchase programs have no expiration from the date of authorization. Our stock repurchase programs are intended to programmatically offset the impact of dilution from our equity compensation programs and, subject to market conditions and other factors, to make opportunistic and programmatic repurchases of our common stock to reduce our outstanding share count. Any share repurchases under our stock repurchase programs may be made through open market transactions, block trades, privately negotiated transactions (including accelerated share repurchase transactions) or other means at times and in such amounts as management deems appropriate and will be funded from our working capital or other financing alternatives.

During 2018, we repurchased approximately $4.5 billion of our common stock under our stock repurchase programs. As of December 31, 2018, a total of approximately $3.2 billion remained available for future repurchases of our common stock under our stock repurchase programs. In January 2019, our Board authorized an additional $4.0 billion stock repurchase program, with no expiration from the date of authorization. 

We expect, subject to market conditions and other uncertainties, to continue making opportunistic and programmatic repurchases of our common stock. However, our stock repurchase programs may be limited or terminated at any time without prior notice. The timing and actual number of shares repurchased will depend on a variety of factors, including corporate and regulatory requirements, price and other market conditions and management’s determination as to the appropriate use of our cash. 

Dividends

In January 2019, our Board of Directors initiated a quarterly cash dividend of $0.14 per share of common stock to be paid on or about March 20, 2019 to shareholders of record as of March 1, 2019. 

Shelf Registration Statement and Debt

As of December 31, 2018, we had an effective shelf registration statement on file with the Securities and Exchange Commission that allows us to issue various types of debt securities, as well as common stock, preferred stock, warrants, depositary shares representing fractional interest in shares of preferred stock, purchase contracts and units from time to time in one or more offerings. Each issuance under the shelf registration statement will require the filing of a prospectus supplement identifying the amount and terms of the securities to be issued. The registration statement does not limit the amount of securities that may be issued thereunder. Our ability to issue securities is subject to market conditions and other factors including, in the case of our debt securities, our credit ratings and compliance with the covenants in our credit agreement.

48

Senior Notes

As of December 31, 2018, we had floating- and fixed-rate senior notes outstanding for an aggregate principal amount of $9.3 billion. The net proceeds from the issuances of these senior notes were used for general corporate purposes, including, among other things, capital expenditures, share repurchases, repayment of indebtedness and possible acquisitions. The floating rate notes are not redeemable prior to maturity. On and after March 1, 2021, we may redeem some or all of the 6.000% fixed rate notes due 2056 at any time and from time to time prior to their maturity, at a redemption price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the notes to be redeemed, plus accrued and unpaid interest. We may redeem some or all of the other fixed rate notes of each series at any time and from time to time prior to their maturity, generally at a make-whole redemption price plus accrued and unpaid interest. If a change of control triggering event occurs with respect to the 2.150% fixed rate notes due 2020, the 3.800% fixed rate notes due 2022, the floating rate notes due 2023, the 2.750% fixed rate notes due 2023, the 3.600% fixed rate notes due 2027 or the 6.000% fixed rate notes due 2056, we must, subject to certain exceptions, offer to repurchase all of the notes of the applicable series at a price equal to 101% of the principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest. For additional details related to our senior notes, please see “Note 10 – Debt” to the consolidated financial statements included in this report. 

To help achieve our interest rate risk management objectives, in connection with the previous issuance of certain senior notes, we entered into interest rate swap agreements that effectively converted $2.4 billion of the fixed rate notes to floating rate debt based on the London InterBank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”) plus a spread. These swaps were designated as fair value hedges against changes in the fair value of certain fixed rate senior notes resulting from changes in interest rates.

The indenture pursuant to which the senior notes were issued includes customary covenants that, among other things and subject to exceptions, limit our ability to incur, assume or guarantee debt secured by liens on specified assets or enter into sale and lease-back transactions with respect to specified properties, and also includes customary events of default.

Commercial Paper

We have a commercial paper program pursuant to which we may issue commercial paper notes in an aggregate principal amount at maturity of up to $1.5 billion outstanding at any time with maturities of up to 397 days from the date of issue. As of December 31, 2018, there were no commercial paper notes outstanding.

Credit Agreement 

In November 2015, we entered into a credit agreement that provides for an unsecured $2 billion five-year revolving credit facility. We may also, subject to the agreement of the applicable lenders, increase the commitments under the revolving credit facility by up to an aggregate amount of $1 billion. Funds borrowed under the credit agreement may be used for working capital, capital expenditures, dividends, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes. 

As of December 31, 2018, no borrowings were outstanding under our $2 billion credit agreement. However, as described above, we have an up to $1.5 billion commercial paper program and therefore maintain $1.5 billion of available borrowing capacity under our credit agreement in order to repay commercial paper borrowings in the event we are unable to repay those borrowings from other sources when they become due. As a result, $500 million of borrowing capacity was available as of December 31, 2018 for other purposes permitted by the credit agreement. 

Loans under the credit agreement bear interest at either (i) LIBOR plus a margin (based on our public debt credit ratings) ranging from 0.875 percent to 1.5 percent or (ii) a formula based on the agent bank’s prime rate, the federal funds effective rate plus 0.5 percent or LIBOR plus 1.0 percent, plus a margin (based on our public debt credit ratings) ranging from zero percent to 0.5 percent. The credit agreement will terminate and all amounts owing thereunder will be due and payable on November 9, 2020, unless (a) the commitments are terminated earlier, either at our request or, if an event of default occurs, by the lenders (or automatically in the case of certain bankruptcy-related events of default), or (b) the maturity date is extended upon our request, subject to the agreement of the lenders. The credit agreement includes customary representations, warranties, affirmative and negative covenants, including financial covenants, events of default and indemnification provisions in favor of the banks. The negative covenants include restrictions regarding the incurrence of liens and subsidiary indebtedness, in each case, subject to certain exceptions. The financial covenants require us to meet a quarterly financial test with respect to a minimum consolidated interest 

49

coverage ratio and a maximum consolidated leverage ratio. The events of default include the occurrence of a change of control (as defined in the credit agreement) with respect to us.

We were in compliance with all covenants in our outstanding debt instruments for the period ended December 31, 2018.

Credit Ratings

As of December 31, 2018, we were rated investment grade by Standard and Poor’s Financial Services, LLC (long-term rated BBB+, short-term rated A-2, with a stable outlook), Moody’s Investor Service (long-term rated Baa1, short-term rated P-2, with a stable outlook), and Fitch Ratings, Inc. (long-term rated BBB, short-term rated F-2, with a stable outlook). We disclose these ratings to enhance the understanding of our sources of liquidity and the effects of our ratings on our costs of funds. Our borrowing costs depend, in part, on our credit ratings and any further actions taken by these credit rating agencies to lower our credit ratings, as described above, will likely increase our borrowing costs. 

Commitments and Contingencies

We have certain fixed contractual obligations and commitments that include future estimated payments for general operating purposes. Changes in our business needs, contractual cancellation provisions, fluctuating interest rates, and other factors may result in actual payments differing from the estimates. We cannot provide certainty regarding the timing and amounts of these payments. The following table summarizes our fixed contractual obligations and commitments (in millions): 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The significant assumptions used in our determination of amounts presented in the above table are as follows:

•Debt amounts include the principal and interest amounts of the respective debt instruments. For additional details related to our debt, please see “Note 10 – Debt” to the consolidated financial statements included in this report. This table does not reflect any amounts payable under our $2 billion revolving credit facility or $1.5 billion commercial paper program, for which no borrowings were outstanding as of December 31, 2018.

•Lease amounts include minimum rental payments under our non-cancelable operating leases for office space, data centers, as well as fulfillment centers and other corporate assets that we utilize under lease arrangements. The amounts presented are consistent with contractual terms and are not expected to differ significantly from actual results under our existing leases, unless a substantial change in our headcount needs requires us to expand our occupied space or exit an office facility early. 

•Purchase obligation amounts include minimum purchase commitments for advertising, capital expenditures (computer equipment, software applications, engineering development services, construction contracts) and other goods and services entered into in the ordinary course of business.

As we are unable to reasonably predict the timing of settlement of liabilities related to unrecognized tax benefits, net, the table does not include $466 million of such non-current liabilities included in other liabilities on our consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2018. The gross amount of unrecognized tax benefits expected to be reduced within the next twelve months is approximately $196 million. See “Note 14 - Income Taxes” to the consolidated financial statements included in this report for more information on unrecognized tax benefits.

50

Liquidity and Capital Resource Requirements 

As of December 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, we had assets classified as cash and cash equivalents, as well as short-term and long-term non-equity investments, in an aggregate amount of $8.6 billion and $11.3 billion, respectively. As of December 31, 2018, this amount included assets held in certain of our foreign operations totaling approximately $7.8 billion. As a result of U.S. tax reform, the $7.8 billion held by our non-U.S. subsidiaries was subject to current tax in the U.S. in 2017. As of December 31, 2018, we have repatriated a portion of these funds to the U.S. As we repatriate these funds to the U.S., we will be required to pay income taxes in certain U.S. states and applicable foreign withholding taxes during the period when such repatriation occurs. We have accrued deferred taxes for the tax effect of repatriating the funds to the U.S.

We actively monitor all counterparties that hold our cash and cash equivalents and non-equity investments, focusing primarily on the safety of principal and secondarily on improving yield on these assets. We diversify our cash and cash equivalents and investments among various counterparties in order to reduce our exposure should any one of these counterparties fail or encounter difficulties. To date, we have not experienced any material loss or lack of access to our invested cash, cash equivalents or short-term investments; however, we can provide no assurances that access to our invested cash, cash equivalents or short-term investments will not be impacted by adverse conditions in the financial markets. At any point in time we have funds in our operating accounts and customer accounts that are deposited and invested with third party financial institutions.

In October 2018, we announced our acquisition of the UK-based classifieds site, Motors.co.uk. We believe the acquisition will increase our international presence and give buyers access to more listings. We expect to close this transaction in the first half of 2019, subject to customary closing conditions and regulatory approvals. The purchase price payable at closing is subject to adjustment. Accordingly, we are unable to estimate the financial statement impact of the acquisition at this time

We believe that our existing cash, cash equivalents and short-term and long-term investments, together with cash expected to be generated from operations, borrowings available under our credit agreement and commercial paper program, and our access to capital markets, will be sufficient to fund our operating activities, anticipated capital expenditures, repayment of debt, stock repurchases and dividends for the foreseeable future.

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

As of December 31, 2018, we had no off-balance sheet arrangements that have, or are reasonably likely to have, a current or future material effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources. 

We have a cash pooling arrangement with a financial institution for cash management purposes. This arrangement allows for cash withdrawals from the financial institution based upon our aggregate operating cash balances held within the same financial institution (“Aggregate Cash Deposits”). This arrangement also allows us to withdraw amounts exceeding the Aggregate Cash Deposits up to an agreed-upon limit. The net balance of the withdrawals and the Aggregate Cash Deposits are used by the financial institution as a basis for calculating our net interest expense or income under the arrangement. As of December 31, 2018, we had a total of $2.7 billion in aggregate cash deposits, partially offset by $2.4 billion in cash withdrawals, held within the financial institution under the cash pooling arrangement.

Indemnification Provisions

We entered into a separation and distribution agreement and various other agreements with PayPal to govern the separation and relationship of the two companies. These agreements provide for specific indemnity and liability obligations and could lead to disputes between us and PayPal, which may be significant. In addition, the indemnity rights we have against PayPal under the agreements may not be sufficient to protect us and our indemnity obligations to PayPal may be significant.

In addition, we have entered into indemnification agreements with each of our directors, executive officers and certain other officers. These agreements require us to indemnify such individuals, to the fullest extent permitted by Delaware law, for certain liabilities to which they may become subject as a result of their affiliation with us. 

51

In the ordinary course of business, we have included limited indemnification provisions in certain of our agreements with parties with which we have commercial relations, including our standard marketing, promotions and application-programming-interface license agreements. Under these contracts, we generally indemnify, hold harmless and agree to reimburse the indemnified party for losses suffered or incurred by the indemnified party in connection with claims by a third party with respect to our domain names, trademarks, logos and other branding elements to the extent that such marks are applicable to our performance under the subject agreement. In certain cases, we have agreed to provide indemnification for intellectual property infringement. It is not possible to determine the maximum potential loss under these indemnification provisions due to our limited history of prior indemnification claims and the unique facts and circumstances involved in each particular provision. To date, losses recorded in our consolidated statement of income in connection with our indemnification provisions have not been significant, either individually or collectively.

Critical Accounting Policies, Judgments and Estimates

General 

The preparation of our consolidated financial statements and related notes requires us to make judgments, estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. We have based our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Our senior management has discussed the development, selection and disclosure of these estimates with the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. 

An accounting policy is considered to be critical if it requires an accounting estimate to be made based on assumptions about matters that are highly uncertain at the time the estimate is made, and if different estimates that reasonably could have been used, or changes in the accounting estimates that are reasonably likely to occur periodically, could materially impact the consolidated financial statements. We believe the following critical accounting policies reflect the more significant estimates and assumptions used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. The following descriptions of critical accounting policies, judgments and estimates should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and related notes and other disclosures included in this report. 

Revenue Recognition 

We may enter into certain revenue contracts that include promises to transfer multiple goods or services including discounts on future services. We also may enter into arrangements to purchase services from certain customers. As a result, significant interpretation and judgment is sometimes required to determine the appropriate accounting for these transactions including: (1) whether services are considered distinct performance obligations that should be accounted for separately or combined; (2) developing an estimate of the stand-alone selling price of each distinct performance obligation; (3) whether revenue should be reported gross (as eBay is acting as a principal), or net (as eBay is acting as an agent); (4) evaluating whether a promotion or incentive is a payment to a customer; and (5) whether the arrangement would be characterized as revenue or reimbursement of costs incurred. Changes in judgments with respect to these assumptions and estimates could impact the timing or amount of revenue recognition.

Income Taxes

Our annual tax rate is based on our income, statutory tax rates and tax planning opportunities available to us in the various jurisdictions in which we operate. Tax laws are complex and subject to different interpretations by the taxpayer and respective government taxing authorities. Significant judgment is required in determining our tax expense and in evaluating our tax positions, including evaluating uncertainties. We review our tax positions quarterly and adjust the balances as new information becomes available. Our income tax rate is significantly affected by the tax rates that apply to our foreign earnings. In addition to local country tax laws and regulations, our income tax rate depends on the extent that our earnings are indefinitely reinvested outside the U.S. Indefinite reinvestment is determined by management’s judgment about and intentions concerning our future operations. As a result of U.S. tax reform and the current U.S. taxation of deemed repatriated earnings, management has no specific plans to indefinitely reinvest the undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries at the balance sheet date. 

52

Deferred tax assets represent amounts available to reduce income taxes payable on taxable income in future years. Such assets arise because of temporary differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities, as well as from net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. We evaluate the recoverability of these future tax deductions and credits by assessing the adequacy of future expected taxable income from all sources, including reversal of taxable temporary differences, forecasted operating earnings and available tax planning strategies. These sources of income rely heavily on estimates that are based on a number of factors, including our historical experience and short-range and long-range business forecasts. As of December 31, 2018, we had a valuation allowance on certain net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards based on our assessment that it is more likely than not that the deferred tax asset will not be realized. 

We recognize and measure uncertain tax positions in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the U.S., or GAAP, pursuant to which we only recognize the tax benefit from an uncertain tax position if it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained on examination by the taxing authorities, based on the technical merits of the position. The tax benefits recognized in the financial statements from such positions are then measured based on the largest benefit that has a greater than 50 percent likelihood of being realized upon ultimate settlement. We report a liability for unrecognized tax benefits resulting from uncertain tax positions taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. GAAP further requires that a change in judgment related to the expected ultimate resolution of uncertain tax positions be recognized in earnings in the quarter in which such change occurs. We recognize interest and penalties, if any, related to unrecognized tax benefits in income tax expense. 

We file annual income tax returns in multiple taxing jurisdictions around the world. A number of years may elapse before an uncertain tax position is audited by the relevant tax authorities and finally resolved. While it is often difficult to predict the final outcome or the timing of resolution of any particular uncertain tax position, we believe that our reserves for income taxes reflect the most likely outcome. We adjust these reserves, as well as the related interest, where appropriate in light of changing facts and circumstances. Settlement of any particular position could require the use of cash. 

The following table illustrates our effective tax rates for 2018, 2017 and 2016: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Our future effective tax rates could be adversely affected by earnings being lower than anticipated in countries where we have lower statutory rates and higher than anticipated in countries where we have higher statutory rates, by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets or liabilities, or by changes or interpretations in tax laws, regulations or accounting principles. In addition, we are subject to the continuous examination of our income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service, as well as various state and foreign tax authorities. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. 

Based on our results for the year ended December 31, 2018, a one-percentage point change in our provision for income taxes as a percentage of income before taxes would have resulted in an increase or decrease in the provision of approximately $27 million, resulting in an approximate $0.03 change in diluted earnings per share. 

We accounted for the tax effects of The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, enacted on December 22, 2017, on a provisional basis in our 2017 consolidated financial statements. We completed our accounting in the fourth quarter of 2018, within the one year measurement period from the enactment date. 

Goodwill and Intangible Assets 

The purchase price of an acquired company is allocated between intangible assets and the net tangible assets of the acquired business with the residual of the purchase price recorded as goodwill. The determination of the value of the intangible assets acquired involves certain judgments and estimates. These judgments can include, but are not limited to, the cash flows that an asset is expected to generate in the future and the appropriate weighted average cost of capital. 

53

As of December 31, 2018, our goodwill totaled $5.2 billion and our identifiable intangible assets, net totaled $92 million. We assess the impairment of goodwill of our reporting units annually, or more often if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Goodwill is tested for impairment at the reporting unit level by first performing a qualitative assessment to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of the reporting unit is less than its carrying value. If the reporting unit does not pass the qualitative assessment, then the reporting unit’s carrying value is compared to its fair value. The fair values of the reporting units are estimated using market and discounted cash flow approaches. Goodwill is considered impaired if the carrying value of the reporting unit exceeds its fair value. The discounted cash flow approach uses expected future operating results. The market approach uses comparable company information to determine revenue and earnings multiples to value our reporting units. Failure to achieve these expected results or market multiples may cause a future impairment of goodwill at the reporting unit. We conducted our annual impairment test of goodwill as of August 31, 2018 and 2017. As of December 31, 2018, we determined that no impairment of the carrying value of goodwill for any reporting units was required. See “Note 4 - Goodwill and Intangible Assets” to the consolidated financial statements included in this report. 

Legal Contingencies 

In connection with certain pending litigation and other claims, we have estimated the range of probable loss, net of expected recoveries, and provided for such losses through charges to our consolidated statement of income. These estimates have been based on our assessment of the facts and circumstances at each balance sheet date and are subject to change based upon new information and future events. 

From time to time, we are involved in disputes and regulatory inquiries that arise in the ordinary course of business. We are currently involved in legal proceedings, some of which are discussed in “Item 1A: Risk Factors,” “Item 3: Legal Proceedings” and “Note 11 - Commitments and Contingencies” to the consolidated financial statements included in this report. We believe that we have meritorious defenses to the claims against us, and we intend to defend ourselves vigorously. However, even if successful, our defense against certain actions will be costly and could require significant amounts of management’s time and result in the diversion of significant operational resources. If the plaintiffs were to prevail on certain claims, we might be forced to pay significant damages and licensing fees, modify our business practices or even be prohibited from conducting a significant part of our business. Any such results could materially harm our business and could result in a material adverse impact on the financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 

Recent Accounting Pronouncements

See "Note 1 - The Company and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies" to the consolidated financial statements included in this report, regarding the impact of certain recent accounting pronouncements on our consolidated financial statements.

54

ITEM 7A: QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK