Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.  

 The following management discussion and analysis (“MD&A”) provides information that we believe is useful in understanding our operating results, cash flows and financial condition. We provide quantitative information about the material sales drivers including the impact of changes in volume and pricing and the effect of acquisitions and changes in foreign currency at the corporate and reportable segment level. We also provide quantitative information regarding special (gains) and charges, discrete tax items and other significant factors we believe are useful for understanding our results. Such quantitative drivers are supported by comments meant to be qualitative in nature. Qualitative factors are generally ordered based on estimated significance.  

 The discussion should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and related notes included in this Form 10-K. Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. This discussion contains various Non-GAAP Financial Measures and also contains various forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. We refer readers to the statements and information set forth in the sections entitled “Non-GAAP Financial Measures” at the end of this MD&A, and “Forward-Looking Statements” and “Risk Factors” within Items 1 and 1A of this Form 10-K. We also refer readers to the tables within the section entitled “Results of Operations” of this MD&A for reconciliation information of Non-GAAP measures to U.S. GAAP.  

 Comparability of Results  

 Adoption of New Accounting Standards  

 On January 1, 2018 we retrospectively adopted the Accounting Standards Codification Topic 606 Revenue from Contracts with Customers and the related amendments (“the new revenue standard”). Concurrent with the adoption of the new revenue standard, we reclassified certain costs from selling, general and administrative expenses to cost of sales, to align the cost of providing the service with the recognition of service revenue. The new revenue standard was applied to all periods presented and the cumulative effect of applying the standard is recognized at the beginning of the earliest year presented.   

 We also retrospectively adopted Accounting Standards Update 2017-07 Compensation – Retirement Benefits: Improving the Presentation of Net Periodic Pension Cost and Net Periodic Postretirement Benefit Cost, relating to the presentation of the components of net periodic benefit costs for pension and other post-retirement benefits within the Consolidated Statement of Income (“the new pension standard”).  

 All comparisons and discussion throughout the MD&A reflect the adoption of the new revenue standard and new pension standard. Further information about the adoption of the accounting standards is included in Note 2.  

 Fixed Currency Foreign Exchange Rates  

 Management evaluates the sales and operating income performance of our non-U.S. dollar functional currency international operations based on fixed currency exchange rates, which eliminate the impact of exchange rate fluctuations on our international operations. Fixed currency amounts are updated annually at the beginning of each year based on translation into U.S. dollars at foreign currency exchange rates established by management, with all periods presented using such rates. Fixed currency exchange rates are generally based on existing market rates at the time they are established. Fixed currency amounts during 2018 for Argentina operations are reflected at the Argentine Peso rate established by management at the beginning of the year. Public currency rate data provided within the “Segment Performance” section of this MD&A reflect amounts translated at actual public average rates of exchange prevailing during the corresponding period and is provided for informational purposes only.  

 Comparability of Reportable Segments  

 Effective in the first quarter of 2018, we established the Colloidal Technologies Group (“CTG”) operating segment. The CTG operating segment has not been aggregated, based on qualitative criteria, and is included in Other. CTG produces and sells colloidal silica, which is comprised of nano-sized particles of silica in water; these products and associated programs are used primarily for binding and polishing applications. CTG was previously recorded in the Water operating segment which is aggregated into the Global Industrial reportable segment. Prior to the sale in November 2017, the Equipment Care operating segment was also included, which provided kitchen repair and maintenance. Additionally, we made immaterial changes to our reportable segments, including the movement of certain customers and cost allocations between reportable segments. All comparisons and discussion throughout the MD&A are based on the new operating segment structure effective in the first quarter of 2018.  

 Impact of Acquisitions and Divestitures  

 Acquisition adjusted growth rates exclude the results of our acquired businesses from the first twelve months post acquisition and exclude the results of our divested businesses from the twelve months prior to divestiture.  

 25  

 Table of Contents  

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY  

 We achieved accelerating sales and earnings growth through 2018 as we drove new product introductions, new business wins and improved operating efficiency in a generally improved market environment. Increased pricing was implemented to offset significantly higher delivered product costs. Adjusted diluted earnings per share leveraged the good operating income growth, benefiting from lower interest expense and taxes, to deliver the year’s double-digit adjusted diluted EPS growth.   

 Sales  

 Reported sales increased 6% to $14.7 billion in 2018 from $13.8 billion in 2017. Sales were positively impacted by volume and pricing. When measured in fixed rates of foreign currency exchange, fixed currency sales increased 6% compared to the prior year. Acquisition adjusted fixed currency sales increased 6% compared to the prior year.  

 Gross Margin  

 Our reported gross margin was 41.2% of sales for 2018, compared to our 2017 reported gross margin of 41.7%. Excluding the impact of special (gains) and charges included in cost of sales from both 2018 and 2017, our adjusted gross margin was 41.3% in 2018 and 42.0% in 2017.   

 Operating Income   

 Reported operating income was flat at $1.95 billion in 2018, compared to $1.95 billion in 2017. Adjusted operating income, excluding the impact of special (gains) and charges, increased 5% in 2018. When measured in fixed rates of foreign currency exchange, adjusted fixed currency operating income also increased 5%.   

 Earnings Attributable to Ecolab Per Common Share (“EPS”)   

 Reported diluted EPS decreased 5% to $4.88 in 2018 compared to $5.12 in 2017. Special (gains) and charges had an impact on both years. Special (gains) and charges in 2018 were driven primarily by the impact of restructuring charges and our commitment to the Ecolab Foundation. Special (gains) and charges in 2017 were driven primarily by the impact of income tax reform, restructuring charges, other discrete taxes, acquisition and integration charges and the gain on sale of Equipment Care. Special (gains) and charges in 2016 were driven primarily by Energy related charges, restructuring charges, other gains and charges and Venezuelan related actions. Adjusted diluted EPS, which exclude the impact of special (gains) and charges and discrete tax items increased to $5.25 in 2018 compared to $4.68 in 2017.   

 Balance Sheet  

 We remain committed to maintaining “A” range ratings metrics, supported by our current credit ratings of A-/Baa1 by the major ratings agencies. Our strong balance sheet has allowed us continued access to capital at attractive rates.  

 Net Debt to EBITDA  

 Our net debt to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (“EBITDA”) was 2.3 and 2.4 for 2018 and 2017, respectively. We view these ratios as important indicators of the operational and financial health of our organization. See the “Net Debt to EBITDA” table on page 43 for reconciliation information.  

 Cash Flow  

 Cash flow from operating activities was $2.3 billion in 2018 compared to $2.1 billion in 2017. We continued to generate strong cash flow from operations, allowing us to fund our ongoing operations, acquisitions, investments in our business, debt repayments, pension obligations and return cash to our shareholders through share repurchases and dividend payments.   

 Dividends   

 We increased our quarterly cash dividend 12% in December 2018 to an indicated annual rate of $1.84 per share. The increase represents our 27th consecutive annual dividend rate increase and the 82nd consecutive year we have paid cash dividends. Our outstanding dividend history reflects our continued growth and development, strong cash flows, solid financial position and confidence in our business prospects for the years ahead.  

 26  

 Table of Contents  

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES  

 Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. We have adopted various accounting policies to prepare the consolidated financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Our significant accounting policies are disclosed in Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (“Notes”).  

 Preparation of our consolidated financial statements, in conformity with U.S. GAAP, requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Estimates are considered to be critical if they meet both of the following criteria: (1) the estimate requires assumptions to be made about matters that are highly uncertain at the time the accounting estimate is made, and (2) different estimates that we reasonably could have used for the accounting estimate in the current period, or changes in the accounting estimate that are reasonably likely to occur from period to period, have a material impact on the presentation of our financial condition or results of operations.  

 Besides estimates that meet the “critical” estimate criteria, we make many other accounting estimates in preparing our financial statements and related disclosures. All estimates, whether or not deemed critical, affect reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues or expenses as well as disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities. Estimates are based on experience and other information available prior to the issuance of the financial statements. Materially different results can occur as circumstances change and additional information becomes known, even from estimates not deemed critical. Our critical accounting estimates include the following:  

 Revenue Recognition  

 On January 1, 2018, we adopted Accounting Standards Committee 606 (ASC 606), Revenue from Contracts with Customers, which provides guidance on how revenue with customers should be recognized. For additional information on our adoption of this accounting standard, see Note 2.  

 Revenue is measured as the amount of consideration expected to be received in exchange for transferring goods or providing service. Revenue from product and sold equipment is recognized when obligations under the terms of a contract with the customer are satisfied, which generally occurs with the transfer of the product or delivery of the equipment. Revenue from service and leased equipment is recognized when the services are provided, or the customer receives the benefit from the leased equipment, which is over time. Service revenue is recognized over time utilizing an input method and aligns with when the services are provided. Typically, revenue is recognized over time using costs incurred to date because the effort provided by the field selling and service organization represents services provided, which corresponds with the transfer of control. Revenue for leased equipment is accounted for under Topic 840 Leases and recognized on a straight-line basis over the length of the lease contract.  

 Our sales policies do not provide for general rights of return. We record estimated reductions to revenue for customer programs and incentive offerings including pricing arrangements, promotions and other volume-based incentives at the time the sale is recorded. We also record estimated reserves for product returns and credits at the time of sale and anticipated uncollectible accounts, as discussed below. Depending on market conditions, we may increase customer incentive offerings, which could reduce gross profit margins over the term of the incentive.  

 The new revenue standard can be applied to a portfolio of contracts with similar characteristics if it is reasonable that the effects of applying the standard at the portfolio would not be significantly different than applying the standard at the individual contract level. We apply the portfolio approach primarily within each operating segment by geographical region. Application of the portfolio approach was focused on those characteristics that have the most significant accounting consequences in terms of their effect on the timing of revenue recognition or the amount of revenue recognized. We determined the key criteria to assess with respect to the portfolio approach, including the related deliverables, the characteristics of the customers and the timing and transfer of goods and services, which most closely aligned within the operating segments. In addition, the accountability for the business operations, as well as the operational decisions on how to go to market and the product offerings, are performed at the operating segment level.  

 Valuation Allowances and Accrued Liabilities  

 Allowances for Doubtful Accounts  

 We estimate our allowance for doubtful accounts by analyzing accounts receivable balances by age and applying historical write-off and collection trend rates. In addition, our estimates also include separately providing for customer receivables based on specific circumstances and credit conditions, and when it is deemed probable the balance is uncollectible. We estimate our sales returns and allowances by analyzing historical returns and credits and apply these trend rates to calculate estimated reserves for future credits. Actual results could differ from these estimates.  

 Our allowance for doubtful accounts balance was $61 million and $72 million, as of December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. These amounts include our allowance for sales returns and credits of $17 million and $15 million as of December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. Our bad debt expense as a percent of reported net sales was 0.1%, 0.1% and 0.2% in 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively. We believe it is reasonably likely that future results will be consistent with historical trends and experience. However, if the financial condition of our customers were to deteriorate, resulting in an inability to make payments, or if unexpected events, economic downturns, or significant changes in future trends were to occur, additional allowances may be required.  

 For additional information on our allowance for doubtful accounts, see Note 2.  

 27  

 Table of Contents  

 Accrued Liabilities  

 Our business and operations are subject to extensive environmental laws and regulations governing, among other things, air emissions, wastewater discharges, the use and handling of hazardous substances, waste disposal and the investigation and remediation of soil and groundwater contamination. As with other companies engaged in similar manufacturing activities and providing similar products and services, some risk of environmental liability is inherent in our operations.  

 We record liabilities related to pending litigation, environmental claims and other contingencies when a loss is probable and can be reasonably estimated. Estimates used to record such liabilities are based on our best estimate of probable future costs. We record the amounts that represent the points in the range of estimates that we believe are most probable or the minimum amount when no amount within the range is a better estimate than any other amount. Potential insurance reimbursements generally are not anticipated in our accruals for environmental liabilities or other insured losses. Expected insurance proceeds are recorded as receivables when recovery is deemed certain. While the final resolution of litigation and environmental contingencies could result in amounts different than current accruals, and therefore have an impact on our consolidated financial results in a future reporting period, we believe the ultimate outcome will not have a significant impact on our consolidated financial position.   

 For additional information on our commitments and contingencies, see Note 15.  

 Actuarially Determined Liabilities  

 Pension and Postretirement Healthcare Benefit Plans  

 The measurement of our pension and postretirement benefit obligations are dependent on a variety of assumptions determined by management and used by our actuaries. These assumptions affect the amount and timing of future contributions and expenses.  

 The significant assumptions used in developing the required estimates are the discount rate, expected return on assets, projected salary and health care cost increases and mortality table.  

   ·    The discount rate assumptions for our U.S. plans are assessed using a yield curve constructed from a subset of bonds yielding greater than the median return from a population of non-callable, corporate bond issues that have an average rating of AA when averaging available Moody’s Investor Services, Standard & Poor’s and Fitch ratings. The discount rate is calculated by matching the plans’ projected cash flows to the bond yield curve. For 2018 and 2017, we elected to measure service and interest costs by applying the specific spot rates along that yield curve to the plans’ liability cash flows. We believe this approach provides a more precise measurement of service and interest costs by aligning the timing of the plans’ liability cash flows to the corresponding spot rates on the yield curve. In determining our U.S. pension obligations for 2018, our weighted-average discount rate increased to 4.34% from 3.70% at year-end 2017. In determining our U.S. postretirement health care obligation for 2018, our weighted-average discount rate increased to 4.29% from 3.66% at year-end 2017. 

   ·    The expected rate of return on plan assets reflects asset allocations, investment strategies and views of investment advisors, and represents our expected long-term return on plan assets. Our weighted-average expected return on U.S. plan assets used in determining the U.S. pension and U.S. postretirement health care expenses was 7.75% for 2017 and 2018 and 7.25% for 2019. 

   ·    Projected salary and health care cost increases are based on our long-term actual experience, the near-term outlook and assumed inflation. Our weighted-average projected salary increase used in determining the U.S. pension expenses was 4.03% for 2017, 2018 and 2019.  

   ·    For postretirement benefit measurement purposes as of December 31, 2018, the annual rates of increase in the per capita cost of covered health care were assumed to be 8.25% for pre-65 costs and 11.5% for post-65 costs. The rates are assumed to decrease each year until they reach 5% in 2028 and remain at those levels thereafter. 

   ·    In determining our U.S. pension and U.S. postretirement health care obligation for 2018, we utilized the most recent mortality table, MP-2018 projection scale (applied to the RP-2006 mortality table). 

 The effects of actual results differing from our assumptions, as well as changes in assumptions, are reflected in the unrecognized actuarial loss and amortized over future periods and, therefore, will generally affect our recognized expense in future periods. Significant differences in actual experience or significant changes in assumptions may materially affect future pension and other postretirement obligations. The unrecognized net actuarial loss on our U.S. qualified and non-qualified pension plans increased to $539 million as of December 31, 2018 from $527 million as of December 31, 2017 (both before tax), primarily due to the amortization of prior period net actuarial losses.   

 28  

 Table of Contents  

 The effect of a decrease in the discount rate or decrease in the expected return on assets assumption as of December 31, 2018, on the December 31, 2018 funded status and 2019 expense is shown below, assuming no changes in benefit levels and no amortization of gains or losses for our significant U.S. plans:  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Our international pension obligations and underlying plan assets represent approximately one third of our global pension plans, with the majority of the amounts held in the U.K. and Eurozone countries. We use assumptions similar to our U.S. plan assumptions to measure our international pension obligations, however, the assumptions used vary by country based on specific local country requirements and information.  

 See Note 16 for further discussion concerning our accounting policies, estimates, funded status, contributions and overall financial positions of our pension and postretirement plan obligations.  

 Self Insurance  

 Globally we have insurance policies with varying deductible levels for property and casualty losses. We are insured for losses in excess of these deductibles, subject to policy terms and conditions and have recorded both a liability and an offsetting receivable for amounts in excess of these deductibles. We are self-insured for health care claims for eligible participating employees, subject to certain deductibles and limitations. We determine our liabilities for claims on an actuarial basis.   

 Restructuring  

 Our restructuring activities are associated with plans to enhance our efficiency, effectiveness and sharpen the competitiveness of our businesses. These restructuring plans include net costs associated with significant actions involving employee-related severance charges, contract termination costs and asset write-downs and disposals. Employee termination costs are largely based on policies and severance plans, and include personnel reductions and related costs for severance, benefits and outplacement services. These charges are reflected in the quarter in which the actions are probable and the amounts are estimable, which typically is when management approves the associated actions. Contract termination costs include charges to terminate leases prior to the end of their respective terms and other contract termination costs. Asset write-downs and disposals include leasehold improvement write-downs, other asset write-downs associated with combining operations and disposal of assets.  

 Restructuring charges have been included as a component of cost of sales and special (gains) and charges on the Consolidated Statement of Income. Amounts included as a component of cost of sales include supply chain related severance and other asset write-downs associated with combining operations. Restructuring liabilities have been classified as a component of both other current and other noncurrent liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. Our restructuring liability balance was $79 million and $42 million as of December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.  

 For additional information on our restructuring activities, see Note 3.  

 29  

 Table of Contents  

Income Taxes  

 Judgment is required to determine the annual effective income tax rate, deferred tax assets and liabilities, any valuation allowances recorded against net deferred tax assets and uncertain tax positions.  

 On December 22, 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the “Tax Act”) was enacted, which reduces the U.S. federal corporate tax rate from 35% to 21%, required companies to pay a one-time transition tax on earnings of certain foreign subsidiaries that were previously tax deferred and created new taxes on certain foreign sourced earnings. The Tax Act added many new provisions including changes to bonus depreciation, the deduction for executive compensation and interest expense, a tax on global intangible low taxed income (GILTI), the base erosion anti abuse tax (BEAT) and a deduction for foreign derived intangible income (FDII).   

 We initially recorded an estimate of the one-time transition tax in the fourth quarter of 2017 of $160 million and in 2018 we recorded additional discrete expense of $66 million, primarily due to the issuance of technical guidance, finalization of certain estimates as a result of filing the 2017 U.S. federal tax return and final balance sheet positions used in the calculation of the transition tax. As of December 31, 2018, we completed our accounting for the effects of the Tax Act as they relate to the repricing of deferred tax balances and the one-time transition tax.   

 In January 2018, accounting guidance was issued requiring a company to make an accounting policy to either treat taxes due on future U.S. inclusions in taxable income related to GILTI as a current-period expense when incurred (the "period cost method") or factor such amounts into a company’s measurement of its deferred taxes (the "deferred method"). We have elected the period cost method and have considered the estimated 2018 GILTI impact in our 2018 tax expense.  

 Additionally, proposed regulations were released during 2018. Certain of the proposed regulations may be subject to challenge; therefore, we recorded tax expense based on our interpretation of the changes in law affected by the Tax Act and not the proposed regulations. If the proposed regulations become final, we will record the impact at that time.  

 Effective Income Tax Rate  

 Our effective income tax rate is based on annual income, statutory tax rates and tax planning available in the various jurisdictions in which we operate. Our annual effective income tax rate includes the impact of reserve provisions. We recognize the largest amount of tax benefit that is greater than 50% likely of being realized upon settlement with a taxing authority. We adjust these reserves in light of changing facts and circumstances. This expected annual rate is then applied to our year-to-date operating results. In the event there is a significant discrete item recognized in our interim operating results, the tax attributable to that item would be separately calculated and recorded in the same period.  

 Tax regulations require items to be included in our tax returns at different times than the items are reflected in our financial statements. As a result, the effective income tax rate reflected in our financial statements differs from that reported in our tax returns. Some of these differences are permanent, such as expenses that are not deductible on our tax return, and some are temporary differences, such as depreciation expense.  

 Deferred Tax Assets and Liabilities and Valuation Allowances  

 Temporary differences create deferred tax assets and liabilities. Deferred tax assets generally represent items that can be used as a tax deduction or credit in our tax return in future years for which we have already recorded the tax benefit in our income statement. We establish valuation allowances for our deferred tax assets when the amount of expected future taxable income is not likely to support the utilization of the entire deduction or credit. Relevant factors in determining the realizability of deferred tax assets include historical results, future taxable income, the expected timing of the reversal of temporary differences, tax planning strategies and the expiration dates of the various tax attributes. Deferred tax liabilities generally represent items for which we have already taken a deduction in our tax return but have not yet recognized that tax benefit in our financial statements.  

 Prior to the enactment of the Tax Act, U.S. deferred income taxes had not been provided on certain unremitted foreign earnings that are considered permanently reinvested. Undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries are considered to have been reinvested indefinitely or are available for distribution with foreign tax credits available to offset the amount of applicable income tax and foreign withholding taxes that might be payable on earnings. As part of the Tax Act, we recorded a one-time transition tax on certain unremitted foreign earnings of foreign subsidiaries, which is payable over eight years. We will continue to assert permanent reinvestment of the undistributed earnings of international affiliates, and if our policy changes we would record applicable taxes.   

 Uncertain Tax Positions  

 A number of years may elapse before a particular tax matter, for which we have established a reserve, is audited and finally resolved. The number of tax years with open tax audits varies depending on the tax jurisdiction. The Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) has completed its examinations of our federal income tax returns (Ecolab and Nalco) through 2014 and the years 2015 and 2016 are currently under audit. In addition to the U.S. federal examinations, we have ongoing audit activity in several U.S. state and foreign jurisdictions.  

 30  

 Table of Contents  

 The tax positions we take are based on our interpretations of tax laws and regulations in the applicable federal, state and international jurisdictions. We believe our tax returns properly reflect the tax consequences of our operations, and our reserves for tax contingencies are appropriate and sufficient for the positions taken. Because of the uncertainty of the final outcome of these examinations, we have reserved for potential reductions of tax benefits (including related interest and penalties) for amounts that do not meet the more-likely-than-not thresholds for recognition and measurement as required by authoritative guidance. The tax reserves are reviewed throughout the year, taking into account new legislation, regulations, case law and audit results. Settlement of any particular issue could result in offsets to other balance sheet accounts, cash payments or receipts and/or adjustments to tax expense. The majority of our tax reserves are presented in the Consolidated Balance Sheet within other non-current liabilities. Our gross liability for uncertain tax positions was $50 million and $62 million as of December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.   

 For additional information on income taxes see Note 12.  

 Long-Lived Assets, Intangible Assets and Goodwill  

 Long-Lived and Amortizable Intangible Assets  

 We periodically review our long-lived and amortizable intangible assets, the net value of which was $7.1 billion and $7.0 billion as of December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively, for impairment and to assess whether significant events or changes in business circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the assets may not be recoverable. Such circumstances may include a significant decrease in the market price of an asset, a significant adverse change in the manner in which the asset is being used or in its physical condition or history of operating or cash flow losses associated with the use of the asset. Impairment losses could occur when the carrying amount of an asset exceeds the anticipated future undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use of the asset and its eventual disposition. The amount of the impairment loss to be recorded, if any, is calculated as the excess of the asset’s carrying value over its estimated fair value.   

 We use the straight-line method to recognize amortization expense related to our amortizable intangible assets, including our customer relationships. We consider various factors when determining the appropriate method of amortization for our customer relationships, including projected sales data, customer attrition rates and length of key customer relationships.  

 Globally, we have a broad customer base. Our retention rate of significant customers has aligned with our acquisition assumptions, including the customer base acquired in our recent Nalco and Champion transactions, which make up the majority of our unamortized customer relationships. Our historical retention rate, coupled with our consistent track record of keeping long-term relationships with our customers, supports our expectation of consistent sales generation for the foreseeable future from the acquired customer base. Our customer retention rate and history of maintaining long-term relationships with our significant customers are not expected to change in the future. Additionally, other less certain post-acquisition operational assumptions related to future capital investments and working capital, as well as the impact of discount rate assumptions, induce variability and uncertainty in the pattern of economic benefits of our acquired customer relationships. If our customer retention rate or other post-acquisition operational activities changed materially, we would evaluate the financial impact and any corresponding triggers which could result in an acceleration of amortization or impairment of our customer relationship intangible assets.  

 In addition, we periodically reassess the estimated remaining useful lives of our long-lived and amortizable intangible assets. Changes to estimated useful lives would impact the amount of depreciation and amortization expense recorded in earnings. We have experienced no significant changes in the carrying value or estimated remaining useful lives of our long-lived or amortizable intangible assets.  

 Goodwill and Indefinite Life Intangible Assets  

 We had total goodwill of $7.1 billion and $7.2 billion as of December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. We test our goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level on an annual basis during the second quarter. Our reporting units are aligned with our eleven operating segments.  

 For our 2018 impairment assessment, we completed our assessment for goodwill impairment across our eleven reporting units through a quantitative analysis, utilizing a discounted cash flow approach. The two-step quantitative process involved comparing the estimated fair value of each reporting unit to the reporting unit’s carrying value, including goodwill. If the fair value of a reporting unit exceeds its carrying value, goodwill of the reporting unit is considered not to be impaired, and the second step of the impairment test is unnecessary. If the carrying amount of the reporting unit exceeds its fair value, the second step of the goodwill impairment test would be performed to measure the amount of impairment loss to be recorded, if any. Our goodwill impairment assessment for 2018 indicated the estimated fair value of each of our reporting units exceeded the unit’s carrying amount by a significant margin. We will continue to assess the need to test our reporting units for impairment during interim periods between our scheduled annual assessments. There has been no impairment of goodwill in any of the years presented.  

 As part of the Nalco merger, we added the “Nalco” trade name as an indefinite life intangible asset, the total value of which was $1.2 billion as of December 31, 2018 and 2017. The carrying value of the indefinite life trade name was subject to annual impairment testing, using a relief from royalty assessment method, during the second quarter of 2018. Based on this testing, no adjustment to the carrying value was necessary. Additionally, no events during the second half of 2018 indicated a need to update our conclusions reached during the second quarter of 2018.  

 31  

 Table of Contents  

 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  

 Net Sales  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 The percentage components of the year-over-year sales change are shown below:  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Cost of Sales (“COS”) and Gross Profit Margin (“Gross Margin”)  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Our COS values and corresponding gross margin are shown in the previous table. Our gross margin is defined as sales less cost of sales divided by sales.  

 Our reported gross margin was 41.2%, 41.7%, and 42.7% for 2018, 2017, and 2016, respectively. Our 2018, 2017 and 2016 reported gross margins were negatively impacted by special (gains) and charges of $9.3 million, $44.0 million, and $66.0 million, respectively. Special (gains) and charges items impacting COS are shown within the “Special (Gains) and Charges” table on page 33.  

 Excluding the impact of special (gains) and charges, our 2018 adjusted gross margin was 41.3% compared against a 2017 adjusted gross margin of 42.0%. The decrease was driven primarily by higher delivered product costs more than offsetting the impact from increased pricing and cost savings.  

 Excluding the impact of special (gains) and charges, our adjusted gross margin was 42.0% and 43.2% for 2017 and 2016, respectively. The decrease was driven primarily by higher delivered product costs and an increase in Global Energy (which on average has a lower gross margin), which more than offset pricing and cost savings.  

 Selling, General and Administrative Expenses (“SG&A”)  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 The decreased SG&A ratio (SG&A expenses as a percentage of reported net sales) comparing 2018 against 2017 was driven primarily by sales volume leverage, the 2017 restructuring efforts and cost savings, which more than offset investments in the business.  

 The decreased SG&A ratio comparing 2017 against 2016 was driven primarily by sales volume leverage and cost savings, which more than offset investments in the business and the impact of acquisitions.   

 32  

 Table of Contents  

 Special (Gains) and Charges  

 Special (gains) and charges reported on the Consolidated Statement of Income included the following items:  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 For segment reporting purposes, special (gains) and charges are not allocated to reportable segments, which is consistent with our internal management reporting.  

 Restructuring Activities  

 Restructuring activities are comprised of actions taken in 2018 related to Accelerate 2020 (described further below) and other actions taken in years prior to 2018. These activities have been included as a component of special (gains) and charges on the Consolidated Statement of Income. Restructuring liabilities have been classified as a component of both other current and other noncurrent liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. Further details related to our restructuring charges are included in Note 3.  

 Accelerate 2020  

 During the third quarter of 2018, we formally commenced a restructuring plan Accelerate 2020 (“the Plan”), to leverage technology and  

 systems investments and organizational changes. Subsequent to year-end, we raised our goals for the Plan to simplify and automate processes and tasks, reduce complexity and management layers, consolidate facilities and focus on key long-term growth areas by leveraging technology and structural improvements. We expect the expanded restructuring activities will be completed by the end of 2020, with anticipated costs of $260 million ($190 million after tax), or $0.65 per diluted share, over this period of time. Costs are expected to be primarily cash expenditures for severance costs and some facility closure costs relating to team reorganizations. Actual costs may vary from these estimates depending on actions taken. The restructuring actions are expected to result in approximately $325 million of annual cost savings by 2021.  

 We recorded restructuring charges of $104.6 million ($79.6 million after tax), or $0.27 per diluted share in 2018. The liability related to this Plan was $63.9 million as of the end of the year.  

 Other Restructuring Activities  

 Prior to 2018, we engaged in a number of restructuring plans. During 2017, we commenced restructuring and other cost-saving actions in order to streamline our operations. These actions include a reduction of our global workforce, as well as asset disposals and lease terminations. Actions were substantially completed in 2017. We also have restructuring plans that commenced prior to 2016. During 2018, net restructuring gains related to prior year plans were $3.1 million ($2.4 million after tax) or $0.01 per diluted share. During 2017, we recorded restructuring charges of $44.5 million ($32.3 million after tax) or $0.11 per diluted share. During 2016, we recorded restructuring gains of $9.1 million ($10.8 million after tax) or $0.04 per diluted share. The restructuring liability balance for all plans commencing prior to 2018 was $14.9 million and $41.5 million as of December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. The reduction in liability was driven primarily by severance payments. The majority of pretax charges represent net cash expenditures which are expected to be paid over a period of a few months to several quarters and will continue to be funded from operating activities. Cash payments during 2018 related to restructuring plans commencing prior to 2018 were $22.7 million.   

 33  

 Table of Contents  

 Acquisition and integration related costs  

 Acquisition and integration costs reported in special (gains) and charges on the Consolidated Statement of Income in 2018 include $8.8 million ($6.1 million after tax) or $0.02 per diluted share. Charges are primarily related to Laboratoires Anios (“Anios”) integration costs, advisory and legal fees. Acquisition and integration gain reported in product and equipment cost of sales on the Consolidated Statement of Income in 2018 relate to changes in estimates related to an early lease exit. In conjunction with our acquisitions, we incurred $0.3 million ($0.2 million after tax), or less than $0.01 per diluted share, of interest expense in 2018.   

 During 2017, acquisition and integration costs reported in special (gains) and charges on the Consolidated Statement of Income included $15.4 million ($9.9 million after tax) or $0.03 per diluted share of acquisition costs, advisory and legal fees, and integration charges for the Anios and Swisher acquisitions. Acquisition and integration costs reported in cost of sales on the Consolidated Statement of Income in 2017 included $13.2 million ($8.6 million after tax) or $0.03 per diluted share related primarily to disposal of excess inventory upon the closure of Swisher plants, accelerated rent expense, and amounts related to recognition of fair value step-up in the Anios inventory.   

 During 2016, we incurred acquisition and integration charges of $8.6 million ($5.4 million after tax) or $0.02 per diluted share primarily related to the Swisher acquisition.   

 Further information related to our acquisitions is included in Note 4.  

 Gain on sale of business  

 During 2017, we disposed of the Equipment Care business and recorded a gain of $46.1 million ($12.4 million after tax primarily due to non-deductible goodwill), or $0.04 per diluted share, net of working capital adjustments, costs to sell and other transaction expenses. The gain has been included as a component of special (gains) and charges on the Consolidated Statement of Income.  

 Energy related charges  

 In 2016, excess oil supply pressure negatively impacted exploration and production investments in the energy industry, which directly impacted our operations and business outlook. Energy related charges reported in product and equipment cost of sales on the Consolidated Statement of Income in 2016 include $62.6 million ($40.7 million after tax), or $0.14 per diluted share, comprised of inventory write-downs due to projects under construction. Energy related charges reported in special (gains) and charges on the Consolidated Statement of Income in 2016 include $14.2 million ($9.3 million after tax), or $0.03 per diluted share, related to headcount reductions and other charges. No such charges occurred in 2017 or 2018.  

 Venezuela related activities  

 Effective as of the end of the fourth quarter of 2015, we deconsolidated our Venezuelan subsidiaries. We recorded gains due to U.S. dollar cash recoveries of intercompany receivables written off at the time of deconsolidation of $11.5 million ($7.2 million after tax) or $0.02 per diluted share and $7.8 million ($4.9 million after tax) or $0.02 per diluted share in 2017 and 2016, respectively. No such gains occurred in 2018.  

 Other  

 During 2018, we recorded other special charges of $28.5 million ($21.5 million after tax) or $0.07 per diluted share, which primarily consisted of a $25.0 million ($18.9 million after tax) or $0.06 per diluted share, a commitment to the Ecolab Foundation. Other charges, primarily litigation related charges, were minimal and have been included as a component of special (gains) and charges on the Consolidated Statement of Income. Other special gains reported in product and equipment cost of sales on the Consolidated Statement of Income in 2018 of $2.2 million ($1.7 million after tax) or $0.01 per diluted share, relate to changes in estimates for an inventory LIFO reserve.   

 During 2017, we recorded other charges of $24.8 million ($19.0 million after tax), or $0.06 per diluted share, primarily related to fixed asset impairments, a Global Energy vendor contract termination and litigation related charges. These charges have been included as a component of both cost of sales and special (gains) and charges on the Consolidated Statement of Income.   

 During 2016, we recorded other charges of $37.0 million ($22.7 million after tax), or $0.08 per diluted share, primarily related to fixed asset impairments and litigation related charges and settlements. These charges have been included as a component of both cost of sales and special (gains) and charges on the Consolidated Statement of Income.  

 Interest expense, net  

 During 2017, in anticipation of U.S. tax reform and a potential limit on interest deductibility in future years, we entered into transactions to exchange or retire certain long-term debt, and incurred debt exchange and extinguishment charges of $21.9 million ($13.6 million after tax), or $0.05 per diluted share. This charge has been included as a component of interest expense, net on the Consolidated Statement of Income.  

 34  

 Table of Contents  

 Operating Income and Operating Income Margin  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Our operating income and corresponding operating income margin are shown in the previous tables. Operating income margin is defined as operating income divided by sales.  

 Our reported operating income remained flat when comparing 2018 to 2017 and increased 4% when comparing 2017 to 2016. Our reported operating income for 2018, 2017 and 2016 was impacted by special (gains) and charges. Excluding the impact of special (gains) and charges from all three years, 2018 adjusted operating income increased 5% when compared to 2017 adjusted operating income and 2017 adjusted operating income increased 1% when compared to 2016 adjusted operating income.   

 As shown in the previous table, foreign currency translation had a minimal impact on adjusted operating income growth for 2018 and 2017.   

 Other (Income) Expense  

 Other (income) expense relates to the income from the non-service components of pension cost which were $79.9 million, $67.3 million and $43.8 million in 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively. The increase in income is primarily due to expected returns on increased pension assets.  

 Interest Expense, Net  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Reported net interest expense totaled $222.3 million, $255.0 million and $264.6 million during 2018, 2017 and 2016 respectively.  

 During 2018, in conjunction with our acquisitions, we incurred $0.3 million ($0.2 million after tax), or less than $0.01 per diluted share, of interest expense.  

 During 2017, in anticipation of U.S. tax reform and a potential limit on interest deductibility in future years, we entered into transactions to exchange or retire certain long-term debt, and incurred debt exchange and extinguishment charges of $21.9 million ($13.6 million after tax), or $0.05 per diluted share.  

 The decrease in our 2018 adjusted net interest expense compared to 2017 was driven primarily by lower interest rates on debt. The decrease in our 2017 adjusted net interest expense compared to 2016 was driven primarily by an increased mix of lower cost Euro interest and lower interest rates on refinanced debt.   

 35  

 Table of Contents  

Provision for Income Taxes  

 The following table provides a summary of our tax rate:  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Our reported tax rate was 20.2%, 13.8%, and 24.4% for 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively. The change in our tax rate includes the tax impact of special (gains) and charges and discrete tax items, which have impacted the comparability of our historical reported tax rates, as amounts included in our special (gains) and charges are derived from tax jurisdictions with rates that vary from our tax rate, and discrete tax items are not necessarily consistent across periods. The tax impact of special (gains) and charges and discrete tax items will likely continue to impact comparability of our reported tax rate in the future. The enactment of the Tax Act also significantly impacted the comparability of our reported tax rate.  

 We recognized total net expense related to discrete tax items of $4.7 million during 2018. In the third quarter of 2018, we filed U.S. federal tax returns which resulted in favorable adjustments of $39.9 million related to changes in estimates and an IRS approved method change. U.S. tax reform (as described further below) resulted in $66.0 million expense for 2018. Share-based compensation excess tax benefit contributed $28.1 million in 2018. The extent of excess tax benefits is subject to variation in stock price and stock option exercises. The remaining discrete tax expense was primarily related to changes in reserves in non-U.S. jurisdictions, audit settlements and both international and U.S. changes in estimates.  

 On December 22, 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the “Tax Act”) was enacted, which reduced the U.S. federal corporate tax rate from 35% to 21%, required companies to pay a one-time transition tax on earnings of certain foreign subsidiaries that were previously tax deferred and created new taxes on certain foreign sourced earnings. The Tax Act added many new provisions including changes to bonus depreciation, the deduction for executive compensation and interest expense, a tax on global intangible low taxed income (GILTI), the base erosion anti abuse tax (BEAT) and a deduction for foreign derived intangible income (FDII). In January 2018, accounting guidance was issued requiring a company to make an accounting policy election to either treat taxes due on future U.S. inclusions in taxable income related to GILTI as a current-period expense when incurred (the "period cost method") or factor such amounts into a company’s measurement of our deferred taxes (the "deferred method"). We have elected the period cost method and considered the estimated 2018 GILTI impact in our 2018 tax expense.  

 We initially recorded an estimate of the one-time transition tax in the fourth quarter of 2017 of $160.1 million and in 2018 we recorded additional discrete expense of $66.0 million associated with finalizing our accounting for the Tax Act, primarily due to the issuance of technical guidance during the year and finalization of estimates related to asset balances and calculation of foreign earnings and profits. Our 2017 reported rate also includes a $319.0 million tax benefit for recording deferred tax assets and liabilities at the U.S. enacted tax rate of 21%. Our 2017 reported tax rate also includes the tax impact of special (gains) and charges, as well as additional tax benefits utilized in anticipation of U.S. tax reform of $7.8 million. During 2017, we also recorded a discrete tax benefit of $39.7 million related to excess tax benefits. In addition, we recorded net discrete expenses of $14.4 million related to recognizing adjustments from filing our 2016 U.S. federal income tax return and international adjustments due to changes in estimates, partially offset by the release of reserves for uncertain tax positions due to the expiration of statute of limitations in state tax matters.   

 Our 2016 reported tax rate includes $43.1 million of net tax benefits on special (gains) and charges and net expenses of $3.9 million associated with discrete tax items. The net expenses related to discrete tax items in 2016 were driven primarily by recognizing adjustments from filing our 2015 U.S. federal income tax return, partially offset by settlement of international tax matters and remeasurement of certain deferred tax assets and liabilities resulting from the application of updated tax rates in international jurisdictions. Net expenses were also impacted by adjustments to deferred tax asset and liability positions and the release of reserves for uncertain tax positions due to the expiration of statute of limitations in international jurisdictions.   

 The change in our adjusted tax rate from 2016 to 2018 was primarily driven by enactment of the Tax Act, global tax planning projects and geographic income mix. Future comparability of our adjusted tax rate may be impacted by various factors, including but not limited to, the Tax Act, other changes in global tax rules, further tax planning projects and geographic income mix.   

 36  

 Table of Contents  

 Net Income Attributable to Ecolab  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Diluted EPS  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Per share amounts do not necessarily sum due to rounding.  

 Currency translation had minimal impact on reported and adjusted diluted EPS when comparing 2018 to 2017 and when comparing 2017 to 2016.   

 37  

 Table of Contents  

SEGMENT PERFORMANCE  

 The non-U.S. dollar functional currency international amounts included within our reportable segments are based on translation into U.S. dollars at the fixed currency exchange rates used by management for 2018. The difference between the fixed currency exchange rates and the actual currency exchange rates is reported as “effect of foreign currency translation” in the following tables. All other accounting policies of the reportable segments are consistent with U.S. GAAP and the accounting policies described in Note 2. Additional information about our reportable segments is included in Note 18.  

 Fixed currency net sales and operating income for 2018, 2017 and 2016 for our reportable segments are shown in the following tables.  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 The following tables reconcile the impact of acquisitions and divestitures within our reportable segments.   

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 38  

 Table of Contents  

 Global Industrial  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 * Not meaningful  

 Amounts do not necessarily sum due to rounding.  

 Net Sales  

 Fixed currency sales growth for Global Industrial in both 2018 and 2017 was driven by volume gains and pricing. At a regional level, the 2018 sales increase was impacted by good growth in North America and Europe. Regional results for 2017 were impacted by good growth in Latin America, North America and Greater China.   

 At an operating segment level, Water fixed currency sales increased 7% in 2018 (increase of 6% acquisition adjusted). Light industry sales growth was led by innovative technology and service offerings. Heavy industry sales benefitted from sales force investments and improved market conditions. Mining sales were led by new business wins. Fixed currency sales increased 5% in 2017 (increase of 3% acquisition adjusted) led by Light industry sales growth. Food & Beverage fixed currency sales increased 6% in 2018, benefiting from corporate account wins, share gains and pricing, which more than offset generally flat industry trends. Growth was led by the beverage and brewing, dairy and protein businesses. Fixed currency sales increased 4% in 2017, benefiting from new business wins and pricing, which more than offset generally flat industry trends. Paper fixed currency sales increased 11% (6% acquisition adjusted) in 2018 driven by business wins and pricing. Fixed currency sales increased 3% in 2017. Textile Care fixed currency sales were increased 1% in 2018. Fixed currency sales increased 2% in 2017, benefiting from new customer accounts in Europe. Life Sciences fixed currency sales increased 14% in 2018 (12% acquisition adjusted). Good growth from business wins and pricing execution in both the pharmaceutical and personal care markets. Fixed currency sales increased 7% in 2017 as business wins and pricing drove sales growth in both the pharmaceutical and personal care markets.   

 Operating Income  

 Fixed currency operating income for Global Industrial increased in 2018 and was flat in 2017 when compared to prior periods. Fixed currency operating income margins decreased in 2018 and 2017. Acquisitions had minimal impact on both the fixed currency operating income and fixed currency operating income margins in 2018.   

 Acquisition adjusted fixed currency operating income margins decreased 0.7 percentage points in 2018, negatively impacted by approximately 2.8 percentage points related to higher delivered product costs and investments in the business. The favorable impact of pricing and sales volume gains added approximately 2.1 percentage points during 2018. Acquisition adjusted fixed currency operating income margins decreased in 2017 compared to 2016, negatively impacted by higher delivered product costs and investments in the business, partially offset by favorable impact of pricing and volume gains along with the impact of cost savings initiatives.  

 39  

 Table of Contents  

 Global Institutional  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 * Not meaningful  

 Amounts do not necessarily sum due to rounding.  

 Net Sales  

 Fixed currency sales growth for Global Institutional in both 2018 and 2017 benefited from volume growth, acquisitions and pricing gains. At a regional level, the 2018 and 2017 sales increases were led by good growth in North America and Europe.   

 At an operating segment level, Institutional fixed currency sales increased 5% in 2018. Global lodging demand continued to show moderate growth while global full-service restaurant industry foot traffic remained soft. Fixed currency sales increased 1% in 2017 (increase of 2% acquisition adjusted). Specialty fixed currency sales increased 8% in 2018, led primarily from strong ongoing business and new account wins. Fixed currency sales increased 7% in 2017, led primarily by new account wins and growth in global quick service accounts, leveraging generally modest industry trends. Healthcare fixed currency sales increased 7% (2% acquisition adjusted) in 2018, with strong sales of environmental hygiene programs partially offset by lower sales of non-core products. Fixed currency sales increased 42% in 2017 (increase of 3%, when adjusted for the Anios acquisition), with modest growth for Healthcare in North America and Europe.   

 Operating Income  

 Fixed currency operating income for our Global Institutional segment increased in both 2018 and 2017 when compared to prior periods. Fixed currency operating income margins declined in both 2018 and 2017 as pricing and sales volume gains were offset by investments in the business and higher delivered product costs.  

 Acquisition adjusted fixed currency operating income margins decreased 0.1 percentage points during 2018. Investments in the business, including innovative digital technologies and higher delivered product costs negatively impacted margins by 1.9 percentage points. The favorable impact of sales volume gains, pricing and cost savings added approximately 1.9 percentage points. Acquisition adjusted fixed currency operating income margins decreased in 2017, negatively impacted by business investments and higher delivered product costs, partially offset by favorable impact of pricing gains, product mix and sales volume.   

 40  

 Table of Contents  

 Global Energy  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 * Not meaningful  

 Amounts do not necessarily sum due to rounding.  

 Net Sales  

 Fixed currency sales for Global Energy in 2018 and 2017 recorded strong growth in the well stimulation business. Production business sales showed a modest increase in 2018 and were primarily driven by increased North America activity. Sales in our downstream business had moderate growth driven by international sales. Fixed currency sales for Global Energy in 2017 had a strong growth in the well stimulation business, while the production business showed a modest decline, as growth in North America was offset by international markets. Sales in our downstream business rose moderately.   

 Operating Income  

 Fixed currency operating income for Global Energy increased during 2018 and decreased during 2017 as compared to the prior year. Acquisitions had a minimal impact on the fixed currency operating income in 2018 and a negative impact in 2017. Acquisitions had a negative impact on the fixed currency operating income margins for both 2018 and 2017.   

 Acquisition adjusted fixed currency operating income margins remained flat in 2018 and decreased in 2017. Sales volume gains and pricing favorably impacted margins by approximately 2.7 percentage points during 2018. These gains were equally offset by higher delivered product costs and investments in the business. Higher delivered product costs and business investments negatively impacted 2017, partially offset by cost savings.   

 41  

 Table of Contents  

 Other  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 * Not meaningful  

 Amounts do not necessarily sum due to rounding.  

 Net Sales  

 Fixed currency sales for Other decreased in 2018, due to the divestiture of Equipment Care in the fourth quarter of 2017. At a regional level, acquisition and divestiture adjusted sales growth was primarily driven by North America. Fixed currency sales increased in 2017 driven by volume increases and pricing gains. At a regional level, the 2017 sales increase was led by good growth in North America.   

 At an operating segment level, Pest Elimination fixed currency sales increased 13% in 2018 and 8% in 2017 led by sales to food beverage and hospitality, with good growth in restaurants. Acquisition adjusted fixed currency sales increased 7% in 2018 led by sales growth in the food & beverage and hospitality markets. CTG fixed currency sales increased 10% in 2018.  

 Operating Income  

 Acquisition adjusted fixed currency operating income margins in Other increased 1.6 percentage points in 2018. The favorable impact of sales volume and pricing increases added 2.1 percentage points to growth and field investments negatively impacted comparable margins by approximately 0.2 percentage points. Acquisition adjusted fixed currency operating income margins decreased in 2017, negatively impacted by Field investments and other cost increases, offsetting the benefit of pricing volume and mix gains.  

 Corporate  

 Consistent with our internal management reporting, Corporate expense amounts in the table on page 38 include intangible asset amortization specifically from the Nalco merger and special (gains) and charges that are not allocated to our reportable segments. Items included within special (gains) and charges are shown in the table on page 33.  

 42  

 Table of Contents  

FINANCIAL POSITION, CASH FLOW AND LIQUIDITY  

 Financial Position  

 Total assets were $20.1 billion as of December 31, 2018, compared to total assets of $20.0 billion as of December 31, 2017.  

 Total liabilities were $12.0 billion as of December 31, 2018, compared to total liabilities of $12.3 billion as of December 31, 2017. Total debt was $7.0 billion as of December 31, 2018 and $7.3 billion as of December 31, 2017. See further discussion of our debt activity within the “Liquidity and Capital Resources” section of this MD&A.  

 Our net debt to EBITDA is shown in the following table. EBITDA is a non-GAAP measure discussed further in the “Non-GAAP Financial Measures” section of this MD&A.  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Cash Flows  

 Operating Activities  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 We continue to generate strong cash flow from operations, allowing us to fund our ongoing operations, acquisitions, investments in the business and pension obligations along with returning cash to our shareholders through dividend payments and share repurchases.  

 Comparability of cash generated from operating activities across 2016 to 2018 was impacted by fluctuations in accounts receivable, inventories and accounts payable (“working capital”), the combination of which increased $192 million, $56 million and $35 million in 2018, 2017 and 2016 respectively. The cash flow impact across the three years from working capital accounts was driven by changes in sales volumes and timing of collections; timing of purchases and production and usage levels; and volume of purchases and timing of payments.   

 The impact on operating cash flows of pension and postretirement plan contributions, cash activity related to restructuring, cash paid for income taxes and cash paid for interest, are shown in the following table:   

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 43  

 Table of Contents  

Investing Activities  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Cash used for investing activities is primarily impacted by the timing of business acquisitions and dispositions as well as from capital investments in the business.  

 Total cash paid for acquisitions, net of cash acquired and net of cash received from dispositions, in 2018, 2017 and 2016 was $221 million, $870 million and $49 million, respectively. Our acquisitions and divestitures across 2018, 2017 and 2016 are discussed further in Note 4. We continue to target strategic business acquisitions which complement our growth strategy and expect to continue to make capital investments and acquisitions in the future to support our long-term growth.  

 We continue to make capital investments in the business, including merchandising and customer equipment and manufacturing facilities. Total capital expenditures were $847 million, $869 million and $757 million in 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively.  

 Financing Activities  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Our cash flows from financing activities primarily reflect the issuances and repayment of debt, common stock repurchases, proceeds from common stock issuances related to our equity incentive programs, dividend payments and acquisition-related contingent considerations.  

 Shares are repurchased for the purpose of partially offsetting the dilutive effect of our equity compensation plans and stock issued in acquisitions, to manage our capital structure and to efficiently return capital to shareholders. We repurchased a total of $562 million, $600 million, and $740 million of shares in 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively. These amounts include $300 million of shares repurchased in 2017 and 2016 through our Accelerated Stock Repurchase (“ASR”) programs. See Note 10 for further information regarding our ASR programs.  

 The impact on financing cash flows of commercial paper and notes payable repayments, long-term debt borrowings and long-term debt repayments, are shown in the following table:   

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 In December 2018, we increased our indicated annual dividend rate by 12%. This represents the 27th consecutive year we have increased our dividend. We have paid dividends on our common stock for 82 consecutive years. Cash dividends declared per share of common stock, by quarter, for each of the last three years were as follows:  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 44  

 Table of Contents  

Liquidity and Capital Resources  

 We currently expect to fund all of our cash requirements which are reasonably foreseeable for the next twelve months, including scheduled debt repayments, new investments in the business, share repurchases, dividend payments, possible business acquisitions and pension and postretirement contributions with cash from operating activities, and as needed, additional short-term and/or long-term borrowings. We continue to expect our operating cash flow to remain strong.  

 As of December 31, 2018, we had $115 million of cash and cash equivalents on hand, substantially all of which was held outside of the U.S. As of December 31, 2017, we had $211 million of cash and cash equivalents on hand, of which $151 million was held outside of the U.S.   

 As of December 31, 2018 we had a $2.0 billion multi-year credit facility, which expires in November 2022. The credit facility has been established with a diverse syndicate of banks and supports our U.S. and Euro commercial paper programs. The maximum aggregate amount of commercial paper that may be issued under our U.S. commercial paper program and our Euro commercial paper program may not exceed $2.0 billion. At year-end, we had $141.4 million (€125.0 million) of commercial paper outstanding under the Euro commercial paper program and $24.0 million outstanding under the U.S. commercial paper program. There were no borrowings under our credit facility as of December 31, 2018 or 2017. As of December 31, 2018, both programs were rated A-2 by Standard & Poor’s, P-2 by Moody’s and F-2 by Fitch.  

 Additionally, we have uncommitted credit lines with major international banks and financial institutions. These credit lines support our daily global funding needs, primarily our global cash pooling structures. We have $150 million of bank supported letters of credit, surety bonds and guarantees outstanding in support of our commercial business transactions. We do not have any other significant unconditional purchase obligations or commercial commitments.  

 As of December 31, 2018, Standard & Poor’s and Fitch both rated our long-term credit at A- (stable outlook) and Moody’s rated our long-term credit at Baa1 (stable outlook). A reduction in our credit ratings could limit or preclude our ability to issue commercial paper under our current programs, or could also adversely affect our ability to renew existing, or negotiate new, credit facilities in the future and could increase the cost of these facilities.   

 We are in compliance with our debt covenants and other requirements of our credit agreements and indentures.  

 A schedule of our various obligations as of December 31, 2018 are summarized in the following table:  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 *Interest on variable rate debt was calculated using the interest rate at year-end 2018.  

 As of December 31, 2018, our gross liability for uncertain tax positions was $50 million. We are not able to reasonably estimate the amount by which the liability will increase or decrease over an extended period of time or whether a cash settlement of the liability will be required. Therefore, these amounts have been excluded from the schedule of contractual obligations.  

 We do not have required minimum cash contribution obligations for our qualified pension plans in 2019. We are required to fund certain international pension benefit plans in accordance with local legal requirements. We estimate contributions to be made to our international plans will approximate $48 million in 2019. These amounts have been excluded from the schedule of contractual obligations.  

 We lease certain sales and administrative office facilities, distribution centers, research and manufacturing facilities and other equipment under longer-term operating leases. Vehicle leases are generally shorter in duration. Vehicle leases have residual value requirements that have historically been satisfied primarily by the proceeds on the sale of the vehicles.  

 45  

 Table of Contents  

 Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements  

 Other than operating leases, as discussed further in Note 13, we do not participate in off-balance sheet financing arrangements. Through the normal course of business, we have established various joint ventures that have not been consolidated within our financial statements as we are not the primary beneficiary. The joint ventures help us meet local ownership requirements, achieve quicker operational scale, expand our ability to provide customers a more fully integrated offering or provide other benefits to our business or customers. These entities have not been utilized as special purposes entities, which are sometimes established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet financial arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes. As such, we are not exposed to financing, liquidity, market or credit risk that could arise if we had engaged in such relationships.  

 Market Risk  

 We enter into contractual arrangements (derivatives) in the ordinary course of business to manage foreign currency exposure and interest rate risks. We do not enter into derivatives for speculative or trading purposes. Our use of derivatives is subject to internal policies that provide guidelines for control, counterparty risk, and ongoing monitoring and reporting, and is designed to reduce the volatility associated with movements in foreign exchange and interest rates on our income statement and cash flows.  

 We enter into foreign currency forward contracts to hedge certain intercompany financial arrangements, and to hedge against the effect of exchange rate fluctuations on transactions related to cash flows denominated in currencies other than U.S. dollars. We use net investment hedges as hedging instruments to manage risks associated with our investments in foreign operations. As of December 31, 2018, we had a total of €1,150 million senior notes designated as net investment hedges.  

 We manage interest expense using a mix of fixed and floating rate debt. To help manage borrowing costs, we may enter into interest rate swap agreements. Under these arrangements, we agree to exchange, at specified intervals, the difference between fixed and floating interest amounts calculated by reference to an agreed-upon notional principal amount. As of December 31, 2018, we had interest rate swaps outstanding with notional values of $400 million.  

 See Note 8 for further information on our hedging activity.  

 Based on a sensitivity analysis (assuming a 10% adverse change in market rates) of our foreign exchange and interest rate derivatives and other financial instruments, changes in exchange rates or interest rates would increase/decrease our financial position and liquidity by approximately $258 million. The effect on our results of operations would be substantially offset by the impact of the hedged items.  

 GLOBAL ECONOMIC AND POLITICAL ENVIRONMENT   

 Energy Markets  

 Approximately 23% of our sales are generated from our Global Energy segment, the results of which, as noted further below, are subject to volatility in the oil and gas commodity markets.  

 During 2018, oil industry drilling and production activity showed improved volumes over 2017, led by strong gains in North America drilling and production activity over the past year and related recovering capital expenditure trends, while international activity remained soft. Demand for oil and overall energy consumption has shown modest growth with oil prices well above their lows in early 2016.   

 Our global footprint and broad business portfolio within the Global Energy segment, as well as our strong execution capabilities are expected to provide the required resilience to outperform in the current market. As such, we continue to remain confident in the long-term growth prospects of the segment.  

 Global Economies  

 Approximately half of our sales are outside of the United States. Our international operations subject us to changes in economic conditions and foreign currency exchange rates as well as political uncertainty in some countries which could impact future operating results.  

 Argentina has continued to experience negative economic trends, evidenced by multiple periods of increasing inflation rates, devaluation of the Argentine Peso, and increasing borrowing rates. Argentina is classified as a highly inflationary economy in accordance with U.S. GAAP, and the U.S. dollar is the functional currency for our subsidiaries in Argentina. During 2018, sales in Argentina represented less than 1% of our consolidated sales. Assets held in Argentina at the end of 2018 represented less than 1% of our consolidated assets.  

 46  

 Table of Contents  

 Brexit Referendum  

 On March 29, 2017, the United Kingdom (“U.K.”) government gave formal notice to the European Union (“EU”) to begin the process of negotiating the U.K.’s exit (“Brexit”) from the EU. The effects of Brexit will depend on any agreements the U.K. makes to retain access to the EU markets either during a transitional period or more permanently. The negotiations might also impact various tax reliefs and exemptions that apply to transactions between the U.K. and EU. In the longer term, any impact from Brexit on our U.K. operations will depend, in part, on the outcome of tariff, trade, regulatory, and other negotiations. We will continue to monitor the status of tax law changes and tax treaty negotiations at the U.K. and EU.   

 During 2018, net sales of our U.K. operations were approximately 2% of our consolidated net sales.  

 NEW ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS  

 Information regarding new accounting pronouncements is included in Note 2.  

 SUBSEQUENT EVENTS  

 Acquisitions  

 Subsequent to year-end, we closed on the acquisition of Bioquell PLC, a leading provider of hydrogen peroxide vapor bio-decontamination systems and services for the life sciences and healthcare industries and acquired Lobster Ink, a leading provider of end-to-end online customer training solutions. We also entered into various purchase and sale agreements which are expected to close in the first quarter of 2019. None of the agreements are significant to the consolidated financial statements, individually or in the aggregate.  

 Upstream Energy Spin-off  

 Ecolab intends to pursue, subject to the receipt of approval by Ecolab’s Board of Directors and any regulatory approvals, a plan to separate and spin-off the Upstream group of Ecolab’s Global Energy segment (the Upstream Business) through a series of tax-efficient transactions (collectively, the Spin-off). Under the plan, if effectuated, Ecolab’s shareholders would own 100% of the common stock of a new corporation that owns the Upstream Business. The Spin-off is expected to be completed in 2020 and is intended to qualify as a tax-free distribution to Ecolab shareholders for U.S. federal income tax purposes.   

 In anticipation of and to facilitate the Spin-off, Ecolab is currently planning for the internal separation of the Upstream Business through a series of transactions that are intended to be tax-efficient from a U.S. federal income tax perspective. The Spin-off is expected to consist of two phases: (i) a series of internal transactions undertaken by Ecolab and its direct and indirect subsidiaries to separate the Upstream Business from Ecolab’s other businesses, including multiple distributions intended to qualify as tax-free distributions for U.S. federal income tax purposes under Section 355 of the Internal Revenue Code (collectively, the Internal Separations), followed by (ii) an external distribution by Ecolab of the common stock of a newly-formed corporation owning the Upstream Business to current Ecolab shareholders owning Ecolab shares in a distribution that is intended to qualify as tax-free for U.S. federal income tax purposes under Section 355 of the Internal Revenue Code.   

 The Internal Separations are currently expected to occur in the United States and in (or involving entities domiciled in) various other jurisdictions, including (but not limited to) Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Jersey, Saudi Arabia, the United Kingdom, Singapore and Switzerland. In particular, the Ecolab subsidiaries (which shall also include any of their successors and transferees) that are anticipated to be distributing corporations in connection with the Internal Separations include: Ecolab Lux 9 S.à r.l., Ecolab NL 11 B.V., Nalco Overseas Holding B.V., Nalco Holding B.V., Ecolab Lux 11 S.à r.l., Ecolab Lux 10 S.à r.l., Ecolab U.S. 2 Inc., Ecolab Lux 7 S.à r.l., Ecolab CH 2 GmbH, Ecolab NL 3 B.V., Ecolab Lux 1 S.à r.l., Ecolab Lux 2 S.à r.l., Nalco Saudi Co. Ltd., Nalco Gulf Limited, Nalco Manufacturing Ltd., Ecolab Pte. Ltd., Ecolab USA Inc., Nalco Holding Company and Nalco U.S. 2 Inc. In addition, certain Ecolab subsidiaries (or their respective successors and transferees) listed on Exhibit (21.1) may also be distributing corporations in connection with the Internal Separations.  

 47  

 Table of Contents  

 NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES  

 This MD&A includes financial measures that have not been calculated in accordance with U.S. GAAP. These non-GAAP measures include:  

  Fixed currency sales  

  Acquisition adjusted fixed currency sales  

  Adjusted cost of sales  

  Adjusted gross margin  

  Fixed currency operating income  

  Fixed currency operating income margin  

  Adjusted operating income  

  Adjusted operating income margin  

  Adjusted fixed currency operating income  

  Adjusted fixed currency operating income margin  

  Acquisition adjusted fixed currency operating income   

  Acquisition adjusted fixed currency operating income margin   

  Adjusted interest expense, net  

  EBITDA  

  Adjusted tax rate  

  Adjusted net income attributable to Ecolab  

  Adjusted diluted EPS  

 We provide these measures as additional information regarding our operating results. We use these non-GAAP measures internally to evaluate our performance and in making financial and operational decisions, including with respect to incentive compensation. We believe that our presentation of these measures provides investors with greater transparency with respect to our results of operations and that these measures are useful for period-to-period comparison of results.  

 Our non-GAAP financial measures for cost of sales, gross margin, interest expense and operating income exclude the impact of special (gains) and charges, and our non-GAAP measures for tax rate, net income attributable to Ecolab and diluted EPS further exclude the impact of discrete tax items. We include items within special (gains) and charges and discrete tax items that we believe can significantly affect the period-over-period assessment of operating results and not necessarily reflect costs and/or income associated with historical trends and future results. After tax special (gains) and charges are derived by applying the applicable local jurisdictional tax rate to the corresponding pre-tax special (gains) and charges.  

 EBITDA is defined as the sum of net income including non-controlling interest, provision for income taxes, net interest expense, depreciation and amortization. EBITDA is used in our net debt to EBITDA ratio, which we view as important indicators of the operational and financial health of our organization.  

 We evaluate the performance of our international operations based on fixed currency rates of foreign exchange. Fixed currency amounts included in this Form 10-K are based on translation into U.S. dollars at the fixed foreign currency exchange rates established by management at the beginning of 2018. Fixed currency amounts during 2018 for Argentina operations are reflected at the Argentine Peso rate established by management at the beginning of the year.  

 Acquisition adjusted growth rates exclude the results of our acquired businesses from the first twelve months post acquisition, exclude the results of our divested businesses from the twelve months prior to divestiture.   

 These non-GAAP measures are not in accordance with, or an alternative to U.S. GAAP, and may be different from non-GAAP measures used by other companies. Investors should not rely on any single financial measure when evaluating our business. We recommend that investors view these measures in conjunction with the U.S. GAAP measures included in this MD&A and we have provided reconciliations of reported U.S. GAAP amounts to the non-GAAP amounts.   

 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk.