ITEM 7A — QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

We are exposed to market risks in the ordinary course of our business. These risks are primarily related to foreign exchange risk and changes in short-term interest rates. The potential impact of our exposure to these risks is presented below:

Foreign Exchange Risk

We conduct business in many different countries and currencies. Our business often results in revenue billings issued in a country and currency that differs from that where the expenses related to the service are incurred. In the ordinary course of business, we create numerous intercompany transactions and may have receivables, payables and currencies that are not denominated in the local functional currency. This brings foreign exchange risk to our earnings. The principal foreign exchange risks to which Expeditors is exposed include Chinese Yuan, Euro, Mexican Peso, Canadian Dollar and British Pound.

Foreign exchange rate sensitivity analysis can be quantified by estimating the impact on our earnings as a result of hypothetical changes in the value of the U.S. dollar, our functional currency, relative to the other currencies in which we transact business. All other things being equal, an average 10% weakening of the U.S. dollar, throughout the year ended December 31, 2018, would have had the effect of raising operating income approximately $55 million. An average 10% strengthening of the U.S. dollar, for the same period, would have the effect of reducing operating income approximately $45 million. This analysis does not take into account changes in shipping patterns based upon this hypothetical currency 

28.

fluctuation. For example, a weakening in the U.S. dollar would be expected to increase exports from the United States and decrease imports into the United States over some relevant period of time, but the exact effect of this change cannot be quantified without making speculative assumptions.

We currently do not use derivative financial instruments to manage foreign currency risk and only enter into foreign currency hedging transactions in limited locations where regulatory or commercial limitations restrict our ability to move money freely. Any such hedging activity throughout the year ended December 31, 2018, was insignificant. Net foreign currency losses were approximately $2 million and $13 million in 2018 and 2017, respectively, and net currency gains were approximately $8 million in 2016. We had no foreign currency derivatives outstanding at December 31, 2018 and 2017. We instead follow a policy of accelerating international currency settlements to manage foreign exchange risk relative to intercompany billings. As of December 31, 2018, we had $42 million of net unsettled intercompany transactions. The majority of intercompany billings are resolved within 30 days.

Interest Rate Risk

At December 31, 2018, we had cash and cash equivalents of $924 million, of which $496 million was invested at various short-term market interest rates. We had no long-term debt at December 31, 2018. A hypothetical change in the interest rate of 10 basis points at December 31, 2018 would not have a significant impact on our earnings.

In management’s opinion, there has been no material change in our interest rate risk exposure between 2018 and 2017.

ITEM 8 — FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA