Item 7.Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

The following section discusses management’s view of the financial condition and results of operations of FIS and its consolidated subsidiaries as of December 31, 2018 and 2017 and for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016.

This section should be read in conjunction with the audited Consolidated Financial Statements and related Notes of FIS included elsewhere in this Annual Report. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contains forward-looking statements. See "Forward-Looking Statements" and "Risk Factors" for a discussion of the uncertainties, risks and assumptions associated with these forward-looking statements that could cause future results to differ materially from those reflected in this section.

Overview

FIS is a global leader in financial services technology, providing solutions and services to clients in the retail and institutional banking, payments, capital markets, asset management, and wealth and retirement markets. Through the depth and breadth of our solutions portfolio, global capabilities and domain expertise, FIS serves clients in over 130 countries. Headquartered in Jacksonville, Florida, FIS employs more than 47,000 people worldwide and holds leadership positions in payment processing, financial software and banking solutions. Providing software, services and outsourcing of the technology that empowers the financial world, FIS is a Fortune 500 company and is a member of the Standard & Poor’s 500® Index. 

We have grown organically, as well as through acquisitions, which have contributed critical applications and services that complement or enhance our existing offerings, diversifying our revenue by customer, geography and service offering. We evaluate possible acquisitions that might contribute to our growth or performance on an ongoing basis.

 FIS reports its financial performance based on three segments: Integrated Financial Solutions ("IFS"), Global Financial Solutions ("GFS") and Corporate and Other. A description of these segments is included in Note 19 to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Revenue by segment and the adjusted EBITDA of our segments are discussed below in Segment Results of Operations.

Business Trends and Conditions

Our revenue is primarily derived from a combination of recurring technology and processing services, professional services and software license fees. The majority of our revenue has historically been recurring, and has been provided under multi-year contracts that contribute relative stability to our revenue stream. These services, in general, are considered critical to our clients' operations. A considerable portion of our recurring revenue is derived from transaction processing fees that fluctuate with the level of accounts and card transactions, among other variable measures, associated with consumer, commercial and capital markets activity. Professional services revenue is typically non-recurring, and sales of software licenses are less predictable, a portion of which can be regarded as discretionary spending by our clients. 

We continue to assist financial institutions in migrating to outsourced integrated technology solutions to improve their profitability and address increasing and ongoing regulatory requirements. As a provider of outsourcing solutions, we benefit from multi-year recurring revenue streams, which help moderate the effects of broader year-to-year economic and market changes that otherwise might have a larger impact on our results of operations. We believe our integrated solutions and outsourced services are well positioned to address this outsourcing trend across the markets we serve.

Over the last three years, we have moved approximately 50% of our server compute to our FIS cloud located in our strategic data centers and our goal is to increase that percentage to 65% by the end of 2019 and 80% by the end of 2021. This allows us to further enhance security for our clients’ data and increases the flexibility and speed with which we can provide services and solutions to our clients, eventually at lesser cost. Concurrently, we have continued to consolidate our data centers, closing 10 additional data centers in 2018. Our consolidation has generated a savings for the Company as of year-end 2018 exceeding $100 million in run rate annual expense reduction since the program’s inception in mid-2016. We plan to close and consolidate approximately 20 more data centers by 2021, which should result in additional run rate annual expense reduction of about $150 million.

We continue to invest in modernization, innovation and integrated solutions and services in order to meet the demands of the markets we serve and compete with global banks, international providers, and disruptive technology innovators. We invest both organically and through investment opportunities in companies building complementary technologies in the financial services space. Our internal efforts in research and development activities have related primarily to the modernization of our proprietary core systems, design and development of next generation digital and innovative solutions and development of 

 32
processing systems and related software applications and risk management platforms. We have increased our investments in these areas in each of the last three years. We expect to continue our practice of investing an appropriate level of resources to maintain, enhance and extend the functionality of our proprietary systems and existing software applications, to develop new and innovative software applications and systems to address emerging technology trends in response to the needs of our clients and to enhance the capabilities of our outsourcing infrastructure. 

Consumer preference continues to shift from traditional branch banking services to digital banking solutions, and our clients seek to provide a single integrated banking experience through their branch, mobile, internet and voice banking channels. We have been providing our large regional banking customers in the U.S. with Digital One, an integrated digital banking platform, and are now adding functionality and offering Digital One to our community bank clients to provide a consistent, omnichannel experience for consumers of banking services across self-service channels like mobile banking and online banking, as well as supporting channels for bank staff operating in bank branches and contact centers. The uniform customer experience will extend to support a broad range of financial services including opening new accounts; servicing of existing accounts; providing money movement services; personal financial management; as well as a broad range of other consumer, small business and commercial banking capabilities. Digital One will be integrated into and will extend the core banking platforms offered by FIS and will also be offered to customers of non-FIS core banking systems.

We continue to see demand for innovative solutions in the payments market that will deliver faster, more convenient payment solutions in mobile channels, internet applications and cards. We believe digital payments will grow and partially replace existing payment tender volumes over time as consumers and merchants embrace the convenience, incremental services and benefits. Additionally, new formidable non-traditional payments competitors and large merchants are investing in and innovating digital payment technologies to address the emerging market opportunity, and it is unclear the extent to which particular technologies or services will succeed. We believe the growth of digital payments continues to present both an opportunity and a risk to us as the market develops. Although we cannot predict which digital payment technologies or solutions will be successful, we cautiously believe our client relationships, payments infrastructure and experience, adapted solutions and emerging solutions are well positioned to maintain or grow our clients' existing payment volumes, which is our focus. 

We anticipate consolidation within the banking industry will continue, primarily in the form of merger and acquisition activity among financial institutions, which we believe as a whole is detrimental to our business. However, consolidation resulting from specific merger and acquisition transactions may be beneficial to our business. When consolidations of financial institutions occur, merger partners often operate systems obtained from competing service providers. The newly formed entity generally makes a determination to migrate its core and payments systems to a single platform. When a financial institution processing client is involved in a consolidation, we may benefit by their expanding the use of our services if such services are chosen to survive the consolidation and support the newly combined entity. Conversely, we may lose revenue if we are providing services to both entities, or if a client of ours is involved in a consolidation and our services are not chosen to survive the consolidation and support the newly combined entity. It is also possible that larger financial institutions resulting from consolidation may have greater leverage in negotiating terms or could decide to perform in-house some or all of the services that we currently provide or could provide. We seek to mitigate the risks of consolidations by offering other competitive services to take advantage of specific opportunities at the surviving company. 

In certain of the international markets in which we do business, we continue to experience growth on a constant currency basis. Demand for our solutions may also continue to be driven in developing countries by government-led financial inclusion policies aiming to reduce the unbanked population and by growth in the middle classes in these markets driving the need for more sophisticated banking solutions. The majority of our international revenue is generated by clients in Brazil, the United Kingdom, Germany, Canada and India. For the full year of 2019, we anticipate an approximate $45 million adverse impact to revenue due to foreign currency translation, although the actual amount of impact is uncertain due to the many factors that affect exchange rates. 

On December 31, 2018, FIS closed the transaction we previously announced to unwind the Brazilian Venture with Banco Bradesco. Under this agreement, the Brazilian Venture spun-off certain assets of the business that also provide services to non-Bradesco clients to a new wholly-owned FIS subsidiary. This subsidiary entered into a long-term commercial agreement to provide current and new services to Banco Bradesco effective January 1, 2019 that include software licensing, maintenance, application management, card portfolio migration, business process outsourcing, fraud management and professional services. As a result of the transaction, Banco Bradesco owns 100% of the entity that previously housed the Brazilian Venture and its remaining assets that relate to card processing for Banco Bradesco, which Banco Bradesco will perform internally. The transaction is expected to result in an annualized reduction in FIS’ reported revenue of approximately $225 million. In addition, it resulted in impairment charges of $95 million in the third quarter of 2018. For further detail on our Brazilian 

 33
Venture see Note 16 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and "Item 1A. Risk Factors" included elsewhere in this report.

Globally, attacks on information technology systems continue to grow in frequency, complexity and sophistication. This is a trend we expect to continue. Such attacks have become a point of focus for individuals, businesses and governmental entities. The objectives of these attacks include, among other things, gaining unauthorized access to systems to facilitate financial fraud, disrupt operations, cause denial of service events, corrupt data, and steal non-public information. These circumstances present both a threat and an opportunity for FIS. As part of our business, we electronically receive, process, store and transmit a wide range of confidential information, including sensitive customer information and personal consumer data. We also operate payment, cash access and prepaid card systems. 

FIS remains focused on making strategic investments in information security to protect our clients and our information systems. This includes both capital expenditures and operating expense on hardware, software, personnel and consulting services. We also participate in industry and governmental initiatives to improve information security for our clients. Through the expertise we have gained with this ongoing focus and involvement, we have developed fraud, security, risk management and compliance solutions to target this growth opportunity in the financial services industry.

As described in Note 16 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, on July 31, 2017, we sold a majority interest in certain of our consulting businesses to affiliates of CD&R. These businesses had lower margins than many of our other businesses. The consulting businesses sold were included within the GFS and IFS segments. Also, on February 1, 2017, we sold our PS&E business, which had been included in our Corporate and Other segment. These divestitures affect the comparability of our results of operations for the 2018, 2017 and 2016 periods presented.

Critical Accounting Policies

The accounting policies described below are those we consider critical in preparing our Consolidated Financial Statements. These policies require management to make estimates, judgments and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosures with respect to contingent liabilities and assets at the date of the Consolidated Financial Statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting periods. Actual amounts could differ from those estimates. See Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a more detailed description of the significant accounting policies that have been followed in preparing our Consolidated Financial Statements.

Revenue Recognition

The Company generates revenue in a number of ways, including from the delivery of account- or transaction-based processing, SaaS, BPaaS, cloud offerings, software licensing, software-related services and professional services. We are frequently a party to multiple concurrent contracts with the same client. These situations require judgment to determine whether the individual contracts should be combined or evaluated separately for purposes of revenue recognition. In making this determination, we consider the timing of negotiating and executing the contracts, whether the different elements of the contracts are negotiated as a package with a single commercial objective, whether the solutions or services promised in the contracts are a single performance obligation, and whether any of the payment terms of the contracts are interrelated. Our individual contracts also frequently include multiple promised solutions or services. At contract inception, we assess the solutions and services promised in our contracts with customers and identify a performance obligation for each promise to transfer to the customer a solution or service (or bundle of solutions or services) that is distinct - i.e., if a solution or service is separately identifiable from other items in the bundled package and if a customer can benefit from it on its own or with other resources that are readily available to the customer. We must apply judgment in these circumstances in determining whether individual promised solutions or services can be considered distinct or should instead be combined with other promised solutions or services in the contract. We recognize revenue when or as we satisfy a performance obligation by transferring control of a solution or service to a customer. We must use judgment to determine the appropriate measure of progress for performance obligations satisfied over time and the timing of when the customer obtains control for performance obligations satisfied at a point in time. Judgment is also required in estimating and allocating variable consideration to one or more, but not all, performance obligations in a contract, determining the standalone selling prices of each performance obligation, and allocating the transaction price to each distinct performance obligation in a contract.

Due to the large number, broad nature and average size of individual contracts we are party to, the impact of judgments and assumptions that we apply in recognizing revenue for any single contract is not likely to have a material effect on our consolidated operations or financial position. However, the broader accounting policy assumptions that we apply across similar contracts or classes of clients could significantly influence the timing and amount of revenue recognized in our historical and 

 34
future results of operations or financial position. Additional information about our revenue recognition policies is included in Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

Computer Software

Computer software includes the fair value of software acquired in business combinations, purchased software and capitalized software development costs. Purchased software is recorded at cost and amortized using the straight-line method over its estimated useful life, which is generally three to five years. Software acquired in business combinations is recorded at its fair value and amortized using straight-line or accelerated methods over its estimated useful life, which is three to 10 years (as discussed below in the Critical Accounting Policy section Purchase Accounting). As of December 31, 2018 and 2017, computer software, net of accumulated amortization, was $1.8 billion and $1.7 billion, respectively, and amortization of computer software was $468 million, $436 million, and $396 million for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017, and 2016, respectively. Balances related to acquired software represent a significant portion of these balances, particularly for the periods after the acquisition of SunGard, which resulted in acquired software of $674 million. 

The capitalization of software development costs is governed by FASB ASC Subtopic 985-20 if the software is to be sold, leased or otherwise marketed, or by FASB ASC Subtopic 350-40 if the software is for internal use. After the technological feasibility of the software has been established (for software to be marketed), or at the beginning of application development (for internal-use software), software development costs, which include primarily salaries and related payroll costs and costs of independent contractors incurred during development, are capitalized. Research and development costs incurred prior to the establishment of technological feasibility (for software to be marketed), or prior to application development (for internal-use software), are expensed as incurred. Evaluating whether technological feasibility has been achieved requires the use of management judgment. 

Software development costs are amortized on a product-by-product basis commencing on the date of general release of the solutions (for software to be marketed) or the date placed in service (for internal-use software). Software development costs for software to be marketed are amortized using the greater of (1) the straight-line method over its estimated useful life, which ranges from three to 10 years, or (2) the ratio of current revenues to total anticipated revenues over its useful life.

In determining useful lives, management considers historical results and technological trends that may influence the estimate. Useful lives for all computer software range from three to 10 years. 

We also assess the recorded value of computer software for impairment on a regular basis by comparing the carrying value to the estimated future cash flows to be generated by the underlying software asset (for software to be marketed). There are inherent uncertainties in determining the expected useful life or cash flows to be generated from computer software. For the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017, and 2016, respectively, we have not had more than minimal charges for impairments of software. While we have not historically experienced significant changes in these balances due to changes in estimates, our results of operations could be subject to such changes in the future.

Purchase Accounting

We are required to allocate the purchase price of acquired businesses to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed in the transaction at their estimated fair values. The estimates used to determine the fair value of long-lived assets, such as intangible assets or computer software, are complex and require a significant amount of management judgment. We generally engage independent valuation specialists to assist us in making fair value determinations. 

If the initial accounting for a business combination is incomplete by the end of the reporting period in which the combination occurs, we are required to record provisional amounts in the financial statements for the items for which the accounting is incomplete. Adjustments to provisional amounts initially recorded that are identified during the measurement period are recognized in the reporting period in which the adjustment amounts are determined. This includes any effect on earnings of changes in depreciation, amortization, or other income effects as a result of the change to the provisional amounts, calculated as if the accounting had been completed at the acquisition date. During the measurement period, we are also required to recognize additional assets or liabilities if new information is obtained about facts and circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date that, if known, would have resulted in the recognition of those assets and liabilities as of that date. The measurement period ends the sooner of one year from the combination date or when we receive the information we were seeking about facts and circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date or we learn that more information is not obtainable.

We are also required to estimate the useful lives of intangible assets to determine the amount of acquisition-related intangible asset amortization expense to record in future periods. We periodically review the estimated useful lives assigned to 

 35
our finite-lived intangible assets to determine whether such estimated useful lives continue to be appropriate. Additionally, we review our indefinite-lived intangible assets to determine if there is any change in circumstances that may indicate the asset’s useful life is no longer indefinite.

We had no significant business combinations during the 2018 and 2017 periods. 

Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets

Goodwill represents the excess of cost over the fair value of identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed in business combinations. Goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite useful lives should not be amortized, but shall be tested for impairment annually, or more frequently if circumstances indicate potential impairment. FASB ASC Subtopic 350-20 allows an entity first to assess qualitatively whether it is more likely than not that a reporting unit's carrying amount exceeds its fair value, referred to in the guidance as "step zero." If an entity concludes that it is more likely than not that a reporting unit's fair value is less than its carrying amount (that is, a likelihood of more than 50 percent), the "step one" quantitative assessment must be performed for that reporting unit. FASB ASC Subtopic 350-20 provides examples of events and circumstances that should be considered in performing the step zero qualitative assessment, including macroeconomic conditions, industry and market considerations, cost factors, overall financial performance, events affecting a reporting unit or the entity as a whole and a sustained decrease in share price. Performance of a qualitative impairment assessment requires judgment.  

In applying the quantitative analysis, we determine the fair value of our reporting units based on a weighted average of multiple valuation techniques, principally a combination of an income approach and a market approach. The income approach calculates a value based upon the present value of estimated future cash flows, while the market approach uses earnings multiples of similarly situated guideline public companies. If the fair value of a reporting unit exceeds the carrying value of the reporting unit’s net assets, goodwill is not impaired and further testing is not required. 

 We assess goodwill for impairment on an annual basis during the fourth quarter or more frequently if circumstances indicate potential impairment. For each of 2018, 2017, and 2016, we began our annual impairment test with the step zero qualitative assessment. In performing the step zero qualitative assessment for each year, examining those factors most likely to affect our valuations, we concluded that it remained more likely than not that the fair value of each of our reporting units continued to exceed their carrying amounts. Consequently, we did not perform a step one quantitative assessment specifically for the purpose of our annual impairment test for these years. 

Similar to the FASB ASC Subtopic 350-20 guidance for goodwill, FASB ASC Subtopic 350-30 allows an organization to first perform a qualitative assessment of whether it is more likely than not that an indefinite-lived intangible asset has been impaired. We assess indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment on an annual basis during the fourth quarter or more frequently if circumstances indicate potential impairment. For 2016, we engaged independent specialists to perform a valuation of our indefinite-lived intangible assets, using a form of income approach valuation known as the relief-from-royalty method. There was substantial excess of fair value over carrying value for our indefinite-lived intangible assets in the 2016 independent valuations. Based upon this quantitative assessment performed, there was no impairment for 2016. For each of 2018 and 2017, we performed a qualitative assessment examining those factors most likely to affect our valuations and concluded that it remained more likely than not that our indefinite-lived intangible assets were not impaired. Consequently, we did not perform a quantitative impairment assessment specifically for the purpose of our annual impairment test for either of these years. 

Determining the fair value of a reporting unit or acquired intangible assets with indefinite lives involves judgment and the use of significant estimates and assumptions, which include assumptions regarding forecasted revenue growth rates, operating margins, capital expenditures, tax rates, and other factors used to calculate estimated future cash flows. In addition, risk-adjusted discount rates and future economic and market conditions and other assumptions are applied. Goodwill was $13.5 billion and $13.7 billion as of December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively, and indefinite-lived intangible assets were $43 million and $48 million as of December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. As a result, a meaningful change in one or more of the underlying forecasts, estimates, or assumptions used in testing these assets for impairment could result in a material impact on the Company's results of operations and financial position. However, because there was a substantial excess of fair value over carrying value in our previous independent valuations performed in 2015 for goodwill and 2016 for indefinite-lived intangible assets, we believe the likelihood of obtaining materially different results based on a change of assumptions is low. 

Related Party Transactions

We are a party to certain historical related party agreements as discussed in Note 15 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

 36
Factors Affecting Comparability

For information regarding factors affecting comparability, see "Item 6. Selected Financial Data." As a result of the transactions noted in Item 6. Selected Financial Data, our financial position, results of operations, earnings per share and cash flows in the periods covered by the Consolidated Financial Statements may not be directly comparable.

 37
Consolidated Results of Operations

(in millions, except per share amounts)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

* Amounts may not sum due to rounding.

Revenue

Revenue for 2018 decreased $245 million, or 2.8% from 2017, due to (1) the reduction in revenue from the sale of the Capco consulting business and the risk and compliance consulting business during the third quarter of 2017; (2) the reduction in revenue from the sale of the PS&E business during the first quarter of 2017; and (3) the reduction in revenue from the sale of the Certegy Check Services business unit in North America during the third quarter of 2018. This decrease was partially offset by (1) increased volumes in banking and wealth solutions (excluding the effects of the sale of the risk and compliance consulting business); (2) increased sales for GFS banking and payments solutions; (3) growth in corporate and digital solutions; 

 38
(4) growth in retail payments; and (5) payments growth in Latin America. Additionally, 2018 was impacted by a $40 million unfavorable foreign currency impact primarily resulting from a stronger U.S. Dollar versus the Brazilian Real.

Revenue for 2017 decreased $163 million, or 1.8% from 2016, due to the reduction in revenue from the sale of the PS&E business during the first quarter of 2017 and the sale of the Capco consulting business and the risk and compliance consulting business during the third quarter of 2017. These decreases were partially offset by (1) increased volumes in banking and wealth solutions (excluding the effects of the sale of the risk and compliance consulting business); (2) volume growth in payment solutions in Brazil; (3) continued growth with our existing customers for our post-trade derivative solutions; and (4) growth in corporate and digital solutions. The 2017 period also benefited from a lower purchase accounting adjustment, as compared to the 2016 period, to reduce SunGard acquired deferred revenue to fair value and a $16 million favorable foreign currency impact primarily resulting from a stronger Brazilian Real versus the U.S. Dollar, partially offset by a weaker Pound Sterling. See "Segment Results of Operations" for more detailed explanation.

Cost of Revenue and Gross Profit

Cost of revenues totaled $5,569 million, $5,794 million and $5,895 million during 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively, resulting in gross profit of $2,854 million, $2,874 million and $2,936 million, respectively. Gross profit as a percentage of revenues ("gross margin") was 33.9%, 33.2% and 33.2% in 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively. The decrease in gross profit for 2018 as compared to 2017 primarily resulted from the revenue variances noted above. The gross profit percentage for 2018 as compared to 2017 benefited from higher margin software licenses and the realization of ongoing expense synergies.

. 

Selling, General and Administrative Expenses

Selling, general and administrative expenses for 2018 decreased $141 million, or 9.8% from 2017. The year-over-year decrease is primarily driven by the sale of PS&E during the first quarter of 2017, the sale of the Capco consulting business and risk and compliance consulting business during the third quarter of 2017, the sale of Certegy Check Services business unit in North America during the third quarter of 2018 and cost management initiatives.

Selling, general and administrative expenses for 2017 decreased $265 million, or 15.5% from 2016, primarily driven by the sale of PS&E during the first quarter of 2017, the sale of the Capco consulting business and risk and compliance consulting business during the third quarter of 2017 and integration and cost management initiatives.

Operating Income

Operating income totaled $1,458 million, $1,432 million and $1,229 million for 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively. Operating income as a percentage of revenue ("operating margin") was 17.3%, 16.5% and 13.9% for 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively. The annual changes in operating income resulted from the revenue and cost variances addressed above. The change in operating margin during 2018 was negatively impacted by asset impairments of $95 million related to the unwinding of the Brazilian Venture. Notwithstanding the asset impairments, however, operating margins improved primarily from cost management initiatives and the Capco consulting business divestiture during 2017. The increase in operating margin from 2017 as compared to 2016 resulted primarily from integration and cost management initiatives.

Total Other Income (Expense), Net

Interest expense is typically the primary component of total other income (expense), net.

The decrease of $45 million in interest expense in 2018 as compared to 2017 is primarily due to a lower weighted-average interest rate on the outstanding debt and benefits realized from interest rate swaps executed in the fourth quarter of 2018, which are discussed in Note 11 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

The decrease of $44 million in interest expense in 2017 as compared to 2016 is primarily due to lower outstanding debt and lower weighted-average interest rate on the outstanding debt.

Other income (expense), net for 2018 includes a pre-tax loss of $54 million on the sale of the Certegy Check Services business unit in North America and $12 million to unwind the Brazilian Venture, partially offset by a pre-tax gain of $19 million on the sale of Reliance Trust Company of Delaware.

Other income (expense), net for 2017 includes (1) a pre-tax charge of $171 million in tender premiums and the write-off of previously capitalized debt issuance costs on the repurchase of approximately $2,000 million in aggregate principal of debt 

 39
securities; (2) a net pre-tax loss of $29 million on the sale of the Capco consulting and risk and compliance business and other divestitures; (3) a pre-tax charge of approximately $25 million due to the redemption of the Senior Notes due March 2022 and the pay down of the 2018 Term Loans, consisting of the call premium on the Senior Notes due March 2022 and the write-off of previously capitalized debt issuance costs; partially offset by (4) a pre-tax gain of $85 million on the sale of the PS&E business, an $8 million pre-tax gain on an investment sale and a $12 million foreign currency gain.

During 2016, FIS paid down the 2017 Term Loans and partially paid down the 2018 Term Loans resulting in a pre-tax charge upon extinguishment of approximately $2 million due to the write-off associated with previously capitalized debt issue costs. Additionally in 2016 as a result of these debt pay downs, FIS terminated interest rate swaps with a notional amount totaling $1,250 million resulting in a pre-tax loss of $2 million due to the release of fair value changes from other comprehensive earnings. 

Provision (Benefit) for Income Taxes

Provision (benefit) for income taxes from continuing operations totaled $208 million, $(321) million and $291 million for 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively. This resulted in an effective tax rate on continuing operations of 18.8%, (32.9)% and 34.8% for 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively. The effective tax rate for the 2018 period included the impact of the reduction in the U.S. federal income tax rate from 35% to 21% due to tax reform enacted December 22, 2017, and a net detriment of $33 million due to the book basis in excess of the tax basis of certain businesses sold during the year. The effective tax rate for the 2017 period included a net benefit of $761 million related to tax reform items including $48 million of tax credits due to tax planning strategies implemented in the fourth quarter and a net detriment of $180 million due to the book basis in excess of the tax basis of certain businesses sold during the year. The effective tax rate for the 2016 period did not include a net benefit for the recognition of excess tax benefit for stock compensation as the effective date of ASU 2016-09 was for reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2016. 

Equity Method Investment Earnings (Loss)

On July 31, 2017, FIS obtained a 40% equity interest in Cardinal as further described in Note 16 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. As a result, we recorded equity method investment losses of $15 million and $3 million during the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.

Earnings (Loss) from Discontinued Operations, Net of Tax

During 2018, 2017 and 2016, operations for Participacoes, our former item processing and remittance services business in Brazil are classified as discontinued operations. Reporting for discontinued operations classifies revenues and expenses as one line item, net of tax, in the Consolidated Statements of Earnings. The table below outlines discontinued operations for 2018, 2017 and 2016, net of tax (in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Participacoes had no revenue in 2018, 2017 and 2016. Participacoes' processing volume were transitioned to other vendors or back to its clients during the second quarter of 2011. Participacoes had earnings (losses) before taxes of $(1) million, $0 million and $2 million during the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively. The shut-down activities involved the transfer and termination of approximately 2,600 employees, which was completed in 2011. Former employees generally had up to two years from the date of terminations, extended through April 2013, to file labor claims and a number of them did file labor claims. As of December 31, 2018, there were approximately 346 active claims remaining. Consequently, we have continued exposure on these active claims, which were not transferred with other assets and liabilities in the disposal. 

Net (Earnings) Loss Attributable to Noncontrolling Interest

Net (earnings) loss attributable to noncontrolling interest predominantly relates to the joint venture in Brazil (see Notes 15 and 16 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements) and totaled $(35) million, $(33) million and $(22) million for 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively. 

 40
Net Earnings Attributable to FIS Common Stockholders

Net earnings attributable to FIS common stockholders totaled $846 million, $1,261 million and $524 million for 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively, or $2.55, $3.75 and $1.59 per diluted share, respectively, due to the factors described above coupled with the impact of our share repurchase initiatives.

Segment Results of Operations

Adjusted EBITDA is defined as EBITDA (defined as net earnings (loss) before net interest expense, income tax provision (benefit) and depreciation and amortization) plus certain non-operating items. This measure is reported to the chief operating decision maker for purposes of making decisions about allocating resources to the segments and assessing their performance. For this reason, Adjusted EBITDA, as it relates to our segments, is presented in conformity with FASB ASC Topic 280, Segment Reporting. The non-operating items affecting the segment profit measure generally include acquisition accounting adjustments; acquisition, integration and certain other costs, and asset impairment. For consolidated reporting purposes, these costs and adjustments are recorded in the Corporate and Other segment for the periods discussed below. Adjusted EBITDA for the respective segments excludes the foregoing costs and adjustments. Financial information, including details of our adjustments to EBITDA, for each of our segments is set forth in Note 19 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

Integrated Financial Solutions

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Year ended December 31, 2018:

Revenue increased $141 million, or 3.3%, due to (1) increased volumes in banking and wealth solutions (excluding the effects of the sale of the risk and compliance consulting business) contributing 2.0%; (2) growth in retail payments contributing 1.2%; and (3) growth in corporate and digital solutions contributing 0.7%. These items were partially offset by the sale of the risk and compliance consulting business contributing (0.6)%.

Adjusted EBITDA increased $88 million, or 4.7%, primarily resulting from the revenue variances noted above and continued cost management initiatives. Adjusted EBITDA margin increased 60 basis points to 44.6% primarily driven by a revenue mix shift and operating efficiencies. 

Year ended December 31, 2017:

Revenue increased $82 million, or 2.0%, due to (1) increased demand in banking and wealth solutions (excluding the effects of the sale of the risk and compliance consulting business) contributing 2.9%; (2) growth in payment solutions excluding the card production business contributing 0.7%; (3) growth in corporate and digital solutions contributing 0.9%; partially offset by (4) the decline and sale of the risk and compliance consulting business contributing (1.4)%; and (5) the slow-down in card production activities associated with the roll-out of EMV contributing (1.2)%.

Adjusted EBITDA increased $82 million, or 4.6%, primarily resulting from the revenue variances noted above. Adjusted EBITDA margin increased 110 basis points to 44.0% primarily resulting from the favorable revenue mix shift and continued cost management.

Global Financial Solutions

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

 41
Year ended December 31, 2018:

Revenue decreased $332 million, or 8.2%, primarily due to (1) the sale of the Capco consulting business and other divestitures contributing (9.1)% and (2) unfavorable foreign currency impact contributing (1.0)% or approximately $42 million driven primarily by a stronger U.S. Dollar versus the Brazilian Real, partially offset by (1) growth in GFS banking and payments solutions in North America contributing 0.9%; and (2) payments growth in Latin America contributing 1.1%.

Adjusted EBITDA increased $68 million, or 5.1%, primarily resulting from favorable revenue mix and continued cost management initiatives. Adjusted EBITDA margins increased 470 basis points to 37.4%, resulting from the positive impact of the Capco consulting business divestiture during 2017, as well as continued cost management initiatives.

Year ended December 31, 2017:

Revenue decreased $133 million, or 3.2%, primarily due to the sale of the Capco consulting business contributing (5.4)%, partially offset by continued growth in our post-trade derivatives utility contributing 0.6%, volume growth in payment solutions in Brazil contributing 0.9% and a favorable currency impact contributing 0.4% primarily resulting from a stronger Brazilian Real versus the U.S. Dollar, partially offset by a weaker Pound Sterling.

Adjusted EBITDA increased $112 million, or 9.2%, primarily resulting from higher margin revenue and the realization of ongoing expense synergies. Adjusted EBITDA margins increased 370 basis points to 32.7% primarily resulting from growth in higher margin licenses, the divestiture of the Capco consulting business, as well as realization of ongoing expense synergies.

Corporate and Other

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The Corporate and Other segment results consist of selling, general and administrative expenses and depreciation and intangible asset amortization not otherwise allocated to the reportable segments. Corporate and Other also includes operations from the Global Commercial Services business and non-strategic businesses, including the PS&E business (which was divested on February 1, 2017) and the Certegy Check Services business unit in North America (which was divested on August 31, 2018). 

Year ended December 31, 2018:

Revenue decreased $54 million, or 15.1%, and was primarily due to the sale of the PS&E business during the first quarter of 2017 and Certegy Check Services business unit in North America during the third quarter of 2018.

Adjusted EBITDA decreased $7 million, or 3.3%, primarily resulting from the reduction in revenue from the sale of the PS&E business during the first quarter of 2017 and Certegy Check Services business unit in North America during the third quarter of 2018, partially offset by a reduction in infrastructure technology expenses and the early results of our data center consolidation program.

Year ended December 31, 2017:

Revenue decreased $112 million, or 23.8%, primarily due to the sale of the PS&E business during the first quarter of 2017 and a decline in the Global Commercial Services business, partially offset by lower 2017 SunGard purchase accounting impact on deferred revenue (all of which was recorded as a contra-revenue item in the Corporate and Other segment).

Adjusted EBITDA decreased $65 million, or 43.9%, primarily resulting from the reduction in revenue from the sale of the PS&E business during the first quarter of 2017, partially offset by integration and cost management initiatives.

 42
Liquidity and Capital Resources

Cash Requirements

Our ongoing cash requirements include operating expenses, income taxes, mandatory debt service payments, capital expenditures, stockholder dividends, working capital and timing differences in settlement-related assets and liabilities, and may include discretionary debt repayments, share repurchases and business acquisitions. Our principal sources of funds are cash generated by operations and borrowings, including the capacity under our Revolving Credit Facility and the Commercial Paper Program described in Note 10 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

As of December 31, 2018, we had cash and cash equivalents of $703 million and debt of $8,985 million, including the current portion, net of capitalized debt issuance costs. Of the $703 million cash and cash equivalents, approximately $340 million is held by our foreign entities. The majority of our domestic cash and cash equivalents represents net deposits-in-transit at the balance sheet dates and relates to daily settlement activity. We expect that cash and cash equivalents plus cash flows from operations over the next 12 months will be sufficient to fund our operating cash requirements, capital expenditures and mandatory debt service.

We currently expect to continue to pay quarterly dividends. However, the amount, declaration and payment of future dividends is at the discretion of our Board of Directors and depends on, among other things, our investment opportunities, results of operations, financial condition, cash requirements, future prospects, and other factors that may be considered relevant by our Board of Directors, including legal and contractual restrictions. Additionally, the payment of cash dividends may be limited by covenants in certain debt agreements. A regular quarterly dividend of $0.35 per common share is payable on March 29, 2019 to shareholders of record as of the close of business on March 15, 2019. 

On July 20, 2017 our Board of Directors approved a plan authorizing repurchases of up to $4.0 billion of our outstanding common stock in the open market at prevailing market prices or in privately negotiated transactions through December 31, 2020. This share repurchase authorization replaced any existing share repurchase authorization.

Cash Flows from Operations

Cash flows from operations were $1,993 million, $1,741 million and $1,925 million in 2018, 2017 and 2016 respectively. Our net cash provided by operating activities consists primarily of net earnings, adjusted to add back depreciation and amortization. Cash flows from operations increased $252 million in 2018 and decreased $184 million in 2017. The 2018 increase in cash flows from operations is primarily due to lower trade receivables from increased collections resulting from a reduction in days sales outstanding. These increases were partially offset by U.S. federal estimated income tax payments normally due in the third and fourth quarters of 2017 that were paid during the first quarter of 2018 due to the Hurricane Irma Relief Program and timing of working capital. The 2017 decrease in cash flows from operations is primarily due to increased trade receivables resulting from timing differences in billing and collections and increased deferred contract costs.

Capital Expenditures and Other Investing Activities

Our principal capital expenditures are for computer software (purchased and internally developed) and additions to property and equipment. We invested approximately $622 million, $613 million and $616 million in capital expenditures (excluding capital leases and other financing obligations) during 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively. We expect to invest approximately 7.5% of 2019 revenue in capital expenditures.

In 2017, cash flows from investing activities included proceeds from the sale of businesses and investments primarily relating to the sale of PS&E and the Capco consulting and risk and compliance businesses. 

Financing

For more information regarding the Company's debt and financing activity, see Note 10 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Contractual Obligations

FIS’ long-term contractual obligations generally include its long-term debt, interest on long-term debt, lease payments on certain of its property and equipment and payments for data processing and maintenance. For information regarding the 

 43
Company's long-term debt, see Note 10 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The following table summarizes FIS’ significant contractual obligations and commitments as of December 31, 2018 (in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)The principal amounts assume no changes in currency rates for our foreign notes relating to EUR and GBP.

(2)The calculations above assume that (a) applicable margins and commitment fees remain constant; (b) all variable-rate debt is priced at the rates in effect as of December 31, 2018; (c) no refinancing occurs at debt maturity; (d) only mandatory debt repayments are made; (e) no new hedging transactions are effected; and (f) there are no currency effects. 

(3)Amount includes the estimated payment for labor claims related to FIS' former item processing and remittance operations in Brazil. 

FIS believes that its existing cash balances and cash flows from operations will provide adequate sources of liquidity and capital resources to meet FIS’ expected liquidity needs for the operations of its business and expected capital spending for the next 12 months.

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

FIS does not have any off-balance sheet arrangements.

Recent Accounting Pronouncements 

 Recently Adopted Accounting Guidance

On March 30, 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-09 ("ASU 2016-09"), Compensation - Stock Compensation (Topic 718): Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting. The amendments were intended to simplify and improve the accounting for employee share-based payments. Under the new guidance, all excess tax benefits and tax deficiencies over/under compensation expense recognized will be reflected in the income statement as they occur. This will replace the prior guidance, which required tax benefits that exceed compensation expense (windfalls) to be recognized in equity. It also eliminates the need to maintain a "windfall pool," and removes the requirement to delay recognizing a windfall until it reduces current taxes payable. The new guidance also changes the cash flow presentation of excess tax benefits, classifying them as operating inflows, consistent with other cash flows related to income taxes. Under prior guidance, windfalls were classified as financing activities. These changes may result in more volatile net earnings. Similarly, effective tax rates are subject to more variability since the new guidance reflects all tax benefit excesses and deficiencies in tax expense. Under prior practice, stock compensation generally did not impact the effective tax rate since any difference between compensation expense and the ultimate tax deduction was reflected in additional paid in capital. Also under the new guidance, excess tax benefits are no longer to be included in assumed proceeds from applying the treasury stock method when computing diluted earnings per share since they no longer are recognized in additional paid in capital. Consequently, the reduction to common stock equivalents for assumed purchases from proceeds are lower and the impact of common stock equivalents are more dilutive. For public companies, the amendments are effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2016, and interim periods within those annual periods. Thus, ASU 2016-09 was effective for FIS as of January 1, 2017. FIS applied prospectively the recording of excess tax benefits as income tax expense and the presentation of those benefits as an operating activity within the statement of cash flows and, therefore, prior periods have not been adjusted. During 2016, we recorded $32 million to consolidated equity as excess tax benefits from our stock plans.

In August 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-15 ("ASU 2016-15"), Statement of Cash Flows (Topic 230): Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments. The amendments are meant to reduce the diversity in how certain cash receipts and cash payments are presented in the statement of cash flows. ASU 2016-15 provides guidance as to the presentation on the statement of cash flows for eight specific cash flow issues, which are 1) debt prepayment for debt 

 44
extinguishment costs, 2) settlement of zero-coupon debt instruments or other debt instruments with coupon interest rates that are insignificant in relation to the effective interest rate of the borrowing, 3) contingent consideration payments made after a business combination, 4) proceeds for the settlement of insurance claims, 5) proceeds from the settlement of corporate-owned life insurance policies, including bank-owned life insurance policies, 6) distributions received from equity method investees, 7) beneficial interests in securitization transactions, and 8) separately identifiable cash flows and application of the predominance principle. For public companies, the amendments are effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2018, and interim periods within those annual periods beginning after December 15, 2019. Early adoption is permitted for any organization in any interim or annual period. FIS elected to adopt this standard in the third quarter of 2017. FIS has applied the presentation guidance above to its statements of cash flows and all adjustments have been reflected on a retrospective basis. The primary impact of adopting the new guidance is our 2017 presentation of debt prepayment and related costs being reflected in financing activities rather than operating activities. 

In August 2017, the FASB issued ASU No. 2017-12 ("ASU 2017-12"), Derivatives and Hedging (Topic 815) - Targeted Improvements to Accounting for Hedging Activities. The amendments were meant to improve the financial reporting of hedging relationships to better portray the economic results of an entity’s risk management activities in its financial statements. The amendments in this update also make certain targeted improvements to simplify the application of the hedge accounting guidance in current GAAP. ASU 2017-12 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within those fiscal years; the ASU allows for early adoption in any interim period after issuance of the update. FIS elected to adopt this standard as of January 1, 2018. The adoption of this ASU did not have an impact on the Company's Consolidated Financial Statements.

In March 2017, the FASB issued ASU No. 2017-07 ("ASU 2017-07"), Compensation - Retirement Benefits. The ASU improves the presentation of net periodic pension cost and net periodic postretirement benefit cost in the statements of operations. Under ASU 2017-07, the service cost component of the net periodic benefit cost is disclosed in the same income statement line item as other employee compensation costs arising from services rendered during the period, and the other components are reported separately from the line item that includes the service cost and outside of any subtotal of operating income. ASU 2017-07 is effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2017 and early adoption is permitted. FIS adopted the provisions of ASU 2017-07 as of January 1, 2018. As a result, there was no material effect on the Company's Consolidated Financial Statements.

In November 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-18 ("ASU 2016-18"), Statement of Cash Flows (Topic 230): Restricted Cash. ASU 2016-18 requires companies to include restricted amounts with Cash and cash equivalents when reconciling the beginning and end of period total amounts shown on the Statements of Cash Flows. FIS adopted the provisions of ASU 2016-18 as of January 1, 2018. As a result, there was no material effect on the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements.

In January 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-01 ("ASU 2016-01"), Recognition and Measurement of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities. ASU 2016-01 amends guidance on the classification and measurement of financial instruments, including significant revisions in accounting related to the classification and measurement of investments in equity securities and presentation of certain fair value changes for financial liabilities when the fair value option is elected. The amendment requires equity securities to be measured at fair value with changes in fair value recognized through net earnings and amends certain disclosure requirements associated with the fair value of financial instruments. In the period of adoption, the Company is required to reclassify the unrealized gains/losses on equity securities within accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) to retained earnings. In February 2018, the FASB issued ASU No. 2018-03, Technical Corrections and Improvements to Financial Instruments - Overall (Subtopic 825-10), which clarified certain aspects of the previously issued ASU. FIS adopted the provisions of ASU 2016-01 as of January 1, 2018. As a result, there was no material effect on the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements.

 In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU No. 2014-09 ("Topic 606"), Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606). Topic 606 amends substantially all authoritative literature for revenue recognition, including industry-specific requirements, and converges the guidance under this topic with that of the International Financial Reporting Standards. It also includes guidance on accounting for the incremental costs of obtaining and costs incurred to fulfill a contract with a customer. Topic 606 implements a five-step process for customer contract revenue recognition that focuses on transfer of control, as opposed to transfer of risk and rewards. Topic 606 also requires enhanced disclosures regarding the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows from contracts with customers. The FASB has issued several amendments to Topic 606, including further guidance on principal versus agent consideration, clarification on identifying performance obligations and accounting for licenses of intellectual property.

 45
The effective date of Topic 606 was postponed to reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2017, with early adoption allowed for reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2016. We adopted the new standard effective January 1, 2018.

Entities can transition to the standard with retrospective application to the earliest years presented in their financial statements, retrospectively using certain practical expedients, or with a cumulative-effect adjustment as of the date of adoption. We adopted the new standard using the retrospective method with the application of certain practical expedients. On May 10, 2018, the Company filed a Current Report on Form 8-K to recast its Consolidated Financial Statements for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2017 to reflect our retrospective application of ASU 2014-09. 

The largest impacts from the adoption of Topic 606 on our revenue recognition are related to the following areas:

•Certain revenues, particularly those related to interchange and third-party network fees associated with our payment processing business, previously recorded on a gross basis as a principal are now recorded on a net basis as an agent to the extent the Company does not control the good or service before it is transferred to the customer. 

•Recognition of certain term license early renewals are now deferred until the conclusion of the term in effect at the time of renewal. Previously, term license early renewals were generally recognized upon execution of the renewal agreement. 

•We now recognize the license portion of software rental fees in certain of our global trading, asset management, and securities processing businesses upon delivery. Previously, software license rental fees were recognized ratably over the rental period as the payments became due and payable.

Impacts related to other changes introduced by the standard were substantially less significant than those listed above.

Upon retrospective application of Topic 606, our revenue decreased by approximately $455 million and $410 million and net earnings decreased approximately $58 million and $43 million for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. For the year ended December 31, 2017, the net earnings decrease included additional tax expense of approximately $21 million due to the re-measurement of deferred tax assets. The impact of Topic 606 on our 2017 and 2016 operating results may or may not be representative of the impact on subsequent years’ results. We have not calculated the impact of Topic 606 on our 2018 operating results as compared to not applying Topic 606.

 Recent Accounting Guidance Not Yet Adopted  

On February 25, 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842), which requires lessees to recognize leases on-balance sheet and disclose key information about leasing arrangements. Topic 842 was subsequently amended by ASU No. 2018-01, Land Easement Practical Expedient for Transition to Topic 842; ASU No. 2018-10, Codification Improvements to Topic 842, Leases; ASU No. 2018-11, Targeted Improvements; and ASU No. 2018-20, Leases (Topic 842): Narrow-Scope Improvements for Lessors (collectively, the "new standard"). The new standard establishes a right-of-use model (ROU) that requires a lessee to recognize a ROU asset and lease liability on the balance sheet for all leases with a term longer than 12 months. Leases will be classified as finance or operating, with classification affecting the pattern and classification of expense recognition in the income statement. Under the new standard, lessor accounting is largely unchanged.

The new standard is effective for public business entities on January 1, 2019, with early adoption permitted. A modified retrospective transition approach is required, applying the new standard to all leases existing at the date of initial application. An entity may choose to use either (1) its effective date or (2) the beginning of the earliest comparative period presented in the financial statements as its date of initial application. If an entity chooses the second option, the transition requirements for existing leases also apply to leases entered into between the date of initial application and the effective date. The entity must also recast its comparative period financial statements and provide the disclosures required by the new standard for the comparative periods. We will adopt the new standard effective January 1, 2019 and use the effective date as our date of initial application. Consequently, financial information will not be updated and the disclosures required under the new standard will not be provided for dates and periods before January 1, 2019.

The new standard provides a number of optional practical expedients in transition. We expect to elect the "package of practical expedients," which permits us not to reassess under the new standard our prior conclusions about lease identification, lease classification and initial direct costs. We do not expect to elect the use-of-hindsight or the practical expedient pertaining to land easements. The new standard also provides practical expedients for an entity’s ongoing accounting. We currently expect to elect the practical expedient to not separate lease and non-lease components for all of our leases. We do not currently expect to elect the short-term lease recognition exemption. 

 46
We expect that this standard will have an immaterial effect on results of operations. While we continue to assess all of the effects of adoption, we currently believe the most significant effects relate to the recognition of new ROU assets and lease liabilities on our balance sheet for our real estate operating leases and providing new disclosures about our leasing activities. On adoption, we currently expect to recognize additional ROU assets and lease liabilities for operating leases ranging from $400 million to $500 million. 

 On June 16, 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-13 ("ASU 2016-13"), Financial Instruments - Credit Losses (Topic 326): Measurements on Credit Losses of Financial Instruments. This ASU was subsequently amended by ASU No. 2018-19, Codification Improvements to Topic 326, Financial Instruments - Credit Losses (collectively, "Topic 326"). The primary objectives of Topic 326 are to implement new methodology for calculating credit losses on financial instruments (e.g., trade receivables) based on expected credit losses and to broaden the types of information companies must use when calculating the estimated losses. Under current guidance, the credit losses are calculated based on multiple credit impairment objectives and recognition is delayed until the loss is probable to occur. Under the new guidance, financial assets measured at amortized cost basis must be shown as the net amount expected to be collected. The credit loss allowance is a contra-valuation account. Available-for-sale securities should continue to be recognized in a similar manner to current GAAP; however, the allowance should be presented as an allowance instead of a write-down of the basis of the asset. For public business entities, the amendments are effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2019, and interim periods within those annual periods. Early adoption is permitted for any organization in any interim or annual period beginning after December 15, 2018. We do not plan to early adopt and expect that the new guidance will not have a material impact on our financial statement presentation, financial position, or results of operations.

On August 29, 2018, the FASB issued ASU No. 2018-15 ("ASU 2018-15"), Intangibles - Goodwill and Other - Internal-Use Software (Subtopic 350-40): Customer’s Accounting for Implementation Costs Incurred in a Cloud Computing Arrangement That Is a Service Contract. This ASU clarifies that implementation costs incurred by customers in cloud computing arrangements should be deferred and recognized over the term of the arrangement, if those costs would be capitalized by the customer in a software licensing arrangement under the internal-use software guidance. The provisions in ASU 2018-15 should be applied either retrospectively or prospectively to all implementation costs incurred after the date of adoption. For public business entities, ASU 2018-15 is effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2019, and interim periods within those annual periods. Early adoption is permitted. We are currently assessing the impact the adoption of ASU 2018-15 will have on our financial position and results of operations.

Item 7A.Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risks