Item 7A: Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

Grainger may use financial instruments to reduce its exposure to adverse fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates as part of its overall risk management strategy. The derivative positions reduce risk by hedging certain underlying economic exposures. Because of the high correlation between the hedging instrument and the underlying exposure, fluctuations in the value of the instruments are generally offset by reciprocal changes in the value of the underlying exposure. Grainger does not enter into derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. 

Foreign Currency Exchange Rates

Grainger’s financial results, including the value of assets and liabilities, are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk when the financial statements of the business units, as stated in their local currencies, are translated into U.S. dollars. While it is difficult to quantify any particular impact of changes in exchange rates, a uniform 10% strengthening in the U.S. dollar (whereby all other variables are held constant and unusual expense items described in "Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" are excluded) would have resulted in a decrease in net earnings of $3 million for the year ended December 31, 2018, and an increase in net earnings of $1 million for the year ended December 31, 2017. Comparatively, a 10% weakening of the U.S. dollar would have resulted in an increase in net earnings of $3 million for the year ended December 31, 2018, and a decrease in net earnings of $2 million for the year ended December 31, 2017. This sensitivity analysis of the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates does not factor in future potential changes in sales levels or local currency prices or costs.

Commodity Price Risk

Grainger has limited primary exposure to commodity price risk on certain products for resale, but does not purchase commodities directly.

Item 8: Financial Statements and Supplementary Data