Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Harley-Davidson, Inc. is the parent company of the groups of companies doing business as Harley-Davidson Motor Company (HDMC) and Harley-Davidson Financial Services (HDFS). Unless the context otherwise requires, all references to the "Company" include Harley-Davidson, Inc. and all its subsidiaries. The Company operates in two reportable segments: Motorcycles and Related Products (Motorcycles) and Financial Services. 

The “% Change” figures included in the “Results of Operations” section were calculated using unrounded dollar amounts and may differ from calculations using the rounded dollar amounts presented. 

(1) Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements

The Company intends that certain matters discussed in this report are “forward-looking statements” intended to qualify for the safe harbor from liability established by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements can generally be identified as such by reference to this footnote or because the context of the statement will include words such as the Company “believes”, “anticipates”, “expects”, “plans”, or “estimates” or words of similar meaning. Similarly, statements that describe future plans, objectives, outlooks, targets, guidance or goals are also forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially, unfavorably or favorably, from those anticipated as of the date of this report. Certain of such risks and uncertainties are described in close proximity to such statements or elsewhere in this report, including under the caption “Risk Factors” in Item 1A and under “Cautionary Statements” in Item 7 of this report. Shareholders, potential investors, and other readers are urged to consider these factors in evaluating the forward-looking statements and cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements included in the Outlook section are only made as of January 29, 2019 and the remaining forward-looking statements in this report are only made as of the date of the filing of this report (February 28, 2019), and the Company disclaims any obligation to publicly update such forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.

Overview(1) 

The Company’s net income for 2018 was $531.5 million, or $3.19 per diluted share, compared to $521.8 million, or $3.02 per diluted share, in 2017. 

Operating income from the Motorcycles segment in 2018 was down $184.4 million compared to 2017 due primarily to lower wholesale motorcycle shipments and higher costs related to the impact of incremental tariffs, increased metals costs, voluntary recalls and restructuring activities. 

During 2018, incremental European Union and China tariffs were imposed on the Company's products shipped from the U.S., as well as U.S. incremental tariffs on certain items imported from certain international markets. The European Union tariffs on Harley-Davidson motorcycles exported from the U.S. increased from 6% to 31% effective June 22, 2018. By their current terms, these tariffs are scheduled to increase to 56% effective June 1, 2021. The China tariffs on Harley-Davidson products exported from the U.S. increased from 30% to 55%, effective August 23, 2018, and are set to remain in place indefinitely. The Company also experienced increased costs for metals resulting from U.S. steel and aluminum tariffs, but the Company does not refer to these costs as part of incremental tariffs.

Operating income from the Financial Services segment in 2018 was up $15.9 million or 5.8% compared to prior year, primarily due to higher revenues and a lower provision for credit losses. 

The overall decline in the Company's consolidated operating income during 2018 was more than offset by lower income tax expense which decreased $186.9 million in 2018 primarily due to the favorable impact of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (2017 Tax Act) enacted in December 2017.

Worldwide independent dealer retail sales of new Harley-Davidson motorcycles decreased 6.1% in 2018 compared to the prior year. U.S. retail sales fell 10.2% on continued weakness in the U.S. industry which declined 8.7% for the same period. Retail sales in international markets increased 0.4% compared to 2017. 

The Company expects the U.S. industry to remain challenged into 2019 and will continue to address these weak conditions. In the near-term, the Company is introducing exciting new products and adding innovation that customers value on its new motorcycles. The Company will continue to aggressively manage supply and execute marketing efforts to encourage motorcycle trials and increase the conversion of these trials into sales. The Company is also working to accelerate its strategy to build the next generation of Harley-Davidson riders through 2022 through its More Roads to Harley-Davidson (More Roads) plan. During 2018, it met or exceeded all of the More Roads plan milestones. The Company believes its More Roads plan is 

23

designed to build the proper foundation and drive the right fundamentals to help steer the U.S. industry back to health and drive significant growth across international markets. The Company ended 2018 with over 52,000 more Harley-Davidson riders in the U.S compared to prior year (Source: IHS Markit Motorcycles in Operation (MIO) data for On-Highway and Dual Purpose bikes in the U.S. as of Jan 1, 2019 compared to previous years of MIO back to 2002).

Outlook(1) 

On January 29, 2019 the Company announced the following expectations for 2019.

The Company expects the U.S. industry to continue to decline in 2019, but at a more tempered pace than in 2018. The Company expects international retail sales growth during 2019. As a result, in 2019, the Company expects to ship between 217,000 and 222,000 motorcycles to dealers which is down approximately 3% to 5% from 2018. 

During 2019, the Company expects retail sales to be positively impacted by: 

•Focused investment in its strategy to increase global ridership and strengthen its dealer network, 

•Model year 2019 and 2020 motorcycles, and 

•Continued expansion of the international dealer network.

However, it expects these positive impacts to be more than offset by strong headwinds, including: 

•A weak U.S. industry for new motorcycle sales, 

•A shift in U.S. rider preference toward smaller motorcycles, and 

•A marketplace crowded with highly competitive promotions, incentives and discounts.

In 2019, the Company will continue to aggressively manage supply in line with demand, and the Company expects year-end U.S. dealer inventory of new motorcycles to be down compared to 2018. 

The Company expects Motorcycles segment gross margin as a percent of revenue to be lower than 2018 driven by a significant increase in incremental tariffs, lower shipment volumes and unfavorable product mix, partially offset by aggressive cost reductions, including the benefit of $25 million to $30 million of savings from the Company's Manufacturing Optimization plan. Refer to "Restructuring Plan Costs and Savings" below for further information regarding the Manufacturing Optimization Plan.

Incremental tariffs include incremental European Union and China tariffs imposed on the Company's products shipped from the U.S., as well as incremental U.S. tariffs on certain items imported from certain international markets. Incremental tariff costs exclude metals cost resulting from the U.S. steel and aluminum tariffs, although the Company does expect higher metals cost which are included in the 2019 gross margin guidance above.

The Company's plant in Thailand came on-line in the third quarter of 2018. As previously disclosed with the announcement of this project in 2017, the Company intends to utilize the Thailand facility to make more of the Company's products accessible to customers in targeted international markets. The Company intends those markets to include China, and certain Asian and European Union markets. The Company is currently making investments to increase that facility’s capacity to serve those markets.

As previously disclosed, Harley-Davidson expects the impact of incremental tariff costs to be approximately $100 million to $120 million in 2019. While Harley-Davidson’s preference has always been to serve the EU market from its U.S. manufacturing operations, the Company previously disclosed plans to mitigate the impact of the incremental European Union and China tariffs by the end of 2019 by serving those markets with motorcycles from its Thailand operations. 

The Company is pursuing regulatory approval in the European Union to that end; however, approval is not guaranteed. As a result, the Company is considering multiple other options to serve the EU market should they be required. These other options to serve the EU market would most likely not mitigate the full impact of the current incremental European Union tariff by the end of 2019. 

The Company remains active in support of efforts to eliminate all tariffs imposed on motorcycles delivered from its U.S. manufacturing operations. 

24

The Company expects selling, administrative and engineering expenses for the Motorcycles segment to be lower in 2019 behind aggressive cost management and lower recall costs. For 2019, the Company has reallocated a substantial amount of spending to invest in its More Roads plan to drive future growth.

For 2019, the Motorcycles segment operating margin as a percent of revenue is expected to be between 8.0% and 9.0%. Based on its current plans, the Company expects Motorcycles segment operating income in 2020 to improve by approximately $170 to $200 million compared to 2019. This expectation assumes that the Company will complete its Manufacturing Optimization Plan and successfully execute its plan to mitigate the impact of incremental tariffs by the end of 2019.

The Company expects Financial Services operating income in 2019 to be down compared to 2018 driven by a higher cost of debt and higher depreciation associated with its 2018 investment in a new loan management system which went into service in January 2019.

Capital expenditures in 2019 are expected to be $225 million to $245 million, which includes approximately $20 million to support the Manufacturing Optimization Plan. The Company anticipates it will have the ability to fund all capital expenditures in 2019 with cash flows generated by operations.

The Company expects its 2019 full year effective tax rate will be approximately 24% to 25%. This guidance excludes the effect of potential future adjustments, including items associated with any potential new tax legislation or audit settlements. 

In the first quarter of 2019, the Company expects to ship between 53,000 and 58,000 motorcycles, which is down approximately 9% to 17% compared to the first quarter of 2018. Motorcycles segment operating margin as a percent of revenue is expected to be down approximately 6 percentage points compared to the first quarter of 2018. The Company expects results in the first quarter of 2019 to be adversely impacted by incremental tariffs, unfavorable product mix, a higher fixed cost per unit on lower production and shipments and unfavorable foreign currency, partially offset by lower restructuring costs.

The 2019 first quarter shipment guidance reflects the impact of a brake recall on the Company's Street motorcycles recorded in the fourth quarter of 2018. The Company expects that limited parts availability for repairing the impacted Street motorcycles will adversely impact retail sales in the first quarter of 2019 by approximately 2,500 motorcycles, primarily in international markets. The Company does not believe that the recall will have a meaningful impact on 2019 full-year retail sales.

Restructuring Plan Costs and Savings(1) 

In January 2018, the Company commenced a significant, multi-year Manufacturing Optimization Plan anchored by the consolidation of its final assembly plant in Kansas City, Missouri into its plant in York, Pennsylvania by mid-2019. As the operations are consolidated, the Company expects approximately 800 jobs will be eliminated with the closure of Kansas City operations and approximately 450 jobs will be added in York through 2019 (Manufacturing Optimization Plan). As part of the Manufacturing Optimization Plan, the Company will also close its wheel operations in Adelaide, Australia resulting in the elimination of approximately 90 jobs.

In November 2018, the Company implemented a workforce reorganization plan (Reorganization Plan). As a result, approximately 70 employees left the Company on an involuntary basis.

25

The following table summarizes the expected costs and savings associated with these restructuring plans.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The current Manufacturing Optimization Plan cost estimate has been revised down from the most recent estimate by $3 million and $23 million at the low and high ends of the range, respectively. In the first quarter of 2019, the Company expects Manufacturing Optimization Plan costs of approximately $20 million. 

The Company expects restructuring expenses for the Manufacturing Optimization Plan to include the cost of employee termination benefits, accelerated depreciation, and other project implementation costs of $40 million to $41 million, $51 million to $53 million, and $38 million to $40 million, respectively. Restructuring expenses for the Reorganization Plan will consist of the cost of employee termination benefits. The timing of cash payments for restructuring costs may not occur in the same fiscal period that the Company records the expense. Refer to Note 3 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information concerning restructuring expenses. 

The Company expects total capital expenditures of $65 million associated with the Manufacturing Optimization Plan through 2019, including $20 million in 2019. This is a decrease from the Company's most recent expectation of $75 million in capital expenditures.

Results of Operations 2018 Compared to 2017 

Consolidated Results 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Consolidated operating income was down 19.1% in 2018 driven by a decrease in operating income from the Motorcycles segment which was down $184.4 million compared to 2017. Operating income for the Financial Services segment increased by $15.9 million during 2018 as compared to 2017. Please refer to the “Motorcycles and Related Products Segment” and “Financial Services Segment” discussions following for a more detailed discussion of the factors affecting operating income.

26

Other income in 2018 was adversely impacted by higher amortization of actuarial losses following a 2018 first quarter remeasurement of the assets and obligations of the Company's qualified pension plan. Investment income was lower due to unfavorable changes in the fair value of marketable securities.

The effective income tax rate for 2018 was 22.6% compared to 39.6% for 2017. The lower effective income tax rate was primarily due to the impact of the 2017 Tax Act. The 2017 Tax Act reduced the federal corporate income tax rate beginning in 2018 from 35% to 21%. In addition, because the 2017 Tax Act was enacted in 2017, the Company was required to remeasure its net deferred tax assets in 2017. The impact of remeasuring the deferred tax asset balances combined with other adjustments related to the enactment of the 2017 Tax Act resulted in a non-cash income tax charge of $53.1 million in the fourth quarter of 2017. 

Diluted earnings per share were $3.19 in 2018, up 5.6% compared to 2017. Diluted earnings per share were positively impacted by the 1.9% increase in net income and also benefited from lower diluted weighted average shares outstanding. Diluted weighted average shares outstanding decreased from 172.9 million in 2017 to 166.5 million in 2018 driven by the Company's repurchases of common stock. Please refer to "Liquidity and Capital Resources" for additional information concerning the Company's share repurchase activity.

Motorcycle Retail Sales and Registration Data

Harley-Davidson Motorcycle Retail Sales(a) 

The following table includes retail unit sales of new Harley-Davidson motorcycles:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a)Data source for retail sales figures shown above is new sales warranty and registration information provided by Harley-Davidson dealers and compiled by the Company. The Company must rely on information that its dealers supply concerning new retail sales, and the Company does not regularly verify the information that its dealers supply. This information is subject to revision. 

(b)Includes Austria, Belgium, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Italy, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Norway, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland and the United Kingdom.

(c)Includes Japan, Australia, New Zealand and Korea. Prior period Asia Pacific retail sales have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation.

Retail sales of new Harley-Davidson motorcycles in the U.S. were down 10.2% in 2018. Overall, U.S. retail sales of new Harley-Davidson motorcycles were adversely impacted by the continued weak U.S. industry, which was down 8.7% compared to 2017. The Company believes that sales of new motorcycles continued to be adversely impacted by soft used motorcycle prices and a shift in rider preferences toward smaller displacement motorcycles. 

Prices for used Harley-Davidson motorcycles in the U.S. remained at near historical low levels compared to new; however, the Company is encouraged by positive momentum in used motorcycle pricing. During 2018, third-party pricing services continued to publish higher retail values year-over-year for used Harley-Davidson motorcycles. Wholesale prices of 

27

used Harley-Davidson motorcycles at auction were also up during most of 2018 before falling slightly below year-ago levels in the fourth quarter. Additionally, for the sixth consecutive quarter, prices of used Harley-Davidson motorcycles in the Company's dealer network were higher in the fourth quarter of 2018 than the prior year quarter. 

Retail sales of used Harley-Davidson motorcycles in the U.S. were up through November 2018 compared to the prior year. Additionally, the share of combined new and used motorcycle registrations in the U.S. attributable to Harley-Davidson motorcycles was up in 2018 through November and has been up for the last 9 consecutive years. (Source for data regarding used motorcycle sales: IHS Markit Used Registrations for On-Highway and Dual Purpose motorcycles with engines 601+cc in the U.S. from 2008 through November 2018). While the Company does not benefit directly from sales of used motorcycles, the Company believes used motorcycle sales are an indicator of brand health and provide prospects for future new motorcycle sales.

The Company's U.S. market share of new 601+cc motorcycles for 2018 was 49.7%, down 1.0 percentage points compared to 2017 (Source: Motorcycle Industry Council). The Company's U.S. market share reflects the adverse impact of a highly competitive marketplace and relatively strong growth in segments in which the Company does not currently compete. In the segments in which the Company does compete (Touring and Cruiser), which represent approximately 70% of the 601+cc market, the Company's market share was up 0.8 percentage points on a full-year basis.

International retail sales of new Harley-Davidson motorcycles were up 0.4% in 2018. Retail sales in emerging markets were up 9.8% partially offset by lower retail sales in developed markets, which declined 2.7% during 2018. In developed markets, retail sales grew in western Europe; however, retail sales in Japan and Australia were down behind contracting industry sales and competitive new product introductions in segments outside of the Touring and Cruiser segments. Retail sales in Canada were also down 3.9% in 2018. 

The Company continued to expand its international dealer network during 2018, opening 56 new dealers during the year. The Company remains confident in and committed to the significant potential that international markets offer to Harley-Davidson. The Company believes it has the brand, products and distribution to drive sustainable growth in international markets.(1) 

Motorcycle Registration Data - 601+cc(a) 

The following table includes industry retail motorcycle registration data: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a)Data includes on-road 601+cc models. On-road 601+cc models include dual purpose models, three-wheeled motorcycles and autocycles. Registration data for Harley-Davidson Street® 500 motorcycles is not included in this table.

(b)United States industry data is derived from information provided by Motorcycle Industry Council (MIC). This third-party data is subject to revision and update.

(c)Europe data includes Austria, Belgium, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Italy, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Norway, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, and the United Kingdom. Industry retail motorcycle registration data includes 601+cc models derived from information provided by Association des Constructeurs Europeens de Motocycles (ACEM), an independent agency. This third-party data is subject to revision and update.

28

Motorcycles and Related Products Segment

Motorcycle Unit Shipments

The following table includes wholesale motorcycle unit shipments for the Motorcycles segment: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

During 2018, wholesale shipments of Harley-Davidson motorcycles were down 5.3% compared to the prior year in line with a 6.1% decrease in dealer retail sales of new Harley-Davidson motorcycles. International shipments as a percentage of total shipments were up in 2018 as compared to 2017. Shipments of Touring motorcycles increased as a percentage of total shipments in 2018 offset by declines in Cruiser and Sportster/Street motorcycles. Dealer inventory of new Harley-Davidson motorcycles in the U.S. at the end of 2018 was down approximately 350 motorcycles compared to the end of 2017. 

Segment Results

The following table includes the condensed statements of operations for the Motorcycles segment (in thousands): 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a)In connection with the adoption of ASU 2014-09, the Company has changed its presentation of disaggregated Motorcycles segment revenue and the prior period has been recast to reflect the new presentation. 

29

The following table includes the estimated impact of significant factors affecting the comparability of net revenue, cost of goods sold and gross profit from 2017 to 2018 (in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The following factors affected the comparability of net revenue, cost of goods sold and gross profit from 2017 to 2018:

•The decrease in volume was due to lower wholesale motorcycle shipments, as well as lower P&A and general merchandise sales. P&A and general merchandise sales were down due in large part to lower motorcycle shipments and lower retail motorcycle sales.

•On average, wholesale prices for motorcycles shipped in 2018 were higher than in the prior year resulting in a favorable impact on revenue. The positive impact on revenue was partially offset by increased costs related to the additional content added to motorcycles shipped in 2018 as compared to the prior year. 

•The favorable revenue impact from foreign currency was partially offset by higher net foreign currency losses due primarily to the remeasurement of foreign-denominated balance sheet accounts, as compared to the prior year.

•Shipment mix changes resulted in a positive impact on gross profit resulting from favorable changes in the mix of

motorcycle families, as well as the mix of models within motorcycle families.

•Raw material prices were higher primarily due to increased steel and aluminum costs which includes the impacts of U.S. tariffs on steel and aluminum imports.

•Manufacturing and other costs were negatively impacted by lower fixed cost absorption due to lower production, higher depreciation, the impact of incremental tariffs and temporary inefficiencies associated with the Manufacturing Optimization Plan. In 2018, the impact of incremental tariffs was $23.7 million.

Operating expenses were up compared to 2017 due to higher recall costs and increased spending on growth initiatives, as well as $93.4 million of restructuring expense related primarily to the Manufacturing Optimization Plan.

Financial Services Segment

Segment Results

The following table includes the condensed statements of operations for the Financial Services segment (in thousands): 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Interest income was favorable in 2018 primarily due to higher average retail receivables.

30

Interest expense increased due to a higher cost of funds and higher average outstanding debt.

The provision for credit losses decreased $25.6 million compared to 2017. The retail motorcycle provision decreased $27.1 million driven by a decrease in the retail reserve rate, as a result of lower retail credit losses, compared to an increase in the reserve rate during 2017. This favorability was partially offset by a larger increase in retail receivables compared to 2017. The wholesale provision increased $1.9 million as a result of an increase in the wholesale reserve rate.

Annual losses on the Company's retail motorcycle loans were 1.76% during 2018 compared to 1.90% in 2017. The 30-day delinquency rate for retail motorcycle loans at December 31, 2018 decreased to 4.12% from 4.21% at December 31, 2017. 

Operating expenses increased $12.8 million compared to 2017 driven primarily by higher shared services and employee-related expenses.

Changes in the allowance for credit losses on finance receivables were as follows (in thousands): 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

At December 31, 2018, the allowance for credit losses on finance receivables was $182.1 million for retail receivables and $7.8 million for wholesale receivables. At December 31, 2017, the allowance for credit losses on finance receivables was $186.3 million for retail receivables and $6.2 million for wholesale receivables. 

The Company's periodic evaluation of the adequacy of the allowance for credit losses on finance receivables is generally based on the Company's past loan loss experience, known and inherent risks in the portfolio, current economic conditions and the estimated value of any underlying collateral. Please refer to Note 7 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion regarding the Company’s allowance for credit losses on finance receivables.

Results of Operations 2017 Compared to 2016 

Consolidated Results 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Consolidated operating income was down 15.7% in 2017 driven by a decrease in operating income from the Motorcycles segment which decreased by $164.0 million compared to 2016. Operating income for the Financial Services segment in 2017 was slightly lower than the prior year, decreasing $0.2 million as compared to 2016. Please refer to the “Motorcycles and Related Products Segment” and “Financial Services Segment” discussions following for a more detailed discussion of the factors affecting operating income.

The effective income tax rate for 2017 was 39.6% compared to 32.4% for 2016. The higher effective income tax rate was primarily due to the impact of the 2017 Tax Act. The 2017 Tax Act reduced the federal corporate income tax rate beginning in 2018 from 35% to 21% and resulted in a remeasurement of net deferred tax assets in the fourth quarter of 2017. The impact of remeasuring the deferred tax asset balances combined with other adjustments related to the enactment of the 2017 Tax Act resulted in a non-cash income tax charge of $53.1 million in the fourth quarter of 2017.

31

Diluted earnings per share were $3.02 in 2017, down 21.1% compared to 2016. Diluted earnings per share were adversely impacted by the 24.6% decrease in net income, but benefited from lower diluted weighted average shares outstanding. Diluted weighted average shares outstanding decreased from 180.5 million in 2016 to 172.9 million in 2017 driven by the Company's repurchases of common stock. 

Motorcycles Retail Sales and Registration Data

Harley-Davidson Motorcycle Retail Sales(a) 

The following table includes retail unit sales of Harley-Davidson motorcycles: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a)Data source for retail sales figures shown above is new sales warranty and registration information provided by Harley-Davidson dealers and compiled by the Company. The Company must rely on information that its dealers supply concerning new retail sales and the Company does not regularly verify the information that its dealers supply. This information is subject to revision.

(b)Includes Austria, Belgium, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Italy, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Norway, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland and the United Kingdom.

(c)Includes Japan, Australia, New Zealand and Korea. Prior period Asia Pacific retail sales have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation

Retail sales of new Harley-Davidson motorcycles in the U.S. were down 8.5% in 2017, adversely impacted by a weak U.S. industry, which was down 7.3% compared to 2016. The Company's U.S. market share of 601+cc motorcycles for 2017 was 50.7%, down 0.5 percentage points compared to 2016 (Source: Motorcycle Industry Council). 

International retail sales of new Harley-Davidson motorcycles were down 3.9% in 2017. In EMEA, retail sales in Europe were down slightly from 2016 while other EMEA markets decreased 12.4% behind softness in emerging markets including Russia, Middle East and South Africa. In Asia Pacific, retail sales were down compared to 2016 on softness in Japan and Australia and lower retail sales in emerging markets compared to 2016. Retail sales in Latin America during 2017 were down on softness in Mexico partially offset by an increase in Brazil. Canada retail sales were down slightly from the prior year.

Motorcycle Registration Data - 601+cc(a) 

The following table includes industry retail motorcycle registration data:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

32

(a)Data includes on-road 601+cc models. On-road 601+cc models include dual purpose models, three-wheeled motorcycles and autocycles. Registration data for Harley-Davidson Street® 500 motorcycles is not included in this table.

(b)United States industry data is derived from information provided by Motorcycle Industry Council (MIC). This third-party data is subject to revision and update. 

(c)Europe data includes Austria, Belgium, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Italy, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Norway, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, and the United Kingdom. Industry retail motorcycle registration data includes 601+cc models derived from information provided by Association des Constructeurs Europeens de Motocycles (ACEM), an independent agency. This third-party data is subject to revision and update.

Motorcycles and Related Products Segment

Motorcycle Unit Shipments

The following table includes wholesale motorcycle unit shipments for the Motorcycles segment: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

During 2017, wholesale shipments of Harley-Davidson motorcycles were down 7.9% compared to the prior year, slightly more than the 6.7% decrease in dealer retail sales of new Harley-Davidson motorcycles. International shipments as a percentage of the total were up slightly in 2017 as compared to 2016. Shipments of Cruiser motorcycles increased as a percentage of total shipments in 2017 behind the launch of the new model-year 2018 Softail motorcycles. The Softail motorcycle platform was completely redesigned for model-year 2018 and merged the former Softail and Dyna platforms. Dealer inventory of new Harley-Davidson motorcycles in the U.S. at the end of 2017 was down approximately 3,000 motorcycles compared to the end of 2016. 

33

Segment Results

The following table includes the condensed statements of operations for the Motorcycles segment (in thousands): 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a)In connection with the adoption of ASU 2014-09, the Company has changed its presentation of disaggregated Motorcycles segment revenue and the prior period has been recast to reflect the new presentation. 

The following table includes the estimated impact of the significant factors affecting the comparability of net revenue, cost of goods sold and gross profit from 2016 to 2017 (in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The following factors affected the comparability of net revenue, cost of goods sold and gross profit from 2016 to 2017:

•The decrease in volume was due to lower wholesale motorcycle shipments, as well as lower P&A and general merchandise sales. P&A and general merchandise sales were down due in large part to lower motorcycle shipments and lower retail motorcycle sales.

•On average, wholesale prices for motorcycles shipped in 2017 were higher than in the prior year resulting in a favorable impact on revenue. The positive impact on revenue was partially offset by increased costs related to the additional content added to motorcycles shipped in 2017 as compared to last year.

•Revenue was positively impacted by slightly stronger weighted-average foreign currency rates, relative to the U.S. dollar, as compared to last year. In addition, cost was favorably impacted by a higher net gain resulting from the remeasurement of foreign-denominated balance sheet accounts net of losses incurred on hedging activities, as compared to last year.

•Shipment mix changes resulted in a negative impact on gross profit resulting from unfavorable changes in the mix of models within motorcycle families as well as changes in P&A product mix.

•Raw material prices were higher due primarily to increased steel and aluminum costs.

•Manufacturing costs were negatively impacted by lower fixed cost absorption due to lower production volumes, higher model-year startup costs and higher depreciation.

34

Operating expense which consists of selling, administrative and engineering expenses, was down compared to 2016 due primarily to aggressive cost management and lower employee costs. 

Financial Services Segment

Segment Results

The following table includes the condensed statements of operations for the Financial Services segment (in thousands): 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Interest income was favorable in 2017 due to higher average retail receivables partially offset by lower average wholesale receivables and lower average yields across the portfolios. Other income was favorable due to increased licensing revenue and investment income. Securitization and servicing income was lower primarily due to a $9.3 million gain on the sale of finance receivables recognized as a result of a 2016 off-balance sheet asset-backed securitization. There was no comparable transaction in 2017.

Interest expense increased due to a higher cost of funds, partially offset by lower average outstanding debt.

The provision for credit losses decreased $4.2 million compared to 2016. The retail motorcycle provision decreased $6.5 million during 2017 as a result of a smaller increase in the retail reserve rate and lower receivables partially offset by higher retail credit losses. Credit losses were higher as a result of unfavorable performance across the retail motorcycle portfolio. The wholesale provision increased $1.0 million due to a smaller decrease in the wholesale reserve rate compared to 2016.

Annual losses on the Company's retail motorcycle loans were 1.90% during 2017 compared to 1.83% in 2016. The 30-day delinquency rate for retail motorcycle loans at December 31, 2017 decreased to 4.21% from 4.25% at December 31, 2016. 

Changes in the allowance for credit losses on finance receivables were as follows (in thousands): 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a)Related to the sale of finance receivables during 2016 with a principal balance of $301.8 million through an off-balance sheet asset-backed securitization transaction (see Note 12 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information).

At December 31, 2017, the allowance for credit losses on finance receivables was $186.3 million for retail receivables and $6.2 million for wholesale receivables. At December 31, 2016, the allowance for credit losses on finance receivables was $166.8 million for retail receivables and $6.5 million for wholesale receivables.

The Company's periodic evaluation of the adequacy of the allowance for credit losses on finance receivables is generally based on the Company's past loan loss experience, known and inherent risks in the portfolio, current economic conditions and the estimated value of any underlying collateral. 

35

Other Matters

New Accounting Standards Not Yet Adopted

Refer to Note 1 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of new accounting standards that will become effective for the Company in 2019 and 2020.

Critical Accounting Estimates

The Company’s financial statements are based on the selection and application of significant accounting policies, which require management to make significant estimates and assumptions. Management believes that the following are some of the more critical judgment areas in the application of accounting policies that currently affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Management has discussed the development and selection of these critical accounting estimates with the Audit and Finance Committee of the Board of Directors.

Allowance for Credit Losses on Retail Finance Receivables – The allowance for uncollectible accounts is maintained at a level management believes is adequate to cover the losses of principal in the existing retail finance receivables portfolio. 

The retail portfolio consists of a large number of small balance, homogeneous finance receivables. The Company performs a periodic and systematic collective evaluation of the adequacy of the retail allowance. The Company utilizes loss forecast models which consider a variety of factors including, but not limited to, historical loss trends, origination or vintage analysis, known and inherent risks in the portfolio, the value of the underlying collateral, recovery rates and current economic conditions including items such as unemployment rates.

Product Warranty and Recalls – Estimated warranty costs are accrued at the time of sale and are based on a combination of historical claim cost data and other known factors that may affect future warranty claims. The estimated costs associated with voluntary recalls are accrued in the period that management approves and commits to the recall. The accrued cost of a recall is based on an estimate of the cost to repair each affected motorcycle and the number of motorcycles expected to be repaired based on historical data concerning the percentage of affected customers that take advantage of recall offers. In the case of both warranty and recall costs, as actual experience becomes available it is used to update the accruals. 

The factors affecting actual warranty and recall costs can be volatile. As a result, actual warranty claims experience and recall costs may differ from estimates, which could lead to material changes in the Company’s accrued warranty and recall costs. The Company’s warranty and recall liabilities are discussed further in Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

Pensions and Other Postretirement Healthcare Benefits – The Company has a defined benefit pension plan and postretirement healthcare benefit plans, which cover employees of the Motorcycles segment. The Company also has unfunded supplemental employee retirement plan agreements (SERPA) with certain employees, which were instituted to replace benefits lost under the Tax Revenue Reconciliation Act of 1993.

U.S. GAAP requires that companies recognize in their statement of financial position a liability for defined benefit pension and postretirement plans that are underfunded or an asset for defined benefit pension and postretirement benefit plans that are overfunded.

Pension, SERPA and postretirement healthcare obligations and costs are calculated through actuarial valuations. The valuation of benefit obligations and net periodic benefit costs relies on key assumptions including discount rates, mortality, long-term expected return on plan assets, future compensation and healthcare cost trend rates.

The Company determines its discount rate assumptions by referencing high-quality long-term bond rates that are matched to the duration of its own benefit obligations. Based on this analysis, the Company increased the weighted-average discount rate for pension and SERPA obligations from 3.71% as of December 31, 2017 to 4.38% as of December 31, 2018. The Company increased the weighted-average discount rate for postretirement healthcare obligations from 3.52% to 4.23%. The Company determines its healthcare trend assumption for the postretirement healthcare obligation by considering factors such as estimated healthcare inflation, the utilization of healthcare benefits and changes in the health of plan participants. Based on the Company’s assessment of this data as of December 31, 2018, the Company set its healthcare cost trend rate at 6.75% as of December 31, 2018. The Company expects the healthcare cost trend rate to reach its ultimate rate of 5.00% by 2026.(1) These assumption changes were reflected immediately in the benefit obligation and will be amortized into net periodic benefit costs over future periods.

36

Plan assets are measured at fair value and are subject to market volatility. In estimating the expected return on plan assets, the Company considers the historical returns on plan assets, adjusted to reflect the current view of the long-term investment market.

Changes in the funded status of defined benefit pension and postretirement benefit plans resulting from the difference between assumptions and actual results are initially recognized in other comprehensive income and amortized to expense over future periods. The following information is provided to illustrate the sensitivity of pension and postretirement healthcare obligations and costs to changes in these major assumptions (in thousands): 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

This information should not be viewed as predictive of future amounts. The analysis of the impact of a 1% change in the table above does not take into account the cost related to special termination benefits. The calculation of pension, SERPA and postretirement healthcare obligations and costs is based on many factors in addition to those discussed here. This information should be considered in combination with the information provided in Note 14 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

Income Taxes – The Company accounts for income taxes in accordance with ASC Topic 740, Income Taxes (Topic 740). Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax consequences attributable to differences between financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases and operating loss and other loss carryforwards. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled.

The Company is subject to income taxes in the U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions. These tax laws and regulations are complex and significant judgment is required in determining the Company’s worldwide provision for income taxes and recording the related deferred tax assets and liabilities. 

In the ordinary course of the Company’s business, there are transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Accruals for unrecognized tax benefits are provided for in accordance with the requirements of Topic 740. An unrecognized tax benefit represents the difference between the recognition of benefits related to items for income tax reporting purposes and financial reporting purposes. The unrecognized tax benefit is included within other long-term liabilities in the consolidated balance sheets. The Company has a liability for interest and penalties on exposure items, if applicable, which is recorded as a component of the overall income tax provision. The Company is regularly audited by tax authorities as a normal course of business. Although the outcome of tax audits is always uncertain, the Company believes that it has appropriate support for the positions taken on its tax returns and that its annual tax provision includes amounts sufficient to pay any assessments. Nonetheless, the amounts ultimately paid, if any, upon resolution of the issues raised by the taxing authorities may differ materially from the amounts accrued for each year.

Contractual Obligations

A summary of the Company’s expected payments for significant contractual obligations as of December 31, 2018 is as follows (in thousands): 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Interest for floating rate instruments assumes December 31, 2018 rates remain constant.

37

As of December 31, 2018, the Company generally had no significant purchase obligations, other than those created in the ordinary course of business. Purchase orders issued for inventory and supplies used in product manufacturing generally do not become firm commitments until 90 days prior to expected delivery and can be modified to a certain extent until 30 days prior to expected delivery.

The Company has long-term obligations related to its pension, SERPA and postretirement healthcare plans at December 31, 2018. The Company’s retirement plan obligations and expected future contributions and payments related to these plans are provided in Note 14 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

As described in Note 4 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, the Company has unrecognized tax benefits of $61.4 million and accrued interest and penalties of $27.7 million as of December 31, 2018. However, the Company cannot make a reasonably reliable estimate of the period of cash settlement for either the liability for unrecognized tax benefits or accrued interest and penalties.

Commitments and Contingencies

The Company is subject to lawsuits and other claims related to environmental, product and other matters. In determining costs to accrue related to these items, the Company carefully analyzes cases and considers the likelihood of adverse judgments or outcomes, as well as the potential range of possible loss. Any amounts accrued for these matters are monitored on an ongoing basis and are updated based on new developments or new information as it becomes available for each matter.

Environmental Protection Agency Notice:

In December 2009, the Company received formal, written requests for information from the United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) regarding: (i) certificates of conformity for motorcycle emissions and related designations and labels, (ii) aftermarket parts, and (iii) warranty claims on emissions related components. The Company promptly submitted written responses to the EPA’s inquiry and has engaged in information exchanges and discussions with the EPA. In August 2016, the Company entered into a consent decree with the EPA regarding these issues, and the consent decree was subsequently revised in July 2017 (the Settlement). In the Settlement, the Company agreed to, among other things, pay a fine, and not sell tuning products unless they are approved by the EPA or California Air Resources Board. In December 2017, the EPA filed the Settlement with the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia for the purpose of obtaining court approval of the Settlement. Three amicus briefs opposing portions of the Settlement were filed with the court by the deadline of January 31, 2018. On March 1, 2018, the Company and the EPA each filed separate response briefs. The Company is awaiting the court's decision on whether or not to finalize the Settlement. The Company has an accrual associated with this matter which is included in accrued liabilities in the consolidated balance sheets, and as a result, if it is finalized, the Settlement would not have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition or results of operations. The Settlement is not final until it is approved by the court, and if it is not approved by the court, the Company cannot reasonably estimate the impact of any remedies the EPA might seek beyond the Company's current reserve for this matter.

York Environmental Matters:

The Company is involved with government agencies and groups of potentially responsible parties related to a matter involving the cleanup of soil and groundwater contamination at its York, Pennsylvania facility. The York facility was formerly used by the U.S. Navy and AMF prior to the purchase of the York facility by the Company from AMF in 1981. The Company has been working with the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection (PADEP) since 1986 and with the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) in undertaking environmental investigation and remediation activities, including a site-wide remedial investigation/feasibility study (RI/FS).

In January 1995, the Company entered into a settlement agreement (the Agreement) with the Navy, and the parties amended the Agreement in 2013 to address ordnance and explosive waste. The Agreement calls for the Navy and the Company to contribute amounts into a trust equal to 53% and 47%, respectively, of costs associated with environmental investigation and remediation activities at the York facility (Response Costs). The trust administers the payment of the Response Costs incurred at the York facility as covered by the Agreement.

The Company has an accrual for its estimate of its share of the future Response Costs at the York facility which is included in other long-term liabilities in the consolidated balance sheets. While the work on the RI/FS is now complete and the final remedy was proposed in late 2018, it has not yet been approved, and given the uncertainty that exists concerning the nature and scope of additional environmental remediation that may ultimately be required under the approved final remedy, the Company is unable to make a reasonable estimate of those additional costs, if any, that may result.

38

The estimate of the Company's future Response Costs that will be incurred at the York facility is based on reports of independent environmental consultants retained by the Company, the actual costs incurred to date, and the estimated costs to complete the necessary investigation and remediation activities.

Product Liability Matters:

The Company is involved in product liability suits related to the operation of its business. The Company accrues for claim exposures that are probable of occurrence and can be reasonably estimated. The Company also maintains insurance coverage for product liability exposures. The Company believes that its accruals and insurance coverage are adequate and that product liability suits will not have a material adverse effect on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.(1) 

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

The Company participates in asset-backed financing both through asset-backed securitization transactions and through asset-backed commercial paper conduit facilities. In the Company's asset-backed financing programs, the Company transfers retail motorcycle finance receivables to special purpose entities (SPE), which are considered Variable Interest Entities (VIE) under U.S. GAAP. Each SPE then converts those assets into cash, through the issuance of debt. The Company retains servicing rights for all of the retail motorcycle finance receivables transferred to SPEs as part of an asset-backed financing. 

The SPEs are separate legal entities that assume the risks and rewards of ownership of the retail motorcycle finance receivables they hold. The assets of the VIEs are not available to pay other obligations or claims of the Company’s creditors. The Company’s economic exposure related to the VIEs is generally limited to restricted cash reserve accounts, retained interests and ordinary representations and warranties and related covenants. The VIEs have a limited life and generally terminate upon final distribution of amounts owed to investors.

The accounting treatment for asset-backed financings depends on the terms of the related transaction and the Company’s continuing involvement with the VIE. Most of the Company’s asset-backed financings do not meet the criteria to be treated as a sale for accounting purposes because, in addition to retaining servicing rights, the Company retains a financial interest in the VIE in the form of a debt security. These transactions are treated as secured borrowings. As secured borrowings, the retail motorcycle finance receivables remain on the balance sheet with a corresponding obligation reflected as debt.

During the second quarter of 2016, the Company sold finance receivables with a principal balance of $301.8 million into a securitization VIE. The transaction met the criteria to be treated as a sale for accounting purposes and resulted in an off-balance sheet arrangement because the Company did not retain any financial interest in the VIE beyond servicing rights and ordinary representations and warranties and related covenants. Upon sale, the retail motorcycle finance receivables were removed from the Company’s balance sheet and a gain of $9.3 million was recognized in Financial Services revenue. For more information, see Note 12 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

Liquidity and Capital Resources as of December 31, 2018 

Over the long-term, the Company expects that its business model will continue to generate cash that will allow it to invest in the business, fund future growth opportunities and return value to shareholders.(1) The Company believes the Motorcycles operations will continue to be primarily funded through cash flows generated by operations.(1) The Company’s Financial Services operations will continue to be funded with unsecured debt, unsecured commercial paper, asset-backed commercial paper conduit facilities, committed unsecured bank facilities and asset-backed securitizations.

39

The Company’s strategy is to maintain a minimum of twelve months of its projected liquidity needs through a combination of cash and cash equivalents and availability under credit facilities. The following table summarizes the Company’s cash and cash equivalents and availability under credit and conduit facilities (in thousands):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a)Includes facilities expiring in the next twelve months which the Company expects to renew prior to expiration.(1) 

The Company recognizes that it must continue to adjust its business to changes in the lending environment. The Company intends to continue with a diversified funding profile through a combination of short-term and long-term funding vehicles and to pursue a variety of sources to obtain cost-effective funding.(1) The Financial Services operations could be negatively affected by higher costs of funding and the increased difficulty of raising, or potential inability to raise, funding in the short-term and long-term capital markets.(1) These negative consequences could in turn adversely affect the Company’s business and results of operations in various ways, including through higher costs of capital, reduced funds available through its Financial Services operations to provide loans to independent dealers and their retail customers, and dilution to existing shareholders through the use of alternative sources of capital.

Cash Flow Activity

The following table summarizes the cash flow activity of continuing operations for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 (in thousands): 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Operating Activities

The increase in operating cash flow in 2018 compared to 2017 was primarily due to favorable changes in working capital and lower cash outflows for retirement plans. There were no voluntary or required qualified pension plan or postretirement healthcare plan contributions in 2018. In 2017, the Company voluntarily contributed $25.0 million to its qualified pension plan and $15.0 million to its postretirement healthcare plans. The Company expects that no qualified pension plan contributions will be required in 2019.(1) The Company also expects that 2019 postretirement healthcare plan benefits and benefits due under the SERPA will be paid by the Company or funded with plan assets.(1) The Company’s expected future contributions and benefit payments related to these plans are provided in Note 14 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.(1) 

The decrease in operating cash flow in 2017 compared to 2016 was due primarily to lower net income, unfavorable changes in working capital and higher retirement plan contributions. These negative impacts were partially offset by lower net cash outflows for wholesale lending. 

Investing Activities

40

The Company’s investing activities consist primarily of capital expenditures, net changes in retail finance receivables and short-term investment activity. Capital expenditures were $213.5 million, $206.3 million and $256.3 million during 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively.

Net cash outflows for finance receivables in 2018, which consisted primarily of retail finance receivables, were $63.5 million higher than 2017 primarily as a result of an increase in retail motorcycle loan originations during 2018. Conversely, 2017 net cash outflows for finance receivables were $125.8 million lower than 2016 primarily due to lower retail motorcycle loan originations during 2017.

Cash (outflow) / inflow from purchases and maturities of marketable securities were $(10.0) million, $6.9 million and $40.0 million in 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively.

During 2016, the Company completed a sale of finance receivables through an off-balance sheet asset-backed securitization. The proceeds from the sale of finance receivables, which positively impacted cash flow, were $312.6 million. There were no comparable transactions in 2018 or 2017.

Financing Activities

The Company’s financing activities consist primarily of dividend payments, share repurchases and debt activity.

The Company paid dividends of $1.48 per share totaling $245.8 million during 2018, $1.46 per share totaling $251.9 million during 2017 and $1.40 per share totaling $252.3 million during 2016.

Cash outflows from share repurchases were $390.6 million, $465.3 million and $465.3 million for 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively. Share repurchases during 2018, 2017 and 2016 included 9.4 million, 8.8 million and 9.9 million shares of common stock, respectively, related to discretionary share repurchases and shares of common stock that employees surrendered to satisfy withholding taxes in connection with the vesting of restricted stock awards. As of December 31, 2018, there were 16.4 million shares remaining on board-approved share repurchase authorizations.

Financing cash flows related to debt activity resulted in net cash inflows / (outflows) of $618.1 million, $155.5 million and $(78.3) million for 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively. The Company’s total outstanding debt consisted of the following as of December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 (in thousands): 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

To access the debt capital markets, the Company relies on credit rating agencies to assign short-term and long-term credit ratings. Generally, lower credit ratings result in higher borrowing costs and reduced access to debt capital markets. A credit rating agency may change or withdraw the Company’s ratings based on its assessment of the Company’s current and future ability to meet interest and principal repayment obligations. The Company’s short-term debt ratings affect its ability to issue unsecured commercial paper. The Company’s short- and long-term debt ratings as of December 31, 2018 were as follows: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Credit Facilities – In April 2018, the Company entered into a $780.0 million five-year credit facility to replace the $675.0 million five-year credit facility that was due to mature in April 2019 and also terminated the $100.0 million 364-day credit facility that would have matured at the end of April 2018. The new five-year credit facility matures in April 2023. The Company also has a $765.0 million five-year credit facility which matures in April 2021. The two five-year credit facilities (together, the Global Credit Facilities) bear interest at variable rates, which may be adjusted upward or downward depending on certain criteria, such as credit ratings. The Global Credit Facilities also require the Company to pay a fee based on the average 

41

daily unused portion of the aggregate commitments under the Global Credit Facilities. The Global Credit Facilities are committed facilities primarily used to support the Company's unsecured commercial paper program. In May 2018, the Company renewed its $25.0 million 364-day credit facility that was due to mature that month. The $25.0 million credit facility bears interest at variable interest rates, and the Company pays a fee based on the unused portion of the $25.0 million commitment. This credit facility matures in May 2019. 

Unsecured Commercial Paper – Subject to limitations, the Company could issue unsecured commercial paper of up to $1.55 billion as of December 31, 2018 supported by the Global Credit Facilities, as discussed above. Outstanding unsecured commercial paper may not exceed the unused portion of the Global Credit Facilities. Maturities may range up to 365 days from the issuance date. The Company intends to repay unsecured commercial paper as it matures with additional unsecured commercial paper or through other means, such as borrowing under the Global Credit Facilities, borrowing under its asset-backed U.S. commercial paper conduit facilities or through the use of operating cash flow and cash on hand.(1) 

Medium-Term Notes – The Company has the following medium-term notes (collectively, the Notes) issued and outstanding at December 31, 2018 (in thousands): 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a)Floating interest rate based on LIBOR plus 35 bps.

(b)Floating interest rate based on LIBOR plus 50 bps. The Company utilized an interest rate swap designated as a cash flow hedge to convert this from a floating rate basis to a fixed rate basis. Refer to Note 10 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further details. 

(c)Floating interest rate based on LIBOR plus 94 bps. The Company utilized an interest rate swap designated as a cash flow hedge to convert this from a floating rate basis to a fixed rate basis. Refer to Note 10 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further details. 

The fixed-rate Notes provide for semi-annual interest payments and the floating-rate Notes provide for quarterly interest payments. Principal on the Notes is due at maturity. Unamortized discount and debt issuance costs on the Notes reduced the outstanding balance by $13.0 million and $11.8 million at December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.

Senior Unsecured Notes – In July 2015, the Company issued $750.0 million of senior unsecured notes in an underwritten offering. The senior unsecured notes provide for semi-annual interest payments and principal due at maturity. $450.0 million of the senior unsecured notes mature in July 2025 and have an interest rate of 3.50%, and $300.0 million of the senior unsecured notes mature in July 2045 and have an interest rate of 4.625%. The Company used the proceeds from the debt to repurchase shares of its common stock in 2015.

 On-Balance Sheet Asset-Backed Canadian Commercial Paper Conduit Facility – The Company has a revolving facility agreement (Canadian Conduit) with a Canadian bank-sponsored asset-backed commercial paper conduit. Under the agreement, the Canadian Conduit is contractually committed, at the Company's option, to purchase from the Company eligible Canadian retail motorcycle finance receivables for proceeds up to C$220.0 million. The transferred assets are restricted as collateral for the payment of the debt. The terms for this facility provide for interest on the outstanding principal based on prevailing market interest rates plus a specified margin. The Canadian Conduit also provides for a program fee and an unused commitment fee based on the unused portion of the total aggregate commitment of C$220.0 million. There is no amortization schedule; however, the debt is reduced monthly as available collections on the related finance receivables are applied to outstanding principal. Upon expiration of the Canadian Conduit, any outstanding principal will continue to be reduced monthly through available collections. The expected remaining term of the related receivables is approximately 5 years. Unless earlier terminated 

42

or extended by mutual agreement between the Company and the lenders, as of December 31, 2018, the Canadian Conduit has an expiration date of June 28, 2019.

The following table includes quarterly transfers of Canadian retail motorcycle finance receivables to the Canadian Conduit and the respective proceeds (in thousands):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

On-Balance Sheet Asset-Backed U.S. Commercial Paper Conduit Facilities VIE – The Company has agreements with third-party bank-sponsored asset-backed U.S. commercial paper conduits under which it may transfer U.S. retail motorcycle finance receivables to an SPE, which in turn may issue debt to those third-party bank-sponsored asset-backed U.S. commercial paper conduits. On November 30, 2018, the Company renewed its existing $600.0 million revolving facility agreement with third-party bank-sponsored asset-backed U.S. commercial paper conduits. Also on that date, the Company amended its existing $300.0 million revolving facility agreement with third-party bank-sponsored asset-backed U.S. commercial paper conduits, increasing the aggregate commitment to $600.0 million. The aggregate commitment under this agreement will be reduced monthly as collections on the related finance receivables are applied to the outstanding principal until the outstanding principal balance is less than or equal to $300.0 million, at which point the aggregate commitment will equal $300.0 million. Availability under the revolving facilities (together, the U.S. Conduit Facilities) is based on, among other things, the amount of eligible U.S. retail motorcycle receivables held by the relevant SPE as collateral. 

The following table includes quarterly transfers of U.S. retail motorcycle finance receivables to the U.S. Conduit and the respective proceeds (in thousands):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The terms for this debt provide for interest on the outstanding principal based on prevailing commercial paper rates or LIBOR to the extent the advance is not funded by a conduit lender through the issuance of commercial paper plus, in each case, a program fee based on outstanding principal. The U.S. Conduit Facilities also provide for an unused commitment fee based on the unused portion of the total aggregate commitment. There is no amortization schedule; however, the debt will be reduced monthly as available collections on the related finance receivables are applied to outstanding principal. Upon expiration of the U.S. Conduit Facilities, any outstanding principal will continue to be reduced monthly through available collections. The expected remaining term of the related receivables held by the SPE is approximately 5 years. Unless earlier terminated or extended by mutual agreement of the Company and the lenders, the U.S. Conduit Facilities have an expiration date of November 29, 2019.

Asset-Backed Securitization VIEs – For all of its asset-backed securitization transactions, the Company transfers U.S. retail motorcycle finance receivables to separate VIEs, which in turn issue secured notes with various maturities and interest rates to investors. All of the notes held by the VIEs are secured by future collections of the purchased U.S. retail motorcycle finance receivables. The U.S. retail motorcycle finance receivables included in the asset-backed securitization transactions are not available to pay other obligations or claims of the Company's creditors until the associated debt and other obligations are satisfied. Restricted cash balances held by the VIEs are used only to support the asset-backed securitizations.

The accounting treatment for asset-backed securitizations depends on the terms of the related transaction and the Company’s continuing involvement with the VIE. Most of the Company’s asset-backed securitizations do not meet the criteria 

43

to be accounted for as a sale because, in addition to retaining servicing rights, the Company retains a financial interest in the VIE in the form of a debt security. These transactions are treated as secured borrowings. As secured borrowings, the retail motorcycle finance receivables remain on the balance sheet with a corresponding obligation reflected as debt. There is no amortization schedule for the secured notes; however, the debt is reduced monthly as available collections on the related retail motorcycle finance receivables are applied to outstanding principal. The secured notes’ contractual lives have various maturities during 2022.

There were no on or off-balance sheet asset-backed securitization transactions during 2018 or 2017. 

Support Agreement - The Company has a support agreement with HDFS whereby, if required, the Company agrees to provide HDFS with financial support to maintain HDFS’ fixed-charge coverage at 1.25 and minimum net worth of $40.0 million. Support may be provided at the Company’s option as capital contributions or loans. Accordingly, certain debt covenants may restrict the Company’s ability to withdraw funds from HDFS outside the normal course of business. No amount has ever been provided to HDFS under the support agreement.

Operating and Financial Covenants – HDFS and the Company are subject to various operating and financial covenants related to the credit facilities and various operating covenants under the Notes and the U.S. and Canadian asset-backed commercial paper conduit facilities. The more significant covenants are described below.

The operating covenants limit the Company’s and HDFS’ ability to:

•Assume or incur certain liens;

•Participate in certain mergers or consolidations; and

•Purchase or hold margin stock.

Under the current financial covenants of the Global Credit Facilities, the ratio of HDFS' consolidated debt, excluding secured debt, to HDFS' consolidated shareholders' equity, excluding accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), cannot exceed 10.0 to 1.0 as of the end of any fiscal quarter. In addition, the ratio of the Company's consolidated debt to the Company's consolidated debt and consolidated shareholders’ equity (where the Company's consolidated debt in each case excludes that of HDFS and its subsidiaries, and the Company's consolidated shareholders’ equity excludes accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)), cannot exceed 0.7 to 1.0 as of the end of any fiscal quarter. No financial covenants are required under the Notes or the U.S. or Canadian asset-backed commercial paper conduit facilities. 

At December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, HDFS and the Company remained in compliance with all of the then existing covenants.

Cautionary Statements

The Company intends that certain matters discussed in this report are "forward-looking statements" intended to qualify for the safe harbor from liability established by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements can generally be identified as such because the context of the statement will include words such as the Company "believes", "anticipates", "expects", "plans", “strategy”, “future”, “may”, “goals”, or "estimates" or words of similar meaning. Similarly, statements that describe future plans, strategies, objectives, outlooks, targets, guidance or goals are also forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially, unfavorably or favorably, from those anticipated as of the date of this release. Certain of such risks and uncertainties are described below. Shareholders, potential investors, and other readers are urged to consider these factors in evaluating the forward-looking statements and cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements included in this release are only made as of the date of this release, and the Company disclaims any obligation to publicly update such forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.

The Company's ability to meet the targets and expectations noted above depends upon, among other factors, the Company's ability to (i) execute its business plans and strategies, including the elements of the More Roads to Harley-Davidson strategy for growth that the Company disclosed on July 30, 2018, and strengthen its existing business while enabling growth, (ii) manage the impact that new or adjusted tariffs may have on the cost of raw materials and components and our ability to sell product internationally, (iii) execute its strategy of growing ridership, globally, (iv) effectively execute the Company's manufacturing optimization plan within expected costs and timing and successfully carry out its global manufacturing and assembly operations, (v) accurately analyze, predict and react to changing market conditions and successfully adjust to shifting global consumer needs and interests, (vi) negotiate and successfully implement a strategic alliance relationship with a local partner in Asia, (vii) develop and introduce products, services and experiences on a timely basis that the market accepts, that enable the Company to generate desired sales levels and that provide the desired financial returns, (viii) perform in a manner that enables the Company to benefit from market opportunities while competing against existing and new competitors, (ix) realize expectations concerning market demand for electric models, which may depend in part on the building of necessary infrastructure, (x) prevent, detect, and remediate any issues with its motorcycles or any issues 

44

with associated manufacturing processes to avoid delays in new model launches, recall campaigns, regulatory agency investigations, increased warranty costs or litigation and adverse effects on its reputation and brand strength, and carry out any product programs or recalls within expected costs and timing, (xi) manage supply chain issues, including quality issues and any unexpected interruptions or price increases caused by raw material shortages or natural disasters, (xii) manage the impact that prices for and supply of used motorcycles may have on its business, including on retail sales of new motorcycles, (xiii) reduce other costs to offset costs of the More Roads to Harley-Davidson plan and redirect capital without adversely affecting its existing business, (xiv) balance production volumes for its new motorcycles with consumer demand, (xv) manage risks that arise through expanding international manufacturing, operations and sales, (xvi) manage through changes in general economic and business conditions, including changing capital, credit and retail markets, and the changing political environment, (xvii) continue to manage the relationships and agreements that the Company has with its labor unions to help drive long-term competitiveness, (xviii) accurately estimate and adjust to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and commodity prices, (xix) continue to develop the capabilities of its distributors and dealers, effectively implement changes relating to its dealers and distribution methods and manage the risks that its independent dealers may have difficulty obtaining capital and managing through changing economic conditions and consumer demand, (xx) retain and attract talented employees, (xxi) prevent a cybersecurity breach involving consumer, employee, dealer, supplier, or company data and respond to evolving regulatory requirements regarding data security, (xxii) manage the credit quality, the loan servicing and collection activities, and the recovery rates of HDFS' loan portfolio, (xxiii) adjust to tax reform, healthcare inflation and reform and pension reform, and successfully estimate the impact of any such reform on the Company's business, (xxiv) manage through the effects inconsistent and unpredictable weather patterns may have on retail sales of motorcycles, (xxv) implement and manage enterprise-wide information technology systems, including systems at its manufacturing facilities, (xxvi) manage changes and prepare for requirements in legislative and regulatory environments for its products, services and operations, (xxvii) manage its exposure to product liability claims and commercial or contractual disputes, (xxviii) successfully access the capital and/or credit markets on terms (including interest rates) that are acceptable to the Company and within its expectations, and (xxix) lower prices of its motorcycles in certain markets by manufacturing motorcycles in the Company’s Thailand facility.

In addition, the Company could experience delays or disruptions in its operations as a result of work stoppages, strikes, natural causes, terrorism or other factors. Further, actual foreign currency exchange rates may vary from underlying assumptions. Other factors are described under the caption "Risk Factors" in Item 1A of this report. Many of these risk factors are impacted by the current changing capital, credit and retail markets and the Company's ability to manage through inconsistent economic conditions.

The Company's ability to sell its motorcycles and related products and services and to meet its financial expectations also depends on the ability of the Company's independent dealers to sell its motorcycles and related products and services to retail customers. The Company depends on the capability and financial capacity of its independent dealers to develop and implement effective retail sales plans to create demand for the motorcycles and related products and services they purchase from the Company. In addition, the Company's independent dealers and distributors may experience difficulties in operating their businesses and selling Harley-Davidson motorcycles and related products and services as a result of weather, economic conditions or other factors. 

In recent years, HDFS has experienced historically low levels of retail credit losses, but there is no assurance that this will continue. The Company believes that HDFS' retail credit losses may increase over time due to changing consumer credit behavior and HDFS' efforts to increase prudently structured loan approvals to sub-prime borrowers, as well as actions that the Company has taken and could take that impact motorcycle values. 

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk