Item 1.Business

COMPANY OVERVIEW 

Kansas City Southern, a Delaware corporation, is a holding company with domestic and international rail operations in North America that are strategically focused on the growing north/south freight corridor connecting key commercial and industrial markets in the central United States with major industrial cities in Mexico. As used herein, “KCS” or the “Company” may refer to Kansas City Southern or, as the context requires, to one or more subsidiaries of Kansas City Southern. KCS and its subsidiaries had approximately 7,200 employees on December 31, 2018.

KCS controls and owns all of the stock of The Kansas City Southern Railway Company (“KCSR”), a U.S. Class I railroad founded in 1887. KCSR serves a ten-state region in the midwest and southeast regions of the United States and has the shortest north/south rail route between Kansas City, Missouri and several key ports along the Gulf of Mexico in Alabama, Louisiana, Mississippi and Texas.

KCS controls and owns all of the stock of Kansas City Southern de México, S.A. de C.V. (“KCSM”). Through its 50-year concession from the Mexican government (the “Concession”), which could expire in 2047 unless extended, KCSM operates a key commercial corridor of the Mexican railroad system and has as its core route the most strategic portion of the shortest, most direct rail passageway between Mexico City and Laredo, Texas. Laredo is a principal international gateway through which a substantial portion of rail and truck traffic between the United States and Mexico crosses the border. KCSM serves most of Mexico’s principal industrial cities and three of its major seaports. KCSM’s rail lines provide exclusive rail access to the United States and Mexico border crossing at Nuevo Laredo, Tamaulipas. Under the Concession, KCSM has the right to use and operate the southern half of the rail bridge at Laredo, Texas, which spans the Rio Grande River between the United States and Mexico. The Company owns the northern half of this bridge through its ownership of Mexrail, Inc. (“Mexrail”).

KCSM also provides exclusive rail access to the port of Lazaro Cardenas on the Pacific Ocean. The Mexican government developed the port at Lazaro Cardenas principally to serve Mexican markets and as an alternative to the U.S. west coast ports for Asian and South American traffic bound for North America. 

The Company wholly owns Mexrail which, in turn, wholly owns The Texas Mexican Railway Company (“Tex-Mex”). Tex-Mex owns a 157-mile rail line extending from Laredo, Texas to the port city of Corpus Christi, Texas, which connects the operations of KCSR with KCSM. 

The KCS coordinated rail network (KCSR, KCSM and Tex-Mex) comprises approximately 6,700 route miles extending from the midwest and southeast portions of the United States south into Mexico and connects with all other Class I railroads, providing shippers with an effective alternative to other railroad routes and giving direct access to Mexico and the southeast and southwest United States through alternate interchange hubs.

Panama Canal Railway Company (“PCRC”), an unconsolidated joint venture company owned equally by KCS and Mi-Jack Products, Inc. (“Mi-Jack”), was awarded a concession from the Republic of Panama to reconstruct and operate the Panama Canal Railway, a 47-mile railroad located adjacent to the Panama Canal that provides international container shipping companies with a railway transportation alternative to the Panama Canal. The concession was awarded in 1998 for an initial term of 25 years with an automatic renewal for an additional 25-year term. The Panama Canal Railway is a north-south railroad traversing the isthmus of Panama between the Atlantic and Pacific oceans.

Other subsidiaries and affiliates of KCS include the following:

•KCSM Servicios, S.A. de C.V. (“KCSM Servicios”), a wholly-owned and consolidated subsidiary that provides employee services to KCSM;[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•TFCM, S. de R.L. de C.V. (“TCM”), a forty-five percent-owned unconsolidated affiliate that operates a bulk liquid terminal in San Luis Potosí, Mexico;

•Ferrocarril y Terminal del Valle de México, S.A. de C.V. (“FTVM”), a twenty-five percent-owned unconsolidated affiliate that provides railroad services as well as ancillary services in the greater Mexico City area; and

 3
•PTC-220, LLC (“PTC-220”), a fourteen percent-owned unconsolidated affiliate that holds the licenses to large blocks of radio spectrum and other assets for the deployment of Positive Train Control (“PTC”). See Government Regulation section for further information regarding PTC.

MARKETS SERVED

2018 Revenues

Business Mix

Chemical and petroleum. This commodity group includes products such as chemicals, plastics, petroleum, liquefied petroleum gas, and petroleum refined products, such as gasoline and diesel. KCS transports these products to markets in the midwest, southeast and northeast United States and throughout Mexico through interchanges with other rail carriers. The chemical and plastic products are used in the automotive, housing and packaging industries as well as in general manufacturing. KCS hauls petroleum products across its network and as U.S. petroleum refineries have continued to increase their refining capacity, they have coordinated with KCS to develop additional long-term storage opportunities which complement a fluid freight railroad operation.

Industrial and consumer products. This commodity group includes forest products as well as metals and scrap. Forest products consist of shipments to and from paper and lumber mills in the southeast United States timber-producing region that KCS serves directly and indirectly through its various short-line connections. Metals and scrap consist of shipments of steel and metallic ores such as iron, zinc and copper. The majority of steel produced and metallic ores mined in Mexico are consumed within Mexico. Higher-end finished products such as steel coils are used by Mexican manufacturers in automobiles, household appliances, the oil and gas industry, and other consumer goods which are imported from the United States through land borders and through the seaports served by KCS’s rail network. KCS also transports steel coils, plates and pipe from U.S. and Mexican-based mini-mills to locations in the U.S. and Mexico for oil drilling, appliance and automotive applications. This commodity group also includes U.S. military transports, Mexico and U.S. domestic cement shipments and appliances manufactured in Mexico that are imported into the United States.

Agriculture and minerals. The agriculture and minerals commodity group consists primarily of grain and food products. Shipper demand for agriculture products is affected by competition among sources of grain and grain products, as well as price fluctuations in international markets for key commodities. In the United States, KCS’s rail lines receive and originate shipments of grain and grain products for delivery to feed mills, food and industrial consumers in the U.S. and Mexico. United States export grain shipments and Mexico import grain shipments include primarily corn, wheat, and soybeans. Food products consist mainly of soybean meal, grain meal, oils, canned goods, distillers dried grains, corn syrup and sugar. Other shipments consist of a variety of products including ores, minerals, clay and glass used across North America.

Energy. The energy commodity group includes coal, frac sand, petroleum coke and crude oil. KCS hauls unit trains (trains transporting a single commodity from one source to one destination) of coal for electric generating plants in the central United States. The coal originates from the Powder River Basin in Wyoming and is interchanged to KCS at Kansas City, Missouri. Coal mined in the midwest United States is transported in non-unit trains to industrial consumers such as paper mills, steel mills, and cement companies. Frac sand originating primarily in Wisconsin, Illinois or Iowa is delivered to transloads located in northeast Texas, northern Louisiana and south Texas for distribution to gas and oil wells in the region. KCS transports petroleum coke from refineries in the United States to various industries in the U.S. and Mexico including export through the Pabtex terminal located in Port Arthur, TX. The majority of crude by rail business originates in Canada, with spot shipments coming from west Texas, and is delivered to U.S. Gulf Coast refineries and tank farms in Texas, Louisiana, and Alabama.

 4
Intermodal. The intermodal freight sector consists primarily of hauling freight containers or truck trailers on behalf of steamship lines, motor carriers, and intermodal marketing companies with rail carriers serving as long-distance haulers. KCS serves and supports the U.S. and Mexican markets, as well as cross-border traffic between the U.S. and Mexico. In light of the importance of trade between Asia and North America, the Company believes the Port of Lazaro Cardenas continues to be a strategically beneficial location for ocean carriers, manufacturers and retailers. Equally important, the increase in foreign direct investment in Mexico has caused the KCS Mexico/U.S. cross border corridor to emerge as an increasingly important tool for the freight flow. The Company also provides premium service to customers over its line from Dallas through the Meridian Speedway— a critical link in creating the most direct route between the southwest and southeast/northeast U.S.

Automotive. KCS provides rail transportation to every facet of the automotive industry supply chain, including automotive manufacturers, assembly plants and distribution centers throughout North America. In addition, KCS transports finished vehicles imported and exported to and from various countries through a distribution facility at the Port of Lazaro Cardenas.

GOVERNMENT REGULATION 

The Company’s United States operations are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations generally applicable to all businesses subject to federal preemption under certain circumstances. Rail operations are also subject to the regulatory jurisdiction of the Surface Transportation Board (“STB”), the Federal Railroad Administration (“FRA”) of the U.S. Department of Transportation (“DOT”), the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (“OSHA”), as well as other federal and state regulatory agencies. The STB has jurisdiction over disputes and complaints involving certain rates, routes and services, the sale or abandonment of rail lines, applications for line extensions and construction, and consolidation or merger with, or acquisition of control of, rail common carriers. DOT and OSHA each has jurisdiction under several federal statutes over a number of safety and health aspects of rail operations, including the transportation of hazardous materials. In 2008, the President of the United States signed the Rail Safety Improvement Act of 2008 into law, which, among other things, revised hours of service for train and certain other employees and mandated implementation of PTC at certain locations by the end of 2015. PTC is a technology designed to help prevent train-to-train collisions, overspeed derailments, incursions into rail work zones, and entry into main line track if a switch is misaligned at certain locations, including main line track where toxic inhalation hazard or poison inhalation hazard movements occur or where passenger operations occur. The Surface Transportation Extension Act of 2015 amended the PTC deadline set by the the Rail Safety Improvement Act to require implementation of PTC by the end of 2018, which was extended to December 31, 2020 for KCS, as certain other criteria were satisfied. By the end of 2018, the Company implemented PTC on all required sections of its rail network, locomotives and wayside assets. The Company will continue to work with the Class I freight railroads and Amtrak to complete interoperability on or before December 31, 2020. PTC will add to operating costs, increase the number of employees the Company employs and require KCS to make significant investments in new safety technology. 

KCS’s U.S. subsidiaries are subject to extensive federal, state and local environmental regulations. These laws cover discharges to water, air emissions, toxic substances, and the generation, handling, storage, transportation and disposal of waste and hazardous materials. These regulations have the effect of increasing the costs, risks and liabilities associated with rail operations. Environmental risks are also inherent in rail operations, which frequently involve transporting chemicals and other hazardous materials.

Primary regulatory jurisdiction for the Company’s Mexican operations is overseen by the Mexican Agencia Reguladora del Transporte Ferroviario (“Regulatory Agency of Rail Transportation” or “ARTF”). The ARTF establishes regulations concerning railway safety and operations, and is responsible for resolving disputes between railways and customers. KCSM must register its maximum rates with the ARTF and make regular reports to the ARTF and the Secretaría de Comunicaciones y Transportes (“Secretary of Communications and Transportation” or “SCT”). KCSM must provide reports on investments, traffic volumes, theft and vandalism on the general right of way, customer complaints, fuel consumption, number of locomotives, railcars and employees, and activities around maintenance of way, sidings and spurs, among other financial information and reports. The Company may freely set rates on a non-discriminatory basis. At any time, the ARTF may request additional information regarding the determination of such rates and may issue recommendations with respect to proposed rate increases. If the ARTF or another party considers there to be no effective competition, they may request an opinion from the Comisión Federal de Competencia Económica (“Mexican Antitrust Commission” or “COFECE”) regarding market conditions. If the COFECE determines that there is no effective competition for particular movements, the ARTF could set rates for those movements or grant limited trackage rights to another railroad while the condition of no effective competition remains.

 5
KCSM holds a concession from the Mexican government until June 2047 (exclusively through 2027, subject to certain trackage and haulage rights granted to other concessionaires), which is renewable under certain conditions for additional periods of up to 50 years. The Concession authorizes KCSM to provide freight transportation services over north-east rail lines which are a primary commercial corridor of the Mexican railroad system. KCSM is required to provide freight railroad services to all users on a fair and non-discriminatory basis and in accordance with efficiency and safety standards approved periodically by the Mexican government. KCSM has the right to use, but does not own, all track and buildings that are necessary for the rail lines’ operation. KCSM is obligated to maintain the right of way, track structure, buildings and related maintenance facilities to the operational standards specified in the Concession agreement and to return the assets in that condition at the end of the Concession period. During the remainder of the Concession period, KCSM is required to pay the Mexican government an annual concession duty equal to 1.25% of gross revenues. The ARTF may request information to verify KCSM´s compliance with the Concession and any applicable regulatory framework. 

The Company’s Mexican operations are subject to Mexican federal and state laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment through the establishment of standards for water discharge, water supply, emissions, noise pollution, hazardous substances and transportation and handling of hazardous and solid waste. The Mexican government may bring administrative and criminal proceedings and impose economic sanctions against companies that violate environmental laws, and temporarily or even permanently close non-complying facilities. 

Noncompliance with applicable legal provisions may result in the imposition of fines, temporary or permanent shutdown of operations or other injunctive relief, criminal prosecution or, with respect to KCSM, the termination of the Concession. KCS maintains environmental provisions that are believed by management to be appropriate with respect to known and existing environmental contamination of its properties that KCS may be responsible to remedy. In addition, KCS’s subsidiaries are party to contracts and other legally binding obligations by which previous owners of certain facilities now owned by KCS are responsible to remedy contamination of such sites remaining from their previous ownership. 

Government regulations are further discussed within Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Information and Results of Operations — Other Matters. 

COMPETITION

The Company competes against other railroads, many of which are much larger and have significantly greater financial and other resources. The railroad industry in North America is dominated by a few very large carriers. The larger U.S. western railroads (BNSF Railway Company and Union Pacific Railroad Company), in particular, are significant competitors of KCS because of their substantial resources and competitive routes.

In Mexico, KCSM’s operations are subject to competition from other railroads, particularly Ferrocarril Mexicano, S.A. de C.V. (“Ferromex”) and Ferrosur, S.A. de C.V. (“Ferrosur”), both controlled by Grupo Mexico S.A.B. de C.V. Ferromex and Ferrosur together are much larger and have significantly greater financial and other resources than KCSM, serving most of the major ports and cities in Mexico and together owning fifty percent of FTVM, which serves industries located within Mexico City.

The ongoing impact of past and future rail consolidation is uncertain. However, KCS believes that its investments and strategic alliances continue to competitively position the Company to attract additional rail traffic throughout its rail network.

The Company is subject to competition from motor carriers, barge lines and other maritime shipping, which compete across certain routes in KCS’s operating areas. In the past, truck carriers have generally eroded the railroad industry’s share of total transportation revenues. Intermodal traffic and certain other traffic face highly price sensitive competition, particularly from motor carriers. However, rail carriers, including KCS, have placed an emphasis on competing in the intermodal marketplace and working with motor carriers to provide end-to-end transportation of products.

While deregulation of U.S. freight rates has enhanced the ability of railroads to compete with each other and with alternative modes of transportation, this increased competition has generally resulted in downward pressure on freight rates since deregulation. Competition with other railroads and other modes of transportation is generally based on the rates charged, the quality and reliability of the service provided and the quality of the carrier’s equipment for certain commodities.

 6
RAIL SECURITY

The Company and its rail subsidiaries have continued to research, develop and implement multidisciplinary approaches to secure the Company’s assets and personnel against transnational criminal organizations that actively target transportation networks. In addition, the Company has developed a variety of vertically integrated strategies to mitigate the risk terrorist attacks could pose to the Company, its personnel and assets. Many of the specific measures the Company utilizes for these efforts are required to be kept confidential through arrangements with government agencies, such as the Department of Homeland Security (“DHS”), or through jointly-developed and implemented strategies and plans with connecting carriers.

 KCSR and KCSM developed a proprietary security plan based on an industry-wide plan developed by the Association of American Railroads (“AAR”) members which focuses on comprehensive risk assessments in five areas — hazardous materials; train operations; critical physical assets; military traffic; and information technology and communications. The security plan is kept confidential, with access to the plan tightly limited to members of management with direct security and anti-terrorism implementation responsibilities. The Company participates with other AAR members in periodic drills under the industry plan to test and refine its various provisions.

 To protect the confidentiality and sensitivity of both the AAR plans and the proprietary strategies the Company has developed to safeguard against criminal enterprises, terrorism, and other security and safety threats, the following paragraphs will provide only a general overview of some of these efforts. 

The Company’s security activities range from periodically providing security awareness updates to KCS employees and including safety and security information on the Company’s internet website (which can be found under the “Corporate Responsibility” tab at www.kcsouthern.com) to its ongoing implementation of security plans for rail facilities in areas labeled by the DHS as High Threat Urban Areas (“HTUAs”). The Company’s other activities to bolster security against terrorism include, but are not limited to, the following:

•Conferring regularly with other railroads’ security personnel and with industry experts on security issues;

•Routing shipments of certain chemicals, which might be toxic if inhaled, pursuant to federal regulations;

•Initiating a series of over 20 voluntary action items agreed to between AAR and DHS as enhancing security in the rail industry;

•Conducting constant and targeted security training as part of the scheduled training for operating employees and managers;

•Developing smartphone applications to ensure immediate information, live video and pictures from security supervisors and protection assets pertaining to potential operational risks;

•Developing a multi-layered security model using high-speed digital imaging, system velocity and covert and overt security filters to mitigate the risk of illicit activity;

•Measuring key security metrics to ensure positive risk mitigation and product integrity trends;

•Performing constant due diligence with the existing security model and by benchmarking rail security on a world-wide basis to monitor threat streams related to rail incidents; 

•Implementing a Tactical Intelligence Center by KCSM, which provides constant training with core members in new technology helping to prevent, detect, deter, deny and respond to potentially illicit activities; and

•Deploying an array of non-intrusive technologies including, but not limited to, digital video surveillance and analytics as part of an intelligent video security solution, including a closed circuit television platform with geo-fencing for intrusion detection, to allow for remote viewing access to monitor ports of entry, intermodal and rail yards.

In addition, the Company utilizes dedicated security personnel with extensive special operations forces, intelligence, and law enforcement backgrounds to oversee the ongoing and increasingly complex security efforts of the Company in both the United States and Mexico. While the risk of theft and vandalism is higher in Mexico, KCSM remains among the safest methods of transportation for freight shipments in Mexico. KCSM’s record in rail safety is due in large part to the implementation of a multi-layered safety and security process throughout the KCSM network. In addition to having its own internal system, the process is connected to, and supported by a high level of federal, state and local law enforcement. A primary focus of this effort involves maintaining constant due diligence, intelligence and counterintelligence operations, technology-reporting applications and active vigilance while enhancing overall system velocity, which reduces the residual risk for incidents to occur.

 7
RAILWAY LABOR ACT

Labor relations in the U.S. railroad industry are subject to extensive governmental regulation under the Railway Labor Act (“RLA”). Under the RLA, national labor agreements are renegotiated on an industry-wide scale when they become open for modification, but their terms remain in effect until new agreements are reached or the RLA’s procedures (which include mediation, cooling-off periods, and the possibility of presidential intervention) are exhausted. Contract negotiations with the various unions generally take place over an extended period of time and the Company rarely experiences work stoppages during negotiations. Wages, health and welfare benefits, work rules and other issues have traditionally been addressed during these negotiations.

COLLECTIVE BARGAINING

Approximately 75% of KCSR employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. These agreements do not have expiration dates, but rather remain in place until modified by subsequent agreements. KCSR participates in industry-wide multi-employer bargaining as a member of the National Carriers’ Conference Committee (the “NCCC”), as well as local bargaining for agreements that are limited to KCSR's property. Multi-employer agreements are subject to a procedure that allows requests for changes to be served every five years. Long-term agreements were reached voluntarily or through the arbitration process during 2017 and 2018 covering all of the participating unions. These agreements will be in effect through December 2019.

KCSM Servicios union employees are covered by one labor agreement, which was signed on April 16, 2012, between KCSM Servicios and the Sindicato de Trabajadores Ferrocarrileros de la República Mexicana (“Mexican Railroad Union”), and which remains in effect during the period of the Concession, for the purpose of regulating the relationship between the parties. Approximately 80% of KCSM Servicios employees are covered by this labor agreement. The compensation terms under this labor agreement are subject to renegotiation on an annual basis and all other benefits are subject to negotiation every two years. The union labor negotiations with the Mexican Railroad Union have not historically resulted in any strike, boycott or other disruption in KCSM’s business operations. During the third quarter of 2018, KCSM Servicios and the Mexican Railroad Union concluded their negotiation over compensation terms for the period covering July 1, 2018, to June 30, 2019. The finalization of the compensation terms did not have a significant effect on the consolidated financial statements.

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF KCS AND SUBSIDIARIES

All executive officers are elected annually and serve at the discretion of the Board of Directors. All of the executive officers have employment agreements with KCS and/or its subsidiaries. The mailing address of the principal executive officers other than Mr. Zozaya is 427 W. 12th Street, Kansas City, Missouri 64105. Mr. Zozaya’s mailing address is Montes Urales No. 625, Col. Lomas de Chapultepec, C.P. 11000, Mexico D.F.

Patrick J. Ottensmeyer — President and Chief Executive Officer— 61 — Served in this capacity since July 1, 2016. Mr. Ottensmeyer has been a director of KCS since July 1, 2016 and served as President of KCS since March 1, 2015. He served as Executive Vice President Sales and Marketing of KCS from October 16, 2008 through March 1, 2015. Mr. Ottensmeyer joined KCS in May 2006 as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.

Warren K. Erdman — Executive Vice President — Administration and Corporate Affairs — 60 — Served in this capacity since April 2010. Mr. Erdman served as Executive Vice President — Corporate Affairs from October 2007 until April 2010. He served as Senior Vice President — Corporate Affairs of KCS and KCSR from January 2006 to September 2007. Mr. Erdman served as Vice President — Corporate Affairs of KCS from April 15, 1997 to December 31, 2005 and as Vice President — Corporate Affairs of KCSR from May 1997 to December 31, 2005. Prior to joining KCS, Mr. Erdman served as Chief of Staff to United States Senator Kit Bond of Missouri from 1987 to 1997.

Brian D. Hancock — Executive Vice President and Chief Innovation Officer — 53 — Served in this capacity since October 1, 2018. Mr. Hancock served as Executive Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer from August 2015 until September 2018. Prior to joining KCS, Mr. Hancock served as Senior Vice President of Supply Chain for Family Dollar Stores, Inc. from 2013 to July 2015. From 2011 to 2013, Mr. Hancock served as President – North America for The Martin – Brower Company, L.L.C. From 2005 to 2011, he served as Vice President – Global Supply Chain for Whirlpool Corporation.

Jeffrey M. Songer — Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer — 49 — Served in this capacity since March 2016. Mr. Songer served as Senior Vice President Engineering and Chief Transportation Officer of the Company from August 2014 to February 2016 and as Vice President and Chief Engineer for KCSR from June 2012 to July 2014. Prior to serving as 

 8
KCSR’s Vice President and Chief Engineer, Mr. Songer served as Assistant Vice President — Engineering and Planning from March 2011 to June 2012, and as its General Director — Planning, Scheduling & Administration from January 2007 to March 2011.

Michael W. Upchurch — Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer — 58 — Served in this capacity since October 16, 2008. Mr. Upchurch joined KCS in March 2008 as Senior Vice President Purchasing and Financial Management. From 1990 through September 2006, Mr. Upchurch served in various senior financial leadership positions at Sprint Corporation, including Senior Vice President Financial Operations, Senior Vice President Finance Sprint Business Solutions and Senior Vice President Finance Long Distance Division.

José Guillermo Zozaya Delano — President and Executive Representative — KCSM — 66 — Served in this position since April 20, 2006. Mr. Zozaya has 35 years of experience in law and government relations, most recently as the Legal and Government Relations Director for ExxonMobil México, S.A. de C.V., where he spent nine years prior to joining KCSM. 

Lora S. Cheatum — Senior Vice President — Human Resources — 62 — Served in this capacity since joining KCS in October 2014. Ms. Cheatum previously served as Senior Vice President Global Human Resources of Layne Christensen from 2012 to October 2014. From 2010 to 2012, she served as Director — Field Operations at Fitness Together Holdings, Inc. Ms. Cheatum spent nine years with Kansas City Power & Light, from 2001 to 2010, where she was Vice President of Procurement and previously as Vice President Human Resources.

Michael J. Naatz — Executive Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer — 53 — Served in this capacity since October 1, 2018. Mr. Naatz served as Senior Vice President Operations Support and Chief Information Officer from August 2014 until September 2018 and as Senior Vice President and Chief Information Officer of the Company from May 2012 to July 2014. Prior to joining KCS, Mr. Naatz served as President of USF Holland, a YRC Worldwide, Inc. (“YRCW”) company, from 2011 to May 2012. From 2010 to 2011, Mr. Naatz served as President and Chief Customer Officer - Customer Care Division at YRCW. From 2008 to 2010, he served as Executive Vice President and Chief Information & Service Officer at YRCW. From 2005 to 2007, he served as President — Enterprise Services Division at YRCW. From 1994 to 2005, he held various leadership positions with USF Corporation. 

Suzanne M. Grafton — Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer — 43 — Served in this capacity since July 24, 2017. Ms. Grafton served as Vice President of Audit and Enterprise Risk Management of the Company from April 2016 to July 2017 and as Vice President of Accounting from May 2014 to March 2016. From September 2006 to May 2014, Ms. Grafton served in various accounting leadership positions at KCS.

William J. Wochner — Senior Vice President and Chief Legal Officer — 71 — Served in this capacity since February 2007. Effective March 31, 2019, Mr. Wochner will be retiring. He served as Vice President and Interim General Counsel from December 2006 to January 2007. From September 2006 to December 2006, Mr. Wochner served as Vice President and Associate General Counsel. From March 2005 to September 2006, Mr. Wochner served as Vice President Sales and Marketing/Contracts for KCSR. From February 1993 to March 2005, Mr. Wochner served as Vice President and General Solicitor of KCSR.

Adam J. Godderz — General Counsel and Corporate Secretary — 44 — Served in this capacity since January 1, 2019. Mr. Godderz served as Associate General Counsel and Corporate Secretary of the Company from June 2018 to December 2018 and as Vice President of Labor Relations and Corporate Secretary from November 2015 to May 2018. From January 2013 to November 2015, Mr. Godderz served as Associate General Counsel and Corporate Secretary. From September 2007 to January 2013, Mr. Godderz served as Associate General Counsel at KCS.

There are no arrangements or understandings between the executive officers and any other person pursuant to which the executive officer was or is to be selected as an officer of KCS, except with respect to the executive officers who have entered into employment agreements designating the position(s) to be held by the executive officer.

None of the above officers is related to another, or to any of the directors of KCS.

AVAILABLE INFORMATION

KCS’s website (www.kcsouthern.com) provides at no cost KCS’s Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, and Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after the electronic filing of these reports is made with the Securities and Exchange Commission. In addition, KCS’s corporate governance guidelines, ethics and legal compliance policy, and the charters of the Audit Committee, the Finance and Strategic 

 9
Investments Committee, the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee and the Compensation and Organization Committee of the Board of Directors are available on KCS’s website. These guidelines, policies and charters are available in print without charge to any stockholder requesting them. Written requests for these materials may be made to the Corporate Secretary, P.O. Box 219335, Kansas City, Missouri 64121-9335 (or if by express delivery to 427 West 12th Street, Kansas City, Missouri 64105). From time to time, KCS publicly designates material information by posting it on the website, investors.kcsouthern.com, in lieu of press releases.

See Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Note 1, Description of the Business and Note 18, Geographic Information for more information on the description and general development of the Company’s business and financial information about geographic areas.

Item 1A.Risk Factors