Item 7A.Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 

KCS is exposed to certain market risks including interest rate, commodity, and foreign exchange risks and utilizes various financial instruments that have certain inherent market risks. These instruments have been entered into for hedging rather than trading purposes. The following information, together with information included in Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Note 10, Derivative Instruments, describe the key aspects of certain financial instruments that have market risk to KCS.

The analysis presented below for each of the Company's market risks uses a sensitivity model based on hypothetical changes (increases or decreases) to market risks using defined parameters and assumptions to quantify the potential impacts to the consolidated statements of income. The hypothetical changes to market risks do not represent KCS's view of future market changes. The effect of a change in a particular assumption was calculated without adjusting any other assumptions. These market risks and the potential impacts to the consolidated statements of income for the current year, have not materially fluctuated, individually or in the aggregate from the preceding year; thus only current year information is presented below. 

 45
Interest Rate Sensitivity. The Company is subject to interest rate risk associated with its debt. Changes in interest rates impact the fair value of outstanding fixed-rate debt, but there is no impact to current earnings or cash flow. Based upon the borrowing rates available to KCS and its subsidiaries for indebtedness with similar terms and average maturities, the fair value of long-term debt was approximately $2,661.3 million and $2,377.8 million at December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively, compared with a carrying value of $2,689.4 million and $2,274.3 million at December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.

Changes in interest rates may impact the cost of future long-term debt issued by the Company, and as a result, represent interest rate risk to the Company. In May 2017, the Company executed four treasury lock agreements with an aggregate notional value of $275.0 million and a weighted-average interest rate of 2.85%. The purpose of the treasury locks is to hedge the U.S. Treasury benchmark interest rate associated with future interest payments related to the anticipated refinancing of the $275.0 million of 2.35% senior notes due May 15, 2020. The Company has designated the treasury locks as cash flow hedges, and for the year ended December 31, 2018, recognized an unrealized gain of $2.6 million, net of tax, in the consolidated statements of comprehensive income. A hypothetical 100 basis points change in the ten-year U.S. Treasury Rate would result in a change in unrealized gain or loss of approximately $24.0 million. Upon settlement in 2020, the unrealized gain or loss in accumulated other comprehensive income will be amortized to interest expense over the life of the future underlying debt issuance. 

Alternatively, changes in interest rates do not affect the fair value of variable rate debt, but affect future earnings and cash flows. The Company's floating-rate indebtedness includes commercial paper borrowings, and any outstanding borrowings under revolving credit facilities. At December 31, 2018, KCS had no commercial paper or revolving credit facility borrowings outstanding. At December 31, 2017, KCS had outstanding commercial paper borrowings of $345.2 million, and no borrowings outstanding under the revolving credit facility. 

Commodity Price Sensitivity. KCS periodically participates in diesel fuel purchase commitments and derivative financial instruments. At December 31, 2018 and 2017, KCS did not have any outstanding fuel derivative financial instruments. The Company also holds fuel inventories for use in operations. These inventories are not material to KCS’s overall financial position. Fuel costs are expected to reflect market conditions in 2019; however, fuel costs are unpredictable and subject to a variety of factors outside the Company’s control. Assuming annual consumption of 135 million gallons, a hypothetical 10 cent change in the price per gallon of fuel would cause a $13.5 million change in operating expenses. KCS mitigates the impact of increased fuel costs through fuel surcharge revenues from customers; however, in a period of volatile fuel prices or changing customer business mix, changes in fuel expense and fuel surcharge revenue may differ.

Foreign Exchange Sensitivity. KCS’s foreign subsidiaries use the U.S. dollar as their functional currency; however, a portion of the foreign subsidiaries’ revenues and expenses is denominated in Mexican pesos. Based on the volume of revenue and expense transactions denominated in Mexican pesos, revenue and expense fluctuations have historically offset. 

The Company has exposure to fluctuations in the value of the Mexican peso against the U.S. dollar due to its monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in Mexican pesos. Monetary assets and liabilities include cash, accounts receivable and payable and other items that will convert to cash in the future and are remeasured into dollars using the current exchange rate. The remeasurement and settlement of monetary assets and liabilities is recognized in the consolidated statements of income as foreign exchange gains and losses. At December 31, 2018, the Company had Ps.799.7 million of net monetary assets denominated in Mexican pesos, as monetary assets exceeded monetary liabilities.

The following table presents the potential impacts to the consolidated statements of income that would result from a hypothetical change in the exchange rate of one Mexican peso per U.S. dollar at December 31, 2018:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

 46
Mexican income taxes are paid in Mexican pesos, and as a result, the effective income tax rate reflects fluctuations in the value of the Mexican peso against the U.S. dollar. Most significantly, any gain or loss from the revaluation of the Company’s net U.S. dollar-denominated monetary liabilities into Mexican pesos is included in Mexican taxable income under Mexican tax law. As a result, a strengthening of the Mexican peso against the U.S. dollar for the reporting period will generally increase the Mexican cash tax obligation and the effective income tax rate, and a weakening of the Mexican peso against the U.S. dollar for the reporting period will generally decrease the Mexican cash tax obligation and the effective tax rate. 

The following table presents the potential impacts to the effective income tax rate and income tax expense that would result from a hypothetical change in the exchange rate of one Mexican peso at December 31, 2018:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The Company has executed, and expects to continue to execute foreign currency derivative instruments to hedge its exposure to fluctuations in the Mexican cash tax obligation due to changes in the value of the Mexican peso against the U.S. dollar. These derivative instruments have historically offset the effects of foreign currency changes on income tax expense (benefit) resulting in minimal impact to net income.

At December 31, 2018, the Company had outstanding foreign currency option contracts known as zero-cost collars with an aggregate notional amount of $120.0 million. Given the maturity date of January 2019, the Company believes there was minimal market risk associated with these contracts at December 31, 2018. The zero-cost collars matured in January 2019 and resulted in cash received of $0.3 million. 

At December 31, 2018, the Company had outstanding foreign currency forward contracts with an aggregate notional amount of $20.0 million. These contracts mature September 30, 2019, and obligate the Company to purchase a total of Ps.410.9 million at a weighted-average exchange rate of Ps. 20.5 to each U.S. dollar. 

During January 2019, the Company entered into several foreign currency forward contracts with an aggregate notional amount of $290.0 million and maturity dates throughout 2019. These contracts obligate the company to purchase a total of Ps.5,754.9 million at a weighted-average exchange rate of Ps.19.84 to each U.S. dollar. 

The following table presents the potential impacts to the consolidated statements of income that would result from a hypothetical change in the exchange rate of one Mexican peso at maturity date for the foreign currency forward contracts outstanding at December 31, 2018 and those entered into during January 2019:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The Company has not designated these foreign currency derivative instruments as hedging instruments for accounting purposes. The foreign currency derivative instruments will be measured at fair value each period and any change in fair value will be recognized in foreign exchange gain (loss) within the consolidated statements of income.

 47
Item 8.Financial Statements and Supplementary Data