Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.

HIGHLIGHTS

Sales increased 8% in 2018, from growth in volume, raw material-related price inflation and currency impact. Acquisitions, net of 2017 divestitures, added 2% to sales. Sales growth came primarily from gains in Automotive, Bedding, Adjustable Bed, Work Furniture, and Aerospace partially offset by declines in other businesses, primarily Home Furniture, Fashion Bed and Flooring Products. 

Earnings from continuing operations increased from the non-recurrence of charges in 2017 associated with the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (TCJA), despite restructuring-related and impairment charges incurred in 2018. Earnings further improved primarily from increased metal margins at our steel rod mill and higher sales. These improvements were partially offset by higher raw material costs (including LIFO expense), the lag associated with passing along ongoing inflation, and weak performance in a few of our businesses. This led us to initiate restructuring activity late in the year, primarily in Fashion Bed and Home Furniture, where we are exiting low margin business, reducing operating costs, and eliminating excess capacity.

In November 2018, we announced our plans to acquire Elite Comfort Solutions (ECS), a leader in the production of proprietary specialized foam primarily for the bedding and furniture industries. We completed the acquisition in January 2019. ECS is the largest acquisition in our history, with a purchase price of approximately $1.25 billion. 

ECS operates a vertically integrated model, developing many of the chemicals and additives used in foam production, producing specialty foam, and manufacturing private-label finished products. Through this acquisition, we gain critical capabilities in proprietary foam technology, along with scale in the production of private-label finished mattresses. Our combined expertise in spring and foam technology makes us the leading provider of differentiated products for the global bedding industry and positions us to capitalize on current and future market trends. 

Portfolio management remains a strategic priority. Over the past several years we have enhanced our business portfolio and improved margins by growing our stronger businesses and exiting or restructuring businesses that consistently struggled to deliver acceptable returns. During 2018 we acquired three businesses: Precision Hydraulic Cylinders (PHC), a leading global manufacturer of engineered hydraulic cylinders primarily for the materials handling market, and two small geo components operations. 

We incurred the following charges in the fourth quarter:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

1 Includes $4 million in SG&A charges and $3 million of financing-related charges in interest expense.

The restructuring-related charges are primarily attributable to the Fashion Bed and Home Furniture businesses. In 2019, the Company expects an additional estimated $17 million ($5 million cash/$12 million non-cash) in restructuring-related charges for these businesses. The restructuring activity should be substantially complete by the end of 2019. 

In January 2019, we expanded the borrowing capacity under our revolving credit facility from $800 million to $1.2 billion, increased permitted borrowings under our commercial paper program in a corresponding amount, and added additional borrowing capacity in the form of a 5-year $500 million term loan primarily to finance the ECS transaction. After completing the ECS acquisition in January 2019, our debt levels increased. We expect to focus on deleveraging by temporarily limiting share repurchases, reducing other acquisition spending, and using operating cash flow to repay debt.

Operating cash flow was essentially flat versus 2017, and we once again generated more than enough operating cash flow to fund dividends and capital expenditures comfortably, something we have accomplished each year for 30 years. 

28
PART II

We raised the quarterly dividend by 5.6% in 2018 and extended our record of consecutive annual increases to 47 years. We also bought back 2.6 million shares of our stock. 

We assess our overall long-term performance by comparing our Total Shareholder Return (TSR) to that of peer companies on a rolling three-year basis. We target TSR in the top third of the S&P 500 over the long term. While our recent performance has not met this target, we strongly believe our disciplined growth strategy and use of capital will support achievement of this goal over time.

These topics are discussed in more detail in the sections that follow.

INTRODUCTION

Total Shareholder Return

Total Shareholder Return (TSR), relative to peer companies, is a primary financial measure that we use to assess long-term performance. TSR is driven by the change in our share price and the dividends we pay: TSR = (Change in Stock Price + Dividends) / Beginning Stock Price. We seek to achieve TSR in the top third of the S&P 500 over the long term through an approach that employs four TSR drivers: revenue growth, margin expansion, dividends, and share repurchases.

We monitor our TSR performance relative to the S&P 500 on a rolling three-year basis. For the three-year measurement period that ended December 31, 2018, we generated TSR of -2% per year on average, in the bottom quartile of the S&P 500. While disappointing, we strongly believe our disciplined growth strategy and use of capital will support achievement of this goal over time.

The table below shows the components of our TSR targets. Accomplishing this level of performance over rolling three-year periods should enable us to consistently attain our top-third TSR goal.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

In connection with the acquisition of ECS our debt levels increased, and we expect to focus on deleveraging by temporarily limiting share repurchases, reducing other acquisition spending and using operating cash flow to repay debt. The ECS transaction does not change our long-term TSR targets and framework. In the near-term, revenue growth will benefit significantly from the initial impact of the acquisition. Increased interest expense will negatively impact TSR in 2019. As we pay down the acquisition debt, the corresponding reduction in interest expense should have a positive impact on TSR. The stock buyback component is expected to be slightly negative to our TSR due to the temporary limiting of share repurchases while we focus on deleveraging. Longer-term, the ECS acquisition is expected to benefit all four TSR drivers through profitable growth and strong operating cash flow.

Senior executives participate in an incentive program with a three-year performance period based on two equal measures: (i) our TSR performance compared to the performance of a group of approximately 320 peers, and (ii) the Company or segment's EBIT Compound Annual Growth Rate (CAGR). 

Customers

We serve a broad suite of customers, with our largest customer representing approximately 6% of our sales. Many are companies whose names are widely recognized. They include bedding, residential and office furniture producers, automotive OEM and Tier 1 manufacturers, and a variety of other companies.

29
PART II

Major Factors That Impact Our Business

Many factors impact our business, but those that generally have the greatest impact are market demand, raw material cost trends, and competition.

Market Demand

Market demand (including product mix) is impacted by several economic factors, with consumer confidence being most significant. Other important factors include disposable income levels, employment levels, housing turnover, and interest rates. All of these factors influence consumer spending on durable goods, and therefore affect demand for our components and products. Some of these factors also influence business spending on facilities and equipment, which impacts approximately one quarter of our sales.

Raw Material Costs

Our costs can vary significantly as market prices for raw materials (many of which are commodities) fluctuate. We typically have short-term commitments from our suppliers; accordingly, our raw material costs generally move with the market. Our ability to recover higher costs (through selling price increases) is crucial. When we experience significant increases in raw material costs, we typically implement price increases to recover the higher costs. Conversely, when costs decrease significantly, we generally pass those lower costs through to our customers. The timing of our price increases or decreases is important; we typically experience a lag in recovering higher costs, and we also realize a lag as costs decline.

Steel is our principal raw material. At various times in past years we have experienced significant cost fluctuations in this commodity. In most cases, the major changes (both increases and decreases) were passed through to customers with selling price adjustments. Steel costs inflated throughout 2017, and continued to increase in the first half of 2018. Depending on the type of steel input, we have seen varying degrees of inflation in the U.S. Long product, the steel industry term for rod and wire, is up significantly since the end of 2017. Flat product (hot or cold rolled sheet steel) which we purchase for use in several of our businesses, but most heavily in Home Furniture, is also up significantly since the end of 2017. We implemented price increases to recover most of the higher costs, but with the normal lag in realizing selling price increases, the cost inflation led to margin pressure in the second half of 2017 and in the first half of 2018. In certain instances when our foreign competitors purchase steel in markets that have not experienced significant inflation (particularly flat product in China) it is more difficult for us to pass through U.S.-based steel price increases to our customers. 

As a producer of steel rod, we are also impacted by changes in metal margins (the difference in the cost of steel scrap and the market price for steel rod). Metal margins within the steel industry were moderately compressed in late 2016, began to increase modestly in the second half of 2017 and further expanded in the first half of 2018. Although steel scrap costs increased early in the year, rod prices increased to a much larger degree. Both stabilized by mid-year. Because of these factors, our steel rod mill experienced enhanced profitability in 2018. If these wider metal margins are sustained, our steel rod mill should continue to experience enhanced profitability.

With the acquisition of ECS we now have greater exposure to the cost of chemicals, including TDI, MDI, and polyol. The cost of these chemicals has fluctuated at times, but ECS has generally passed the changes through to its customers, with a lag that varies based on customer contract terms. Our other raw materials include woven and non-woven fabrics and foam scrap. We have experienced changes in the cost of these materials in past years and generally have been able to pass them through to our customers. 

When we raise our prices to recover higher raw material costs, this sometimes causes customers to modify their product designs and replace higher cost components with lower cost components. We must continue providing product options to our customers that enable them to improve the functionality of their products and manage their costs, while providing higher profits for our operations. 

30
PART II

Competition

Many of our markets are highly competitive, with the number of competitors varying by product line. In general, our competitors tend to be smaller, private companies. Many of our competitors, both domestic and foreign, compete primarily on the basis of price. Our success has stemmed from the ability to remain price competitive, while delivering innovation, better product quality, and customer service.

We continue to face pressure from foreign competitors as some of our customers source a portion of their components and finished products offshore. In addition to lower labor rates, foreign competitors benefit (at times) from lower raw material costs. They may also benefit from currency factors and more lenient regulatory climates. We typically remain price competitive in most of our business units, even versus many foreign manufacturers, as a result of our highly efficient operations, low labor content, vertical integration in steel and wire, logistics and distribution efficiencies, and large scale purchasing of raw materials and commodities. However, we have also reacted to foreign competition in certain cases by selectively adjusting prices, developing new proprietary products that help our customers reduce total costs and shifting production offshore to take advantage of lower input costs. 

Since 2009, there have been antidumping duty orders on innerspring imports from China, South Africa and Vietnam, ranging from 116% to 234%. In 2014, the Department of Commerce (DOC) and the International Trade Commission (ITC) determined that the orders should be extended for five years. In March 2019, we expect the DOC and the ITC to conduct a second sunset review to determine whether to extend the orders for an additional five years. If it is determined that the revocation of the orders would likely lead to the continuation or recurrence of dumping of innersprings (determined by the DOC) and material injury to the U.S. innerspring industry (determined by the ITC), the orders will be extended. We believe that, without the extension, it is likely that dumping will recur and the U.S. innerspring industry will be materially injured. As a result, we plan to actively participate in the DOC and ITC sunset reviews.

Antidumping and countervailing duty cases filed by major U.S. steel wire rod producers have resulted in the imposition of antidumping duties on imports of steel wire rod from Brazil, China, Belarus, Indonesia, Italy, Korea, Mexico, Moldova, Russia, South Africa, Spain, Trinidad & Tobago, Turkey, Ukraine, United Arab Emirates, and the United Kingdom, ranging from 1% to 757%, and countervailing duties on imports of steel wire rod from Brazil, China, Italy and Turkey, ranging from 3% to 193%. These duties will continue through June 2019 (for Brazil, Indonesia, Mexico, Moldova, and Trinidad & Tobago), through December 2019 (for China), and through December 2022 (for Belarus, Italy, Korea, Russia, South Africa, Spain, Turkey, Ukraine, United Arab Emirates, and the United Kingdom); at which times, respectively, the DOC and the ITC will conduct sunset reviews to determine whether to extend the orders for an additional five years.

We believe mattresses from China are being imported into the U.S. at low prices that violate our trade laws. In September 2018, we, along with other domestic mattress producers, filed an antidumping petition with the U.S. government on behalf of the mattress industry to attempt to remedy this situation. In November, the ITC made a preliminary determination that there is a reasonable indication that the domestic mattress producers are materially injured by reason of the unfairly priced imported mattresses. The DOC is now investigating the dumping allegations. See Item 3 Legal Proceedings on page 23 for more information.

Acquisition of Elite Comfort Solutions

On November 6, 2018, we entered into a definitive agreement to purchase all of the capital stock of Elite Comfort Solutions, Inc. (ECS) for a cash purchase price of approximately $1.25 billion. ECS, headquartered in Newnan, Georgia, is a leader in proprietary specialized foam technology, primarily for the bedding and furniture industries. With 16 facilities across the United States, ECS operates a vertically integrated model, developing many of the chemicals and additives used in foam production, producing foam, and manufacturing private-label finished products. These innovative specialty foam products include finished mattresses sold through both traditional and online channels, mattress components, mattress toppers and pillows, and furniture foams and components. ECS has a diversified customer mix and a strong position in the high-growth compressed mattress market segment. Following the closing of the transaction in January 2019, ECS became a separate business unit and operates within the Residential Products segment.

We financed the purchase price with a combination of commercial paper borrowings and the borrowing under a new five-year $500 million term loan facility. As part of the financing, we increased the capacity under our revolving credit 

31
PART II

facility from $800 million to $1.2 billion, and we concurrently increased permitted borrowings under our commercial paper program in a corresponding amount. As of January 16, 2019, the ECS acquisition closing date, we had $898 million of commercial paper outstanding and had fully borrowed under the $500 million term loan. We are evaluating financing alternatives for the reduction of the commercial paper. We believe that operating cash flow, cash on hand and our ability to obtain debt financing will provide sufficient funds available to repay commercial paper borrowings, as well as support our ongoing operations, pay dividends and fund future growth. 

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS—2018 vs. 2017 

Sales increased 8% in 2018, from growth in volume, raw material-related price inflation, and currency impact. Acquisitions, net of divestitures completed in 2017, added 2% to sales. Sales growth came primarily from content gains and new program awards in Automotive, market share and content gains in Bedding, growth in Adjustable Bed and raw material-related price increases. Several other businesses, including Work Furniture, Aerospace, and International Spring contributed to sales growth this past year.

Earnings from continuing operations increased from the non-recurrence of charges in 2017 associated with the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (TCJA), and despite restructuring-related and impairment charges incurred in 2018. Earnings further improved primarily from improved metal margins at our steel rod mill and higher sales. However, these improvements were largely offset by higher raw material costs (including LIFO expense), the lag associated with passing along ongoing inflation, and weak performance in a few of our businesses. This led us to initiate restructuring activity late in the year, primarily in Fashion Bed and Home Furniture, where we are exiting low margin business, reducing operating costs, and eliminating excess capacity. Further details about our consolidated and segment results are discussed below.

32
PART II

Consolidated Results (continuing operations)

The following table shows the changes in sales and earnings from continuing operations during 2018, and identifies the major factors contributing to the changes. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

 1 Calculations impacted by rounding

Full-year sales grew 8%, to $4.27 billion, and same location sales increased 6%. Volume grew 3%, with gains in Automotive, Bedding, Adjustable Bed, Work Furniture, and Aerospace partially offset by declines in other businesses, primarily Home Furniture, Fashion Bed, and Flooring Products. Raw material-related price increases and currency impact added 3%. Acquisitions, net of 2017 divestitures, contributed 2% to sales growth. 

As indicated in the table above, earnings from continuing operations increased primarily from the non-recurrence of the TCJA and other charges in 2017, despite restructuring-related and impairment charges incurred in 2018. Operationally, earnings improved primarily from increased metal margins at our steel mill and higher sales, offset by higher raw material costs (including LIFO expense), the lag associated with passing along ongoing inflation, and underperformance in a few of our businesses. 

LIFO Impact

Approximately 50% of our inventories are valued on the LIFO method. These are primarily our domestic, steel-related inventories. In 2018, increasing steel costs resulted in a full-year pretax LIFO expense of $31 million. In 2017, increasing steel costs resulted in a full-year pretax LIFO expense of $19 million. 

33
For further discussion of inventories, see Note A to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 72.

Interest and Income Taxes

Net interest expense in 2018 was higher by $17 million, primarily due to the issuance of $500 million of new debt in the fourth quarter 2017, higher rates on commercial paper, and additional consideration for a prior year acquisition (see Note S to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 114). 2018's interest expense also includes $3.2 million of financing-related charges incurred in connection with the ECS acquisition.

Our worldwide effective income tax rate on continuing operations was 20.4% in 2018, compared with 32.0% for 2017. The U.S. statutory federal income tax rate was significantly impacted by the enactment of Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (TCJA) in the fourth quarter of 2017, which reduced our U.S. federal corporate income tax rate from 35% in 2017 to 21% in 2018. 

The following table reflects how our effective income tax rate from continuing operations differs from these statutory federal income tax rates. See Footnote O to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 108 for additional details.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

At December 31, 2017, we recorded certain provisional amounts related to TCJA in accordance with Staff Accounting Bulletin (SAB) 118 (See Note A to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 72). We refined this estimate in 2018, and recorded measurement period adjustment benefits related to the deemed repatriation tax and our deferred tax revaluation. In aggregate, these adjustment items decreased our effective tax rate by .4% in 2018. As of December 31, 2018, our accounting has been finalized with respect to the SAB 118 provisional amounts recorded at December 31, 2017. 

We anticipate an effective tax rate for 2019 of approximately 24%, which includes the anticipated tax effects associated with TCJA and certain other expected discrete items, primarily related to stock compensation payments (which can fluctuate based on stock price and other factors) and executive compensation limitations. Our tax rate is also contingent upon other factors such as our overall profitability, the mix of earnings among tax jurisdictions, the type of income earned, business acquisitions and dispositions, the impact of tax audits and other discrete items, and the effect of other tax law changes and prudent tax planning strategies.

34
PART II

Segment Results

In the following section we discuss 2018 sales and EBIT (earnings before interest and taxes) for each of our segments. We provide additional detail about segment results and a reconciliation of segment EBIT to consolidated EBIT in Note G to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 87. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

1 This is the change in sales not attributable to acquisitions or divestitures. These are sales that come from the same plants and facilities that we operated one year earlier.

2 Segment margins are calculated on total sales. Overall company margin is calculated on trade sales.

Residential Products

Total sales grew 5%, from a 4% increase in same location sales (due to raw material-related selling price increases) and 1% from acquisitions. Volume was flat, with growth in U.S. Spring, European Spring and Geo Components offset by lower sales in other businesses, primarily Flooring Products. 

EBIT decreased $51 million, with $21 million of the decline from a $16 million non-cash impairment charge related to a note receivable, $4 million in costs incurred in connection with the ECS acquisition, and $1 million in restructuring-related charges. In addition, EBIT decreased from higher raw material costs (including LIFO expense) and increased spending to support content and market share gains in U.S. Spring. 

 Industrial Products

Total sales in Industrial Products grew 21%, from raw material-related selling price increases (18%) and higher volume (3%). 

EBIT increased $47 million from improved metal margins at our steel rod mill, higher volume and the non-recurrence of a $5 million impairment of a small wire products operation in 2017. These improvements were partially offset by higher LIFO expense.

35
Furniture Products

Total sales in Furniture Products grew 4%. Volume increased 2%, with growth in Adjustable Bed and Work Furniture, partially offset by declines in Home Furniture and Fashion Bed. Raw material-related price increases and currency impact added 2% to sales growth. 

EBIT decreased $31 million, $15 million from restructuring-related charges and the remainder primarily from higher steel costs (including LIFO expense), promotional activity, and lower overhead recovery.

Specialized Products

In Specialized Products, total sales grew 12%. Same location sales increased 6% from volume gains in Automotive and Aerospace, and currency benefits. The PHC acquisition added 9% and was partially offset (3%) by 2017’s CVP divestiture. 

EBIT decreased $7 million despite higher sales because of the non-recurrence of a $23 million gain on the sale of real estate offset by a $3 million loss from the CVP divestiture in 2017. 

Results from Discontinued Operations

There was no significant discontinued operations activity in 2018 or 2017. For further information about discontinued operations, see Note C to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 81.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS—2017 vs. 2016 

Sales increased 5% in 2017, from growth in volume, raw material-related price inflation, and currency impact. Acquisitions added 2% to sales but were offset by divestitures. Sales growth came primarily from Automotive, reflecting content gains and new program awards, and Adjustable Bed. Several other businesses, including International Spring, Geo Components, Work Furniture and Aerospace, contributed to sales growth.

Earnings from continuing operations decreased significantly from the effects of one-time costs associated with the TCJA. Other significant factors that reduced earnings include ongoing steel inflation and the timing lag associated with passing along higher steel costs. These reductions were partially offset by increased sales and lower income taxes. Further details about our consolidated and segment results are discussed below.

36
PART II

Consolidated Results (continuing operations)

The following table shows the changes in sales and earnings from continuing operations during 2017, and identifies the major factors contributing to the changes. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

 1 Calculations impacted by rounding

Sales increased 5% from volume growth, raw-material price increases and currency impact. Acquisitions also contributed 2% to sales growth but were offset by divestitures. The growth came primarily from Automotive and Adjustable Bed. Several other businesses, including International Spring, Geo Components, Work Furniture and Aerospace, also contributed to sales growth. 

During 2017, we divested the last remaining CVP operation, which had total annual sales of $43 million. 

As indicated in the table above, earnings from continuing operations decreased primarily from the impact of the TCJA. Operationally, earnings decreased largely from steel inflation, the timing lag associated with passing along these higher steel costs, and several smaller items partially offset by higher volume and lower income taxes. 

LIFO Impact

Approximately 50% of our inventories are valued on the LIFO method. These are primarily our domestic, steel-related inventories. In 2017, increasing steel costs over the course of the year resulted in a full-year pretax LIFO expense of 

37
$19 million. In 2016, increasing steel costs, particularly in the fourth quarter, resulted in a full-year pretax LIFO expense of $11 million. 

For further discussion of inventories, see Note A to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 72.

 Interest and Income Taxes

Net interest expense in 2017 did not appreciably change.

Our tax rate is determined by a combination of items, some recurring and some discrete. Recurring items include income earned in various tax jurisdictions and differences in tax rates in those jurisdictions. These items tend to be relatively stable from year to year. Conversely, discrete items may not be as consistent from year to year.

On December 22, 2017, President Trump signed into law TCJA, enacting significant changes to the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, including a reduction in the maximum U.S. federal corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21%, the transition of U.S. taxation from a worldwide tax system to a modified territorial system, and the imposition of a one-time tax associated with the mandatory deemed repatriation of untaxed foreign earnings. Although these provisions are generally applicable for years after December 31, 2017, several provisions impacted our 2017 earnings, including the one-time deemed repatriation tax, additional taxes for expected foreign cash repatriations, and the revaluation of our U.S. deferred taxes. As a result, we recorded a net tax expense of $50 million in the fourth quarter of 2017 related to these items, which negatively impacted our full year tax rate by 12%. Of this total amount, $67 million is related to the one-time deemed repatriation tax that will be paid on a graduated scale over the next eight years.

 While the U.S. statutory federal income tax rate was 35% in both years, our worldwide effective income tax rate on continuing operations was 32% in 2017, compared to 25% for 2016. As discussed above, our rate was negatively impacted by 12% in 2017 due to the effect of TCJA (16% associated with the deemed repatriation tax and 2% from tax on expected future foreign cash repatriations, partially offset by a 6% benefit from the revaluation of our U.S. net deferred tax liabilities). In both years our tax rate benefited from earnings in non-U.S. jurisdictions, which reduced our effective tax rate by 8% in 2017 and 6% in 2016. In addition, the 2017 tax rate benefited by 2% related to tax attributes from a divested business, 2% related to the tax effects of stock-based compensation deductions in the year, and 3% from other permanent tax differences. The 2016 tax rate benefited by 3% related to the tax effects of stock-based compensation deductions in the year and 1% (net) from other items.

38
PART II

 Segment Results

In the following section we discuss 2017 sales and EBIT for each of our segments. We provide additional detail about segment results and a reconciliation of segment EBIT to consolidated EBIT in Note G to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 87. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

1 This is the change in sales not attributable to acquisitions or divestitures. These are sales that come from the same plants and facilities that we operated one year earlier.

2 Segment margins are calculated on total sales. Overall company margin is calculated on trade sales.

Residential Products

Residential Products total sales increased 3% in 2017 from acquisitions, net of a small divestiture. Same locations sales were flat, with volume growth and raw material-related price increases offset by lower pass-through sales of adjustable beds (which originate in Furniture Products but are occasionally distributed through Residential Products). Within our U.S. Spring business, total innerspring units decreased 4%, but growth continued in ComfortCore® (our pocketed coil innersprings), with unit volume in that category up 8%. Volume also increased in our International Spring business. 

EBIT and EBIT margin increased in 2017 due to the pass-through of raw material cost increases and higher volume, despite the non-recurrence of a $7 million litigation benefit in 2016. 

Industrial Products

Total sales in the segment declined 6%, due to divestitures completed in 2016. Same location sales in Industrial Products were flat with steel-related price increases offset by lower volume. 

39
EBIT decreased primarily from the non-recurrence of a $16 million divestiture gain in 2016, higher raw material costs (including LIFO expense), the timing lag associated with passing along inflation, an impairment charge of $5 million, and lower volume.

Furniture Products

Sales in Furniture Products increased 6%, with same location sales up 5% from growth in Adjustable Bed and Work Furniture. A small acquisition in Work Furniture added 1% to sales growth.

EBIT and EBIT margin decreased, with the benefit from sales growth more than offset by higher steel costs (including LIFO expense), production inefficiencies and other smaller items. 

Specialized Products

In Specialized Products, total sales increased 4% in 2017, and same location sales increased 8%, with volume gains in Automotive and Aerospace partially offset by lower sales in the former CVP business unit. CVP divestitures reduced sales by 4%. 

EBIT and EBIT margin increased primarily from a $23 million gain related to the sale of real estate formerly associated with CVP and higher volume, partially offset by a non-recurring divestiture gain in 2016 ($11 million) and growth-related costs.

Results from Discontinued Operations

Full year earnings from discontinued operations, net of tax, decreased to -$1 million from $19 million in 2016. This decrease is primarily due to the non-recurrence of a litigation gain ($20 million) related to our former Prime Foam business. For further information about discontinued operations, see Note C to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 81.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITALIZATION

Cash from operations was essentially flat in 2018. Our operations once again provided more than enough cash to fund both capital expenditures and dividend payments, something we have accomplished each year for 30 years. We expect this to again be the case in 2019. 

We continued to invest in businesses and product categories that are growing, with capital expenditures in 2018 flat versus 2017. We raised the quarterly dividend by 5.6% and extended our record of consecutive annual increases to 47 years. We also bought back 2.6 million shares of our stock during the year. 

In January 2019, we expanded the borrowing capacity under our revolving credit facility from $800 million to $1.2 billion, correspondingly increased permitted borrowing under our commercial paper program, and added additional borrowing capacity in the form of a $500 million 5-year term loan primarily to finance the ECS transaction. After completing the ECS acquisition in January 2019, our outstanding commercial paper was $898 million and we had fully borrowed under the $500 million term loan. We expect to focus on deleveraging by temporarily limiting share repurchases, reducing other acquisition spending, and using operating cash flow to repay debt.

40
PART II

Cash from Operations

Cash from operations is our primary source of funds. Earnings and changes in working capital levels are the two factors that generally have the greatest impact on our cash from operations.

Cash from operations was essentially flat in 2018. Cash from operations should approximate $550 million in 2019, increasing versus 2018 primarily due to the ECS acquisition. 

We closely monitor our working capital levels, and we ended 2018 with adjusted working capital at 10.6% of annualized sales 1. The table below explains this non-GAAP calculation. We eliminate cash and current debt maturities from working capital to monitor our operating efficiency and performance related to trade receivables, inventories, and accounts payable. We believe this provides a more useful measurement to investors since cash and current maturities can fluctuate significantly from period to period. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

1 Annualized sales equal 4th quarter sales ($1,047 million in 2018 and $984 million in 2017) multiplied by 4. We believe measuring our working capital against this sales metric is more useful, since efficient management of working capital includes adjusting those net asset levels to reflect current business volume.

41
PART II

Three Primary Components of our Working Capital

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

1 Days sales outstanding: ((beginning of year trade receivables + end of period trade receivables) ÷ 2) ÷ (net trade sales ÷ number of days in the period).

2 Days inventory on hand: ((beginning of year inventory + end of period inventory) ÷ 2) ÷ (cost of goods sold ÷ number of days in the period).

3 Days payables outstanding: ((beginning of year accounts payable + end of period accounts payable) ÷ 2) ÷ (cost of goods sold ÷ number of days in the period).[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Trade Receivables - Our trade receivables increased $23 million at December 31, 2018 compared to the prior year primarily due to increased sales, acquisitions, and currency fluctuations. Our sales to international customers, which are predominantly in the Specialized Products segment, continue to increase and typically have longer payment terms. We do not believe that the increase in days sales outstanding is indicative of a deterioration of the creditworthiness of our customers, or is reasonably likely to materially impact our liquidity position. Rather, we believe the increase is within a reasonable range of change caused by differences in the timing of sales and cash receipts. We continue to look for ways to improve speed of customer payments, including third party programs with early payment incentives in certain circumstances. 

Our provision expense for losses on trade accounts receivable has averaged $1 million for the last three years. On the balance sheet, our allowance for doubtful accounts as a percentage of our net trade receivables has approximated 1% for the same time period. We monitor all accounts for possible loss. Although we recorded a $16 million reserve ($15 million on a note receivable and $1 million for a trade accounts receivable) regarding a customer in our Residential Products segment that is experiencing financial problems, we have experienced favorable trends in the number of trade accounts receivables monitored for possible loss or written-off over the last few years. We obtain credit applications, credit reports, bank and trade references, and periodic financial statements from our customers to establish credit limits and terms as appropriate. In cases where a customer’s payment performance or financial condition begins to deteriorate or in the event of a customer bankruptcy, we tighten our credit limits and terms and make appropriate reserves based on facts and circumstances for each individual customer. 

Inventories - The increase in inventories of $63 million at December 31, 2018 compared to the prior year primarily reflects inflation, higher levels necessary to support sales growth, new programs and acquisitions. 

Days inventory on hand of 65 days at the end of 2018 is within a reasonable historical range. We believe we have established adequate reserves for any slower moving or obsolete inventories. We continuously monitor our slower-moving and potentially obsolete inventory through reports on inventory quantities compared to sales within the previous 12 months. We also utilize cycle counting programs and complete physical counts of our inventory. When potential inventory obsolescence is indicated by these controls, we will take charges for write-downs to maintain an adequate level of reserves. Additions to inventory reserves in 2018 were $10 million, which was slightly higher than our $8 million three-year average. This increase is primarily associated with the 2018 Restructuring Plan. Our reserve balances as a percentage of our 2018 year-end inventory were consistent with our historical average. 

Accounts Payable - The increase in accounts payables of $35 million at December 31, 2018 compared to the prior year is primarily due to a focused effort on optimizing payment terms, increased purchases to support sales growth, and 

42
PART II

acquisitions. We continue to optimize payment terms through our significant purchasing power and also utilize third party services that allow flexible payment options to enhance our DPO.

Uses of Cash

Finance Capital Requirements

In certain of our businesses and product lines we have minimal excess production capacity, and we are therefore investing to support continued growth. In Automotive, we are expanding capacity to support new programs that will begin production over the next few years. In Bedding, we are investing in equipment to support ongoing growth in ComfortCore® innersprings and newer product features such as Quantum® Edge. 

We will continue to make investments to support expansion in businesses and product lines where sales are growing, for efficiency improvement and maintenance and for system enhancements. We expect capital expenditures to approximate $195 million in 2019. Our employee incentive plans emphasize returns on capital, which include net fixed assets and working capital. This emphasis focuses our management on asset utilization and helps ensure that we are investing additional capital dollars where attractive return potential exists.

Our long-term 6-9% annual growth objective envisions periodic acquisitions. We are seeking acquisitions primarily within our Grow business units, and we are looking for opportunities to enter new growth markets (carefully screened for sustainable competitive advantage, such as the 2019 ECS transaction discussed on page 29 and the 2018 PHC acquisition discussed below). As a reminder, in connection with the acquisition of ECS our debt levels increased, and we expect to focus on deleveraging by, among other factors, temporarily reducing other acquisition spending. 

In 2016, we acquired three businesses and the remaining interest in a joint venture for total consideration of $65 million. The first, a U.S. manufacturer of aerospace tube assemblies, expands our tube forming and fabrication capabilities and adds precision machining to our aerospace platform. The second is a distributor of geosynthetic products, and the third, a South African producer of mattress innersprings. Finally, we purchased the remaining interest in an Automotive joint venture in China. This business manufactures seat comfort products and lumbar support systems.

In 2017, we acquired three businesses and the remaining interest in a joint venture for total consideration of $56 million (cash and stock). The first, a Canadian distributor and installer of geosynthetic products expands the geographic scope and capabilities of our Geo Components business. The second is a U.S. manufacturer of surface-critical bent tube components which supports the private-label finished seating strategy in our Work Furniture business. The third is a U.S. producer of rebond carpet underlay which adds to our production capacity and expands the geographic footprint in our 

43
PART II

Flooring Products business. Finally, we acquired the remaining 20% of an Asian joint venture in our Work Furniture business.

In 2018, we acquired three businesses for total consideration of $109 million. The first is Precision Hydraulic Cylinders (PHC), a leading global manufacturer of engineered hydraulic cylinders primarily for the materials handling market. The second and third are both operations in our Geo Components business: a small producer of geo components, and a manufacturer and distributor of innovative home and garden products that can be found at most major retailers. 

In January 2019, we acquired ECS, a leader in the production of proprietary specialized foam used primarily for the bedding and furniture industries, for total consideration of approximately $1.25 billion.

Additional details about acquisitions can be found in Note S and Note V to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 114 and page 121, respectively.

Pay Dividends

Dividends are the primary means by which we return cash to shareholders. The cash requirement for dividends in 2019 should approximate $205 million.

We are modestly changing our dividend payout target (from 50-60%) to approximately 50% of adjusted EPS (which excludes special items such as significant tax law impacts, divestiture gains, impairment charges, restructuring-related charges, litigation accruals and settlement proceeds). Continuing our long track record of increasing the dividend remains a high priority. In 2018, we increased the quarterly dividend by $.02, or 5.6%, to $.38 per share. 2018 marked the Company's 47th annual dividend increase, a record of consecutive dividend increases that only ten S&P 500 companies currently exceed. Leggett & Platt is proud of its dividend record and plans to extend it. 

44
PART II

Repurchase Stock

Share repurchases are the other means by which we return cash to shareholders. As shown in the chart above, share repurchases were significant in each of the last three years. During that time frame, we repurchased a total of 10.5 million shares of our stock and issued 5.4 million shares (through employee benefit plans and stock option exercises), reducing outstanding shares by 4%. In 2018, we repurchased 2.6 million shares (at an average price of $43.10) and issued 1.2 million shares. 

Our long-term priorities for use of cash are: fund organic growth, pay dividends, fund strategic acquisitions, and repurchase stock with available cash. With the increase in leverage from our acquisition of ECS, as previously discussed, we will temporarily limit share repurchases, reduce acquisition spending, and prioritize debt repayment after funding organic growth and dividends. 

We have been authorized by the Board to repurchase up to 10 million shares each year, but we have established no specific repurchase commitment or timetable. 

45
PART II

Capitalization 

This table presents key debt and capitalization statistics at the end of the three most recent years. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

1 These rates include current maturities, but exclude commercial paper to reflect the averages of outstanding debt with scheduled maturities. The rates also include amortization of interest rate swaps.

2 The unused credit amount is based upon our revolving credit facility and commercial paper program which, at the end of 2016, had $750 million of borrowing capacity. The credit facility was amended in the fourth quarter of 2017 to increase the borrowing capacity to $800 million and the commercial paper program was increased to a corresponding amount. In January 2019, we expanded the borrowing capacity under our revolving credit facility from $800 million to $1.2 billion and correspondingly increased permitted borrowings under our commercial paper program primarily to finance the ECS transaction.

In November 2017, we issued $500 million aggregate principal amount of notes that mature in 2027. The notes bear interest at a rate of 3.5% per year, with interest payable semi-annually beginning on May 15, 2018. The net proceeds of these notes were used to pay down commercial paper, which in turn provided borrowing capacity under our commercial paper program for general corporate purposes and the repayment or refinancing of existing indebtedness, at maturity.

In July 2018, we retired $150 million of 4.40% notes at maturity.

In January 2019, we increased the capacity under our revolving credit facility from $800 million to $1.2 billion (and increased permitted borrowings under our commercial paper program in a corresponding amount), and added additional borrowing capacity in the form of the five-year term loan facility in the amount of $500 million, all primarily to finance the ECS acquisition. As of January 16, 2019, the ECS acquisition closing date, we had $898 million of outstanding commercial paper, and had fully borrowed under the $500 million term loan. We are evaluating financing alternatives for the reduction of the commercial paper.

46
PART II

Commercial Paper Program

We can raise cash by issuing commercial paper through a program that is backed by our revolving credit facility with a syndicate of 13 lenders. In May 2016, we increased the borrowing capacity under the facility from $600 million to $750 million and extended the term by two years to 2021. In November 2017, we increased the borrowing capacity under the facility from $750 million to $800 million and extended the term by one year to 2022. In January 2019, we expanded the borrowing capacity under our revolving credit facility from $800 million to $1.2 billion, extended the term by two years to 2024 and correspondingly increased permitted borrowings under our commercial paper program primarily to finance the ECS transaction. The credit facility allows us to issue letters of credit totaling up to $125 million. When we issue letters of credit under the facility, we reduce our available credit and commercial paper capacity by a corresponding amount. Amounts outstanding at year-end related to our commercial paper program were: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The average and maximum amounts of commercial paper outstanding during 2018 were $199 million and $334 million, respectively. During the fourth quarter, the average and maximum amounts outstanding were $253 million and $304 million, respectively. At year end, we had no letters of credit outstanding under the credit facility, but we had issued $47 million of stand-by letters of credit under other bank agreements to take advantage of better pricing. Over the long term, and subject to our capital needs, market conditions and alternative capital market opportunities, we expect to maintain the indebtedness under the program by continuously repaying and reissuing the commercial paper notes until such time as the outstanding notes are replaced with long-term debt. We view the notes as a source of long-term funds and have classified the borrowings under the commercial paper program as long-term borrowings on our balance sheet. We have the intent to roll over such obligations on a long-term basis and have the ability to refinance these borrowings on a long-term basis as evidenced by our revolving credit agreement discussed above. However, we expect that our commercial paper balances may increase or decrease in the short term due to acquisition or divestiture activity and our working capital needs. 

With cash on hand, operating cash flow, our commercial paper program, and our ability to obtain debt financing, we believe we have sufficient funds available to repay maturing debt, as well as support our ongoing operations, pay dividends, fund future growth, and repurchase stock. However, with the acquisition of ECS, we have temporarily realigned our capital allocation priorities and will limit share repurchases, reduce other acquisition spending, and use operating cash to repay debt and focus on deleveraging to our long-term leverage target. 

Our revolving credit facility and certain other long-term debt obligations contain restrictive covenants. The covenants limit, among other things: (a) as of the last day of each fiscal quarter beginning March 31, 2019, the leverage ratio of consolidated funded indebtedness to consolidated EBITDA (each as defined in the revolving credit facility) for the trailing four fiscal quarters to 4.25 to 1.00, with a single step-down to 3.50 to 1.00 on March 31, 2020, (b) the amount of total secured debt to 15% of our total consolidated assets, and (c) our ability to sell, lease, transfer, or dispose of all or substantially all of total consolidated assets.

We expect to comfortably comply with the covenants on all relevant dates. Prior to the credit facility amendment in January 2019, in addition to (b) and (c) above, we were subject to a restrictive covenant limiting our total amount of indebtedness to 65% of our total capitalization (each as defined in the revolving credit facility), with which we were comfortably in compliance as of December 31, 2018. For more information about long-term debt, please see Note K to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 94. 

Accessibility of Cash

At December 31, 2018, we had cash and cash equivalents of $268 million primarily invested in interest-bearing bank accounts and in bank time deposits with original maturities of three months or less. The majority of these funds are held in the international accounts of our foreign operations. 

47
PART II

TCJA, enacted at the end of 2017, imposed a one-time U.S. tax on the earnings that produced our foreign cash. The deemed repatriation tax outstanding as of December 31, 2018, was $32 million and will be paid on a graduated scale beginning in 2022 over a four-year period. We can now bring cash to the U.S. without incurring incremental U.S. federal taxes. There likely will be some state-level income tax; however, we believe any such tax will not be material. As a result, the enactment of TCJA increases the likelihood of repatriating cash from past, current and future earnings. 

If we were to bring all our current foreign cash back immediately to the U.S. in the form of dividends, we would pay previously accrued foreign withholding taxes of approximately $18 million, based upon historic foreign withholding tax rates. However, due to statutory requirements in various jurisdictions, approximately $29 million of this cash was inaccessible for repatriation at year end. In 2018, 2017, and 2016, we brought back cash of $314 million, $116 million, and $5 million, respectively, at little to no added tax cost.

CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS

The following table summarizes our future contractual cash obligations and commitments at December 31, 2018:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

1 The long-term debt payment schedule presented above could be accelerated if we were not able to make the principal and interest payments when due. This does not include $1.25 billion of additional borrowings primarily related to the January 16, 2019 ECS acquisition (as discussed on page 46). We expect to focus on deleveraging by temporarily limiting share repurchases, reducing other acquisition spending, and using operating cash flow to repay debt.

2 Purchase obligations primarily include open short-term (30-120 days) purchase orders that arise in the normal course of operating our facilities.

3 Interest payments assume debt outstanding remains constant with amounts at December 31, 2018 and at rates in effect at the end of the year. This does not include incremental annual interest that will be incurred on the $1.25 billion of additional borrowings primarily related to the ECS acquisition.

4 Other obligations include our net reserves for tax contingencies in the "More Than 5 Years" column because these obligations are long-term in nature and actual payment dates cannot be specifically determined. Other obligations also include a $32 million long-term deemed repatriation tax payable and our current estimate of $1 million for minimum contributions to defined benefit pension plans.

5 Less Than 1 Year (due in 2019), 1-3 Years (due in 2020 and 2021), 3-5 Years (due in 2022 and 2023) and More Than 5 Years (due in 2024 and beyond).

48
PART II

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES

We prepare our consolidated financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. To do so, we must make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses, and disclosures. If we used different estimates or judgments our financial statements would change, and some of those changes could be significant. Our estimates are frequently based upon historical experience and are considered by management, at the time they are made, to be reasonable and appropriate. Estimates are adjusted for actual events, as they occur.

“Critical accounting estimates” are those that are: (a) subject to uncertainty and change, and (b) of material impact to our financial statements. Listed below are the estimates and judgments which we believe could have the most significant effect on our financial statements.

We provide additional details regarding our significant accounting policies in Note A to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 72.

Description 

Judgments and

Uncertainties 

Effect if Actual Results

Differ From Assumptions

Goodwill    

Goodwill is assessed for impairment annually as of June 30 and as triggering events occur.

Goodwill is evaluated annually for impairment as of June 30 using either a quantitative or qualitative analysis at the reporting unit level, which is one level below our operating segments: 

(a) The qualitative assessment begins with determination of whether it is more likely than not that a reporting unit's fair value is less than its carrying value before applying a two-step goodwill impairment model.

(b) The quantitative analysis utilizes a two-step goodwill impairment model.

Judgment is required in the two-step model. We estimate fair value using a combination of:

(a) A discounted cash flow model that contains uncertainties related to the forecast of future results, as many outside economic and competitive factors can influence future performance. Margins, sales growth, and discount rates are the most critical estimates in determining enterprise values using the cash flow model.

(b) The market approach using price to earnings ratios for comparable publicly traded companies that operate in the same or similar industry and with characteristics similar to the reporting unit. Judgment is required to determine the appropriate price to earnings ratio. 

The June 2018 review indicated no goodwill impairments. At December 31, 2018, we had $834 million of goodwill. 

We recognized goodwill impairments of less than $5 million in 2017 and 2016 associated with the exit of a few small businesses that were evaluated for impairment when they were classified as held for sale. 

Information regarding material assumptions used to determine if a goodwill impairment exists can be found in Note D to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 82.

We conduct impairment testing based on our current business strategy in light of present industry and economic conditions, as well as future expectations. If we are not able to achieve projected performance levels, future impairments could be possible.

49
Description 

Judgments and

Uncertainties 

Effect if Actual Results

Differ From Assumptions

Other Long-lived Assets    

Other long-lived assets are tested for recoverability at year-end and whenever events or circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable.

For other long-lived assets we estimate fair value at the lowest level where cash flows can be measured (usually at a branch level).

Impairments of other long-lived assets usually occur when major restructuring activities take place, or we decide to discontinue product lines completely.

Our impairment assessments have uncertainties because they require estimates of future cash flows to determine if undiscounted cash flows are sufficient to recover carrying values of these assets.

For assets where future cash flows are not expected to recover carrying value, fair value is estimated which requires an estimate of market value based upon asset appraisals for like assets. 

These impairments are unpredictable. Impairments did not exceed $6 million per year in any of the last three years.

At December 31, 2018, net property, plant and equipment was $729 million and net intangible assets other than goodwill was $179 million.

Inventory Reserves    

We reduce the carrying value of inventories to reflect an estimate of net realizable value for slow-moving (i.e., not selling very quickly) and obsolete inventory.

Generally a reserve is required when we have more than one-year's supply of the product.

The calculation also uses an estimate of the ultimate recoverability of items identified as slow-moving based upon historical experience. 

If we have had no sales of a given product for 12 months, those items are generally deemed to be obsolete with no value and are written down completely.

Finally, costs for approximately 50% of our inventories (consisting primarily of our domestic steel related inventories) are determined using the last-in, first-out (LIFO) method, which produces a cost that is lower than net realizable value. 

Our inventory reserve contains uncertainties because the calculation requires management to make assumptions about the value of products that are obsolete or slow-moving.

Changes in customer behavior and requirements can cause inventory to become obsolete or slow-moving. Restructuring activity and decisions to narrow product offerings also impact the estimated net realizable value of inventories.

At December 31, 2018, the reserve for obsolete and slow-moving inventory was $27 million (approximately 4% of inventories). This is consistent with the reserves at December 31, 2017 and 2016, representing approximately 5% of inventories. 

Additions to inventory reserves in 2018 were $10 million, which was slightly higher than our $8 million three-year average. This increase is primarily associated with the 2018 Restructuring Plan as discussed in Note F to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 86, and we do not expect significant changes in our historical obsolescence levels. 

50
PART II

Description 

Judgments and

Uncertainties 

Effect if Actual Results

Differ From Assumptions

Workers’ Compensation    

We are substantially self-insured for costs related to workers’ compensation, and this requires us to estimate the liability associated with this obligation. Our estimates of self-insured reserves contain uncertainties regarding the potential amounts we might have to pay. We consider a number of factors, including historical claim experience, demographic factors, and potential recoveries from third party insurance carriers. Over the past five years, we have incurred, on average, $8 million annually for costs associated with workers’ compensation. Average year-to-year variation over the past five years has been approximately $1 million. At December 31, 2018, we had accrued $33 million to cover future self-insurance liabilities.

Credit Losses    

For accounts and notes receivable, we estimate a bad debt reserve for the amount that will ultimately be uncollectible.

When we become aware of a specific customer’s potential inability to pay, we record a bad debt reserve for the amount we believe may not be collectible.

Our bad debt reserve contains uncertainties because it requires management to estimate the amount uncollectible based upon an evaluation of several factors such as the length of time that receivables are past due, the financial health of the customer, industry and macroeconomic considerations, and historical loss experience.

Our customers are diverse and many are small-to-medium sized companies, with some being highly leveraged. Bankruptcy can occur with some of these customers relatively quickly and with little warning.

In cases where a customer’s payment performance or financial condition begins to deteriorate, we tighten our credit limits and terms and make appropriate reserves when deemed necessary. Certain of our customers have from time to time experienced bankruptcy, insolvency and/or an inability to pay their debts to us as they come due. If our customers suffer significant financial difficulty, they may be unable to pay their debts to us timely or at all, they may reject their contractual obligations to us under bankruptcy laws or otherwise, or we may have to negotiate significant discounts and/or extend financing terms with these customers. 

A significant change in the financial status of a large customer could impact our estimates.

We believe we have established adequate reserves on our riskier customer accounts. Although we recorded a $16 million reserve ($15 million on a note receivable and $1 million for a trade accounts receivable) for a customer in our Residential Products segment that is experiencing financial difficulty and liquidity problems, we have experienced favorable trends in the number of trade accounts receivable monitored for possible loss or written off in the last few years. 

The average annual amount of bad debt expense associated with customer trade accounts receivable was less than $2 million (significantly less than 1% of annual net sales) over the last three years. At December 31, 2018, our allowances for doubtful trade accounts receivable were $5 million (about 1% of our trade receivables of $552 million).

51
Description 

Judgments and

Uncertainties 

Effect if Actual Results

Differ From Assumptions

Pension Accounting    

For our pension plans, we must estimate the cost of benefits to be provided (well into the future) and the current value of those benefit obligations.

In 2017, we completed an annuity purchase transaction for pensioners that were currently receiving a small monthly benefit. Please see Note N to our Consolidated Financial Statements on page 103.

The pension liability calculation contains uncertainties because it requires management's judgment. Significant assumptions used to measure our pension liabilities and pension expense annually include:

 - the discount rate used to calculate the present value of future benefits

 - an estimate of expected return on pension assets based upon the mix of investments held (bonds and equities)

 - certain employee-related factors, such as turnover, retirement age and mortality. Mortality assumptions represent our best estimate of the duration of future benefit payments at the measurement date. These estimates are based on each plans' demographics and other relevant facts and circumstances

 - the rate of salary increases where benefits are based on earnings

Each 25 basis point decrease in the discount rate increases pension expense by $.4 million and increases the plans’ benefit obligation by $6.8 million.

A 25 basis point reduction in the expected return on assets would increase pension expense by $.4 million, but have no effect on the plans’ funded status. Assuming a long-term investment horizon, we do not expect a material change to the return on asset assumption. 

Contingencies    

We evaluate various legal, environmental, and other potential claims against us to determine if an accrual or disclosure of the contingency is appropriate. If it is probable that an ultimate loss will be incurred and reasonably estimable, we accrue a liability for the estimate of the loss. Our disclosure and accrual of loss contingencies (i.e., losses that may or may not occur) contain uncertainties because they are based on our assessment of the probability that the expenses will actually occur, and our reasonable estimate of the likely cost. Our estimates and judgments are subjective and can involve matters in litigation, the results of which are generally unpredictable. 

Legal contingencies are related to numerous lawsuits and claims described in Note U to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 119. 

During the three-year period ended December 31, 2018, we recorded expense of $13 million ($9 million for continuing operations and $4 million in discontinued operations).

There were no material uninsured individual claims during the three-year period ending December 31, 2018.

52
PART II

Description 

Judgments and

Uncertainties 

Effect if Actual Results

Differ From Assumptions

Income Taxes    

In the ordinary course of business, we must make estimates of the tax treatment of many transactions, even though the ultimate tax outcome may remain uncertain for some time. These estimates become part of the annual income tax expense reported in our financial statements. Subsequent to year end, we finalize our tax analysis and file income tax returns. Tax authorities periodically audit these income tax returns and examine our tax filing positions, including (among other things) the timing and amounts of deductions, and the allocation of income among tax jurisdictions. If necessary, we adjust income tax expense in our financial statements in the periods in which the actual outcome becomes more certain. 

Our tax liability for unrecognized tax benefits contains uncertainties because management is required to make assumptions and to apply judgment to estimate the exposures related to our various filing positions.

Our effective tax rate is also impacted by changes in tax laws, the current mix of earnings by taxing jurisdiction, and the results of current tax audits and assessments. In December 2017, the U.S. enacted comprehensive tax legislation commonly referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (TCJA), which resulted in significant changes to U.S. federal income tax law affecting the Company. Current and expected impacts are based on our current knowledge of the legislation and other authoritative guidance which has been issued, including proposed regulations. 

At December 31, 2018 and 2017, we had $14 million and $11 million, respectively, of net deferred tax assets on our balance sheet primarily related to net operating losses and other tax carryforwards. The ultimate realization of these deferred tax assets is dependent upon the amount, source, and timing of future taxable income. In cases where we believe it is more likely than not that we may not realize the future potential tax benefits, we establish a valuation allowance against them.  

Changes in U.S. and foreign tax laws could impact assumptions related to the repatriation of certain foreign earnings.

Audits by various taxing authorities continue as governments look for ways to raise additional revenue. Based upon past audit experience, we do not expect any material changes to our tax liability as a result of this audit activity; however, we could incur additional tax expense if we have audit adjustments higher than recent historical experience. 

The likelihood of recovery of net operating losses and other tax carryforwards has been closely evaluated and is based upon such factors as the time remaining before expiration, viable tax planning strategies, and future taxable earnings expectations. We believe that appropriate valuation allowances have been recorded as necessary. However, if earnings expectations or other assumptions change such that additional valuation allowances are required, we could incur additional tax expense. Likewise, if fewer valuation allowances are needed, we could incur reduced tax expense.

53
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

54
PART II

CONTINGENCIES

Litigation

Accruals for Probable Losses

We are exposed to litigation contingencies that, if realized, could have a material negative impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Although, we deny liability in all currently threatened or pending litigation proceedings in which we are or may be a party and believe we have valid bases to contest all claims made against us, we have recorded a litigation contingency accrual for our reasonable estimate of probable loss for pending and threatened litigation proceedings, in aggregate, in millions, as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

 A large percentage of the accruals and cash payments in 2016 were related to antitrust proceedings. The above litigation contingency accruals do not include accrued expenses related to workers' compensation, vehicle-related personal injury, product and general liability claims, taxation issues and environmental matters, some of which may contain a portion of litigation expense. However, any litigation expense associated with these categories is not anticipated to have a material effect on our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. For more information regarding accrued expenses, see Note J - Supplemental Balance Sheet Information to the Consolidated Financial Statements under "Accrued expenses" on page 93.

Reasonably Possible Losses in Excess of Accruals

Although there are a number of uncertainties and potential outcomes associated with all of our pending or threatened litigation proceedings, we believe, based on current known facts, that additional losses, if any, are not expected to materially affect our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. However, based upon current known facts, as of December 31, 2018, aggregate reasonably possible (but not probable, and therefore not accrued) losses in excess of the accruals noted above are estimated to be $17 million, including $16 million for Brazilian value-added tax matters and $1 million for other matters. If our assumptions or analyses regarding these contingencies are incorrect, or if facts change, we could realize loss in excess of the recorded accruals (and in excess of the $17 million referenced above), which could have a material negative impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

For more information regarding litigation contingencies, please refer to Note U on page 119 of the Consolidated Financial Statements, which are incorporated herein by reference. 

Customer accounts receivable 

Bankruptcy, financial difficulties or insolvency can and has occurred with some of our customers which can impact their ability to pay their debts to us. We have extended trade credit to some of these customers in a material amount, particularly in our Bedding and Consumer Products Groups. Our bad debt reserve contains uncertainties because it requires management to estimate the amount of uncollectible receivables based upon the financial health and payment history of the customer, industry and macroeconomic considerations, and historical loss experience. 

Some retailers that carry our products or our customers’ products may undergo restructurings or reorganizations because of financial difficulty. Also, certain of our customers have filed bankruptcy, and others, from time to time, have become insolvent and/or do not have the ability to pay their debts to us as they come due. If our customers suffer significant financial difficulty, they may be unable to pay their debts to us, they may reject their contractual obligations to us under bankruptcy laws or otherwise, or we may have to negotiate significant discounts and/or extend financing terms with these customers. Any of these risks, if realized, could adversely affect our revenues and increase our operating 

55
expenses by requiring larger provisions for bad debt, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 

Cybersecurity Risks 

We rely on information systems to obtain, process, analyze and manage data, as well as to facilitate the manufacture and distribution of inventory to and from our facilities. We receive, process and ship orders, manage the billing of and collections from our customers, and manage the accounting for and payment to our vendors. The Company has a formal process in place for both incident response and cybersecurity continuous improvement that includes a cross functional Cyber Oversight Committee. The General Counsel and the Vice President of Internal Audit (both members of the Cyber Oversight Committee) update the Audit Committee quarterly on cyber activity, with procedures in place for interim reporting if necessary. 

Although the Company has not experienced any material cybersecurity incidents, we have enhanced our cybersecurity protection efforts over the last few years. However, even with this expanded protection, technology failures or cybersecurity breaches could still create system disruptions or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. We cannot be certain that advances in the attacker’s capabilities will not compromise our technology protecting information systems. If these systems are interrupted or damaged by any incident or fail for any extended period of time, then our results of operations could be adversely affected. We may incur remediation costs, increased cybersecurity protection costs, lost revenues resulting from unauthorized use of proprietary information, litigation and legal costs, reputational damage, damage to our competitiveness and negative impact on stock price and long-term shareholder value.

NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS

The FASB has issued accounting guidance effective for current and future periods. See Note A to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 72 for a more complete discussion. 

56
PART II

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.