ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Overview

We are a global distributor of vehicle products, including replacement parts, components and systems used in the repair and maintenance of vehicles, and specialty products and accessories to improve the performance, functionality and appearance of vehicles.

Buyers of vehicle replacement products have the option to purchase from primarily five sources: new products produced by original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs"); new products produced by companies other than the OEMs, which are referred to as aftermarket products; recycled products obtained from salvage and total loss vehicles; recycled products that have been refurbished; and recycled products that have been remanufactured. We distribute a variety of products to collision 

33

and mechanical repair shops, including aftermarket collision and mechanical products; recycled collision and mechanical products; refurbished collision products such as wheels, bumper covers and lights; and remanufactured engines and transmissions. Collectively, we refer to the four sources that are not new OEM products as alternative parts.

We are a leading provider of alternative vehicle collision replacement products and alternative vehicle mechanical replacement products, with our sales, processing, and distribution facilities reaching most major markets in the United States and Canada. We are also a leading provider of alternative vehicle replacement and maintenance products in the United Kingdom, Germany, the Benelux region (Belgium, Netherlands, and Luxembourg), Italy, Czech Republic, Poland, Slovakia, Austria, and various other European countries. In addition to our wholesale operations, we operate self service retail facilities across the U.S. that sell recycled automotive products from end-of-life-vehicles. We are also a leading distributor of specialty vehicle aftermarket equipment and accessories reaching most major markets in the U.S. and Canada.

We are organized into four operating segments: Wholesale – North America; Europe; Specialty and Self Service. We aggregate our Wholesale – North America and Self Service operating segments into one reportable segment, North America, resulting in three reportable segments: North America, Europe and Specialty.

Our operating results have fluctuated on a quarterly and annual basis in the past and can be expected to continue to fluctuate in the future as a result of a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control. Please refer to the factors referred to in Forward-Looking Statements above. Due to these factors and others, which may be unknown to us at this time, our operating results in future periods can be expected to fluctuate. Accordingly, our historical results of operations may not be indicative of future performance.

Acquisitions and Investments

Since our inception in 1998, we have pursued a growth strategy through both organic growth and acquisitions. We have pursued acquisitions that we believe will help drive profitability, cash flow and stockholder value. We target companies that are market leaders, will expand our geographic presence and will enhance our ability to provide a wide array of vehicle products to our customers through our distribution network.

On May 30, 2018, we acquired Stahlgruber, a leading European wholesale distributor of aftermarket spare parts for passenger cars, tools, capital equipment and accessories with operations in Germany, Austria, Italy, Slovenia, and Croatia with further sales to Switzerland. This acquisition expands LKQ's geographic presence in continental Europe and serves as an additional strategic hub for our European operations. In addition, we believe this acquisition will allow for continued improvement in procurement, logistics and infrastructure optimization. On May 3, 2018, the European Commission cleared the acquisition for the entire European Union, except with respect to the wholesale automotive parts business in the Czech Republic. The acquisition of the Czech Republic wholesale business has been referred to the Czech Republic competition authority for review. The Czech Republic wholesale business represents an immaterial portion of Stahlgruber's revenue and profitability.

On July 3, 2017, we acquired four parts distribution businesses in Belgium. These acquisitions are transforming the existing three-step distribution model in Belgium to a two-step distribution model to align with our Netherlands operations.

On November 1, 2017, we acquired the aftermarket business of Warn, a leading designer, manufacturer and marketer of high performance vehicle equipment and accessories. This acquisition expanded LKQ's presence in the specialty market and created viable points of entry into related markets. 

On March 18, 2016, we acquired Rhiag, a distributor of aftermarket spare parts for passenger cars and commercial vehicles in Italy, Czech Republic, Switzerland, Hungary, Romania, Ukraine, Bulgaria, Slovakia, Poland and Spain. This acquisition expanded LKQ's geographic presence in continental Europe and provided additional procurement synergies in our Europe segment.

On April 21, 2016, we acquired PGW, a leading global distributor and manufacturer of automotive glass products. PGW’s business comprised aftermarket automotive replacement glass distribution services and automotive glass manufacturing. On March 1, 2017, we sold the automotive glass manufacturing component of PGW. Unless otherwise noted, the discussion related to PGW throughout Part II, Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K refers to the aftermarket glass distribution operations of PGW, PGW autoglass, which is included within continuing operations. See Note 3, "Discontinued Operations" in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information related to our discontinued operations. The acquisition of PGW autoglass expanded our addressable market in North America and provided distribution synergies with our existing network.

In October 2016, we acquired substantially all of the business assets of Andrew Page Limited ("Andrew Page"), a distributor of aftermarket automotive parts in the United Kingdom. The U.K. Competition and Markets Authority ("CMA") concluded its review of this acquisition on October 31, 2017 and required us to divest less than 10% of the acquired locations. We divested the required locations during 2018.

34

In addition to the significant acquisitions mentioned above, during the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017, and 2016, we acquired various smaller businesses across our North America, Europe, and Specialty segments. 

On December 1, 2016, we acquired a 26.5% equity interest in Mekonomen AB ("Mekonomen"), the leading independent car parts and service chain in the Nordic region of Europe, offering a wide range of quality products including spare parts and accessories for cars, and workshop services for consumers and businesses. We acquired additional shares in the fourth quarter of 2018, increasing our equity interest to 26.6%. We are accounting for our interest in Mekonomen using the equity method of accounting, as our investment gives us the ability to exercise significant influence, but not control, over the investee.

See Note 2, "Business Combinations," and "Investments in Unconsolidated Subsidiaries" in Note 4, "Summary of Significant Accounting Policies," to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information related to our acquisitions and investments.

Sources of Revenue

We report our revenue in two categories: (i) parts and services and (ii) other. Our parts revenue is generated from the sale of vehicle products, including replacement parts, components and systems used in the repair and maintenance of vehicles, and specialty products and accessories to improve the performance, functionality and appearance of vehicles. Our service revenue is generated primarily from the sale of service-type warranties, fees for admission to our self service yards, and processing fees related to the secure disposal of vehicles. During the year ended December 31, 2018, parts and services revenue represented approximately 95% of our consolidated revenue. Revenue from other sources includes scrap sales, bulk sales to mechanical manufacturers (including cores) and sales of aluminum ingots and sows from our furnace operations. Other revenue will vary from period to period based on fluctuations in commodity prices and the volume of materials sold. See Note 5, "Revenue Recognition" to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information related to our sources of revenue.

Selling, General and Administrative Expenses

In our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017, we reported the following categories of operating expenses: (i) facility and warehouse expenses; (ii) distribution expenses; and (iii) selling, general and administrative expenses. To better reflect the changing profile of our business, and to align our financial statement presentation with other automotive parts and distribution companies, beginning with our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the three months ended March 31, 2018, these three categories have been consolidated into one line item: selling, general and administrative ("SG&A") expenses. 

Other than the consolidation of these financial statement line items and the changes due to the adoptions of Accounting Standards Update ASU 2014-09, "Revenue from Contracts with Customers" ("ASU 2014-09"), and ASU 2017-07, "Improving the Presentation of Net Periodic Pension Cost and Net Periodic Postretirement Benefit Cost," as discussed in Note 4, "Financial Statement Information" to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, there have been no changes to the classification of revenue or expenses on our Consolidated Statements of Income. Our SG&A expenses continue to include: personnel costs for employees in selling, general and administrative functions; costs to operate our selling locations, corporate offices and back office support centers; costs to transport our products from our facilities to our customers; and other selling, general and administrative expenses, such as professional fees, supplies, and advertising expenses.

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates

The discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP"). The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates, assumptions and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates, assumptions, and judgments, including those related to revenue recognition, inventory valuation, business combinations and goodwill impairment. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances. The results of these estimates form the basis for our judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities and our recognition of revenue. Actual results may differ from these estimates.

Revenue Recognition

In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued ASU 2014-09. This update outlines a new comprehensive revenue recognition model that supersedes the prior revenue recognition guidance and requires companies to recognize revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. The FASB has issued several updates to ASU 

35

2014-09, which collectively with ASU 2014-09, represent the FASB Accounting Standards Codification Topic 606 (“ASC 606”). On January 1, 2018, we adopted ASC 606 for all contracts using the modified retrospective method. For more information regarding the adoption of the new revenue standard as well as our critical accounting policies related to revenue, refer to Note 5, "Revenue Recognition," to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Inventory Accounting

Salvage and Remanufactured Inventory. Our salvage inventory cost is established based upon the price we pay for a vehicle, including auction, towing and storage fees, as well as expenditures for buying and dismantling vehicles. Inventory carrying value is determined using the average cost to sales percentage at each of our facilities and applying that percentage to the facility's inventory at expected selling prices, the assessment of which incorporates the sales probability based on a part's days in stock and historical demand. The average cost to sales percentage is derived from each facility's historical profitability for salvage vehicles. Remanufactured inventory cost is based upon the price paid for cores, and also includes expenses incurred for freight, direct manufacturing costs and overhead related to our remanufacturing operations.

All Inventory. For all inventory, carrying value is recorded at the lower of cost or net realizable value and is reduced to reflect current anticipated demand. If actual demand differs from our estimates, additional reductions to inventory carrying value would be necessary in the period such determination is made.

Business Combinations

We record our acquisitions using the purchase method of accounting, under which the acquisition purchase price is allocated to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed based upon their respective fair values. We utilize management estimates and, in some instances, independent third-party valuation firms to assist in determining the fair values of assets acquired, liabilities assumed and contingent consideration granted. There are inherent assumptions and estimates used in developing the future cash flows and fair values of tangible and intangible assets, such as projecting revenues and profits, discount rates, income tax rates, royalty rates, customer attrition rates and other various valuation assumptions. We use various valuation methods to value property, plant and equipment. When valuing real property, we typically use the sales comparison approach for land and the income approach for buildings and building improvements. When valuing personal property, we typically use either the income or cost approach. We used the relief-from-royalty method to value trade names, trademarks, software and other technology assets, and we used the multi-period excess earnings method to value customer relationships. The relief-from-royalty method assumes that the intangible asset has value to the extent that its owner is relieved of the obligation to pay royalties for the benefits received from the intangible asset. The multi-period excess earnings method is based on the present value of the incremental after-tax cash flows attributable only to the customer relationship after deducting contributory asset charges.

Goodwill and Indefinite-Lived Intangibles Impairment

We are required to test our goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment at least annually. When testing goodwill for impairment, we are required to evaluate events and circumstances that may affect the performance of the reporting unit and the extent to which the events and circumstances may impact the future cash flows of the reporting unit to determine whether the fair value of the assets exceed the carrying value. Developing the estimated future cash flows and fair value of the reporting unit requires management's judgment in projecting revenues and profits, allocation of shared corporate costs, tax rates, capital expenditures, working capital requirements, discount rates and market multiples. Many of the factors used in assessing fair value are outside the control of management, and it is reasonably likely that assumptions and estimates can change in future periods. If these assumptions or estimates change in the future, we may be required to record impairment charges for these assets. In response to changes in industry and market conditions, we may be required to strategically realign our resources and consider restructuring, disposing of, or otherwise exiting businesses, which could result in an impairment of goodwill.

We perform goodwill impairment tests annually in the fourth quarter and between annual tests whenever events indicate that an impairment may exist. During 2018, we did not identify any events or changes in circumstances that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of our reporting units below their carrying amounts. Therefore, we did not perform any impairment tests other than our annual test in the fourth quarter of 2018 as of October 31.

Our goodwill impairment assessment is performed by reporting unit. A reporting unit is an operating segment, or a business one level below an operating segment (the "component" level), for which discrete financial information is prepared and regularly reviewed by segment management. However, components are aggregated as a single reporting unit if they have similar economic characteristics. For the purpose of aggregating our components into reporting units, we review the long-term performance of Segment EBITDA. Additionally, we review qualitative factors such as type or class of customers, nature of products, distribution methods, inventory procurement methods, level of integration, and interdependency of processes across 

36

components. Our assessment of the aggregation includes both qualitative and quantitative factors and is based on the facts and circumstances specific to the components. 

We have four operating segments: Wholesale – North America, Europe, Specialty and Self Service. Each of these operating segments consists of multiple components that have discrete financial information available that is reviewed by segment management on a regular basis. We have evaluated these components and concluded that the components that compose the Europe, Specialty, and Self Service operating segments are economically similar and thus were aggregated into three separate reporting units. Based on our aggregation assessment of the qualitative and quantitative factors of the components of the Wholesale – North America operating segment, we determined the Aviation component should not be aggregated with its operating segment, Wholesale – North America, thus we did not aggregate the Aviation component into the Wholesale – North America reporting unit. Our Aviation reporting unit resulted from a 2017 acquisition of a small wholesale business in North America. As of the date of our 2018 annual goodwill impairment test, we were organized into five reporting units: Wholesale - North America, Europe, Specialty, Self Service and Aviation. 

Our goodwill would be considered impaired if the carrying value of a reporting unit exceeded its estimated fair value. The fair value estimates are established using weightings of the results of a discounted cash flow methodology and a comparative market multiples approach. We believe that using two methods to determine fair value limits the chances of an unrepresentative valuation. Discount rates, growth rates and cash flow projections are the assumptions that are most sensitive and susceptible to change as they require significant management judgment. Impairment may result from, among other things, deterioration in the performance of acquired businesses, increases in our cost of capital, adverse market conditions, and adverse changes in applicable laws or regulations, including modifications that restrict the activities of the acquired business. To assess the reasonableness of the fair value estimates, we compare the sum of the reporting units’ fair values to the Company’s market capitalization and calculate an implied control premium, which is then evaluated against recent market transactions in our industry. If we were required to recognize goodwill impairments, we would report those impairment losses as part of our operating results. 

Based on our annual goodwill impairment test in the fourth quarter of 2018, we determined the carrying value of our Aviation reporting unit exceeded the fair value estimate by more than the carrying value, thus we recorded an impairment charge of $33 million, which represented the total carrying value of goodwill in our Aviation reporting unit. The impairment charge was due to a decrease in the fair value estimate from the prior year fair value estimate, primarily driven by a significant deterioration in the outlook for the Aviation reporting unit due to competition, customer financial issues and changing market conditions for the airplane platforms that the business services, which lowered our projected gross margin and related future cash flows. We reported the impairment charge in Impairment of goodwill on the Consolidated Statements of Income for the year ended December 31, 2018. We determined no other impairments existed when we performed our annual impairment testing on the remaining four reporting units as all those reporting units had a fair value estimate which exceeded the carrying value by at least approximately 15%, the level at which our Europe reporting unit exceeded its carrying value. The excess of the fair value estimate over the carrying value for our Europe reporting unit decreased from our 2017 to our 2018 impairment test as a result of the Stahlgruber acquisition in May 2018. This decrease aligns with our expectations as there has not been a significant change in the value of the Stahlgruber business since its acquisition, which had the effect of reducing the excess for the entire Europe reporting unit. As of December 31, 2018, we had a total of $4.4 billion in goodwill subject to future impairment tests. 

We review indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment annually or sooner if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. We performed a quantitative impairment test in the fourth quarter of 2018 as of October 31, using the relief-from-royalty method to value the Warn trademark, which is our only indefinite-lived intangible; we determined no impairment existed as the trademark had a fair value estimate which exceeded the carrying value.

Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements

See "Recent Accounting Pronouncements" in Note 4, "Summary of Significant Accounting Policies" to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for information related to new accounting standards.

Financial Information by Geographic Area

See Note 16, "Segment and Geographic Information" to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for information related to our revenue and long-lived assets by geographic region.

37

Results of Operations—Consolidated

The following table sets forth statements of income data as a percentage of total revenue for the periods indicated:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Year Ended December 31, 2018 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2017 

Revenue. The following table summarizes the changes in revenue by category (in thousands):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The change in parts and services revenue of 22.0% represented increases in segment revenue of 6.5% in North America, 43.4% in Europe and 13.2% in Specialty. Organic growth in parts and services revenue on a per day basis was 4.1% as there was one additional selling day in 2018 compared to 2017. The increase in other revenue of 21.8% was primarily driven by a $108 million organic increase, largely attributable to our North America segment. Refer to the discussion of our segment results of operations for factors contributing to the change in revenue by segment during the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to the year ended December 31, 2017. 

 Cost of Goods Sold. Cost of goods sold increased to 61.5% of revenue in the year ended December 31, 2018 from 61.0% of revenue in the year ended December 31, 2017. Cost of goods sold increased 0.4% and 0.3% as a result of our Europe and North America segments, respectively. Refer to the discussion of our segment results of operations for factors contributing to the changes in cost of goods sold as a percentage of revenue by segment for the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to the year ended December 31, 2017.

Selling, General and Administrative Expenses. Our SG&A expenses as a percentage of revenue increased to 28.2% in the year ended December 31, 2018 from 27.9% in the year ended December 31, 2017, primarily as a result of a 0.2% increase from our North America segment. Refer to the discussion of our segment results of operations for factors contributing to the 

38

changes in SG&A expenses as a percentage of revenue by segment for the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to the year ended December 31, 2017.

Restructuring and Acquisition Related Expenses. The following table summarizes restructuring and acquisition related expenses for the periods indicated (in thousands):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

See Note 6, "Restructuring and Acquisition Related Expenses" to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information on our restructuring and integration plans. 

Impairment of Goodwill. We recorded a $33 million goodwill impairment charge on the Aviation reporting unit in the fourth quarter of 2018. See "Intangible Assets" in Note 4, "Summary of Significant Accounting Policies," for further information.

Depreciation and Amortization. The following table summarizes depreciation and amortization for the periods indicated (in thousands): 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(2)The increase in amortization expense primarily reflected (i) an increase of $37 million from our acquisition of Stahlgruber, and (ii) an increase of $4 million from our acquisition of Warn, partially offset by (iii) a $7 million decrease due to our 2016 acquisitions of Rhiag and PGW, which had higher amortization expense in 2017 compared to 2018 as a result of the accelerated amortization on the customer relationship intangible assets.

39

Other Expense, Net. The following table summarizes the components of the year-over-year increase in other expense, net (in thousands):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(2)Over the past three years, we have completed several European acquisitions that resulted in gains on bargain purchase. In 2018, newly recorded gains and adjustments related to preliminary gains decreased relative to the prior year amount.

(3)The increase in other expense primarily consisted of (i) a $6 million increase in foreign currency losses, (ii) a $5 million fair value loss recorded during 2018 related to a preferential rights issue to subscribe for new shares at a discounted share price for our equity method investment in Mekonomen; see Note 4, "Summary of Significant Accounting Policies" to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information, and (iii) a non-recurring $4 million gain recorded in 2017 due to a decrease in the fair value of contingent consideration liabilities. 

Provision for Income Taxes. Our effective income tax rate was 25.7% for the year ended December 31, 2018, compared to 30.7% for the year ended December 31, 2017. The following table summarizes the components of our provision for income taxes for the periods indicated (in thousands):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Excluding the impact of discrete items, prior to the enactment of the Tax Act our recurring annual effective tax rate was approximately 35%. Largely due to the reduction in the U.S. federal tax rate to 21%, we now estimate the recurring rate to be approximately 27%. We continue to analyze the highly complex and interdependent 2017 U.S. tax legislation. Adjustments to that legislation, as well as regulations implemented by the U.S. Treasury Department, which could have an impact on our effective tax rate.

(2)Represents a discrete item for excess tax benefits received upon the exercise of stock options or vesting of RSUs.

(3)The 2017 amount represented the provisional estimate of the revaluation of deferred tax assets and liabilities as a result of the Tax Act which reduced the U.S. federal corporate tax rate. There were no adjustments to the revaluation recorded in 2018; the accounting for this item is complete.

(4)The 2017 amount represented the provisional estimate of the one-time transition tax on the mandatory deemed repatriation of cumulative foreign earnings as of December 31, 2017 as a result of the Tax Act. In 2018, we recognized 

40

a $10 million favorable adjustment to the Tax Act transition tax provisional estimate; the accounting for this item is complete. 

For further discussion of the Tax Act, see Note 15, "Income Taxes," included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Equity in (Losses) Earnings of Unconsolidated Subsidiaries. Equity in (losses) earnings of unconsolidated subsidiaries for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 primarily related to our investment in Mekonomen. During the year ended December 31, 2018, we recorded $71 million in other-than-temporary impairments related to our investment in Mekonomen. See Note 4, "Summary of Significant Accounting Policies" to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information on the impairment charges. The impairment charges are excluded from our calculation of Segment EBITDA. See Note 16, "Segment and Geographic Information" to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for our reconciliation of Net Income to Segment EBITDA.

Foreign Currency Impact. We translate our statements of income at the average exchange rates in effect for the period. Relative to the rates used during the year ended December 31, 2017, the Czech koruna, euro, and pound sterling rates used to translate the 2018 statements of income increased by 7.2%, 4.5%, and 3.6%, respectively. The translation effect of the change in foreign currencies against the U.S. dollar and realized and unrealized currency losses for the year ended December 31, 2018 resulted in a $0.02 positive effect on diluted earnings per share from continuing operations relative to the prior year.

Net Loss from Discontinued Operations. We recorded net losses from discounted operations of $4 million and $7 million during the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. Discontinued operations represents the automotive glass manufacturing business of PGW, which we sold on March 1, 2017. See Note 3, "Discontinued Operations" to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information. 

Net Income (Loss) Attributable to Noncontrolling Interest. Net income attributable to noncontrolling interest for the year ended December 31, 2018 increased $7 million from 2017 due to (i) a $5 million increase in our North America segment, as we allocated a loss of $4 million to the noncontrolling interest of an immaterial subsidiary during the year ended December 31, 2017, and (ii) a $2 million increase related to the noncontrolling interest of subsidiaries acquired in connection with the Stahlgruber acquisition.

Year Ended December 31, 2017 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2016 

Revenue. The following table summarizes the changes in revenue by category (in thousands):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The change in parts and services revenue of 13.1% represented increases in segment revenue of 6.7% in North America, 24.5% in Europe, and 6.7% in Specialty. The increase in other revenue of 20.2% primarily consisted of an $86 million organic increase in other revenue, which was largely attributable to our North America segment. Refer to the discussion of our segment results of operations for factors contributing to the change in revenue by segment during 2017 compared to the prior year. 

Cost of Goods Sold. Cost of goods sold remained flat at 61.0% of revenue for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016. Cost of goods sold decreased 0.3% as a result of our North America segment, primarily related to our salvage operations. Offsetting this decrease were roughly equal increases in cost of goods sold in our Europe and Specialty segments. Refer to the discussion of our segment results of operations for factors contributing to the changes in cost of goods sold as a percentage of revenue by segment for the year ended December 31, 2017 compared to the year ended December 31, 2016.

Selling, General and Administrative Expenses. Our SG&A expenses as a percentage of revenue for the year ended December 31, 2017 increased to 27.9% in 2017 from 27.5% in 2016, primarily as a result of a 0.4% increase from our Europe segment and a 0.2% increase from our North America segment. Partially offsetting these increases was a decrease in SG&A expense as a percentage of revenue in our Specialty segment. Refer to the discussion of our segment results of operations for factors contributing to the changes in SG&A expenses as a percentage of revenue by segment for the year ended December 31, 2017 compared to the year ended December 31, 2016.

41

Restructuring and Acquisition Related Expenses. The following table summarizes restructuring and acquisition related expenses for the periods indicated (in thousands):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Restructuring expenses for the year ended December 31, 2017 included $2 million, $2 million, and $1 million related to the integration of acquired businesses in our North America, Specialty, and Europe segments. These integration activities included the closure of duplicate facilities and termination of employees.

(2)Restructuring expenses for the year ended December 31, 2016 included $10 million, $3 million, $2 million related to the integration of acquired businesses in our Specialty, North America and Europe segments, respectively. These integration activities included the closure of duplicate facilities and termination of employees.

(3)Acquisition related expenses for the year ended December 31, 2017 included $5 million of costs for our acquisition of Andrew Page, primarily related to legal and other professional fees associated with the CMA review. The remaining acquisition related costs for the year ended December 31, 2017 consisted of external costs for completed acquisitions; pending acquisitions as of December 31, 2017, including $4 million related to Stahlgruber; and potential acquisitions that were terminated.

(4)Acquisition related expenses for the year ended December 31, 2016 reflect $11 million and $4 million related to the acquisitions of Rhiag and PGW autoglass, respectively. The remaining $7 million of expense was related to other completed acquisitions and acquisitions that were pending as of December 31, 2016.

See Note 6, "Restructuring and Acquisition Related Expenses" to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information on our restructuring and integration plans. 

Depreciation and Amortization. The following table summarizes depreciation and amortization for the periods indicated (in thousands): 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)The increase in depreciation expense primarily reflected increases of $4 million and $2 million for property, plant and equipment recorded for our acquisitions of Andrew Page and Rhiag, respectively. Depreciation expense increased in 2017 for Andrew Page and Rhiag primarily due to both acquisitions having a full year of results in 2017 compared to a partial year in 2016 (from acquisition dates of October 4, 2016 and March 18, 2016, respectively, through December 31, 2016). The remaining change primarily reflected increased levels of property, plant and equipment to support our organic related growth.

(2)The increase primarily reflected incremental amortization expense of (i) $14 million related to intangibles recorded for our acquisition of Rhiag and (ii) $3 million related to intangibles recorded for acquisitions within our Benelux operations during 2017.

42

Other Expense, Net. The following table summarizes the components of the year-over-year decrease in other expense, net (in thousands):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Additional interest primarily related to borrowings used to fund our acquisitions of Rhiag and PGW.

(2)During the first quarter of 2016, we incurred a $24 million loss on debt extinguishment as a result of our early payment of Rhiag debt assumed as part of the acquisition, and we incurred a $3 million loss on debt extinguishment as a result of our January 2016 amendment to our senior secured credit agreement. We incurred an immaterial loss on debt extinguishment as a result of our December 2017 amendment to our senior secured credit agreement.

(3)In March 2016, we entered into foreign currency forward contracts to acquire a total of €588 million used to fund the purchase price of the Rhiag acquisition. The rates under the foreign currency forwards were favorable to the spot rate on the date the funds were drawn to complete the acquisition, and as a result, these derivatives contracts generated a gain of $18 million.

(4)In October 2016, we acquired Andrew Page out of receivership. We recorded a gain on bargain purchase of $8 million in the fourth quarter of 2016, as the fair value of the net assets acquired exceeded the purchase price. During the year ended December 31, 2017, we increased the gain on bargain purchase for this acquisition by $2 million as a result of changes to our estimate of the fair value of net assets acquired. We also recorded a gain on bargain purchase for another acquisition in Europe completed in the second quarter of 2017.

(5)Interest income and other income, net was higher in 2017 primarily due to the impact of foreign currency transaction gains and losses, which had a net $6 million favorable impact compared to the prior year period. This primarily included unrealized gains and losses on foreign currency transactions and unrealized mark-to-market gains and losses on foreign currency forward contracts used to hedge the purchases of inventory in our U.K. operations. Additionally, there was (i) a $4 million gain due to a decrease in the fair value of contingent consideration liabilities, and (ii) a $2 million curtailment gain in 2017 related to our pensions. The remaining change related to miscellaneous other income.

Provision for Income Taxes. Our effective income tax rate was 30.7% for the year ended December 31, 2017, compared to 32.6% for the year ended December 31, 2016. The following table summarizes the components of our provision for income taxes for the periods indicated (in thousands):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Excluding the impact of discrete items, our annual effective tax rate has been close to 35% over the prior two years. We were still evaluating the impact of the Tax Act on our future U.S. tax liability, but at the time, we expected that the overall impact of the Tax Act on our effective tax rate would be a decrease in the rate from previous years.

(2)Represents a discrete item for excess tax benefits received upon the exercise of stock options or vesting of RSUs.

43

(3)Represents the provisional estimate of the revaluation of deferred tax assets and liabilities as a result of the Tax Act which reduced the U.S. federal corporate tax rate. 

(4)Represents the provisional estimate of the one-time transition tax on the mandatory deemed repatriation of cumulative foreign earnings as of December 31, 2017 as a result of the Tax Act. 

For further discussion of the Tax Act, see Note 15, "Income Taxes," included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Equity in (Losses) Earnings of Unconsolidated Subsidiaries. Equity in earnings of unconsolidated subsidiaries for the year ended December 31, 2017 primarily related to our investment in Mekonomen. See Note 4, "Summary of Significant Accounting Policies" to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information.

Foreign Currency Impact. We translate our statements of income at the average exchange rates in effect for the period. During the year ended December 31, 2017, the pound sterling rate used to translate the 2017 statements of income declined by 4.9%, while both the Canadian dollar rate and euro rate increased by 2.1% compared to the year ended December 31, 2016. The translation effect of the change in these currencies against the U.S. dollar and realized and unrealized currency losses for the year ended December 31, 2017 resulted in a $0.01 negative effect on diluted earnings per share from continuing operations relative to the prior year.

Net (Loss) Income from Discontinued Operations. During the year ended December 31, 2017 we recorded a loss from discontinued operations, net of tax totaling $7 million, of which $6 million was for the loss on sale of discontinued operations, compared to income from discontinued operations, net of tax totaling $8 million for the year ended December 31, 2016. Discontinued operations for 2017 and 2016 represents the automotive glass manufacturing business of PGW, which we acquired in April 2016 and sold on March 1, 2017. See Note 3, "Discontinued Operations" to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information. 

Net Income (Loss) Attributable to Noncontrolling Interest. During the year ended December 31, 2017, we allocated a loss of $4 million to the noncontrolling interest of an immaterial subsidiary. 

Results of Operations—Segment Reporting

We have four operating segments: Wholesale – North America, Europe, Specialty and Self Service. Our Wholesale – North America and Self Service operating segments are aggregated into one reportable segment, North America, because they possess similar economic characteristics and have common products and services, customers, and methods of distribution. Therefore, we present three reportable segments: North America, Europe and Specialty.

We have presented the growth of our revenue and profitability in our operations on both an as reported and a constant currency basis. The constant currency presentation, which is a non-GAAP measure, excludes the impact of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. We believe providing constant currency information provides valuable supplemental information regarding our growth and profitability, consistent with how we evaluate our performance, as this statistic removes the translation impact of exchange rate fluctuations, which are outside of our control and do not reflect our operational performance. Constant currency revenue and Segment EBITDA results are calculated by translating prior year revenue and Segment EBITDA in local currency using the current year's currency conversion rate. This non-GAAP financial measure has important limitations as an analytical tool and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for an analysis of our results as reported under GAAP. Our use of this term may vary from the use of similarly-titled measures by other issuers due to potential inconsistencies in the method of calculation and differences due to items subject to interpretation. In addition, not all companies that report revenue or profitability on a constant currency basis calculate such measures in the same manner as we do, and accordingly, our calculations are not necessarily comparable to similarly-named measures of other companies and may not be appropriate measures for performance relative to other companies. 

44

The following table presents our financial performance, including third party revenue, total revenue and Segment EBITDA, by reportable segment for the periods indicated (in thousands):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The key measure of segment profit or loss reviewed by our chief operating decision maker, who is our Chief Executive Officer, is Segment EBITDA. Segment EBITDA includes revenue and expenses that are controllable by the segment. Corporate general and administrative expenses are allocated to the segments based on usage, with shared expenses apportioned based on the segment's percentage of consolidated revenue. We calculate Segment EBITDA as EBITDA excluding restructuring and acquisition related expenses, change in fair value of contingent consideration liabilities, other gains and losses related to acquisitions, equity method investments, or divestitures, equity in losses and earnings of unconsolidated subsidiaries and impairment of goodwill. EBITDA, which is the basis for Segment EBITDA, is calculated as net income, less net income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interest, excluding discontinued operations, depreciation, amortization, interest (which includes loss on debt extinguishment) and income tax expense. See Note 16, "Segment and Geographic Information" to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a reconciliation of total Segment EBITDA to net income.

Year Ended December 31, 2018 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2017 

North America

Third Party Revenue. The following table summarizes the changes in third party revenue by category in our North America segment (in thousands):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Organic growth in parts and services revenue was attributable to roughly equal impacts of favorable pricing and increased sales volumes in our wholesale operations. The volume increases were primarily driven by (i) incremental sales related to an agreement signed in December 2017 for the distribution of batteries, and (ii) to a lesser extent, 

45

severe winter weather conditions in the first quarter of 2018 compared to mild winter weather conditions in the prior year period. Organic growth in parts and services revenue for our North America segment on a per day basis was 5.3% as there was one additional selling day in 2018 compared to 2017.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(3)Acquisition related growth in 2018 reflected revenue from our acquisition of ten wholesale businesses from the beginning of 2017 up to the one-year anniversary of the acquisition dates.

 Segment EBITDA. Segment EBITDA increased $5 million, or 0.7%, in 2018 compared to the prior year. Sequential increases in scrap steel prices in our salvage and self service operations had a favorable impact of $5 million on North America Segment EBITDA during the year ended December 31, 2018, compared to a $12 million positive impact on the year ended December 31, 2017. This favorable impact resulted from the increase in scrap steel prices between the date we purchased a vehicle, which influences the price we pay for a vehicle, and the date we scrapped a vehicle, which influences the price we receive for scrapping a vehicle.

The following table summarizes the changes in Segment EBITDA as a percentage of revenue in our North America segment:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)The decrease in gross margin reflected unfavorable impacts of 0.3% and 0.2% from our wholesale and self service operations, respectively. The decrease in wholesale gross margin is primarily attributable to (i) a shift in our sales toward lower margin products, including batteries, compared to the prior year period, and (ii) higher car costs in our salvage operations. The decrease in self service gross margin is primarily attributable to higher car costs as a result of increases in scrap prices in the first half of the year. While higher car costs can produce more gross margin dollars, these cars tend to have a dilutive effect on the gross margin percentage as parts revenue will typically increase at a lesser rate than the rise in average car cost. Self service gross margin was negatively impacted in the second half of 2018 due to declining scrap steel prices as the higher cost vehicles were scrapped.

(2)The increase in segment operating expenses as a percentage of revenue primarily reflected (i) a 0.3% increase in vehicle expenses primarily due to increased vehicle rental leases to handle incremental volumes as well as increases in fuel prices, and (ii) a 0.2% increase in freight expenses due to a higher use of, and increased prices of, third party freight, partially offset by (iii) several individually immaterial factors that had a favorable impact of 0.1% in the aggregate.

(3)The increase in other expense, net and net income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interest was primarily due to several individually immaterial factors that had an unfavorable impact of 0.2% in the aggregate.

46

Europe

Third Party Revenue. The following table summarizes the changes in third party revenue by category in our Europe segment (in thousands):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Parts and services revenue growth for the year varied by geography. In our Eastern European operations, revenue grew in the high single digits due to both existing and new branches (we added 68 since the beginning of 2017). Our Western European operations experienced slight declines to mid-single digit growth for the year due primarily to higher volumes in the second quarter of 2018 (partly attributable to the timing of the Easter holiday) offsetting softness in the remainder of the year. While we expect to achieve lower organic growth rates in these more mature markets than in Eastern Europe, our revenue growth in 2018 was negatively impacted by competitor actions, economic conditions in certain countries, such as Italy, and warmer than normal weather conditions. Organic growth in parts and services revenue for our Europe segment on a per day basis was 2.6% as there was one additional selling day in 2018 compared to 2017.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Segment EBITDA. Segment EBITDA increased $104 million, or 32.4%, in 2018 compared to the prior year. Our Europe Segment EBITDA included a positive year over year impact of $15 million related to the translation of local currency results into U.S. dollars at higher exchange rates than those experienced during 2017. On a constant currency basis (i.e. excluding the translation impact), Segment EBITDA increased by $89 million, or 27.9%, compared to the prior year. Refer to the Foreign Currency Impact discussion within the Results of Operations - Consolidated section above for further detail regarding foreign currency impact on our results for the year ended December 31, 2018.

The following table summarizes the changes in Segment EBITDA as a percentage of revenue in our Europe segment:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

(1)The decline in gross margin was due to (i) a 0.6% decrease related to our U.K. operations primarily as a result of incremental costs related to the national distribution facility, principally due to replenishment issues and related stock availability in the first quarter at our national distribution center and branches that led to some temporary service issues and increased labor costs to manually stock and receive product, and higher customer incentives, partially offset by increased supplier rebates, and (ii) a 0.3% net decrease due to mix related to our acquisition of an aftermarket parts 

47

distribution business in Poland during the third quarter of 2017. The unfavorable effects were partially offset by (i) a 0.4% increase in gross margin in our Benelux operations primarily due to increased supplier rebates and the ongoing move from a three-step to a two-step distribution model, and (ii) a 0.3% favorable impact related to an increase in supplier rebates as a result of centralized procurement for our Europe segment.

(2) The increase in segment operating expenses as a percentage of revenue was primarily due to a 0.4% increase in personnel expenses principally as a result of (i) negative leverage effect, as personnel costs grew at a greater rate than organic revenue, and (ii) increased headcount in our Eastern European operations as new branches were opened, as well as wage inflation due to low unemployment in the region. Additionally, a 0.2% increase in professional fees, primarily due to new information technology projects and other system enhancements, added to the unfavorable change in segment operating expenses. The unfavorable effects were partially offset by a 0.2% decrease in freight expenses due to a decreased use of third party freight in our U.K. operations.

Specialty

Third Party Revenue. The following table summarizes the changes in third party revenue by category in our Specialty segment (in thousands):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Organic growth in parts and services revenue was primarily due to higher volumes across both our automotive and RV businesses, largely due to expansion of our product line coverage, strong exclusive line performance, and year over year growth of new vehicle sales of pickups, sport utility vehicles and other highly accessorized vehicles. Organic growth in parts and services revenue for our Specialty segment on a per day basis was 4.2% as there was one additional selling day in 2018 compared to 2017. [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Segment EBITDA. Segment EBITDA increased $26 million, or 18.5%, in 2018 compared to the prior year.

The following table summarizes the changes in Segment EBITDA as a percentage of revenue in our Specialty segment:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)The increase in gross margin reflects favorable impacts of (i) 0.8% from our acquisition of Warn, which has a higher gross margin than our existing Specialty operations, and (ii) 0.6% from our initiatives to improve gross margin. The favorable effects were partially offset by 0.2% of increased inventory write-downs as damaged and defective product was identified during our warehouse expansion projects on the West Coast and in the Southeastern U.S.

48

(2)The increase in segment operating expenses reflects unfavorable impacts of (i) 0.3% in personnel costs primarily due to wage inflation, increased distribution expenses driven by a decreased use of third party freight and increased delivery routes to improve service levels, as well as higher employee benefit costs, (ii) 0.2% in vehicle and fuel expenses primarily due to increased fuel prices, and (iii) by several individually immaterial factors that had an unfavorable impact of 0.1% in the aggregate.

(3)The increase in other expense, net is due to several individually immaterial factors that had an unfavorable impact of 0.2% in the aggregate.

Year Ended December 31, 2017 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2016 

North America

Third Party Revenue. The following table summarizes the changes in third party revenue by category in our North America segment (in thousands):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Organic growth in parts and services revenue was largely attributable to increased sales volumes in our wholesale operations, primarily in our salvage operations and, to a lesser extent, our aftermarket operations. Within our salvage operations, the favorable volume impact, which was primarily related to mechanical parts, was a result of refinements to our buying algorithms. Also, an emphasis on inventorying more parts off of each car purchased contributed to the increase in the number of parts sold per vehicle. While we were able to increase parts and services revenue over the prior year, we believe the weather conditions in 2017 contributed to a lower growth rate than generated in prior years. Organic revenue growth for our North America segment was also negatively affected by one fewer selling day in 2017 compared to 2016; on a per day basis, organic revenue growth was 3.4%.

(2)The $86 million increase in other revenue primarily related to (i) a $57 million increase in revenue from scrap steel and other metals primarily related to higher prices and, to a lesser extent, increased volumes, year over year and (ii) a $25 million increase in revenue from metals found in catalytic converters (platinum, palladium, and rhodium) primarily due to higher prices, year over year.

(3)Acquisition related growth in 2017 included $92 million, or 2.1%, from our PGW autoglass acquisition. The remainder of our acquired revenue growth reflected revenue from our acquisition of 11 wholesale businesses from the beginning of 2016 up to the one-year anniversary of the acquisition dates.

 Segment EBITDA. Segment EBITDA increased $65 million, or 11.1%, in 2017 compared to the prior year. Sequential increases in scrap steel prices in our salvage and self service operations benefited gross margins and had a favorable impact of $12 million on North America Segment EBITDA and approximately a $0.03 positive effect on diluted earnings per share. This favorable impact resulted from the increase in scrap steel prices between the date we purchased a vehicle, which influences the price we pay for a vehicle, and the date we scrapped a vehicle, which influences the price we receive for scrapping a vehicle.

49

The following table summarizes the changes in Segment EBITDA as a percentage of revenue in our North America segment:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)The improvement in gross margin reflected a 1.1% favorable impact in our salvage operations, primarily attributable to raising revenue per car by a greater rate than car costs. Revenue per car improved due to higher volumes of parts sold per car, which was a result of refinements to our buying algorithms, an emphasis on inventorying more parts off of each car purchased, and an increase in the number of days we hold each car before it is scrapped. This improvement was partially offset by an unfavorable impact of 0.4% attributable to our aftermarket operations. Within our aftermarket operations, we experienced a 0.4% decline in gross margin primarily as a result of higher input costs from suppliers as well as decreases in net prices caused by higher customer discounts. The remaining change in gross margin was attributable to individually insignificant fluctuations in gross margin across our other North America operations.

(2)The increase in segment operating expenses as a percentage of revenue reflected (i) a 0.3% increase in personnel costs, and (ii) a 0.2% increase in freight costs driven by higher use of third party freight to handle increased volumes, partially offset by (iii) a 0.2% decrease in segment operating costs attributable to shared PGW corporate expenses incurred during 2016; these costs ceased being incurred upon the closing of the sale of the glass manufacturing business on March 1, 2017. 

Europe

Third Party Revenue. The following table summarizes the changes in third party revenue by category in our Europe segment (in thousands):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Parts and services revenue grew organically across all of our aftermarket business units in Europe from both existing locations and new branches. In Eastern Europe and Western Europe, we added 65 and 23 branches, respectively, since the beginning of the prior year, and organic revenue growth includes revenue from those locations. Revenue at our existing locations grew primarily as a result of increased volumes and, to a lesser extent, increased prices. Organic revenue growth for our Europe segment on a per day basis was 5.7% as there was one fewer selling day in 2017 compared to 2016.

(2)Acquisition related growth for the year ended December 31, 2017 included $216 million, or 7.4%, from our acquisition of Rhiag and $141 million, or 4.8%, from our acquisition of Andrew Page. The remainder of our acquired revenue growth included revenue from our acquisitions of 23 wholesale businesses in our Europe segment since the beginning of 2016 through the one-year anniversary of the acquisitions.

50

(3)Compared to the prior year, exchange rates reduced our revenue growth by $18 million, or 0.6%, primarily due to the stronger U.S. dollar against the pound sterling during 2017 relative to 2016, partially offset by the weaker U.S. dollar against the euro during 2017 relative to 2016.

Segment EBITDA. Segment EBITDA increased $36 million, or 12.5%, in 2017 compared to the prior year. Our Europe Segment EBITDA included a negative year over year impact of $3 million related to the translation of local currency results into U.S. dollars at lower exchange rates than those experienced during 2016. On a constant currency basis (i.e. excluding the translation impact), Segment EBITDA increased by $39 million, or 13.7%, compared to the prior year. Refer to the Foreign Currency Impact discussion within the Results of Operations - Consolidated section above for further detail regarding foreign currency impact on our results for the year ended December 31, 2017. 

The following table summarizes the changes in Segment EBITDA as a percentage of revenue in our Europe segment:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

(1)The decline in gross margin was due to (i) a 0.6% decrease due to our U.K. operations primarily as a result of an increase in inventory reserves and incremental costs related to the Tamworth distribution facility, which shifted from operating expenses to cost of goods sold when the facility went live, (ii) a 0.3% decrease due to an unfavorable mix impact as a result of generating a higher proportion of our revenue from our Rhiag operations, which have lower gross margins than our other Europe operations, (iii) a 0.3% decrease due to an acquisition in Eastern Europe during the year which has lower gross margins than our other Europe operations, partially offset by (iv) a 0.6% increase in gross margin in our Benelux operations primarily due to increased private label sales, which have higher gross margins, and (v) a 0.2% increase due to a favorable impact related to an increase in supplier rebates as a result of centralized procurement for our Europe segment. The remaining change in gross margin was attributable to individually insignificant fluctuations in gross margin across our other Europe operations.

(2) The increase in segment operating expenses as a percentage of revenue reflected (i) an increase of 0.8% in operating expenses as a result of the acquisition of Andrew Page, which has higher operating expenses as a percentage of revenue than our other Europe operations and (ii) an increase of 0.4% in operating expenses in our Benelux operations, primarily due to increased personnel costs related to distribution, partially offset by (iii) a 0.2% favorable mix impact due to our acquisition of Rhiag, which has lower operating expenses as a percentage of revenue than our other Europe operations. The remaining decrease in segment operating expenses reflected a number of individually insignificant fluctuations in operating expenses as a percentage of revenue.

(3) Approximately half of the decrease in other expense, net was due to the impact of foreign currency transaction gains and losses, primarily due to unrealized mark-to-market gains and losses on foreign currency forward contracts used to hedge the purchases of inventory in our U.K. operations, which were favorable in 2017 relative to the prior year. The remaining decrease in other expense, net reflected a number of individually insignificant fluctuations in other expense, net as a percentage of revenue.

51

Specialty

Third Party Revenue. The following table summarizes the changes in third party revenue by category in our Specialty segment (in thousands):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Organic growth in parts & services revenue was driven by increased sales volumes of Truck, Towing and RV parts sales. This organic growth was fueled by favorable economic conditions in most of our primary selling regions, as well as increased sales volumes of light trucks and RVs. Organic revenue growth for our Specialty segment on a per day basis was 5.1%, as there was one fewer selling day in 2017 compared to 2016.

(2)Acquisition related growth in 2017 included $20 million, or 1.7%, from our acquisition of Warn. The remainder of our acquired revenue growth reflected revenue from our acquisition of 3 wholesale businesses from the beginning of 2016 up to the one-year anniversary of the acquisition dates.

Segment EBITDA. Segment EBITDA increased $11 million, or 8.2%, in 2017 compared to the prior year.

The following table summarizes the changes in Segment EBITDA as a percentage of revenue in our Specialty segment:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)The decline in gross margin primarily reflected a 0.5% decrease due to higher overhead costs in inventory, which was driven by warehouse costs for two new distribution centers that became fully functional in 2016. 

(2)The decrease in segment operating expenses reflected (i) favorable facility expenses of 0.7% primarily related to the integration of The Coast Distribution System, Inc. ("Coast") facilities and (ii) favorable personnel costs of 0.2% as a result of synergies realized on the integration of Coast facilities.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

The following table summarizes liquidity data as of the dates indicated (in thousands):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

52

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(3)Capacity under credit facilities includes our revolving credit facilities and our receivables securitization facility. Availability under credit facilities is reduced by our outstanding letters of credit.

We assess our liquidity in terms of our ability to fund our operations and provide for expansion through both internal development and acquisitions. Our primary sources of liquidity are cash flows from operations and our credit facilities. We utilize our cash flows from operations to fund working capital and capital expenditures, with the excess amounts going towards funding acquisitions or paying down outstanding debt. As we have pursued acquisitions as part of our growth strategy, our cash flows from operations have not always been sufficient to cover our investing activities. To fund our acquisitions, we have accessed various forms of debt financing, including revolving credit facilities, senior notes and our receivables securitization facility.

As of December 31, 2018, we had debt outstanding and additional available sources of financing as follows:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•U.S. Notes (2023) totaling $600 million, maturing in May 2023 and bearing interest at a 4.75% fixed rate[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

From time to time, we may undertake financing transactions to increase our available liquidity, such as (i) our November 2018 amendment to our senior secured credit facility and (ii) the issuance of the Euro Notes (2026/28) in April 2018 related to the Stahlgruber acquisition. Given the long-term nature of our investment in Stahlgruber, combined with favorable interest rates, we decided to fund the acquisition primarily through long-term, fixed rate notes. We believe this approach provides financial flexibility to execute our long-term growth strategy while maintaining availability under our revolver. If we see an attractive acquisition opportunity, we have the ability to use our revolver to move quickly and have certainty of funding up to the amount of our then-available liquidity. 

The enterprise value for the Stahlgruber acquisition was €1.5 billion, which was financed with the proceeds from the €1.0 billion of Euro Notes (2026/28), the direct issuance to Stahlgruber's owner of 8,055,569 newly issued shares of LKQ common stock, and borrowings under our existing revolving credit facility.

As of December 31, 2018, we had approximately $1.7 billion available under our credit facilities. Combined with approximately $332 million of cash and cash equivalents at December 31, 2018, we had approximately $2.0 billion in available liquidity, an increase of $355 million over our available liquidity as of December 31, 2017. 

We believe that our current liquidity and cash expected to be generated by operating activities in future periods will be sufficient to meet our current operating and capital requirements, although such sources may not be sufficient for future acquisitions depending on their size. While we believe that we have adequate capacity, from time to time we may need to raise additional funds through public or private financing, strategic relationships or other arrangements, as noted above regarding the Stahlgruber transaction. There can be no assurance that additional funding, or refinancing of our credit facilities, if needed, will be available on terms attractive to us, or at all. Furthermore, any additional equity financing may be dilutive to stockholders, and debt financing, if available, may involve restrictive covenants or higher interest costs. Our failure to raise capital if and when needed could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results, and financial condition.

Borrowings under the credit agreement accrue interest at variable rates which are tied to the LIBOR or the Canadian Dollar Offered Rate ("CDOR"), depending on the currency and the duration of the borrowing, plus an applicable margin rate 

53

which is subject to change quarterly based on our reported leverage ratio. We hold interest rate swaps to hedge the variable rates on a portion of our credit agreement borrowings, with the effect of fixing the interest rates on the respective notional amounts. In addition, in 2016 and 2018, we entered into cross currency swaps that contain an interest rate swap component and a foreign currency forward contract component that, when combined with related intercompany financing arrangements, effectively convert variable rate U.S. dollar-denominated borrowings into fixed rate euro-denominated borrowings. These derivative transactions are described in Note 11, "Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities" to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. After giving effect to these contracts, the weighted average interest rate on borrowings outstanding under our credit agreement at December 31, 2018 was 1.9%. Including our senior notes and the borrowings under our receivables securitization program, our overall weighted average interest rate on borrowings was 3.1% at December 31, 2018. 

Cash interest payments were $138 million for the year ended December 31, 2018, including $52 million in semi-annual interest payments on our U.S. Notes (2023) and our Euro Notes (2024). Interest payments on our U.S. Notes (2023) are made in May and November, and interest payments on our Euro Notes (2024) are scheduled for April and October. Beginning in the fourth quarter of 2018, we began making semi-annual interest payments of $22 million on our Euro Notes (2026/28). Interest payments on our Euro Notes (2026/28) are made in April and October.

We had outstanding credit agreement borrowings of $1.7 billion and $2.0 billion at December 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively. Of these amounts, $9 million and $18 million was classified as current maturities at December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. 

The scheduled maturities of long-term obligations outstanding at December 31, 2018 are as follows (in thousands):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Our credit agreement contains customary covenants that provide limitations and conditions on our ability to enter into certain transactions. The credit agreement also contains financial and affirmative covenants, including limitations on our net leverage ratio and a minimum interest coverage ratio. We were in compliance with all restrictive covenants under our credit agreement as of December 31, 2018. 

The following summarizes our required debt covenants and our actual ratios with respect to those covenants as calculated per the credit agreement as of December 31, 2018:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The terms net leverage ratio and minimum interest coverage ratio used in the credit agreement are specifically calculated per the credit agreement and differ in specified ways from comparable GAAP or common usage terms. 

As of December 31, 2018, the Company had cash and cash equivalents of $332 million, of which $274 million was held by foreign subsidiaries. In general, it is our practice and intention to permanently reinvest the undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries, and that position has not changed following the enactment of the Tax Act and the related imposition of the transition tax. Distributions of dividends from our foreign subsidiaries, if any, would be generally exempt from further U.S. taxation, either as a result of the new 100% participation exemption under the Tax Act, or due to the previous taxation of 

54

foreign earnings under the transition tax. In July 2018, to lower our average borrowing cost, we elected to unwind several financing entities in Europe, restructure and increase related Europe borrowings and repatriate cash to reduce U.S. borrowings. 

 We believe that we have sufficient cash flow and liquidity to meet our financial obligations in the U.S. without repatriating our foreign earnings. We may, from time to time, choose to selectively repatriate foreign earnings if doing so supports our financing or liquidity objectives. As a result of the Tax Act, we had significantly lower income tax payments in 2018 due to the lower tax rate and the immediate deduction of capital expenditures, partially offset by the first payment with respect to the transition tax.

Year Ended December 31, 2018 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2017

The procurement of inventory is the largest operating use of our funds. We normally pay for aftermarket product purchases at the time of shipment or on standard payment terms, depending on the manufacturer and the negotiated payment terms. We normally pay for salvage vehicles acquired at salvage auctions and under direct procurement arrangements at the time that we take possession of the vehicles.

The following table sets forth a summary of our aftermarket and manufactured inventory procurement for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 (in thousands):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)In North America, aftermarket purchases during the year ended December 31, 2018 increased compared to the comparable prior year period to support growth across our operations. [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The following table sets forth a summary of our global wholesale salvage and self service procurement for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 (in thousands):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Compared to the prior year, we have increased the number of self service and "crush only" vehicles purchased in 2018 to support growth in our operations.

55

The following table summarizes the components of the year-over-year increase in cash provided by operating activities (in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Other than discontinued operations, the amounts presented represent increases (decreases) in operating cash flows attributable to our continuing operations only.

(2)Refer to the Results of Operations - Consolidated section for further information on the increase in operating income.

(3)Non-cash depreciation and amortization expense increased compared to the prior year period as discussed in the Results of Operations - Consolidated section.

(4)In the fourth quarter of 2018, we recorded an impairment charge on the goodwill in our Aviation reporting unit. See Note 4, "Summary of Significant Accounting Policies" to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information on the impairment charge.

(5)Cash flows related to our primary working capital accounts can be volatile as the purchases, payments and collections can be timed differently from period to period and can be influenced by factors outside of our control. 

(6)Includes an outflow of $116 million related to Stahlgruber, primarily resulting from the timing of the acquisition. Due to the timing of processing invoice payments after the closing date, we assumed a larger payable balance but acquired more cash at closing. However, the cash acquired at closing is reflected in the Investing section of the cash flow statement on the Acquisitions, net of cash acquired line.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(8)Reflects a number of individually insignificant fluctuations in cash paid for other operating activities.

Net cash used in investing activities totaled $1.5 billion for the year ended December 31, 2018, compared to $385 million of cash used in investing activities during the year ended December 31, 2017. We invested $1.2 billion of cash, net of cash acquired, in business acquisitions during the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to $513 million during the year ended December 31, 2017. We received net proceeds from the sale of our glass manufacturing business totaling $301 million during the year ended December 31, 2017; no such proceeds were received in 2018. Property, plant and equipment purchases were $250 million in 2018 compared to $179 million in the prior year. The period over period increase in cash outflows for purchases of property, plant and equipment was primarily related to our North America and Europe segments. We had $28 million of proceeds from the disposals of property, plant and equipment in 2018 compared to $9 million in the prior year; the increase was primarily related to our North America segment. We invested $60 million in unconsolidated subsidiaries in 2018 compared to $8 million in the prior year, primarily due to the $48 million Mekonomen rights issue in the fourth quarter of 2018; there was no rights offering in 2017. During the year ended December 31, 2018, we received $37 million of deferred purchase price proceeds on receivables under our factoring arrangement that was acquired in our Stahlgruber acquisition; no such proceeds were received in 2017. The arrangement was subsequently terminated in December 2018. 

56

Net cash provided by financing activities totaled $883 million for the year ended December 31, 2018, compared to net cash used in financing activities of $113 million during the year ended December 31, 2017. We received proceeds of $1.2 billion from our issuance of the Euro Notes (2026/28) during the year ended December 31, 2018; no such proceeds were received in the prior year. We repurchased $60 million of our common stock during 2018 following the Board of Directors' authorization of a stock repurchase program in October 2018; we did not repurchase any common stock during 2017. We also paid $21 million of debt issuance costs during 2018, primarily related to the issuance of the Euro Notes (2026/28), compared to $4 million paid during 2017 in connection with our December 2017 amendment of our credit facilities. During the year ended December 31, 2018, net repayments under our credit facilities totaled $206 million compared to $135 million during the year ended December 31, 2017. There were $12 million of cash repayments of other debt in 2018, compared to $20 million of cash proceeds from other debt in 2017. There was $42 million of cash paid for Stahlgruber's assumed debt that matured in 2018, and $13 million of cash paid for notes issued related to our acquisitions of an aftermarket parts distribution businesses in Belgium in the third quarter of 2017.

During the year ended December 31, 2018, foreign exchange rates decreased cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash by $77 million, compared to an increase of $24 million in the prior year. The current year impact was primarily related to a $66 million decrease resulting from the decline in the euro exchange rate between April 9, 2018, the date we received the proceeds from the Euro Notes (2026/28), and May 30, 2018, the date we paid the cash proceeds for the Stahlgruber acquisition.

We intend to continue to evaluate markets for potential growth through the internal development of distribution centers, processing and sales facilities, and warehouses, through further integration of our facilities, and through selected business acquisitions. Our future liquidity and capital requirements will depend upon numerous factors, including the costs and timing of our internal development efforts and the success of those efforts, the costs and timing of expansion of our sales and marketing activities, and the costs and timing of future business acquisitions.

Year Ended December 31, 2017 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2016 

The following table sets forth a summary of our aftermarket and manufactured inventory procurement for 2017 and 2016 (in thousands):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)In North America, aftermarket purchases during the year ended December 31, 2017 increased compared to the prior year as we decided to expand our inventory as a result of procurement initiatives to support growth across our operations. The remaining increase is primarily as a result of our acquisition of PGW autoglass in April 2016, which added incremental purchases of $72 million in 2017.

(2)In our Europe segment, the increase in purchases during the year ended December 31, 2017 is primarily related to our acquisition of Rhiag in March 2016, which added incremental purchases of $181 million in 2017. Purchases for our U.K. operations increased in 2017 compared to the prior year primarily as a result of our acquisition of Andrew Page in October 2016, which added incremental purchases of $107 million in 2017, partially offset by the devaluation of the pound sterling in 2017 compared to the prior year. Purchases for our Benelux operations increased by $71 million in 2017 compared to the prior year primarily as a result of our acquisition of the aftermarket parts distribution businesses in Belgium in July 2017, which had purchases of $46 million in 2017. The remaining increase in our Benelux operations was primarily due to incremental inventory purchases to achieve supplier purchase rebates.

(3)The increase in Specialty inventory purchases during 2017 compared to the prior year is primarily due to increased sales volumes for Truck, Towing and RV parts. Additionally, the acquisition of Warn in November 2017 added incremental purchases of $11 million, which includes purchases of aftermarket inventory and raw materials used in the manufacturing of specialty products.

57

The following table sets forth a summary of our global salvage and self service procurement for 2017 and 2016 (in thousands):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)The number of salvage cars and trucks purchased during the year ended December 31, 2017 increased primarily due to a decision to increase the number of salvage cars and trucks dismantled compared to the prior year.

(2) With the increase in scrap prices compared to the prior year period, we have increased the number of self service and "crush only" vehicles purchased.

The following table summarizes the components of the year-over-year decrease in cash provided by operating activities (in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Other than discontinued operations, the amounts presented represent increases (decreases) in operating cash flows attributable to our continuing operations only.

(2)Represents the change in cash flows for our glass manufacturing business, which was acquired in April 2016 and disposed of on March 1, 2017.

(3)During 2017, our operating income increased compared to the prior year due to both acquisition related growth and organic growth. 

(4)Non-cash depreciation and amortization expense increased compared to the prior year as discussed in the Results of Operations - Consolidated section.

(5)Cash paid for taxes increased during 2017 compared to the prior year as a result of growth in the business from both organic growth and acquisitions, and the timing of tax payments.

(6)Cash paid for interest increased compared to the prior year primarily as a result of interest payments related to our Euro Notes (2024), which were issued in April 2016. In the prior year, we made one semi-annual interest payment related to these notes, whereas in 2017 we made two semi-annual interest payments.

(7)Cash flows related to our primary working capital accounts can be volatile as the purchases, payments and collections can be timed differently from period to period and can be influenced by factors outside of our control. However, we expect that the net change in these working capital items will generally be a cash outflow as we expect to grow our business each year. 

58

(8)The period over period increase in cash outflows for inventory was primarily related to our North America segment as described in the procurement section above. 

(9)Reflects a number of individually insignificant fluctuations in cash paid for other operating activities.

Net cash used in investing activities totaled $385 million for the year ended December 31, 2017, compared to $1.7 billion in 2016. We invested $513 million of cash, net of cash acquired, in business acquisitions during 2017 compared to $1.3 billion in 2016, which included $601 million for our Rhiag acquisition and $662 million for our PGW acquisition. We received proceeds from the sale of our glass manufacturing business totaling $301 million in 2017; no such proceeds were received in 2016. We paid $8 million for investments in unconsolidated subsidiaries in 2017, compared to cash payments of $186 million in 2016, primarily related to our investment in Mekonomen. In 2016, we entered into foreign currency contracts to fund the purchase price of the Rhiag acquisition, which generated $18 million of cash proceeds; we had no such contracts in 2017. Property, plant and equipment purchases were $179 million in the year ended December 31, 2017 compared to $207 million in the prior year. The period over period decrease in cash outflows for purchases of property, plant and equipment was primarily related to our discontinued operations (down $21 million compared to the prior year), Europe and Specialty segments, partially offset by an increase in our North America segment. 

Net cash used in financing activities totaled $113 million for the year ended December 31, 2017, compared to $1.2 billion provided by financing activities during 2016. During 2017, net repayments under our credit facilities totaled $135 million, as we used the proceeds from the sale of our glass manufacturing business and cash flows from operations to repay outstanding revolver borrowings; during 2016, we had net borrowings of $1.3 billion primarily to fund our acquisitions. In April 2016, we issued the Euro Notes (2024) generating proceeds of $563 million. The proceeds from the Euro Notes (2024) were used to repay a portion of the borrowings on the revolving credit facility. Additionally, we repaid $543 million of Rhiag acquired debt and debt related liabilities during 2016. In connection with our December 2017 amendment of our credit facilities, we paid $4 million of debt issuance costs; in 2016, we paid $17 million of debt issuance costs related to our January and December 2016 amendments of our credit facilities, our April 2016 issuance of the Euro Notes (2024), and our November 2016 amendment to our receivables securitization facility. There were $18 million of cash proceeds from other debt in 2017, compared to $33 million in 2016. Cash provided by other financing activities totaled $7 million in 2017, primarily as a result of proceeds from the sale of noncontrolling interest; no such activity occurred in 2016.

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Future Commitments

We do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements or undisclosed borrowings or debt that would be required to be disclosed pursuant to Item 303 of Regulation S-K under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Additionally, we do not have any synthetic leases.

The following table represents our future commitments under contractual obligations as of December 31, 2018 (in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Our long-term debt under contractual obligations above includes interest of $786 million on the balances outstanding as of December 31, 2018. The long-term debt balance excludes debt issuance costs, as these expenses have already been paid. Interest on our senior notes, notes payable, and other long-term debt is calculated based on the respective stated rates. Interest on our variable rate credit facilities is calculated based on the weighted average rates, including the impact of interest rate swaps through their respective expiration dates, in effect for each tranche of borrowings as of December 31, 2018. Future estimated interest expense for the next year, one to three years, and three to five years is $147 million, $288 million and $261 million, respectively. Estimated interest expense beyond five years is $90 million.

59

(2) Interest on capital lease obligations of $14 million is included based on incremental borrowing or implied rates. Future estimated interest expense for the next year, one to three years, and three to five years is $2 million, $2 million and $1 million, respectively. Estimated interest expense beyond five years is $9 million.

(3) The operating lease payments above do not include certain tax, insurance and maintenance costs, which are also required contractual obligations under our operating leases but are generally not fixed and can fluctuate from year to year.

(4)Our purchase obligations include open purchase orders for aftermarket inventory. 

(5)Our other long-term obligations consist of estimated payments for our self-insurance reserves of $94 million, outstanding letters of credit of $65 million, and outstanding estimated payments of $33 million on the repatriation of earnings as a result of the Tax Act, with the remaining $106 million representing primarily other asset purchase commitments and payments for deferred compensation plans.

The table above excludes amounts related to our defined benefit pension plans. As of December 31, 2018, the projected benefit obligation for our defined benefit pension plans was $201 million, and the fair value of the related plan assets was $92 million. Total expected contributions to our pension plans, including amounts that we expect to pay in benefits directly to participants, are $4 million for the year ended December 31, 2019. Benefit payments for our funded plans will be made from plan assets, whereas benefit payments for our unfunded plans are made from cash flows from operating activities. See Note 14, "Employee Benefit Plans" to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information related to our pension plans, including information related to expected benefit payments for the next 10 years and the plan assets available to satisfy those benefit payments. 

ITEM 7A.QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK