ITEM 7A.QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

We are exposed to market risks arising from adverse changes in:

•foreign exchange rates;

•interest rates; and

•commodity prices.

Foreign Exchange Rates

Foreign currency fluctuations may impact the financial results we report for the portions of our business that operate in functional currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Our operations outside of the U.S. represented 47.9% and 41.8% of our revenue during 2018 and 2017, respectively. An increase or decrease in the strength of the U.S. dollar against these currencies by 10% would result in a 4.8% change in our consolidated revenue and a 2.9% change in our operating income for the year ended December 31, 2018. See our Results of Operations discussion in Part II, Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information regarding the impact of fluctuations in exchange rates on our year over year results.

Additionally, we are exposed to foreign currency fluctuations with respect to the purchase of aftermarket products from foreign countries, primarily in Europe and Asia. To the extent that our inventory purchases are not denominated in the functional currency of the purchasing location, we are exposed to exchange rate fluctuations. In several of our operations, we purchase inventory from manufacturers in Taiwan in U.S. dollars, which exposes us to fluctuations in the relationship between the local functional currency and the U.S. dollar, as well as fluctuations between the U.S. dollar and the Taiwan dollar. We hedge our exposure to foreign currency fluctuations related to a portion of inventory purchases in our Europe operations, but the notional amount and fair value of these foreign currency forward contracts at December 31, 2018 were immaterial. We do not currently attempt to hedge foreign currency exposure related to our foreign currency denominated inventory purchases in our North America operations, and we may not be able to pass on any resulting price increases to our customers.

Other than with respect to a portion of our foreign currency denominated inventory purchases, we do not hold derivative contracts to hedge foreign currency risk. Our net investment in foreign operations is partially hedged by the foreign currency denominated borrowings we use to fund foreign acquisitions; however, our ability to use foreign currency denominated borrowings to finance our foreign operations may be limited based on local tax laws. We have elected not to hedge the foreign currency risk related to the interest payments on foreign borrowings as we generate cash flows in the local currencies that can be used to fund debt payments. As of December 31, 2018, we had outstanding borrowings of €500 million under our Euro Notes (2024), €1.0 billion under our Euro Notes (2026/28), and £290 million, €163 million, CAD $130 million, and SEK 275 million under our revolving credit facilities. As of December 31, 2017, we had outstanding borrowings of €500 million under our Euro Notes (2024), and £124 million, CAD $130 million, SEK 250 million, and €132 million under our 

60

revolving credit facilities. The interest payments on our €1.0 billion Euro Notes (2026/28) are funded primarily by cash flows generated by Stahlgruber.

Interest Rates

Our results of operations are exposed to changes in interest rates primarily with respect to borrowings under our credit facilities, where interest rates are tied to the prime rate, LIBOR or CDOR. Therefore, we implemented a policy to manage our exposure to variable interest rates on a portion of our outstanding variable rate debt instruments through the use of interest rate swap contracts. These contracts convert a portion of our variable rate debt to fixed rate debt, matching the currency, effective dates and maturity dates to specific debt instruments. Net interest payments or receipts from interest rate swap contracts are included as adjustments to interest expense. All of our interest rate swap contracts have been executed with banks that we believe are creditworthy (Wells Fargo Bank, N.A.; Bank of America, N.A.; Citizens, N.A.; HSBC Bank USA, N.A.; and Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria, S.A.).

As of December 31, 2018, we held eight interest rate swap contracts representing a total of $480 million of U.S. dollar-denominated notional amount debt. Our interest rate swap contracts are designated as cash flow hedges and modify the variable rate nature of that portion of our variable rate debt. These swaps have maturity dates ranging from January 2021 through June 2021. As of December 31, 2018, the fair value of the interest rate swap contracts was an asset of $15 million. The values of such contracts are subject to changes in interest rates.

In addition to these interest rate swaps, as of December 31, 2018 we held five cross currency swap agreements for a total notional amount of $574 million (€530 million) with maturity dates in October 2019, October 2020, and January 2021. These cross currency swaps contain an interest rate swap component and a foreign currency forward contract component that, combined with related intercompany financing arrangements, effectively convert variable rate U.S. dollar-denominated borrowings into fixed rate euro-denominated borrowings. The swaps are intended to reduce uncertainty in cash flows in U.S. dollars and euros in connection with intercompany financing arrangements. The cross currency swaps were also executed with banks we believe are creditworthy (Wells Fargo Bank, N.A.; Bank of America, N.A.; MUFG Bank, Ltd. ("MUFG") (formerly known as The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd.); and SunTrust Bank). As of December 31, 2018, the fair value of the interest rate swap components of the cross currency swaps was an asset of $7 million and a liability of $1 million, and the fair value of the foreign currency forward components was an asset of $1 million and a liability of $40 million. The values of these contracts are subject to changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates.

In total, we had 57% of our variable rate debt under our credit facilities at fixed rates at December 31, 2018 compared to 48% at December 31, 2017. See Note 10, "Long-Term Obligations" and Note 11, "Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities" to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information.

At December 31, 2018, we had approximately $793 million of variable rate debt that was not hedged. Using sensitivity analysis, a 100 basis point movement in interest rates would change interest expense by $8 million over the next twelve months. 

Commodity Prices

We are exposed to market risk related to price fluctuations in scrap metal and other metals. Market prices of these metals affect the amount that we pay for our inventory and the revenue that we generate from sales of these metals. As both our revenue and costs are affected by the price fluctuations, we have a natural hedge against the changes. However, there is typically a lag between the effect on our revenue from metal price fluctuations and inventory cost changes, and there is no guarantee that the vehicle costs will decrease or increase at the same rate as the metals prices. Therefore, we can experience positive or negative gross margin effects in periods of rising or falling metals prices, particularly when such prices move rapidly. Additionally, if market prices were to change at a greater rate than our vehicle acquisition costs, we could experience a positive or negative effect on our operating margin. The average of scrap metal prices for 2018 has increased 18% over the average for 2017.

61

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA