PART I

Item 1.Business.

Overview

Jefferies Financial Group Inc. ("Jefferies" or the "Company"), formerly known as Leucadia National Corporation, is a diversified financial services company engaged in investment banking and capital markets, asset management and direct investing. Jefferies Group LLC ("Jefferies Group"), our largest subsidiary, is the largest independent full-service global investment banking firm headquartered in the U.S. Jefferies Group retains a credit rating separate from Jefferies and remains a U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") reporting company.

Our executive offices are located at 520 Madison Avenue, New York, NY 10022, as is the global headquarters of Jefferies Group. Our primary telephone number is (212) 460-1900 and our website address is www.jefferies.com. At November 30, 2018, we had approximately 4,700 full-time employees.

The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the Risk Factors presented in Item 1A of Part I and the Cautionary Statement for Forward-Looking Information and Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations set forth in Item 7 of Part II.

Recent Events

On June 5, 2018, we completed the sale of 48% of National Beef to Marfrig Global Foods S.A. ("Marfrig") for $907.7 million in cash, reducing our ownership in National Beef from 79% to 31%. In 2018, we recognized a pre-tax gain as a result of this transaction of $873.5 million. During 2018, prior to the closing, we received an additional $229.4 million in distributions of recent profits plus a true-up to the debt amount set in the enterprise valuation associated with the sale. Marfrig also acquired an additional 3% of National Beef from other equity owners and owns 51% of National Beef. We have the right to designate two board members and have a series of other rights in respect of our continuing equity interest, with a lockup period of five years and thereafter fair market value liquidity protections. As of the closing of the sale on June 5, 2018, we deconsolidated our investment in National Beef and account for our remaining 31% interest in National Beef under the equity method of accounting. We have classified the results of National Beef prior to June 5, 2018 and the pre-tax gain as discontinued operations in the Consolidated Statements of Operations.

During the third quarter of 2018, we sold 100% of our equity interests in Garcadia, our auto dealer group, and our associated real estate to our former partners, the Garff family, for $417.2 million in cash. We recognized a pre-tax gain as a result of this transaction of $221.7 million during 2018. 

These sales and particularly the related deconsolidation of National Beef transformed Jefferies into a more focused financial services company. To further this strategy, on October 1, 2018, we amalgamated all our primary financial services operating businesses into one platform by transferring our 50% membership interest in Berkadia and our Leucadia Asset Management ("LAM") seed investments into Jefferies Group. The balance of our businesses and investments comprise our Merchant Banking business, including our interests in National Beef, Spectrum Brands (formerly HRG Group), Vitesse Energy Finance, HomeFed, Linkem and other companies. 

During 2018, we repurchased a total of 50,000,000 of our common shares for $1,143.0 million at an average price per share of $22.86.

In the fourth quarter of 2018, we changed our fiscal year end from December 31 to November 30, aligning our fiscal year end with that of Jefferies Group. 

Jefferies Group

Jefferies Group is the largest independent U.S. headquartered global full-service, integrated investment banking and securities firm. Jefferies Group's largest subsidiary, Jefferies LLC, was founded in the U.S. in 1962 and its first international operating subsidiary, Jefferies International Limited, was established in the U.K. in 1986. As of November 30, 2018, Jefferies Group had 3,596 employees in the Americas, Europe and Asia. The net book value (assets less liabilities and noncontrolling interests) of our investment in Jefferies Group was $6.2 billion at November 30, 2018.

2

Investment Banking

Jefferies Group provides its clients around the world with a full range of equity capital markets, debt capital markets and financial advisory services. Jefferies Group's services are enhanced by its deep industry expertise, its global distribution capabilities and its senior level commitment to its clients.

Approximately 900 investment banking professionals operate in the Americas, Europe and Asia, and are organized into industry, product and geographic coverage groups. Jefferies Group's industry coverage groups include Consumer and Retail; Energy; Financial Institutions; Healthcare; Industrials; Media, Communications and Information Services; Real Estate; Gaming and Lodging; Technology; Financial Sponsors; and Public Finance. Jefferies Group's product coverage groups include equity capital markets, debt capital markets, and advisory, which includes both mergers and acquisitions and restructuring and recapitalization expertise. Jefferies Group's geographic coverage groups include teams based in major cities in the United States, Toronto, London, Frankfurt, Paris, Milan, Amsterdam, Stockholm, Mumbai, Hong Kong, Singapore, Sydney, Tokyo and Zurich.

Equity Capital Markets

Jefferies Group provides a broad range of equity financing capabilities to companies and financial sponsors. These capabilities include private equity placements, initial public offerings, follow-on offerings, block trades and equity-linked convertible securities transactions.

Debt Capital Markets

Jefferies Group provides a wide range of debt and acquisition financing capabilities for companies, financial sponsors and government entities. Jefferies Group focuses on structuring, underwriting and distributing public and private debt, including investment grade debt, high yield bonds, leveraged loans, municipal debt, mortgage- and other asset-backed securities, and liability management solutions.

Advisory Services

Jefferies Group provides mergers and acquisition and restructuring and recapitalization services to companies, financial sponsors and government entities. In the mergers and acquisition area, Jefferies Group advises sellers and buyers on corporate sales and divestitures, acquisitions, mergers, tender offers, spinoffs, joint ventures, strategic alliances and takeover and proxy fight defense. In the restructuring and recapitalization area, Jefferies Group provides companies, bondholders and lenders a full range of restructuring advisory capabilities as well as expertise in the structuring, valuation and placement of securities issued in recapitalizations.

Corporate Lending

Jefferies Finance LLC ("Jefferies Finance"), a 50/50 joint venture between Jefferies Group and Massachusetts Mutual Life Insurance Company, is a commercial finance company that structures, underwrites and syndicates primarily senior secured loans to corporate borrowers and manages proprietary and third-party investments in middle market and broadly syndicated loans. Since its inception in 2004, Jefferies Finance has served as lead arranger of over 950 transactions representing over $195 billion in arranged volume. Jefferies Finance conducts its operations primarily through two business lines, Leveraged Finance Arrangement and Portfolio and Asset Management. Its Leveraged Finance Arrangement business line participates in transactions typically ranging from $250 million to $1.5 billion for borrowers generating between $50 million and $300 million of annual Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization. Jefferies Finance typically syndicates to third party investors substantially all of its arranged volume. Its Portfolio and Asset Management business line manages a broad portfolio comprised of portions of loans it has arranged as well as loan positions that it has purchased in the primary and secondary markets. The Portfolio and Asset Management business is comprised of three registered Investment Advisers: Jefferies Finance, Apex Credit Partners LLC and JFIN Asset Management LLC. Jefferies Finance manages its investments in cash flow and traditional asset-based revolving credit. Apex Credit Partners LLC manages collateralized loan obligations which invest in predominately broadly syndicated loans. JFIN Asset Management LLC manages proprietary and third-party investments in middle market loans held in private funds and separately managed accounts. 

3

Equities

Equities Research, Sales and Trading

Jefferies Group provides its clients full-service equities research, sales and trading capabilities across global securities markets. Jefferies Group earns commissions or spread revenue by executing, settling and clearing transactions for clients across these markets in equity and equity-related products, including common stock, American depository receipts, global depository receipts, exchange-traded funds, exchange-traded and over-the-counter ("OTC") equity derivatives, convertible and other equity-linked products and closed-end funds. Jefferies Group equity research, sales and trading efforts are organized across three geographical regions: the Americas; Europe and the Middle East and Africa; and Asia Pacific. Jefferies Group's clients are primarily institutional market participants such as mutual funds, hedge funds, investment advisers, pension and profit sharing plans, and insurance companies. Through its global research team and sales force, Jefferies Group maintains relationships with its clients, distributes investment research and strategy, trading ideas, market information and analyses across a range of industries and receives and executes client orders. Jefferies Group's equity research covers over 2,000 companies around the world and a further more than 800 companies are covered by nine leading local firms in Asia Pacific with which Jefferies Group maintains alliances.

Equity Finance

Jefferies Group's Equity Finance business provides financing, securities lending and other prime brokerage services. Jefferies Group offers prime brokerage services in the U.S. that provide hedge funds, money managers and registered investment advisers with execution, financing, clearing, reporting and administrative services. Jefferies Group finances its clients' securities positions through margin loans that are collateralized by securities, cash or other acceptable liquid collateral. Jefferies Group earns an interest spread equal to the difference between the amount Jefferies Group pays for funds and the amount Jefferies Group receives from its clients. Jefferies Group also operates a matched book in equity and corporate bond securities, whereby Jefferies Group borrows and lends securities versus cash or liquid collateral and earns a net interest spread. Jefferies Group offers selected prime brokerage clients the option of custodying their assets at an unaffiliated U.S. broker-dealer that is a subsidiary of a bank holding company. Under this arrangement, Jefferies Group directly provides its clients with all customary prime brokerage services.

Wealth Management

Jefferies Group provides tailored wealth management services designed to meet the needs of high net worth individuals, their families and their businesses, private equity and venture funds and small institutions. Jefferies Group's advisers provide access to all of its institutional execution capabilities and delivers other financial services. Jefferies Group's open architecture platform affords clients access to products and services from both its firm and from a variety of other major financial services institutions.

Fixed Income

Fixed Income Sales and Trading

Jefferies Group provides its clients with sales and trading of investment grade corporate bonds, U.S. and European government and agency securities, municipal bonds, mortgage- and asset-backed securities, leveraged loans, consumer loans, high yield and distressed securities, emerging markets debt, interest rate and credit derivative products, as well as foreign exchange trade execution and securitization capabilities. Jefferies LLC is designated as a Primary Dealer by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York and Jefferies International Limited is designated in similar capacities for several countries in Europe. Additionally, through the use of repurchase agreements, Jefferies Group acts as an intermediary between borrowers and lenders of short-term funds and obtains funding for various of its inventory positions. Jefferies Group trades and makes markets globally in cleared and uncleared swaps and forwards referencing, among other things, interest rates, investment grade and non-investment grade corporate credits, credit indexes and asset-backed security indexes. 

Jefferies Group's strategists and economists provide ongoing commentary and analysis of the global fixed income markets. In addition, Jefferies Group's fixed income desk strategists provide ideas and analysis to clients across a variety of fixed income products.

4

Other

Jefferies Group also makes principal investments in private equity and hedge funds managed by third parties as well as, from time to time, take on strategic positions. On October 1, 2018, we transferred to Jefferies Group our investment in Berkadia Commercial Mortgage Holding LLC ("Berkadia"). Berkadia is a 50/50 joint venture with Berkshire Hathaway, Inc. that provides capital solutions, investments sales advisory and mortgage servicing for multifamily and commercial real estate. Berkadia originates commercial real estate loans, primarily in respect of multifamily housing units, for Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and the Federal Housing Authority using their underwriting guidelines and will typically sell the loans to such entities shortly after the loans are funded with Berkadia retaining the mortgage servicing rights. For loans sold to Fannie Mae, Berkadia assumes a shared loss position throughout the term of each loan, with a maximum loss percentage of approximately one-third of the original principal balance. Berkadia also originates and brokers commercial/multifamily mortgage loans which are not part of the government agency programs. 

In addition, Berkadia originates loans for its own balance sheet. These loans provide interim financing to borrowers who intend to refinance the loan with longer-term loans from an eligible government agency or other third party. Berkadia also provides services related to the acquisition and disposition of multifamily real estate projects, including brokerage services, asset review, market research, financial analysis and due diligence support and is a servicer of U.S. commercial real estate loans, performing primary, master and special servicing functions for U.S. government agency programs, commercial mortgage-backed securities transactions, banks, insurance companies and other financial institutions. Berkadia is required under its servicing agreements to maintain certain minimum servicer ratings or qualifications from the ratings agencies. These ratings currently exceed the minimum ratings required by the related servicing agreements. 

Asset Management

Jefferies Group manages, invests in and provides services to a diverse group of alternative asset management platforms across a spectrum of investment strategies and asset classes, many of these under the LAM umbrella. Jefferies Group is supporting and developing focused strategies managed by distinct management teams. Products are currently offered by Jefferies Investment Advisers to pension funds, insurance companies, sovereign wealth funds, and other institutional investors through various platforms. 

On October 1, 2018, we transferred our LAM seed investments to Jefferies Group. LAM continued to expand its asset management efforts including the formation of strategic relationships with Weiss Multi-Strategy Advisers LLC ("Weiss") and Schonfeld Strategic Advisors LLC ("Schonfeld"). We invested $250 million in Weiss' strategy and own a profit share in the firm for the first year and a revenue share thereafter. In addition, LAM entered into an agreement with Schonfeld to merge the business of Folger Hill Asset Management with Schonfeld's fundamental equities business, under the Schonfeld brand. In connection with the transaction, LAM agreed to make a $250 million investment in the combined strategy, and will receive a revenue share in the combined ongoing fundamental equity business. This transaction closed on January 1, 2019.

Competition

All aspects of Jefferies Group's business are intensely competitive. Jefferies Group competes primarily with large global bank holding companies that engage in capital markets activities, but also with other broker-dealers, asset managers and investment banking firms. The large global bank holding companies have substantially greater capital and resources than Jefferies Group does. Jefferies Group believes that the principal factors affecting its competitive standing include the quality, experience and skills of its professionals, the depth of its relationships, the breadth of its service offerings, its ability to deliver consistently its integrated capabilities, and its culture, tenacity and commitment to serve its clients.

Regulation

Regulation in the United States. The financial services industry in which Jefferies Group operates is subject to extensive regulation. In the U.S., the SEC is the federal agency responsible for the administration of federal securities laws, and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission ("CFTC") is the federal agency responsible for the administration of laws relating to commodity interests (including futures, commodity options and swaps). In addition, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority ("FINRA") and the National Futures Association ("NFA") are self-regulatory organizations that are actively involved in the regulation of financial services businesses. The SEC, CFTC, FINRA and the NFA conduct periodic examinations of broker-dealers, investment advisers, futures commission merchants ("FCMs") and swap dealers. The designated examining authority for Jefferies LLC's activities as a broker-dealer is FINRA, and the designated self-regulatory organization for Jefferies LLC's non-clearing FCM activities is the NFA. Financial services businesses are also subject to regulation and examination by state securities commissions and attorneys general in those states in which they do business.

5

Broker-dealers are subject to SEC and FINRA regulations that cover all aspects of the securities business, including sales and trading methods, trade practices among broker-dealers, use and safekeeping of customers' funds and securities, capital structure and requirements, anti-money laundering efforts, recordkeeping and the conduct of broker-dealer personnel, including officers and employees. Registered investment advisers are subject to, among other requirements, SEC regulations concerning marketing, transactions with affiliates, custody of client assets, disclosure to clients, conflict of interest, insider trading and recordkeeping; and investment advisers that are also registered as commodity trading advisers or commodity pool operators are also subject to regulation by the CFTC and the NFA. FCMs, introducing brokers and swap dealers that engage in commodity options, futures or swap transactions are subject to regulation by the CFTC and the NFA. Additional legislation, changes in rules promulgated by the SEC, CFTC, FINRA or NFA, or changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws or rules may directly affect the operations and profitability of broker-dealers, investment advisers, FCMs, commodity trading advisers, commodity pool operators and swap dealers. The SEC, CFTC, FINRA, NFA, state securities commissions and state attorneys general may conduct administrative proceedings or initiate civil litigation that can result in adverse consequences for Jefferies LLC, its affiliates, including affiliated investment advisers, as well as its and their officers and employees (including, without limitation, injunctions, censures, fines, suspensions, directives that impact business operations (including proposed expansions), membership expulsions, or revocations of licenses and registrations). In addition, broker-dealers, investment advisers, FCMs and swap dealers must also comply with the rules and regulation of clearing houses, exchanges, swap execution facilities and trading platforms of which they are a member.

Regulatory Capital Requirements. Several Jefferies Group entities are subject to financial capital requirements that are set by regulation. Jefferies LLC is a dually-registered broker-dealer and FCM and is required to maintain net capital in excess of the greater of the SEC or CFTC minimum financial requirements. As a broker-dealer, Jefferies LLC is subject to the SEC's Uniform Net Capital Rule (the "Net Capital Rule"). Jefferies LLC has elected to compute its minimum net capital requirement in accordance with the "Alternative Net Capital Requirement" as permitted by the Net Capital Rule, which provides that a broker-dealer shall not permit its net capital, as defined, to be less than the greater of 2% of its aggregate debit balances (primarily customer-related receivables) or $250,000 ($1.5 million for prime brokers). Compliance with the Net Capital Rule could limit Jefferies LLC's operations, such as underwriting and trading activities, that could require the use of significant amounts of capital, and may also restrict its ability to make loans, advances, dividends and other payments.

As a non-clearing FCM, Jefferies LLC is required to maintain minimum adjusted net capital of $1.0 million.

Jefferies Group subsidiaries that are provisionally registered swap dealers will become subject to capital requirements under Title VII of The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the "Dodd-Frank Act") once the relevant rules become final. For additional information see Item 1A. Risk Factors.

Jefferies Group is not subject to any regulatory capital rules.

See Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and Note 25 to our consolidated financial statements for additional discussion of net capital calculations.

Regulation outside the United States. Jefferies Group is an active participant in the international capital markets and provides investment banking services internationally, primarily in Europe and Asia. As is true in the U.S., Jefferies Group's international subsidiaries are subject to extensive regulations proposed, promulgated and enforced by, among other regulatory bodies, the European Commission and European Supervisory Authorities (including the European Banking Authority and European Securities and Market Authority), U.K. Financial Conduct Authority, German Federal Financial Supervisory Authority, Investment Industry Regulatory Organization of Canada, Hong Kong Securities and Futures Commission, the Japan Financial Services Agency and the Monetary Authority of Singapore. Every country in which Jefferies Group does business imposes upon it laws, rules and regulations similar to those in the U.S., including with respect to some form of capital adequacy rules, customer protection rules, data protection regulations, anti-money laundering and anti-bribery rules, compliance with other applicable trading and investment banking regulations and similar regulatory reform. For additional information see Item 1A. Risk Factors.

Merchant Banking

In our Merchant Banking business, we own a diverse portfolio of businesses and investments that have the potential for significant long-term value creation. We continue to seek new investments with similar characteristics and that typically come to our attention through the activities of Jefferies Group. Investments may be reflected in our consolidated results as consolidated subsidiaries, equity investments, securities or in other ways, depending on the structure of our specific holdings. We periodically evaluate the retention and disposition of our businesses and investments. Changes in the mix of our businesses and investments should be expected.

6

Our Merchant Banking portfolio currently includes investments in National Beef Packing Company ("National Beef"), 31% (beef processing); Spectrum Brands Holdings, Inc. ("Spectrum Brands"), 14% (consumer products); Linkem, 54% (fixed wireless broadband services); Vitesse Energy, LLC ("Vitesse Energy Finance"), 97% (oil and gas); HomeFed Corporation ("HomeFed"), 70% (45% voting) (real estate); Idaho Timber, 100% (manufacturing); FXCM Group, LLC ("FXCM"), up to 75% (50% voting) (online foreign exchange trading); WeWork, less than 1% (global network of workspaces); and others. The net book value of our entire Merchant Banking portfolio was $3.3 billion at November 30, 2018.

National Beef

We own 31% of National Beef, one of the largest beef processing companies in the U.S., accounting for approximately 12.5% of the fed cattle slaughter market. National Beef processes and markets fresh and chilled boxed beef, ground beef, beef by-products, consumer-ready beef and pork, and wet blue leather for domestic and international markets. The largest share of National Beef's revenue, about 86%, is generated from the sale of boxed beef and beef by-products. National Beef also generates revenues through value-added production with its case-ready products. National Beef's profitability typically fluctuates seasonally as well as cyclically, based on the availability of fed cattle. The net book value of our investment in National Beef was $653.6 million at November 30, 2018.

Spectrum Brands

We own about 14% of Spectrum Brands, a publicly traded (NYSE: SPB) global and diversified consumer products company and a leading supplier of residential locksets, residential builders' hardware, plumbing, shaving and grooming products, personal care products, small household appliances, specialty pet supplies, lawn and garden and home pest control products, and personal insect repellents. Over the past few months, Spectrum Brands has announced the sale of its consumer battery and auto care segments. We own 7.5 million common shares of Spectrum Brands, which we reflect in Trading assets in our financial statements at fair value. One of our officers currently serves as a director on Spectrum Brands board and we have the right to designate an unaffiliated person to be nominated to serve as independent director on Spectrum Brands board. The net book value of our investment in Spectrum Brands was $374.2 million at November 30, 2018.

Linkem

We own 54% (48% voting) of Linkem S.p.A., a fast-growing fixed wireless broadband service provider in Italy with 586,000 subscribers. Its solution, delivered via radio communications between a base station and indoor or outdoor antennae installed at the customers' premises, utilizes its valuable 3.5GHz spectrum holdings of 84MHz covering over 82% of the population of Italy and at least 42MHz covering all of Italy. Linkem's proprietary network currently utilizes LTE technology and covers approximately 66% of Italian households, while its 3.5GHz frequency band has been designated globally as one of the core bands for 5G services making Linkem well placed to take market share and broaden its service offerings in a challenged Italian infrastructure market. Linkem plans to increase its network coverage and service offerings over the coming years as it adds subscribers and leverages its assets. Expansion and customer acquisition costs are expected to result in operating losses over the next couple of years. 

Our initial investment in Linkem was made in July 2011. Since that time, we have funded much of Linkem's growth and become its largest shareholder. We own approximately 42% of the common shares of Linkem, as well as convertible preferred shares which, if converted, would increase our ownership to approximately 54% of Linkem's common equity at November 30, 2018. We have approximately 48% of the total voting securities of Linkem. The net book value of our investment in Linkem was $165.2 million at November 30, 2018. 

Vitesse Energy Finance

Vitesse Energy Finance is our 97% owned consolidated subsidiary that acquires and invests in non-operated working interests and royalties predominately in the Bakken Shale oil field in North Dakota. These non-operated interests include working interests and minerals in flowing wells and leasehold interests in drilling spacing units expected to be developed in the future by Vitesse Energy Finance's dozen or more operators. As Vitesse Energy Finance's operators convert undeveloped acreage into flowing horizontal wells, our interests in the leasehold acreage and minerals are converted into cash flows produced by the new wells. Vitesse Energy Finance has acquired more than 44,500 net acres of Bakken leaseholds and has an interest in approximately 4,600 producing wells (95 net wells) with current production as of November 2018 in excess of 9,000 barrels of oil equivalent per day. Vitesse Energy Finance also has over 1,150 gross wells (29 net wells) that are currently drilling, completing, shut-in for offset completion activity or permitted for drilling. Our strategic priorities for Vitesse Energy Finance are to selectively add to our core acreage, participate in future profitable horizontal wells, increase aggregate cash flow, limit volatility of cash flow from flowing wells by appropriately hedging oil and profitably sell selective assets when appropriate. The net book value of our investment in Vitesse Energy Finance was $532.8 million at November 30, 2018. 

7

HomeFed

We own 70% of HomeFed, a developer and owner of residential and mixed-use real estate properties in California, New York, Florida, Virginia, South Carolina and Maine. After many years in the entitlement process, the majority of HomeFed's assets are now either operating real estate or entitled land ready for sale. HomeFed is a public company traded on the NASD OTC Bulletin Board (Symbol: HOFD). We own 70% of HomeFed's common stock; however, our voting rights are limited such that we are not able to vote more than 45% of HomeFed's total voting securities voting on any matter. Resulting from a 1998 distribution to all of our shareholders, about 5% of HomeFed is beneficially owned by our Chairman at November 30, 2018. Three of our executives serve on the board of directors of HomeFed, including our Chairman who serves as HomeFed's Chairman, and our President. At November 30, 2018, our investment had a net book value of $337.5 million and we report HomeFed as an equity investment in our financial statements. 

Idaho Timber

Idaho Timber manufactures and distributes an extensive range of quality wood products to markets across North America. Its activities include remanufacturing dimension lumber; remanufacturing, bundling and bar coding of home center boards for large retailers; and production of pine dimension lumber and 5/4" radius-edge, pine decking. In addition to its headquarters in Meridian, Idaho, Idaho Timber has plants in Idaho, Arkansas, Florida, Louisiana, New Mexico, North Carolina and Texas. The net book value of our investment in Idaho Timber was $78.2 million at November 30, 2018.

FXCM 

FXCM is a provider of online foreign exchange trading, contract for difference trading, spread betting and related services. Its mission is to provide global traders with access to the world's largest and most liquid market by offering innovative trading tools, hiring excellent trading educators, meeting strict financial standards and striving for the best online trading experience in the market. 

During 2015, we invested $279.0 million in FXCM through a combination of a term loan now due in the first quarter of 2019 and rights to up to 75% of all future distributions. We also have the right to appoint three of the six board members of FXCM. We have had the right, as has Global Brokerage Holdings, LLC ("Global Brokerage Holdings"), the owner of the remaining 50% voting interest of FXCM that is not held by Jefferies, to require a sale of FXCM beginning in January 2018. Distributions to Jefferies are currently: 100% until amounts due under the loan are repaid; 50% of the next $350 million; then 90% of the next $600 million; and 60% of all amounts thereafter. Through November 30, 2018, we have received cumulatively $349.8 million of principal, interest and fees from our initial $279.0 million investment in FXCM. At November 30, 2018, the remaining principal due under the term loan was $67.6 million and the interest rate is 20.5%. We include this loan receivable in our Consolidated Statements of Financial Condition in Trading assets at its fair value of $73.2 million. Our 50% voting interest and share of distributions are reflected as an equity method investment and classified as Loans to and investments in associated companies. At November 30, 2018, our equity method investment is recorded at $75.0 million, and the total amount of both our term loan and equity method investment is $148.2 million.

WeWork

Founded in 2010, WeWork creates collaborative office communities that are responsive to the productivity needs and stylistic preferences of today's mobile, creative workforce. WeWork provides incubator-like space with small offices and hip common areas meant to promote interaction. WeWork serves a range of customers, from startups and small businesses to large enterprises. In addition to physical space, the company provides services, events and technologies designed to connect members within the WeWork ecosystem. We invested $9.0 million in 2013 in WeWork and have realized $12.7 million in cash to date. We currently own less than 1% of the company. Our interest in WeWork is reflected in Trading assets in our financial statements and is carried at fair value. The net book value of our investment in WeWork was $254.4 million at November 30, 2018. 

Financial Information about Segments

Our operating and reportable segments consist of Jefferies Group, Merchant Banking and Corporate. Our Merchant Banking segment included LAM and Berkadia prior to their transfer to Jefferies Group in the fourth quarter of 2018, and Garcadia, prior to its sale in August 2018. Our financial information regarding our reportable segments is contained in Note 29, in our consolidated financial statements.

8

Information about Jefferies on the Internet

We file annual, quarterly and current reports and other information with the SEC. These SEC filings are also available to the public from commercial document retrieval services and the website maintained by the SEC at www.sec.gov.

The following documents and reports are available on or through our website (www.jefferies.com) as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such materials with, or furnish to, the SEC, as applicable:

•Code of Business Practice;

•Reportable waivers, if any, from our Code of Business Practice by our executive officers;

•Board of Directors Corporate Governance Guidelines;

•Charter of the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors;

•Charter of the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee of the Board of Directors;

•Charter of the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors;

•Annual reports on Form 10-K;

•Quarterly reports on Form 10-Q;

•Current reports on Form 8-K;

•Beneficial ownership reports on Forms 3, 4 and 5; and

•Any amendments to the above-mentioned documents and reports.

Shareholders may also obtain a printed copy of any of these documents or reports free of charge by sending a request to Jefferies Financial Group Inc., Investor Relations, 520 Madison Avenue, New York, NY 10022 or by calling (212) 460-1900.

Item 1A.Risk Factors.