Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

CURRENCY EXCHANGE RATE RISK

Due to the global nature of our operations, we are exposed to currency exchange rate changes which may cause fluctuations in earnings and cash flows. We use operational and economic hedges, as well as currency exchange rate derivative instruments, to manage the impact of currency exchange rate fluctuations. In order to minimize earnings and cash flow volatility resulting from currency exchange rate fluctuations, we enter into derivative instruments, principally forward currency exchange rate contracts. These contracts are designed to hedge anticipated transactions in other currencies and changes in the value of specific assets and liabilities. At inception of the contract, the derivative instrument is designated as either a freestanding derivative or a cash flow hedge. The primary currencies of our derivative instruments are the Euro, Japanese Yen, and British Pound. Fluctuations in the currency exchange rates of currency exposures that are unhedged, such as in certain emerging markets, may result in future earnings and cash flow volatility. We do not enter into currency exchange rate derivative instruments for speculative purposes.

The gross notional amount of all currency exchange rate derivative instruments outstanding at April 26, 2019 and April 27, 2018 was $11.1 billion and $11.5 billion, respectively. At April 26, 2019, these contracts were in a net unrealized gain position of $322 million. A sensitivity analysis of changes in the fair value of all currency exchange rate derivative contracts at April 26, 2019 indicates that, if the U.S. dollar uniformly strengthened/weakened by 10 percent against all currencies, the fair value of these contracts would increase/decrease by approximately $916 million. Any gains and losses on the fair value of derivative contracts would generally be offset by gains and losses on the underlying transactions. These offsetting gains and losses are not reflected in the above analysis. 

In the second quarter of fiscal year 2019, we began accounting for our operations in Argentina as highly inflationary, as the prior three-year cumulative inflation rate exceeded 100 percent. The change did not have a material impact on our results for fiscal year 2019. 

INTEREST RATE RISK

We are subject to interest rate risk on our investments and our borrowings. We manage interest rate risk in the aggregate, while focusing on our immediate and intermediate liquidity needs. Our debt portfolio at April 26, 2019 was comprised of debt predominately denominated in U.S. dollars and the Euro, of which substantially all is fixed rate debt. We are also exposed to interest rate changes affecting our investments in interest rate sensitive instruments, which include our marketable debt securities, fixed-to-floating interest rate swap agreements, and forward starting interest rate swap agreements. 

A sensitivity analysis of the impact on our interest rate-sensitive financial instruments of a hypothetical 10 basis point change in interest rates, as compared to interest rates at April 26, 2019, indicates that the fair value of these instruments would correspondingly change by $49 million.

For a discussion of current market conditions and the impact on our financial condition and results of operations, please see the “Liquidity” section of the Management's Discussion and Analysis in "Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. For additional discussion of market risk, see Notes 6 and 8 to the consolidated financial statements in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

52
Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data