Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

OVERVIEW

NEE’s operating performance is driven primarily by the operations of its two principal businesses, FPL, which serves more than five million customer accounts in Florida and is one of the largest electric utilities in the U.S., and NEER, which together with affiliated entities is the world's largest generator of renewable energy from the wind and sun based on 2018 MWh produced on a net generation basis. The table below presents net income (loss) attributable to NEE and earnings (loss) per share attributable to NEE, assuming dilution, by reportable segment, FPL and NEER, and by Corporate and Other, which is primarily comprised of the operating results of NEET and other business activities, as well as other income and expense items, including interest expense, income taxes and eliminating entries (see Note 16 for additional segment information). The following discussions should be read in conjunction with the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained herein and all comparisons are with the corresponding items in the prior year. Certain 2017 and 2016 amounts have been retrospectively adjusted as discussed in Note 14.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]______________________

(a)NEER’s results reflect an allocation of interest expense from NEECH based on a deemed capital structure of 70% debt and differential membership interests sold by NEER's subsidiaries.

(b)NEP was deconsolidated from NEER in January 2018. See Note 1 - NextEra Energy Partners, LP.

For the five years ended December 31, 2018, NEE delivered a total shareholder return of approximately 134.4%, above the S&P 500’s 50.3% return, the S&P 500 Utilities' 66.6% return and the Dow Jones U.S. Electricity's 65.4% return. The historical stock performance of NEE's common stock shown in the performance graph below is not necessarily indicative of future stock price performance.

36
Adjusted Earnings

NEE prepares its financial statements under GAAP. However, management uses earnings excluding certain items (adjusted earnings), a non-GAAP financial measure, internally for financial planning, analysis of performance, reporting of results to the Board of Directors and as an input in determining performance-based compensation under NEE’s employee incentive compensation plans. NEE also uses adjusted earnings when communicating its financial results and earnings outlook to analysts and investors. NEE’s management believes that adjusted earnings provide a more meaningful representation of NEE's fundamental earnings power. Although the excluded amounts are properly included in the determination of net income under GAAP, management believes that the amount and/or nature of such items make period to period comparisons of operations difficult and potentially confusing. Adjusted earnings do not represent a substitute for net income, as prepared under GAAP.

37
The following table provides details of the after-tax adjustments to net income considered in computing NEE's adjusted earnings discussed above.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

______________________[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(b)For 2018, approximately $420 million of favorable tax reform-related impacts relates to NEER and the balance relates to Corporate and Other. For 2017, approximately $1,929 million of net favorable tax reform impacts and $50 million of net unfavorable tax reform impacts relate to NEER and FPL, respectively; the balance relates to Corporate and Other. See Note 1 - Rate Regulation and - Sales of Differential Membership Interests and Note 6.

(c)Approximately $2,885 million relates to NEER; the balance relates to Corporate and Other. See Note 1 - NextEra Energy Partners, LP and - Disposal of a Business/Assets.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(e)See Note 1 - Merger-Related.

(f)See Note 1 - Disposal of a Business/Assets for a discussion of the sale of the fiber-optic telecommunications business.

(g)Approximately $276 million of the gains is included in NEER's net income; the balance is included in Corporate and Other. See Note 1 - Disposal of a Business/Assets for a discussion of the sale of the natural gas generation facilities.

(h)Approximately $246 million of the impairment charge is included in NEER's net income; the balance is included in Corporate and Other. See Note 5 - Nonrecurring Fair Value Measurements.

NEE segregates into two categories unrealized mark-to-market gains and losses and timing impacts related to derivative transactions. The first category, referred to as non-qualifying hedges, represents certain energy derivative, interest rate derivative and foreign currency transactions entered into as economic hedges, which do not meet the requirements for hedge accounting, or for which hedge accounting treatment is not elected or has been discontinued. Changes in the fair value of those transactions are marked to market and reported in the consolidated statements of income, resulting in earnings volatility because the economic offset to certain of the positions are generally not marked to market. As a consequence, NEE's net income reflects only the movement in one part of economically-linked transactions. For example, a gain (loss) in the non-qualifying hedge category for certain energy derivatives is offset by decreases (increases) in the fair value of related physical asset positions in the portfolio or contracts, which are not marked to market under GAAP. For this reason, NEE's management views results expressed excluding the impact of the non-qualifying hedges as a meaningful measure of current period performance. The second category, referred to as trading activities, which is included in adjusted earnings, represents the net unrealized effect of actively traded positions entered into to take advantage of expected market price movements and all other commodity hedging activities. At FPL, substantially all changes in the fair value of energy derivative transactions are deferred as a regulatory asset or liability until the contracts are settled, and, upon settlement, any gains or losses are passed through the fuel clause. See Note 4.

2018 Summary

Net income attributable to NEE for 2018 was higher than 2017 by $1,258 million, or $2.49 per share, assuming dilution, due to higher results at FPL and NEER, partly offset by lower results at Corporate and Other.

FPL's increase in net income in 2018 was primarily driven by continued investments in plant in service and other property, increased retail rate base under the 2016 rate agreement and the absence of the 2017 net impact of storm restoration costs due to Hurricane Irma discussed below. 

NEER's results increased in 2018 primarily reflecting NEP investment gains upon deconsolidation and the absence of the 2017 Duane Arnold impairment charge, and lower income tax expense related to the reduction in the federal corporate income tax rate partly offset by the income tax benefits recognized on revaluing the deferred taxes upon enactment of tax reform in 2017. In 2018, NEER added approximately 1,406 MW of new wind generating capacity, 899 MW of wind repowering generating capacity and 326 MW of solar generating capacity in the U.S. and increased its backlog of contracted renewable development projects. See Note 1 - NextEra Energy Partners, LP for a discussion of the deconsolidation of NEP in January 2018.

38
Corporate and Other's results in 2018 decreased primarily reflecting the absence of the 2017 gain on sale of the fiber-optic telecommunications business and unfavorable non-qualifying hedge activity.

NEE and its subsidiaries require funds to support and grow their businesses. These funds are primarily provided by cash flows from operations, borrowings or issuances of short- and long-term debt, proceeds from differential membership investors, sales of assets to NEP or third parties and, from time to time, issuances of equity securities. See Liquidity and Capital Resources - Liquidity.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Net income attributable to NEE for 2018 was $6.64 billion, compared to $5.38 billion in 2017 and $2.91 billion in 2016. In 2018 and 2017, net income attributable to NEE improved due to higher results at FPL and NEER and, in 2017, higher results at Corporate and Other.

In 2017, the enactment of tax reform required NEE and its subsidiaries to, among other things, revalue their deferred income tax assets and liabilities to the new 21% federal corporate income tax rate. See Note 1 - Rate Regulation and Note 6 for further discussion of the impacts of tax reform. 

In January 2019, NEE completed the acquisition of Gulf Power, a rate-regulated electric utility engaged in the generation, transmission, distribution and sale of electric energy in northwest Florida. See Note 8 - Gulf Power Company.

FPL: Results of Operations

FPL obtains its operating revenues primarily from the sale of electricity to retail customers at rates established by the FPSC through base rates and cost recovery clause mechanisms. FPL’s net income for 2018, 2017 and 2016 was $2,171 million, $1,880 million and $1,727 million, respectively, representing an increase in 2018 of $291 million and an increase in 2017 of $153 million. The increases in 2018 and 2017 were primarily driven by higher earnings from investments in plant in service and other property. Such investments grew FPL's average retail rate base by approximately $3.1 billion and $3.5 billion in 2018 and 2017, respectively, and reflect, among other things, solar generation additions, ongoing transmission and distribution additions and the replacement of certain gas turbines with high-efficiency, low-emission turbines.

In September 2017, Hurricane Irma passed through Florida causing damage throughout much of FPL's service territory. In December 2017, following the enactment of tax reform, FPL used available reserve amortization to offset nearly all of the write-off of Hurricane Irma storm restoration costs, and FPL plans to partially restore the reserve amortization through tax savings generated during the term of the 2016 rate agreement. See Note 1 - Rate Regulation. 

The use of reserve amortization was permitted under the 2012 rate agreement and continues during the term of the 2016 rate agreement. See Item 1. Business - FPL - FPL Regulation - FPL Electric Rate Regulation - Base Rates for additional information on the 2016 and 2012 rate agreements. In order to earn a targeted regulatory ROE, subject to limitations associated with the 2016 and 2012 rate agreements, reserve amortization is calculated using a trailing thirteen-month average of retail rate base and capital structure in conjunction with the trailing twelve months regulatory retail base net operating income, which primarily includes the retail base portion of base and other revenues, net of O&M, depreciation and amortization, interest and tax expenses. In general, the net impact of these income statement line items must be adjusted, in part, by reserve amortization to earn the targeted regulatory ROE. In certain periods, reserve amortization is reversed so as not to exceed the targeted regulatory ROE. The drivers of FPL's net income not reflected in the reserve amortization calculation typically include wholesale and transmission service revenues and expenses, cost recovery clause revenues and expenses, AFUDC - equity and revenue and costs not recoverable from retail customers by the FPSC. In 2018, FPL recorded the reversal of reserve amortization of approximately $541 million and in 2017 and 2016, FPL recorded reserve amortization of $1,250 million and $13 million, respectively. FPL's regulatory ROE for 2018, 2017 and 2016 was approximately 11.60%, 11.08% and 11.50%, respectively. 

During 2018, FPL's operating revenues decreased $110 million primarily related to approximately $249 million in lower storm-related revenues and a $233 million decrease in fuel cost recovery revenues, partly offset by higher retail base revenues of $393 million. During 2017, FPL’s operating revenues increased $1,077 million primarily related to increases of approximately $404 million in retail base revenues, $274 million in storm-related revenues and $262 million in fuel cost recovery revenues. 

Retail Base

FPL’s retail base revenues for 2018 and 2017 reflect the 2016 rate agreement and for 2016 reflect the 2012 rate agreement. In December 2016, the FPSC issued a final order approving the 2016 rate agreement which became effective January 2017 and will remain in effect until at least December 2020, establishes FPL's allowed regulatory ROE at 10.55%, with a range of 9.60% to 11.60%, and allows for retail rate base increases in 2017, 2018 and upon commencement of commercial operations at the Okeechobee Clean Energy Center and certain solar projects. See Item 1. Business - FPL - FPL Regulation - FPL Electric Rate Regulation - Base Rates for additional information on the 2016 rate agreement. In December 2018, several joint petitioners filed with the FPSC a petition regarding FPL’s retail rates that were established pursuant to the 2016 rate agreement and the use of reserve amortization and tax reform savings. See Note 1 - Rate Regulation. 

39
The increase in retail base revenues in 2018 primarily reflects additional revenues of approximately $209 million related to retail base rates under the 2016 rate agreement and $106 million related to retail base rate increases associated with the 2018 addition of approximately 600 MW of new solar generation. Retail base revenues increased approximately $45 million in 2017 through a retail base rate increase associated with the modernized Port Everglades power plant. In addition, the 2017 increase in retail base revenues reflects additional revenues of approximately $389 million related to new retail base rates under the 2016 rate agreement. In 2018 and 2017, retail base revenues were also impacted by an increase of 0.2% and a decrease of 2.1%, respectively, in the average usage per retail customer and increases of 1.2% and 1.3%, respectively, in the average number of customer accounts. Although the weather in 2018 was less favorable when compared to 2017, usage per retail customer increased. Despite generally favorable weather in 2017 compared to 2016, usage per retail customer declined. Hurricane Irma contributed to the 2017 decrease in retail usage, resulting in a decrease in retail base revenues of approximately $60 million which represents a 1.0% decrease in retail base revenues. See Note 1 - Rate Regulation. 

Cost Recovery Clauses

Revenues from fuel and other cost recovery clauses and pass-through costs, such as franchise fees, revenue taxes and storm-related surcharges, are largely a pass-through of costs. Such revenues also include a return on investment allowed to be recovered through the cost recovery clauses on certain assets, primarily related to certain solar and environmental projects and the unamortized balance of the regulatory asset associated with FPL's acquisition of certain generation facilities. See Item 1. Business - FPL - FPL Regulation - FPL Electric Rate Regulation - Cost Recovery Clauses. Underrecovery or overrecovery of cost recovery clause and other pass-through costs (deferred clause and franchise expenses and revenues) can significantly affect NEE's and FPL's operating cash flows. The 2018 net underrecovery impacting NEE and FPL's operating cash flows was approximately $209 million and the impact of the 2017 net overrecovery was approximately $82 million.

The 2018 decrease in fuel cost recovery revenues primarily reflects a lower average fuel factor resulting in lower revenues of approximately $218 million. The 2017 increase in fuel cost recovery revenues primarily reflects a higher average fuel factor resulting in higher revenues of approximately $258 million. Storm-related revenues decreased in 2018 primarily as a result of the conclusion in February 2018 of a surcharge related to hurricanes impacting FPL's service territory in 2016. The 2017 increase in storm-related revenues relates to FPL's recovery of eligible storm restoration costs following hurricanes impacting FPL's service territory in 2016 and replenishment of the storm reserve for a 12-month period beginning on March 1, 2017.

In 2018, 2017 and 2016, cost recovery clauses contributed approximately $113 million, $120 million and $112 million, respectively, to FPL’s net income. 

Other Items Impacting FPL's Consolidated Statements of Income

Fuel, Purchased Power and Interchange Expense

Fuel, purchased power and interchange expense decreased $291 million and increased $294 million during 2018 and 2017, respectively. The decrease for 2018 primarily relates to a higher deferral of fuel expense and approximately $129 million in lower capacity fees. FPL deferred approximately $176 million and $11 million of retail fuel costs in 2018 and 2016, respectively, compared with the recognition of approximately $49 million of deferred retail fuel costs in 2017. The increase for 2017 primarily relates to approximately $314 million of higher fuel and energy prices. 

Storm Restoration Costs

In December 2017, following the enactment of tax reform, FPL determined that it would not seek recovery of Hurricane Irma storm restoration costs through a surcharge from customers and, as a result, the regulatory asset associated with Hurricane Irma was written off. As allowed under the 2016 rate agreement, FPL used available reserve amortization to offset nearly all of the expense, and plans to partially restore the reserve amortization through tax savings generated during the term of the 2016 rate agreement. See Note 1 - Rate Regulation. 

Depreciation and Amortization Expense

The major components of FPL’s depreciation and amortization expense are as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Depreciation expense increased $1,693 million and decreased $760 million during 2018 and 2017, respectively. The increase in 2018 primarily reflects the reversal of reserve amortization in 2018 compared to recording reserve amortization in 2017, partly offset 

40
by lower storm-recovery cost amortization as a result of the conclusion, in February 2018, of the recovery of restoration costs from hurricanes that impacted FPL's service territory in 2016. The decrease in 2017 primarily reflects approximately $1,237 million of higher reserve amortization, partly offset by higher depreciation recovered under base rates due to higher rates as a result of the 2016 rate agreement, higher storm-recovery cost amortization related to the recovery of restoration costs from hurricanes that impacted FPL's service territory in 2016 and higher plant in service balances. The reserve amortization, or reversal of such amortization, reflects adjustments to accrued asset removal costs provided under the 2016 and 2012 rate agreements in order to achieve the targeted regulatory ROE. Reserve amortization is recorded as a reduction to (or when reversed as an increase to) accrued asset removal costs which is reflected in noncurrent regulatory liabilities on the consolidated balance sheets. At December 31, 2018, approximately $541 million remains in accrued asset removal costs related to reserve amortization.

Taxes Other Than Income Taxes and Other

Taxes other than income taxes and other increased $103 million in 2017 primarily due to higher franchise and revenue taxes, neither of which impacts net income, as well as higher property taxes reflecting growth in plant in service balances. 

Income Taxes

FPL's income taxes for 2018 decreased $567 million primarily related to the decrease in the federal corporate income tax rate.

NEER: Results of Operations

NEER owns, develops, constructs, manages and operates electric generation facilities in wholesale energy markets primarily in the U.S., as well as in Canada and Spain. NEER also provides full energy and capacity requirements services, engages in power and gas marketing and trading activities and invests in natural gas, natural gas liquids and oil production and pipeline infrastructure assets. NEER’s net income less net income attributable to noncontrolling interests for 2018, 2017 and 2016 was $4,664 million, $2,964 million and $1,118 million, respectively, resulting in an increase in 2018 of $1,700 million and an increase in 2017 of $1,846 million. The primary drivers, on an after-tax basis, of these changes are in the following table. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]______________________

(a)Reflects after-tax project contributions, including PTCs, ITCs and deferred income taxes and other benefits associated with convertible ITCs for wind and solar projects, as applicable (see Note 1 - Electric Plant, Depreciation and Amortization, - Income Taxes and - Sales of Differential Membership Interests and Note 6), as well as income tax benefits related to the Canadian tax restructuring, but excludes allocation of interest expense or corporate general and administrative expenses. Results from projects and pipelines are included in new investments during the first twelve months of operation or ownership. Project results are included in existing assets and pipeline results are included in gas infrastructure beginning with the thirteenth month of operation or ownership. 

(b)Excludes allocation of interest expense and corporate general and administrative expenses.

(c)Includes differential membership interest costs. Excludes unrealized mark-to-market gains and losses related to interest rate derivative contracts, which are included in change in non-qualifying hedge activity.

(d)See Overview - Adjusted Earnings for additional information.

41
New Investments

In 2018, results from new investments decreased slightly primarily due to the expected smaller than usual renewable MW additions during 2017 (1,659 MW of wind generating capacity and 326 MW of solar wind generating capacity during or after 2017). 

In 2017, results from new investments increased primarily due to higher earnings of approximately $316 million, including the net effect of deferred income taxes and other benefits associated with ITCs and convertible ITCs, related to the addition of approximately 1,818 MW of wind generating capacity and 1,378 MW of solar generating capacity during or after 2016, and higher earnings of approximately $44 million related to additional investments in natural gas pipeline projects.

Interest and General and Administrative Expenses

Interest and general and administrative expenses includes interest expense, differential membership interest costs and other corporate general and administrative expenses. In 2018 and 2017, interest and general and administrative expenses reflect higher borrowing costs and other costs to support the growth of the business. 

Other Factors

Supplemental to the primary drivers of the changes in NEER's net income less net income attributable to noncontrolling interests discussed above, the discussion below describes changes in certain line items set forth in NEE's consolidated statements of income as they relate to NEER.

Operating Revenues

Operating revenues for 2018 decreased $286 million primarily due to:

•lower revenues of approximately $718 million related to the deconsolidation of NEP,

partly offset by,

•higher revenues of $193 million from the customer supply and proprietary power and gas trading business, 

•favorable unrealized mark-to-market activity of $115 million from non-qualifying hedges, and

•higher revenues from new investments of $105 million.

Operating revenues for 2017 increased $288 million primarily due to:

•higher revenues from new investments of approximately $318 million, 

•lower unrealized mark-to-market losses from non-qualifying hedges ($71 million for 2017 compared to $273 million in 2016), and

•higher revenues of $125 million from the customer supply and proprietary power and gas trading business,

partly offset by,

•lower revenues from existing assets of $291 million primarily reflecting the sale of certain natural gas generation facilities in 2016, and

•lower revenues from the gas infrastructure business of $89 million.

Operating Expenses - net

Operating expenses - net for 2018 decreased $728 million primarily due to: 

•the absence of approximately $412 million of operating expenses related to NEP, which is no longer consolidated, and

•the absence of the Duane Arnold impairment charge of approximately $420 million (see Note 5 - Nonrecurring Fair Value Measurements), 

partly offset by,

•higher O&M expense at the gas infrastructure and customer supply and proprietary power and gas trading businesses, and

•higher operating expenses associated with new investments of approximately $55 million.

Operating expenses - net for 2017 increased $885 million primarily due to:

•the absence of the 2016 gain on the sale of natural gas generation facilities of approximately $445 million, 

•the Duane Arnold impairment charge of approximately $420 million, and

•higher operating expenses associated with new investments of approximately $167 million,

partly offset by,

•lower depreciation expense on existing assets of approximately $98 million primarily related to the change in the estimated useful lives of certain equipment (see Note 1 - Electric Plant, Depreciation and Amortization) and lower depletion rates, and

•lower fuel expense of approximately $85 million primarily related to the sale of certain natural gas generation facilities in 2016 offset in part by higher fuel purchases for the proprietary power and gas trading business.

Interest Expense

NEER's interest expense for 2018 decreased $220 million primarily reflecting the absence of approximately $181 million of interest expense related to NEP, which is no longer consolidated, and favorable impacts of $64 million related to changes in the fair value of interest rate derivative instruments, partly offset by higher borrowing costs to support growth in the business. NEER's interest expense for 2017 increased $68 million primarily reflecting higher average debt balances reflecting growth in the business.

42
Benefits Associated with Differential Membership Interests - net

For 2017 and 2016, benefits associated with differential membership interests - net reflect benefits recognized by NEER as third-party investors received their portion of the economic attributes, including income tax attributes, of the underlying wind and solar projects, net of associated costs. The increase for 2017 primarily relates to additional sales of differential membership interests in 2017 and 2016. For 2018, NEER recognized income related to differential membership interests of approximately $862 million which, following the adoption of an accounting standards update, is reflected as net loss attributable to noncontrolling interests in the consolidated statements of income. The increase in 2018 primarily relates to an adjustment of approximately $497 million ($373 million after tax) related to the decrease in federal corporate income tax rate effective January 1, 2018. See Note 1 - Sales of Differential Membership Interests.

Equity in Earnings of Equity Method Investees

After the deconsolidation of NEP, approximately $160 million of equity in earnings of NEP was recognized during 2018 as equity in earnings of equity method investees. See Note 1 - NextEra Energy Partners, LP. Equity in earnings of NEP included approximately $150 million related to a favorable adjustment at NEP to the differential membership interests due to the decrease in the federal corporate income tax rate. 

Gain on NEP Deconsolidation

The NEP deconsolidation resulted in a gain of approximately $3.9 billion ($3.0 billion after tax) in NEE's consolidated statements of income during 2018. See Note 1 - NextEra Energy Partners, LP.

Change in Unrealized Gains (Losses) on Equity Securities Held in NEER's Nuclear Decommissioning Funds - net 

After the adoption of an accounting standards update in 2018, NEER reflects changes in the fair value of equity securities in its nuclear decommissioning funds in NEE's consolidated statements of income. See Note 5 - Financial Instruments Accounting Standards Update. This standards update primarily impacts the equity securities in NEER's special use funds and is expected to result in increased earnings volatility in future periods based on market conditions.

Revaluation of Contingent Consideration

Revaluation of contingent consideration reflects 2016 fair value adjustments to reduce the contingent holdback associated with the acquisition of the Texas pipelines. See Note 5 - Contingent Consideration. Approximately $65 million of the fair value adjustments was attributable to noncontrolling interests. 

Tax Credits, Benefits and Expenses

PTCs from wind projects and ITCs and deferred income taxes associated with convertible ITCs from solar and certain wind projects are reflected in NEER’s earnings. PTCs are recognized as wind energy is generated and sold based on a per kWh rate prescribed in applicable federal and state statutes, and were approximately $88 million, $132 million and $120 million in 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively. ITCs and deferred income taxes associated with convertible ITCs totaled approximately $131 million, $236 million and $150 million in 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively. A portion of the PTCs and ITCs have been allocated to investors in connection with sales of differential membership interests. PTCs, ITCs and deferred income taxes associated with convertible ITCs can significantly affect the effective income tax rate depending on the amount of pretax income. The amount of PTCs recognized can be significantly affected by wind generation and by PTC roll off. Also, NEE's effective income tax rate was affected by the favorable tax reform impacts in 2017 and the reversal of a noncash income tax charge associated with structuring Canadian assets in 2016. See Note 6.

Net (Income) Loss Attributable to Noncontrolling Interests

For 2018, net loss attributable to noncontrolling interests primarily represents the activity related to the sales of differential membership interests. See Benefits Associated with Differential Membership Interests - net above. For 2017 and 2016, net income attributable to noncontrolling interests primarily represented the income attributable to the noncontrolling ownership interest in NEP. After the deconsolidation of NEP, NEE's earnings from its noncontrolling interest in NEP are included in equity in earnings of equity method investees. See Note 1 - NextEra Energy Partners, LP.

Corporate and Other: Results of Operations

Corporate and Other is primarily comprised of the operating results of NEET and other business activities, as well as corporate interest income and expenses. Corporate and Other allocates a portion of NEECH's corporate interest expense to NEER. Interest expense is allocated based on a deemed capital structure of 70% debt and differential membership interests sold by NEER’s subsidiaries. Each subsidiary’s income taxes are calculated based on the "separate return method," except that tax benefits that could not be used on a separate return basis, but are used on the consolidated tax return, are recorded by the subsidiary that generated the tax benefits. Any remaining consolidated income tax benefits or expenses are recorded at Corporate and Other. 

Corporate and Other's results decreased $733 million and increased $475 million during 2018 and 2017, respectively, primarily related to the approximately $685 million after-tax gain on the sale of the fiber-optic telecommunications business in January 2017. See Note 1 - Disposal of a Business/Assets. In addition, Corporate and Other's results reflect 2018 after-tax losses of approximately $226 million related to non-qualifying hedge activity compared to 2017 after-tax losses of approximately $83 million and 2016 after-tax gains of approximately $141 million. The decreases in 2018 were partially offset by lower merger-related costs. 

43
In November 2018, a wholly owned subsidiary of NEET entered into an agreement to acquire Trans Bay Cable, LLC. See Note 8 - Trans Bay Cable, LLC.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

NEE and its subsidiaries require funds to support and grow their businesses. These funds are used for, among other things, working capital, capital expenditures, investments in or acquisitions of assets and businesses, payment of maturing debt obligations and, from time to time, redemption or repurchase of outstanding debt or equity securities. It is anticipated that these requirements will be satisfied through a combination of cash flows from operations, short- and long-term borrowings, the issuance of short- and long-term debt and, from time to time, equity securities, proceeds from differential membership investors and sales of assets to NEP or third parties, consistent with NEE’s and FPL’s objective of maintaining, on a long-term basis, a capital structure that will support a strong investment grade credit rating. NEE, FPL and NEECH rely on access to credit and capital markets as significant sources of liquidity for capital requirements and other operations that are not satisfied by operating cash flows. The inability of NEE, FPL and NEECH to maintain their current credit ratings could affect their ability to raise short- and long-term capital, their cost of capital and the execution of their respective financing strategies, and could require the posting of additional collateral under certain agreements.

In October 2015, NEE authorized a program to purchase, from time to time, up to $150 million of common units representing limited partner interests in NEP. Under the program, purchases may be made in amounts, at prices and at such times as NEE or its subsidiaries deem appropriate, all subject to market conditions and other considerations. The purchases may be made in the open market or in privately negotiated transactions. Any purchases will be made in such quantities, at such prices, in such manner and on such terms and conditions as determined by NEE or its subsidiaries in their discretion, based on factors such as market and business conditions, applicable legal requirements and other factors. The common unit purchase program does not require NEE to acquire any specific number of common units and may be modified or terminated by NEE at any time. The purpose of the program is not to cause NEP’s common units to be delisted from the New York Stock Exchange or to cause the common units to be deregistered with the SEC. As of December 31, 2018, NEE had purchased approximately $36 million of NEP common units under this program. At December 31, 2018, NEE owned a noncontrolling general partner interest in NEP and beneficially owned approximately 59.9% of NEP’s voting power.

44
Cash Flows

NEE's sources and uses of cash for 2018, 2017 and 2016 were as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

______________________

(a)Amounts have been retrospectively adjusted as discussed in Note 14.

(b)2018 includes cash restricted for the acquisition of Gulf Power on January 1, 2019. See Note 8 - Gulf Power Company.

NEE's primary capital requirements are for expanding and enhancing FPL's electric system and generation facilities to continue to provide reliable service to meet customer electricity demands and for funding NEER's investments in independent power and other projects. See Note 15 - Commitments for estimated capital expenditures in 2019 through 2023. The following table provides a summary of the major capital investments for 2018, 2017 and 2016. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

45
Liquidity

At December 31, 2018, NEE's total net available liquidity was approximately $7.0 billion. The table below provides the components of FPL's and NEECH's net available liquidity at December 31, 2018.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

______________________

(a)Provide for the funding of loans up to $7,940 million ($2,943 million for FPL) and the issuance of letters of credit up to $2,450 million ($575 million for FPL). The entire amount of the credit facilities is available for general corporate purposes and to provide additional liquidity in the event of a loss to the companies’ or their subsidiaries’ operating facilities (including, in the case of FPL, a transmission and distribution property loss). FPL’s bank revolving line of credit facilities are also available to support the purchase of $893 million of pollution control, solid waste disposal and industrial development revenue bonds (tax exempt bonds) in the event they are tendered by individual bondholders and not remarketed prior to maturity, as well as, the repayment of approximately $193 million of floating rate notes in the event an individual noteholder requires repayment prior to maturity. Approximately $2,389 million of FPL's and $3,871 million of NEECH's bank revolving line of credit facilities expire in 2023.

(b)Only available for the issuance of letters of credit.

(c)Excludes short-term borrowings to purchase Gulf Power. See Note 8 - Gulf Power Company.

At December 31, 2018, 66 banks participate in FPL’s and NEECH’s revolving credit facilities, with no one bank providing more than 8% of the combined revolving credit facilities. European banks provide approximately 24% of the combined revolving credit facilities. Pursuant to a 1998 guarantee agreement, NEE guarantees the payment of NEECH’s debt obligations under its revolving credit facilities. In order for FPL or NEECH to borrow or to have letters of credit issued under the terms of their respective revolving credit facilities and, also for NEECH, its letter of credit facilities, FPL, in the case of FPL, and NEE, in the case of NEECH, are required, among other things, to maintain a ratio of funded debt to total capitalization that does not exceed a stated ratio. The FPL and NEECH revolving credit facilities also contain default and related acceleration provisions relating to, among other things, failure of FPL and NEE, as the case may be, to maintain the respective ratio of funded debt to total capitalization at or below the specified ratio. At December 31, 2018, each of NEE and FPL was in compliance with its required ratio.

Capital Support

Guarantees, Letters of Credit, Surety Bonds and Indemnifications (Guarantee Arrangements) 

Certain subsidiaries of NEE issue guarantees and obtain letters of credit and surety bonds, as well as provide indemnities, to facilitate commercial transactions with third parties and financings. Substantially all of the guarantee arrangements are on behalf of NEE’s consolidated subsidiaries, as discussed in more detail below. NEE is not required to recognize liabilities associated with guarantee arrangements issued on behalf of its consolidated subsidiaries unless it becomes probable that they will be required to perform. At December 31, 2018, NEE believes that there is no material exposure related to these guarantee arrangements.

NEE subsidiaries issue guarantees related to equity contribution agreements associated with the development, construction and financing of certain power generation facilities, engineering, procurement and construction agreements and equity contributions associated with natural gas pipeline projects under development and construction and a related natural gas transportation agreement. Commitments associated with these activities are included in the contracts table in Note 15. 

In addition, at December 31, 2018, NEE subsidiaries had approximately $5.3 billion in guarantees related to obligations under purchased power agreements, nuclear-related activities, payment obligations related to PTCs, as well as other types of contractual obligations (see Note 8 - Trans Bay Cable, LLC).

46
In some instances, subsidiaries of NEE elect to issue guarantees instead of posting other forms of collateral required under certain financing arrangements, as well as for other project-level cash management activities. At December 31, 2018, these guarantees totaled approximately $651 million and support, among other things, cash management activities, including those related to debt service and O&M service agreements, as well as other specific project financing requirements.

Subsidiaries of NEE also issue guarantees to support customer supply and proprietary power and gas trading activities, including the buying and selling of wholesale and retail energy commodities. At December 31, 2018, the estimated mark-to-market exposure (the total amount that these subsidiaries of NEE could be required to fund based on energy commodity market prices at December 31, 2018) plus contract settlement net payables, net of collateral posted for obligations under these guarantees totaled approximately $812 million.

At December 31, 2018, subsidiaries of NEE also had approximately $1.3 billion of standby letters of credit and approximately $329 million of surety bonds to support certain of the commercial activities discussed above. FPL's and NEECH's credit facilities are available to support the amount of the standby letters of credit.

In addition, as part of contract negotiations in the normal course of business, certain subsidiaries of NEE have agreed and in the future may agree to make payments to compensate or indemnify other parties, including those associated with asset divestitures, for possible unfavorable financial consequences resulting from specified events. The specified events may include, but are not limited to, an adverse judgment in a lawsuit or the imposition of additional taxes due to a change in tax law or interpretations of the tax law, or the triggering of cash grant recapture provisions under the Recovery Act. NEE is unable to estimate the maximum potential amount of future payments under some of these contracts because events that would obligate them to make payments have not yet occurred or, if any such event has occurred, they have not been notified of its occurrence.

Certain guarantee arrangements described above contain requirements for NEECH and FPL to maintain a specified credit rating. For a discussion of credit rating downgrade triggers, see Credit Ratings below. NEE has guaranteed certain payment obligations of NEECH, including most of its debt and all of its debentures and commercial paper issuances, as well as most of its payment guarantees and indemnifications, and NEECH has guaranteed certain debt and other obligations of NEER and its subsidiaries.

Shelf Registration

In July 2018, NEE, NEECH and FPL filed a shelf registration statement with the SEC for an unspecified amount of securities, which became effective upon filing. The amount of securities issuable by the companies is established from time to time by their respective boards of directors. Securities that may be issued under the registration statement include, depending on the registrant, senior debt securities, subordinated debt securities, junior subordinated debentures, first mortgage bonds, common stock, preferred stock, stock purchase contracts, stock purchase units, warrants and guarantees related to certain of those securities. 

47
Contractual Obligations and Estimated Capital Expenditures

NEE’s commitments at December 31, 2018 were as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

_________________________

(a)Includes principal, interest, interest rate contracts and payments by NEE under stock purchase contracts. Variable rate interest was computed using December 31, 2018 rates. See Note 12.

(b)Includes tax exempt bonds of approximately $9 million in 2020, $46 million in 2021, $96 million in 2022, $15 million in 2023 and $727 million thereafter that permit individual bondholders to tender the bonds for purchase at any time prior to maturity. In the event bonds are tendered for purchase, they would be remarketed by a designated remarketing agent in accordance with the related indenture. If the remarketing is unsuccessful, FPL would be required to purchase the tax exempt bonds. As of December 31, 2018, all tax exempt bonds tendered for purchase have been successfully remarketed. Also includes floating rate notes of approximately $193 million maturing after 2023 that permit individual noteholders to require repayment prior to maturity. FPL’s bank revolving line of credit facilities are available to support the purchase of tax exempt bonds and the repayment of floating rate notes.

(c)Represents required minimum payments primarily under long-term fuel transportation contracts and projected capital expenditures through 2023 (see Note 15 - Commitments and - Contracts).

(d)See Note 15 - Contracts.

(e)Represents expected cash payments adjusted for inflation for estimated costs to perform asset retirement activities.

(f)At December 31, 2018, FPL had approximately $3,987 million in restricted funds for the payment of its portion of future expenditures to decommission the Turkey Point and St. Lucie nuclear units, which are included in NEE’s and FPL’s special use funds. See Note 13.

(g)At December 31, 2018, NEER had approximately $1,831 million in restricted funds for the payment of its portion of future expenditures to decommission Seabrook, Duane Arnold and Point Beach nuclear units which are included in NEE’s special use funds. See Note 13.

(h)Includes lease payment obligations. See Note 14.

(i)Includes payments related to the acquisition of certain development rights. 

(j)2019 includes cash consideration required for the acquisition of Gulf Power. See Note 8 - Gulf Power Company.

48
Credit Ratings

NEE’s liquidity, ability to access credit and capital markets, cost of borrowings and collateral posting requirements under certain agreements is dependent on its and its subsidiaries credit ratings. At February 15, 2019, Moody’s Investors Service, Inc. (Moody’s), S&P Global Ratings (S&P) and Fitch Ratings, Inc. (Fitch) had assigned the following credit ratings to NEE, FPL and NEECH:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

_________________________

(a)A security rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities and should be evaluated independently of any other rating. The rating is subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating organization.

(b)The outlook indicated by each of Moody's, S&P and Fitch is stable.

(c)Short-term ratings are presented as all bonds outstanding are currently paying a short-term interest rate. At FPL's election, a portion or all of the bonds may be adjusted to a long-term interest rate.

NEE and its subsidiaries have no credit rating downgrade triggers that would accelerate the maturity dates of outstanding debt. A change in ratings is not an event of default under applicable debt instruments, and while there are conditions to drawing on the credit facilities noted above, the maintenance of a specific minimum credit rating is not a condition to drawing on these credit facilities.

Commitment fees and interest rates on loans under these credit facilities’ agreements are tied to credit ratings. A ratings downgrade also could reduce the accessibility and increase the cost of commercial paper and other short-term debt issuances and borrowings and additional or replacement credit facilities. In addition, a ratings downgrade could result in, among other things, the requirement that NEE subsidiaries post collateral under certain agreements and guarantee arrangements, including, but not limited to, those related to fuel procurement, power sales and purchases, nuclear decommissioning funding, debt-related reserves and trading activities. FPL’s and NEECH’s credit facilities are available to support these potential requirements.

Covenants

NEE's charter does not limit the dividends that may be paid on its common stock. As a practical matter, the ability of NEE to pay dividends on its common stock is dependent upon, among other things, dividends paid to it by its subsidiaries. For example, FPL pays dividends to NEE in a manner consistent with FPL's long-term targeted capital structure. However, the mortgage securing FPL's first mortgage bonds contains provisions which, under certain conditions, restrict the payment of dividends to NEE and the issuance of additional first mortgage bonds. Additionally, in some circumstances, the mortgage restricts the amount of retained earnings that FPL can use to pay cash dividends on its common stock. The restricted amount may change based on factors set out in the mortgage. Other than this restriction on the payment of common stock dividends, the mortgage does not restrict FPL's use of retained earnings. At December 31, 2018, no retained earnings were restricted by these provisions of the mortgage and, in light of FPL's current financial condition and level of earnings, management does not expect that planned financing activities or dividends would be affected by these limitations.

FPL may issue first mortgage bonds under its mortgage subject to its meeting an adjusted net earnings test set forth in the mortgage, which generally requires adjusted net earnings to be at least twice the annual interest requirements on, or at least 10% of the aggregate principal amount of, FPL’s first mortgage bonds including those to be issued and any other non-junior FPL indebtedness. At December 31, 2018, coverage for the 12 months ended December 31, 2018 would have been approximately 8.6 times the annual interest requirements and approximately 4.0 times the aggregate principal requirements. New first mortgage bonds are also limited to an amount equal to the sum of 60% of unfunded property additions after adjustments to offset property retirements, the amount of retired first mortgage bonds or qualified lien bonds and the amount of cash on deposit with the mortgage trustee. At December 31, 2018, FPL could have issued in excess of $22 billion of additional first mortgage bonds based on the unfunded property additions and retired first mortgage bonds. At December 31, 2018, no cash was deposited with the mortgage trustee for these purposes.

In September 2006, NEE and NEECH executed a Replacement Capital Covenant (as amended, September 2006 RCC) in connection with NEECH's offering of $350 million principal amount of Series B Enhanced Junior Subordinated Debentures due 2066 (Series B junior subordinated debentures). The September 2006 RCC is for the benefit of persons that buy, hold or sell a specified series 

49
of long-term indebtedness (covered debt) of NEECH (other than the Series B junior subordinated debentures) or, in certain cases, of NEE. NEECH's 3.625% Debentures, Series due June 15, 2023 have been designated as the covered debt under the September 2006 RCC. The September 2006 RCC provides that NEECH may redeem, and NEE or NEECH may purchase, any Series B junior subordinated debentures on or before October 1, 2036, only to the extent that the redemption or purchase price does not exceed a specified amount of proceeds from the sale of qualifying securities, subject to certain limitations described in the September 2006 RCC. Qualifying securities are securities that have equity-like characteristics that are the same as, or more equity-like than, the Series B junior subordinated debentures at the time of redemption or purchase, which are sold within 365 days prior to the date of the redemption or repurchase of the Series B junior subordinated debentures.

In June 2007, NEE and NEECH executed a Replacement Capital Covenant (as amended, June 2007 RCC) in connection with NEECH's offering of $400 million principal amount of its Series C Junior Subordinated Debentures due 2067 (Series C junior subordinated debentures). The June 2007 RCC is for the benefit of persons that buy, hold or sell a specified series of covered debt of NEECH (other than the Series C junior subordinated debentures) or, in certain cases, of NEE. NEECH's 3.625% Debentures, Series due June 15, 2023 have been designated as the covered debt under the June 2007 RCC. The June 2007 RCC provides that NEECH may redeem or purchase, or satisfy, discharge or defease (collectively, defease), and NEE and any majority-owned subsidiary of NEE or NEECH may purchase, any Series C junior subordinated debentures on or before June 15, 2037, only to the extent that the principal amount defeased or the applicable redemption or purchase price does not exceed a specified amount raised from the issuance, during the 365 days prior to the date of that redemption, purchase or defeasance, of qualifying securities that have equity-like characteristics that are the same as, or more equity-like than, the applicable characteristics of the Series C junior subordinated debentures at the time of redemption, purchase or defeasance, subject to certain limitations described in the June 2007 RCC.

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES

NEE’s significant accounting policies are described in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, which were prepared under GAAP. Critical accounting policies are those that NEE believes are both most important to the portrayal of its financial condition and results of operations, and require complex, subjective judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates and assumptions about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain. Judgments and uncertainties affecting the application of those policies may result in materially different amounts being reported under different conditions or using different assumptions.

NEE considers the following policies to be the most critical in understanding the judgments that are involved in preparing its consolidated financial statements:

Accounting for Derivatives and Hedging Activities

NEE uses derivative instruments (primarily swaps, options, futures and forwards) to manage the physical and financial risks inherent in the purchase and sale of fuel and electricity, as well as interest rate and foreign currency exchange rate risk associated primarily with outstanding and expected future debt issuances and borrowings. In addition, NEE, through NEER, uses derivatives to optimize the value of its power generation and gas infrastructure assets and engages in power and gas marketing and trading activities to take advantage of expected future favorable price movements.

Nature of Accounting Estimates

Accounting pronouncements require the use of fair value accounting if certain conditions are met, which requires significant judgment to measure the fair value of assets and liabilities. This applies not only to traditional financial derivative instruments, but to any contract having the accounting characteristics of a derivative. As a result, significant judgment must be used in applying derivatives accounting guidance to contracts. In the event changes in interpretation occur, it is possible that contracts that currently are excluded from derivatives accounting rules would have to be recorded on the balance sheet at fair value, with changes in the fair value recorded in the statement of income.

Assumptions and Accounting Approach

Derivative instruments, when required to be marked to market, are recorded on the balance sheet at fair value using a combination of market and income approaches. Fair values for some of the longer-term contracts where liquid markets are not available are derived through the use of industry-standard valuation techniques, such as internally developed models which estimate the fair value of a contract by calculating the present value of the difference between the contract price and the forward prices. Forward prices represent the price at which a buyer or seller could contract today to purchase or sell a commodity at a future date. The near-term forward market for electricity is generally liquid and therefore the prices in the early years of the forward curves reflect observable market quotes. However, in the later years, the market is much less liquid and forward price curves must be developed using factors including the forward prices for the commodities used as fuel to generate electricity, the expected system heat rate (which measures the efficiency of power plants in converting fuel to electricity) in the region where the purchase or sale takes place, and a fundamental forecast of expected spot prices based on modeled supply and demand in the region. NEE estimates the fair value of interest rate and foreign currency derivatives using an income approach based on a discounted cash flows valuation technique utilizing the net 

50
amount of estimated future cash inflows and outflows related to the derivative agreements. The assumptions in these models are critical since any changes therein could have a significant impact on the fair value of the derivative.

At FPL, substantially all changes in the fair value of energy derivative transactions are deferred as a regulatory asset or liability until the contracts are settled, and, upon settlement, any gains or losses are passed through the fuel clause. See Note 4.

In NEE’s non-rate regulated operations, predominantly NEER, essentially all changes in the derivatives’ fair value for power purchases and sales, fuel sales and trading activities are recognized on a net basis in operating revenues; fuel purchases used in the production of electricity are recognized in fuel, purchased power and interchange expense; and the equity method investees’ related activity is recognized in equity in earnings of equity method investees in NEE’s consolidated statements of income. 

For interest rate and foreign currency derivative instruments, essentially all changes in the derivatives' fair value are recognized in interest expense and the equity method investees' related activity is recognized in equity in earnings of equity method investees in NEE's consolidated statements of income. NEE estimates the fair value of these derivatives using an income approach based on a discounted cash flows valuation technique utilizing observable inputs. 

Certain derivative transactions at NEER are entered into as economic hedges but the transactions do not meet the requirements for hedge accounting, hedge accounting treatment is not elected or hedge accounting has been discontinued. Changes in the fair value of those transactions are marked to market and reported in the consolidated statements of income, resulting in earnings volatility. These changes in fair value are reflected in the non-qualifying hedge category in computing adjusted earnings and could be significant to NEER’s results because the economic offset to the positions are not marked to market. As a consequence, NEE's net income reflects only the movement in one part of economically-linked transactions. For example, a gain (loss) in the non-qualifying hedge category for certain energy derivatives is offset by decreases (increases) in the fair value of related physical asset positions in the portfolio or contracts, which are not marked to market under GAAP. For this reason, NEE’s management views results expressed excluding the unrealized mark-to-market impact of the non-qualifying hedges as a meaningful measure of current period performance. For additional information regarding derivative instruments, see Note 4, Overview and Energy Marketing and Trading and Market Risk Sensitivity.

Accounting for Pension Benefits

NEE sponsors a qualified noncontributory defined benefit pension plan for substantially all employees of NEE and its subsidiaries. Management believes that, based on actuarial assumptions and the well-funded status of the pension plan, NEE will not be required to make any cash contributions to the qualified pension plan in the near future. The qualified pension plan has a fully funded trust dedicated to providing benefits under the plan. NEE allocates net periodic income associated with the pension plan to its subsidiaries annually using specific criteria.

Nature of Accounting Estimates

For the pension plan, the benefit obligation is the actuarial present value, as of the December 31 measurement date, of all benefits attributed by the pension benefit formula to employee service rendered to that date. The amount of benefit to be paid depends on a number of future events incorporated into the pension benefit formula, including an estimate of the average remaining life of employees/survivors as well as the average years of service rendered. The projected benefit obligation is measured based on assumptions concerning future interest rates and future employee compensation levels. NEE derives pension income from actuarial calculations based on the plan’s provisions and various management assumptions including discount rate, rate of increase in compensation levels and expected long-term rate of return on plan assets.

Assumptions and Accounting Approach

Accounting guidance requires recognition of the funded status of the pension plan in the balance sheet, with changes in the funded status recognized in other comprehensive income within shareholders’ equity in the year in which the changes occur. Since NEE is the plan sponsor, and its subsidiaries do not have separate rights to the plan assets or direct obligations to their employees, this accounting guidance is reflected at NEE and not allocated to the subsidiaries. The portion of previously unrecognized actuarial gains and losses and prior service costs or credits that are estimated to be allocable to FPL as net periodic (income) cost in future periods and that otherwise would be recorded in AOCI are classified as regulatory assets and liabilities at NEE in accordance with regulatory treatment.

51
Net periodic pension income is calculated using a number of actuarial assumptions. Those assumptions for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 include:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

In developing these assumptions, NEE evaluated input, including other qualitative and quantitative factors, from its actuaries and consultants, as well as information available in the marketplace. In addition, for the expected long-term rate of return on pension plan assets, NEE considered different models, capital market return assumptions and historical returns for a portfolio with an equity/bond asset mix similar to its pension fund, as well as its pension fund's historical compounded returns. NEE believes that 7.35% is a reasonable long-term rate of return, net of investment management fees, on its pension plan assets. NEE will continue to evaluate all of its actuarial assumptions, including its expected rate of return, at least annually, and will adjust them as appropriate.

NEE utilizes in its determination of pension income a market-related valuation of plan assets. This market-related valuation reduces year-to-year volatility and recognizes investment gains or losses over a five-year period following the year in which they occur. Investment gains or losses for this purpose are the difference between the expected return calculated using the market-related value of plan assets and the actual return realized on those plan assets. Since the market-related value of plan assets recognizes gains or losses over a five-year period, the future value of plan assets will be affected as previously deferred gains or losses are recognized. Such gains and losses together with other differences between actual results and the estimates used in the actuarial valuations are deferred and recognized in determining pension income only to the extent they exceed 10% of the greater of projected benefit obligations or the market-related value of plan assets.

The following table illustrates the effect on net periodic pension income of changing the critical actuarial assumptions discussed above, while holding all other assumptions constant:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

NEE also utilizes actuarial assumptions about mortality to help estimate obligations of the pension plan. NEE has adopted the latest revised mortality tables and mortality improvement scales released by the Society of Actuaries, which did not have a material impact on the pension plan's obligation.

See Note 3.

Carrying Value of Long-Lived Assets

NEE evaluates long-lived assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.

Nature of Accounting Estimates

The amount of future net cash flows, the timing of the cash flows and the determination of an appropriate interest rate all involve estimates and judgments about future events. In particular, the aggregate amount of cash flows determines whether an impairment exists, and the timing of the cash flows is critical in determining fair value. Because each assessment is based on the facts and circumstances associated with each long-lived asset, the effects of changes in assumptions cannot be generalized.

Assumptions and Accounting Approach

An impairment loss is required to be recognized if the carrying value of the asset exceeds the undiscounted future net cash flows associated with that asset. The impairment loss to be recognized is the amount by which the carrying value of the long-lived asset exceeds the asset’s fair value. In most instances, the fair value is determined by discounting estimated future cash flows using an appropriate interest rate. See Note 5 - Nonrecurring Fair Value Measurements.

52
Decommissioning and Dismantlement

NEE accounts for asset retirement obligations and conditional asset retirement obligations (collectively, AROs) under accounting guidance that requires a liability for the fair value of an ARO to be recognized in the period in which it is incurred if it can be reasonably estimated, with the offsetting associated asset retirement costs capitalized as part of the carrying amount of the long-lived assets.

Nature of Accounting Estimates

The calculation of the future cost of retiring long-lived assets, including nuclear decommissioning and plant dismantlement costs, involves estimating the amount and timing of future expenditures and making judgments concerning whether or not such costs are considered a legal obligation. Estimating the amount and timing of future expenditures includes, among other things, making projections of when assets will be retired and ultimately decommissioned and how costs will escalate with inflation. In addition, NEE also makes interest rate and rate of return projections on its investments in determining recommended funding requirements for nuclear decommissioning costs. Periodically, NEE is required to update these estimates and projections which can affect the annual expense amounts recognized, the liabilities recorded and the annual funding requirements for nuclear decommissioning costs. For example, an increase of 0.25% in the assumed escalation rates for nuclear decommissioning costs would increase NEE’s AROs at December 31, 2018 by $219 million.

Assumptions and Accounting Approach

FPL - For ratemaking purposes, FPL accrues and funds for nuclear plant decommissioning costs over the expected service life of each unit based on studies that are approved by the FPSC. The studies reflect, among other things, the expiration dates of the operating licenses for FPL’s nuclear units. The most recent studies, filed in 2015, indicate that FPL’s portion of the future cost of decommissioning its four nuclear units, including spent fuel storage above what is expected to be refunded by the DOE under a spent fuel settlement agreement, is approximately $7.5 billion, or $3.2 billion expressed in 2018 dollars.

FPL accrues the cost of dismantling its fossil and solar plants over the expected service life of each unit based on studies filed with the FPSC. Unlike nuclear decommissioning, dismantlement costs are not funded. The most recent studies became effective January 1, 2017. At December 31, 2018, FPL’s portion of the ultimate cost to dismantle its fossil and solar units is approximately $1.2 billion, or $513 million expressed in 2018 dollars. The majority of the dismantlement costs are not considered AROs. FPL accrues for interim removal costs over the life of the related assets based on depreciation studies approved by the FPSC. Any differences between the ARO amount recorded and the amount recorded for ratemaking purposes are reported as a regulatory liability in accordance with regulatory accounting.

The components of FPL’s decommissioning of nuclear plants, dismantlement of plants and other accrued asset removal costs are as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

______________________

(a)Included in noncurrent regulatory liabilities on NEE’s and FPL’s consolidated balance sheets.

(b)Represents total amount accrued for ratemaking purposes.

NEER - NEER records liabilities for the present value of its expected nuclear plant decommissioning costs which are determined using various internal and external data and applying a probability percentage to a variety of scenarios regarding the life of the plant and timing of decommissioning. The liabilities are being accreted using the interest method through the date decommissioning activities are expected to be complete. At December 31, 2018, the AROs for decommissioning of NEER’s nuclear plants totaled approximately $588 million. NEER’s portion of the ultimate cost of decommissioning its nuclear plants, including costs associated with spent fuel storage above what is expected to be refunded by the DOE under a spent fuel settlement agreement, is estimated to be approximately $10.8 billion, or $2.1 billion expressed in 2018 dollars.

See Note 1 - Asset Retirement Obligations and - Decommissioning of Nuclear Plants, Dismantlement of Plants and Other Accrued Asset Removal Costs and Note 13.

53
Regulatory Accounting

Certain of NEE's businesses are subject to rate regulation which results in the recording of regulatory assets and liabilities. See Note 1 - Rate Regulation for a detail of NEE’s regulatory assets and liabilities. 

Nature of Accounting Estimates

Regulatory assets and liabilities represent probable future revenues that will be recovered from or refunded to customers through the ratemaking process. Regulatory assets and liabilities are included in rate base or otherwise earn (pay) a return on investment during the recovery period.

Assumptions and Accounting Approach

Accounting guidance allows regulators to create assets and impose liabilities that would not be recorded by non-rate regulated entities. If NEE's rate-regulated entities, primarily FPL, were no longer subject to cost-based rate regulation, the existing regulatory assets and liabilities would be written off unless regulators specify an alternative means of recovery or refund. In addition, the regulators, including the FPSC for FPL, have the authority to disallow recovery of costs that they consider excessive or imprudently incurred. Such costs may include, among others, fuel and O&M expenses, the cost of replacing power lost when fossil and nuclear units are unavailable, storm restoration costs and costs associated with the construction or acquisition of new facilities. The continued applicability of regulatory accounting is assessed at each reporting period.

ENERGY MARKETING AND TRADING AND MARKET RISK SENSITIVITY

NEE and FPL are exposed to risks associated with adverse changes in commodity prices, interest rates and equity prices. Financial instruments and positions affecting the financial statements of NEE and FPL described below are held primarily for purposes other than trading. Market risk is measured as the potential loss in fair value resulting from hypothetical reasonably possible changes in commodity prices, interest rates or equity prices over the next year. Management has established risk management policies to monitor and manage such market risks, as well as credit risks.

Commodity Price Risk

NEE and FPL use derivative instruments (primarily swaps, options, futures and forwards) to manage the physical and financial risks inherent in the purchase and sale of fuel and electricity. In addition, NEE, through NEER, uses derivatives to optimize the value of its power generation and gas infrastructure assets and engages in power and gas marketing and trading activities to take advantage of expected future favorable price movements. See Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates - Accounting for Derivatives and Hedging Activities and Note 4.

During 2017 and 2018, the changes in the fair value of NEE’s consolidated subsidiaries’ energy contract derivative instruments were as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

54
NEE’s total mark-to-market energy contract net assets (liabilities) at December 31, 2018 shown above are included on the consolidated balance sheets as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The sources of fair value estimates and maturity of energy contract derivative instruments at December 31, 2018 were as follows: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

With respect to commodities, NEE’s Exposure Management Committee (EMC), which is comprised of certain members of senior management, and NEE's chief executive officer are responsible for the overall approval of market risk management policies and the delegation of approval and authorization levels. The EMC and NEE's chief executive officer receive periodic updates on market positions and related exposures, credit exposures and overall risk management activities.

NEE uses a value-at-risk (VaR) model to measure commodity price market risk in its trading and mark-to-market portfolios. The VaR is the estimated loss of market value based on a one-day holding period at a 95% confidence level using historical simulation methodology. The VaR figures are as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

______________________

(a)Non-qualifying hedges are employed to reduce the market risk exposure to physical assets or contracts which are not marked to market. The VaR figures for the non-qualifying hedges and hedges in FPL cost recovery clauses category do not represent the economic exposure to commodity price movements.

55
Interest Rate Risk

NEE's and FPL's financial results are exposed to risk resulting from changes in interest rates as a result of their respective outstanding and expected future issuances of debt, investments in special use funds and other investments. NEE and FPL manage their respective interest rate exposure by monitoring current interest rates, entering into interest rate contracts and using a combination of fixed rate and variable rate debt. Interest rate contracts are used to mitigate and adjust interest rate exposure when deemed appropriate based upon market conditions or when required by financing agreements.

The following are estimates of the fair value of NEE's and FPL's financial instruments that are exposed to interest rate risk:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]______________________

(a)See Note 5.

The special use funds of NEE and FPL consist of restricted funds set aside to cover the cost of storm damage for FPL and for the decommissioning of NEE's and FPL's nuclear power plants. See Note 1 - Storm Fund and Storm Reserve. A portion of these funds is invested in fixed income debt securities primarily carried at estimated fair value. At FPL, changes in fair value, including any OTTI losses, result in a corresponding adjustment to the related regulatory asset or liability accounts based on current regulatory treatment. The changes in fair value of NEE's non-rate regulated operations result in a corresponding adjustment to OCI, except for impairments deemed to be other than temporary, including any credit losses, which are reported in current period earnings. Because the funds set aside by FPL for storm damage could be needed at any time, the related investments are generally more liquid and, therefore, are less sensitive to changes in interest rates. The nuclear decommissioning funds, in contrast, are generally invested in longer-term securities.

At December 31, 2018, NEE had interest rate contracts with a notional amount of approximately $18.2 billion related to outstanding and expected future debt issuances and borrowings, of which $15.8 billion manages exposure to the variability of cash flows associated with outstanding and expected future debt issuances at NEECH and NEER. The remaining $2.4 billion of notional amount of interest rate contracts effectively convert fixed-rate debt to variable-rate debt instruments at NEECH. See Note 4.

Based upon a hypothetical 10% decrease in interest rates, which is a reasonable near-term market change, the fair value of NEE’s net liabilities would increase by approximately $1,784 million ($589 million for FPL) at December 31, 2018.

Equity Price Risk

NEE and FPL are exposed to risk resulting from changes in prices for equity securities. For example, NEE’s nuclear decommissioning reserve funds include marketable equity securities carried at their market value of approximately $3,046 million and $3,314 million ($1,850 million and $2,035 million for FPL) at December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. NEE's and FPL’s investment strategy for equity securities in their nuclear decommissioning reserve funds emphasizes marketable securities which are broadly diversified. At December 31, 2018, a hypothetical 10% decrease in the prices quoted on stock exchanges, which is a reasonable near-term market change, would result in a $279 million ($173 million for FPL) reduction in fair value. For FPL, a corresponding adjustment would be made to the related regulatory asset or liability accounts based on current regulatory treatment, and for NEE’s non-rate regulated operations, a corresponding amount would be recorded in change in unrealized gains (losses) on equity securities held in NEER's nuclear decommissioning funds - net in NEE's consolidated statements of income. See Note 5 - Financial Instruments Accounting Standards Update.

56
Credit Risk

NEE and its subsidiaries are also exposed to credit risk through their energy marketing and trading operations. Credit risk is the risk that a financial loss will be incurred if a counterparty to a transaction does not fulfill its financial obligation. NEE manages counterparty credit risk for its subsidiaries with energy marketing and trading operations through established policies, including counterparty credit limits, and in some cases credit enhancements, such as cash prepayments, letters of credit, cash and other collateral and guarantees.

Credit risk is also managed through the use of master netting agreements. NEE’s credit department monitors current and forward credit exposure to counterparties and their affiliates, both on an individual and an aggregate basis. For all derivative and contractual transactions, NEE’s energy marketing and trading operations, which include FPL's energy marketing and trading division, are exposed to losses in the event of nonperformance by counterparties to these transactions. Some relevant considerations when assessing NEE’s energy marketing and trading operations’ credit risk exposure include the following:

•Operations are primarily concentrated in the energy industry.

•Trade receivables and other financial instruments are predominately with energy, utility and financial services related companies, as well as municipalities, cooperatives and other trading companies in the U.S.

•Overall credit risk is managed through established credit policies and is overseen by the EMC.

•Prospective and existing customers are reviewed for creditworthiness based upon established standards, with customers not meeting minimum standards providing various credit enhancements or secured payment terms, such as letters of credit or the posting of margin cash collateral.

•Master netting agreements are used to offset cash and noncash gains and losses arising from derivative instruments with the same counterparty. NEE’s policy is to have master netting agreements in place with significant counterparties.

Based on NEE’s policies and risk exposures related to credit, NEE and FPL do not anticipate a material adverse effect on their financial statements as a result of counterparty nonperformance. At December 31, 2018, approximately 92% of NEE’s and 99% of FPL's energy marketing and trading counterparty credit risk exposure is associated with companies that have investment grade credit ratings.

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk