Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Norfolk Southern Corporation and Subsidiaries

The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes.

OVERVIEW

We are one of the nation’s premier transportation companies. Our Norfolk Southern Railway Company subsidiary operates approximately 19,500 route miles in 22 states and the District of Columbia, serves every major container port in the eastern United States, and provides efficient connections to other rail carriers. Norfolk Southern is a major transporter of industrial products, including chemicals, agriculture, and metals and construction materials. In addition, the railroad operates the most extensive intermodal network in the East and is a principal carrier of coal, automobiles, and automotive parts.

We achieved records for income from railway operations and railway operating ratio (a measure of the amount of operating revenues consumed by operating expenses) for the year, the result of significant revenue growth, partially offset by increased operating expenses. Progress on our strategic initiatives established in 2015 has created a sustainable platform positioning us for the continued execution of transformational changes that will provide greater long-term value for our shareholders.

SUMMARIZED RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

On December 22, 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (“tax reform”) was signed into law. As a result of the enactment of this law, in 2017, “Purchased services and rents” included a $151 million benefit and “Income taxes” included a $3,331 million benefit, which added $3,482 million to “Net income” and $12.00 to “Diluted earnings per share.” The 2017 operating ratio was favorably impacted by 1.5 percentage points. For more information on the impact of tax reform, see Note 4.

The following table adjusts our 2017 GAAP financial results to exclude the effects of tax reform, specifically, the effects of remeasurement of net deferred tax liabilities related to the reduction of the federal tax rate from 35% to 21% (the “2017 tax adjustments”). We use these non-GAAP financial measures internally and believe this information provides useful supplemental information to investors to facilitate making period-to-period comparisons by excluding the 2017 tax adjustments. While we believe that these non-GAAP financial measures are useful in evaluating our business, this information should be considered as supplemental in nature and is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the related financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP. In addition, these non-GAAP financial measures may not be the same as similar measures presented by other companies.

K 18

Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

In the table below and the paragraph following, references to 2017 results and related comparisons use the adjusted, non-GAAP results from the reconciliation in the table above.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Income from railway operations rose in both comparisons resulting from higher railway operating revenues that more than offset higher expenses. Revenue growth of 9% and 7% in 2018 and 2017, respectively, was tempered by increased adjusted operating expenses of 4% in both periods. In addition to higher income from railway operations, net income and diluted earnings per share growth in 2018 also benefited from a lower effective tax rate, primarily due to the enactment of tax reform. Finally, our share repurchase programs in both years resulted in diluted earnings per share growth that exceeded that of net income. 

K 19

DETAILED RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Railway Operating Revenues

The following tables present a three-year comparison of revenues, volumes (units), and average revenue per unit by commodity group. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

K 20

Revenues increased $907 million and $663 million in 2018 and 2017, respectively, compared to the prior years. As reflected in the table below, higher 2018 revenues were the result of higher average revenue per unit, driven by pricing gains and higher fuel surcharge revenue, partially offset by the mix-related impacts of increased intermodal volume and decreased coal volume. In addition, overall volume also increased. The rise in 2017 was largely the result of increased volume, particularly in our coal and intermodal markets, coupled with pricing gains. The table below reflects the components of the revenue change by major commodity group. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Most of our contracts include negotiated fuel surcharges, typically tied to either On-Highway Diesel (OHD) or West Texas Intermediate Crude Oil. Approximately 90% of our revenue base is covered by these negotiated fuel surcharges, with almost 75% tied to OHD. For both 2018 and 2017, contracts tied to OHD accounted for about 90% of our fuel surcharge revenue. Revenues associated with fuel surcharges totaled $657 million, $359 million, and $236 million in 2018, 2017, and 2016, respectively.

MERCHANDISE revenues increased in both 2018 and 2017 compared with the prior years. In 2018, revenues grew due to higher average revenue per unit, driven by pricing gains and higher fuel surcharge revenue, as well as higher volumes. Volume gains in chemicals, agriculture, and paper, clay, and forest products were partially offset by declines in automotive and metals and construction traffic. Revenue growth in 2017 was a result of higher average revenue per unit, the result of price improvements. Volume was relatively flat compared to the prior year, as gains in the metals and construction group were offset by declines in automotive, agriculture, and chemicals traffic. 

For 2019, merchandise revenues are expected to increase, primarily the result of pricing gains.

Chemicals revenues rose in 2018 compared to a modest increase in 2017. In 2018 the rise was the result of higher volume and higher average revenue per unit, due to pricing gains and higher fuel surcharge revenue. Volumes grew due to increased shipments of crude oil, liquefied petroleum gas, and plastics, partially offset by a decrease in coal ash shipments. The increase in 2017 was due to higher average revenue per unit, a result of favorable mix and price improvements, which outweighed declines in volume. Volume declines were the result of fewer shipments of crude oil from the Bakken oil fields, lower shipments of coal ash, partially offset by an increase in shipments of plastics. 

For 2019, chemicals revenues are anticipated to increase, as average revenue per unit is expected to be higher, the effect of overall pricing gains. We expect carloads to be relatively flat year-over-year, as declines in liquefied petroleum gas are expected to be offset by gains in crude oil.

Agriculture, consumer products, and government revenues increased in 2018 and were flat in 2017 compared to the prior years. Growth in 2018 was due to higher volume and higher average revenue per unit, a result of pricing gains and higher fuel surcharge revenues. Higher ethanol and fertilizer shipments more than offset declines in soybean and corn shipments. In 2017, lower traffic volume was offset by higher revenue per unit, driven by pricing gains. Volume declines in ethanol and soybeans, reflecting reduced market demand, more than offset increases in fertilizer. 

K 21

For 2019, agriculture, consumer products, and government revenues are expected to increase, driven by increased average revenue per unit, primarily a result of pricing gains. We expect volumes to decrease due to lower fertilizer shipments. 

Metals and construction revenues grew in both periods, more significantly so in 2017. In 2018, higher average revenue per unit, the result of pricing gains and higher fuel surcharge revenue, more than offset volume declines. Volume declines in aggregates, cement, aluminum, and iron and steel were partially offset by increases in frac sand shipments for use in natural gas drilling in the Marcellus and Utica regions. In 2017, higher volume and average revenue per unit contributed to the rise in revenues. Volume growth was a result of more frac sand shipments for use in natural gas drilling in the Marcellus and Utica regions and more iron and steel shipments driven by continued improvement in construction activity. These increases were partially offset by a decline in coil steel traffic due to customer sourcing changes. Revenue per unit growth in 2017 was driven by favorable changes in traffic mix. 

For 2019, metals and construction revenues are expected to rise, a result of increased revenue per unit driven by pricing gains, and volume growth is expected in aggregates and coil steel traffic.

Automotive revenues rose in 2018, but declined in 2017 compared to the prior years. In 2018, higher average revenue per unit, driven by price increases and higher fuel surcharge revenues, more than offset volume declines. Traffic declines were the result of shortages of availability of multilevel equipment and scheduled automotive plant downtime. The drop in volume in 2017 was driven mainly by decreases in U.S. light vehicle production, as well as temporary shutdowns for retooling of several NS-served facilities. Average revenue per unit increased for the year, primarily the result of higher fuel surcharge revenue. 

For 2019, automotive revenues are expected to increase as a result of higher volumes, reflecting increased demand at NS-served plants, and higher average revenue per unit driven by price increases.

Paper, clay and forest products revenues rose in both 2018 and 2017 compared to the prior years. In 2018, higher average revenue per unit, the result of pricing gains and higher fuel surcharge revenue, and volume gains drove the increase. Gains in pulpboard and municipal waste shipments, a result of tightened truck capacity and growth with existing customers, respectively, were partially offset by decreases in pulp, woodchip, and graphic paper traffic. The increase in 2017 was due to higher average revenue per unit, a result of pricing gains and changes in the traffic mix. Traffic was flat for the year as increases in waste and pulp shipments were offset by losses in woodchip volume due to customer sourcing changes. 

For 2019, paper, clay, and forest products revenues are anticipated to increase, reflecting pricing gains. We expect volume to decline slightly, as gains in lumber traffic are expected to be offset by declines in wood chips and graphic paper. 

INTERMODAL revenues increased considerably in both 2018 and 2017 compared to the prior years. The rise in 2018 was driven by higher average revenue per unit, a result of increased fuel surcharge revenue and pricing gains, and higher volume. Growth in 2017 was the result of higher volume and higher average revenue per unit, due to higher fuel surcharge revenue and pricing gains. 

For 2019, we expect intermodal revenues to rise, the result of increased domestic volumes and higher average revenue per unit, driven by rate increases.

K 22

Intermodal units by market were as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Domestic volume increased in both periods. The rise in 2018 benefited from continued highway conversions due to tighter capacity in the truck market, higher truckload pricing, and growth from existing accounts. In 2017, continued highway conversions and growth from existing accounts drove the increase.

For 2019, we expect higher domestic volumes driven by continued highway conversions and growth from existing accounts.

International volume increased in both years reflecting increased demand from existing customers. 

For 2019, we expect continued growth in our international volume largely driven by more traffic from existing customers.

COAL revenues increased in 2018 and significantly so in 2017 compared with the prior years. Revenue growth in 2018 was the result of higher average revenue per unit, largely the result of pricing gains, which more than offset volume declines. The increase in 2017 was a result of higher volume, primarily in the export market, and higher revenue per unit, driven by higher fuel surcharge revenue and pricing gains. 

For 2019, coal revenues are expected to remain relatively flat year-over-year. Higher export and domestic metallurgical volumes are expected to be offset by lower revenue per unit, primarily the result of lower pricing in our export market.

As shown in the following table, total tonnage decreased slightly in 2018, but increased in 2017.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Utility coal tonnage declined in 2018, driven by lower network velocity, decreased coal supply, inclement weather in the first quarter, and plant outages. Tonnage rose in 2017, driven by market share gains, partially offset by limited coal burn due to milder weather. Both periods were negatively impacted by sustained lower natural gas prices. 

K 23

For 2019, we expect utility tonnage to be relatively flat year-over-year, the result of continued pressure from natural gas prices and continued expected growth in renewable and natural gas capacity.

Export coal tonnage increased in both periods due to strong seaborne pricing that resulted in higher demand for U.S. coal. Volume through Norfolk was up 2.3 million tons, or 15%, in 2018 and 5.5 million tons, or 57%, in 2017. Volume through Baltimore declined 0.8 million tons, or 7%, in 2018, but rose 6.4 million tons, or 129%, in 2017.

For 2019, we expect export coal tonnage to rise due to continued demand for U.S. coal.

Domestic metallurgical coal tonnage was down slightly in 2018, but up in 2017. The decline in 2018 was a reflection of customer sourcing changes. In 2017, the increase was a result of market share gains.

For 2019, domestic metallurgical coal tonnage is expected to grow due to increased demand in domestic steel production.

Industrial coal tonnage decreased in both years. In 2018, the decrease reflected customer sourcing changes and pressure from natural gas conversions. The drop in 2017 was a result of plant outages, natural gas conversions, and decreased coal burn.

For 2019, industrial coal tonnage is expected to decrease as a result of continued pressure from natural gas conversions and customer sourcing changes.

Railway Operating Expenses

Railway operating expenses summarized by major classifications were as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

In 2018, expenses rose due to higher fuel prices as well as volume-related increases and costs associated with overall lower network velocity, partially offset by higher property sales. In 2017, we experienced an overall increase in expense compared to the prior year, reflecting higher fuel expense, incentive compensation, inflationary increases, and volume-related costs, partially offset by improved productivity and increased equity in earnings of certain investees as a result of the enactment of tax reform. 

K 24

Compensation and benefits decreased in 2018, reflecting changes in:

•employment levels (down $61 million),

•health and welfare benefit rates for agreement employees (down $34 million), 

•employment tax refund ($31 million benefit),

•incentive and stock-based compensation (down $7 million),

•pay rates (up $34 million), and

•overtime and recrews (up $58 million).

In 2017, compensation and benefits increased, a result of changes in:

•incentive and stock-based compensation (up $125 million),

•higher health and welfare benefit rates for agreement employees (up $62 million), 

•pay rates (up $43 million),

•increased overtime (up $24 million), and

•employment levels (down $81 million).

Our employment averaged 26,662 in 2018, compared with 27,110 in 2017, and 28,044 in 2016. 

Purchased services and rents includes the costs of services purchased from outside contractors, including the net costs of operating joint (or leased) facilities with other railroads and the net cost of equipment rentals. As previously discussed, in 2017, this line item includes a $151 million benefit from the 2017 tax adjustments ($36 million in purchased services and $115 million in equipment rents) in the form of higher income of certain equity investees.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The increase in purchased services in 2018 was largely the result of the absence of the benefit from the 2017 tax adjustments, higher intermodal volume-related costs, additional transportation and engineering activities as well as higher technology costs. In addition to the tax reform impacts discussed above, the remaining increase in purchased services expense in 2017 was a result of higher intermodal volume-related costs. 

Equipment rents, which includes our cost of using equipment (mostly freight cars) owned by other railroads or private owners less the rent paid to us for the use of our equipment, increased in 2018, but decreased in 2017. In 2018, the rise was due to the absence of the benefits from the 2017 tax adjustments, the impact of slower network velocity, the cost of additional short-term locomotive resources as well as growth in volume. In 2017, in addition to the benefit from the 2017 tax adjustments, the decline was a result of lower automotive volume. 

Fuel expense, which includes the cost of locomotive fuel as well as other fuel used in railway operations, increased in both periods. The change in both years was principally due to locomotive fuel prices (up 25% in 2018 and up 22% in 2017) which increased expenses $208 million and $143 million, respectively. Locomotive fuel consumption increased 3% in 2018, but declined 1% in 2017. We consumed approximately 472 million gallons of diesel fuel in 2018, compared with 458 million gallons in 2017 and 462 million gallons in 2016. 

Depreciation expense increased in both periods, a reflection of growth in our roadway and equipment capital base as we continue to invest in our infrastructure and rolling stock. 

K 25

Materials and other expenses decreased in both periods as shown in the following table.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Materials expense increased in 2018, due primarily to higher locomotive repair costs. In 2017, the decline was a result of lower freight car repairs. 

Casualties and other claims expenses include the estimates of costs related to personal injury, property damage, and environmental matters. The 2018 expense increased, primarily the result of higher derailment-related costs. The decrease in 2017 was the result of lower loss and damage, offset in part by unfavorable developments in personal injury cases. 

Other expense decreased in both periods, largely a result of higher gains from sales of operating properties, up $79 million and $42 million in 2018 and 2017, respectively, compared to the prior periods. In 2018, the decline was additionally impacted by the inclusion of net rental income from operating property previously included in “Other income – net” of $78 million, partially offset by increased costs as a result of the relocation of our train dispatchers to Atlanta, Georgia.

Other income – net

Other income – net decreased in 2018, following an increase in 2017. The decline was driven by the absence of net rental income as discussed above and unfavorable returns from corporate-owned life insurance (COLI) investments. In 2017, the rise was mainly the result of favorable returns on COLI investments. 

Income Taxes

The effective income tax rate was 23.1% in 2018, compared with negative 72.8% in 2017 and 35.4% in 2016. Income taxes in 2018 benefited from the effects of the enactment of tax reform in late 2017 that lowered the federal corporate income tax rate. Income taxes in 2017 included a benefit of $3,331 million related to the effects of the enactment of tax reform from the reduction in our net deferred tax liabilities driven by the change in the federal rate. All three years benefited from favorable tax benefits associated with stock-based compensation. Both 2018 and 2016 benefited from favorable reductions in deferred taxes for state tax law changes and certain business tax credits, while 2017 and 2016 benefited from higher returns from corporate-owned life insurance. 

The statute of limitations on Internal Revenue Service (IRS) examinations has expired for all years prior to 2015. Our consolidated federal income tax return for 2015 is currently being audited by the IRS. We do not expect that the resolution of the examination will have a material effect on our financial position, results of operations, or liquidity.

FINANCIAL CONDITION, LIQUIDITY, AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

Cash provided by operating activities, our principal source of liquidity, was $3.7 billion in 2018, $3.3 billion in 2017, and $3.0 billion in 2016. The increases in both 2018 and 2017 were primarily the result of improved 

K 26

operating results. We had working capital deficits of $729 million and $396 million at December 31, 2018, and 2017, respectively. Cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash totaled $446 million and $690 million at December 31, 2018, and 2017, respectively. We expect cash on hand combined with cash provided by operating activities will be sufficient to meet our ongoing obligations.

Contractual obligations at December 31, 2018, were comprised of interest on fixed-rate long-term debt, long-term debt (Note 9), unconditional purchase obligations (Note 17), operating leases (Note 10), long-term advances from Conrail, agreements with Consolidated Rail Corporation (CRC) (Note 6), and unrecognized tax benefits (Note 4):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

* This amount is shown in the Other column because the year of settlement cannot be reasonably estimated.

Off balance sheet arrangements consist of obligations related to operating leases, which are included in the table of contractual obligations above and disclosed in Note 10.

Cash used in investing activities was $1.7 billion in 2018, compared with $1.5 billion in 2017, and $1.8 billion in 2016. In 2018, higher property additions drove the increase. The decline in 2017 was a reflection of lower cash outflows for property additions and a drop in corporate-owned life insurance investments. 

Capital spending and track and equipment statistics can be found within the “Railway Property” section of Part I of this report on Form 10-K. For 2019, we expect capital spending to approximate 16% to 18% of revenues.

Cash used in financing activities was $2.3 billion in 2018, compared with $2.0 billion in 2017, and $1.3 billion in 2016. Both year-over-year comparisons reflect increased repurchases of common stock and higher debt repayments. In 2018, the increase was also impacted by higher dividend payments, but tempered by increased proceeds from borrowings. In 2017, lower proceeds from borrowings also contributed to the rise. 

Share repurchases totaled $2.8 billion in 2018, $1.0 billion in 2017, and $803 million in 2016 for the purchase and retirement of 17.1 million (including 7.0 million shares repurchased for $1.2 billion under the ASR program, see Note 15), 8.2 million, and 9.2 million shares, respectively. As of December 31, 2018, 39.4 million shares remain authorized by our Board of Directors for repurchase. The timing and volume of future share repurchases will be guided by our assessment of market conditions and other pertinent factors. Any near-term purchases under the program are expected to be made with internally generated cash, cash on hand, or proceeds from borrowings.

In February of 2018, we issued $500 million of 4.15% senior notes due 2048. In August of 2018, we issued $300 million of 3.65% senior notes due 2025, $400 million of 3.80% senior notes due 2028, $200 million of 4.15% senior notes due 2048, and $600 million of 5.10% senior notes due 2118 (see Note 9).

K 27

We discuss our credit agreement and our accounts receivable securitization program in Note 9, and we have authority from our Board of Directors to issue an additional $1.2 billion of debt or equity securities through public or private sale, all of which provide for access to additional liquidity should the need arise. Our debt-to-total capitalization ratio was 42.0% at December 31, 2018, compared with 37.5% at December 31, 2017.

Upcoming annual debt maturities are disclosed in Note 9. Overall, our goal is to maintain a capital structure with appropriate leverage to support our business strategy and provide flexibility through business cycles.

APPLICATION OF CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES

The preparation of financial statements in accordance with GAAP requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting period. These estimates and assumptions may require judgment about matters that are inherently uncertain, and future events are likely to occur that may require us to make changes to these estimates and assumptions. Accordingly, we regularly review these estimates and assumptions based on historical experience, changes in the business environment, and other factors we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. The following critical accounting policies are a subset of our significant accounting policies described in Note 1.

Pensions and Other Postretirement Benefits

Accounting for pensions and other postretirement benefit plans requires us to make several estimates and assumptions (Note 12). These include the expected rate of return from investment of the plans’ assets and the expected retirement age of employees as well as their projected earnings and mortality. In addition, the amounts recorded are affected by changes in the interest rate environment because the associated liabilities are discounted to their present value. We make these estimates based on our historical experience and other information that we deem pertinent under the circumstances (for example, expectations of future stock market performance). We utilize an independent actuarial consulting firm’s studies to assist us in selecting appropriate actuarial assumptions and valuing related liabilities.

In recording our net pension benefit, we assumed a long-term investment rate of return of 8.25%, which was supported by the long-term total rate of return on plan assets since inception, as well as our expectation of future returns. A one-percentage point change to this rate of return assumption would result in a $22 million change in pension expense. We review assumptions related to our defined benefit plans annually, and while changes are likely to occur in assumptions concerning retirement age, projected earnings, and mortality, they are not expected to have a material effect on our net pension expense or net pension liability in the future. The net pension liability is recorded at net present value using discount rates that are based on the current interest rate environment in light of the timing of expected benefit payments. We utilize analyses in which the projected annual cash flows from the pension and postretirement benefit plans are matched with yield curves based on an appropriate universe of high-quality corporate bonds. We use the results of the yield curve analyses to select the discount rates that match the payment streams of the benefits in these plans.

Properties and Depreciation

Most of our assets are long-lived railway properties (Note 7). As disclosed in Note 1, the primary depreciation method for our asset base is group life. See Note 1 for a more detailed discussion of the assumptions and estimates in this area.

Depreciation expense for 2018 totaled $1.1 billion. Our composite depreciation rates for 2018 are disclosed in 

Note 7; a one year increase (or decrease) in the estimated average useful lives of depreciable assets would have resulted in an approximate $40 million decrease (or increase) to depreciation expense. 

K 28

Personal Injury

Casualties and other claims expense, included in “Materials and other” in the Consolidated Statements of Income, includes our accrual for personal injury liabilities. 

To aid in valuing our personal injury liability and determining the amount to accrue with respect to such claims during the year, we utilize studies prepared by an independent consulting actuarial firm. The actuarial firm studies our historical patterns of reserving for claims and subsequent settlements, taking into account relevant outside influences. We adjust the liability quarterly based upon our assessment and the results of the study. Our estimate is subject to inherent limitation given the difficulty of predicting future events and as such the ultimate loss sustained may vary from the estimated liability recorded. 

For a more detailed discussion of the assumptions and estimates in accounting for personal injury see Note 17. 

Income Taxes

Our net deferred tax liability totaled $6.5 billion at December 31, 2018 (Note 4). This liability is estimated based on the expected future tax consequences of items recognized in the financial statements. After application of the federal statutory tax rate to book income, judgment is required with respect to the timing and deductibility of expenses in our income tax returns. For state income and other taxes, judgment is also required with respect to the apportionment among the various jurisdictions. A valuation allowance is recorded if we expect that it is more likely than not that deferred tax assets will not be realized. We have a $50 million valuation allowance on $425 million of deferred tax assets as of December 31, 2018, reflecting the expectation that almost all of these assets will be realized.

OTHER MATTERS

Labor Agreements

Approximately 80% of our railroad employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements with various labor unions. Pursuant to the Railway Labor Act, these agreements remain in effect until new agreements are reached, or until the bargaining procedures mandated by the Railway Labor Act are completed. We largely bargain nationally in concert with other major railroads, represented by the National Carriers Conference Committee. Moratorium provisions in the labor agreements govern when the railroads and unions may propose changes to the agreements.

The 2015 bargaining round is now complete with finalized agreements in place with all employees. All of the newly negotiated agreements have moratorium provisions that will reopen the agreements for negotiation beginning January 1, 2020.

Market Risks

At December 31, 2018, we had no outstanding debt subject to interest rate fluctuations. Market risk for fixed-rate debt is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from a one percentage point decrease in interest rates as of December 31, 2018, and amounts to an increase of approximately $1.4 billion to the fair value of our debt at December 31, 2018. We consider it unlikely that interest rate fluctuations applicable to these instruments will result in a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or liquidity. 

New Accounting Pronouncements

For a detailed discussion of new accounting pronouncements, see Note 1.

K 29

Inflation

In preparing financial statements, GAAP requires the use of historical cost that disregards the effects of inflation on the replacement cost of property. As a capital-intensive company, we have most of our capital invested in long-lived assets. The replacement cost of these assets, as well as the related depreciation expense, would be substantially greater than the amounts reported on the basis of historical cost.

FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

Certain statements in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations are “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the “safe harbor” provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, as amended. These statements relate to future events or our future financial performance and involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties, and other factors that may cause our actual results, levels of activity, performance, or our achievements or those of our industry to be materially different from those expressed or implied by any forward-looking statements. In some cases, forward-looking statements can be identified by terminology such as “may,” “will,” “could,” “would,” “should,” “expect,” “plan,” “anticipate,” “intend,” “believe,” “estimate,” “project,” “consider,” “predict,” “potential,” “feel,” or other comparable terminology. We have based these forward-looking statements on our current expectations, assumptions, estimates, beliefs, and projections. While we believe these expectations, assumptions, estimates, beliefs, and projections are reasonable, such forward-looking statements are only predictions and involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties, many of which involve factors or circumstances that are beyond our control. These and other important factors, including those discussed in Item 1A “Risk Factors,” may cause actual results, performance, or achievements to differ materially from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements herein are made only as of the date they were first issued, and unless otherwise required by applicable securities laws, we disclaim any intention or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. Copies of our press releases and additional information about us is available at www.norfolksouthern.com, or you can contact our Investor Relations Department by calling 757-629-2861.

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk