Item 7A.  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk  

In the ordinary course of business, Nucor is exposed to a variety of market risks. We continually monitor these risks and develop strategies to manage them.  

17   

Table of Contents 

Interest Rate Risk – Nucor manages interest rate risk by using a combination of variable-rate and fixed-rate debt. At December 31, 2018, approximately 24% of Nucor’s long-term debt was in industrial revenue bonds that have variable interest rates that are adjusted weekly. The remaining 76% of Nucor’s long-term debt was at fixed rates. Future changes in interest rates are not expected to significantly impact earnings. Nucor also occasionally makes use of interest rate swaps to manage net exposure to interest rate changes. As of December 31, 2018, there were no such contracts outstanding. Nucor’s investment practice is to invest in securities that are highly liquid with short maturities. As a result, we do not expect changes in interest rates to have a significant impact on the value of our investment securities recorded as short-term investments.  

Commodity Price Risk – In the ordinary course of business, Nucor is exposed to market risk for price fluctuations of raw materials and energy, principally scrap steel, other ferrous and nonferrous metals, alloys and natural gas. We attempt to negotiate the best prices for our raw materials and energy requirements and to obtain prices for our steel products that match market price movements in response to supply and demand. In periods of strong or stable demand for our products, we are more likely to be able to effectively reduce the normal time lag in passing through higher raw material costs so that we can maintain our gross margins. When demand for our products is weaker, this becomes more challenging. Our DRI facilities in Trinidad and Louisiana provide us with flexibility in managing our input costs. DRI is particularly important for operational flexibility when demand for prime scrap increases due to increased domestic production.  

Natural gas produced by Nucor’s drilling operations is being sold to third parties to offset our exposure to changes in the price of natural gas consumed by our Louisiana DRI facility and our steel mills in the United States. For the year ended December 31, 2018, the volume of natural gas sold from our drilling operations was approximately 15% of the volume of natural gas purchased for consumption in our domestic steelmaking and DRI facilities.  

Nucor also periodically uses derivative financial instruments to hedge a portion of our exposure to price risk related to natural gas purchases used in the production process and to hedge a portion of our scrap, aluminum and copper purchases and sales. Gains and losses from derivatives designated as hedges are deferred in accumulated other comprehensive loss, net of income taxes on the consolidated balance sheets and recognized into earnings in the same period as the underlying physical transaction. At December 31, 2018, accumulated other comprehensive loss, net of income taxes included $6.5 million in unrealized net-of-tax losses for the fair value of these derivative instruments. Changes in the fair values of derivatives not designated as hedges are recognized in earnings each period. The following table presents the negative effect on pre-tax earnings of a hypothetical change in the fair value of derivative instruments outstanding at December 31, 2018, due to an assumed 10% and 25% change in the market price of each of the indicated commodities (in thousands):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Any resulting changes in fair value would be recorded as adjustments to accumulated other comprehensive loss, net of income taxes, or recognized in net earnings, as appropriate. These hypothetical losses would be partially offset by the benefit of lower prices paid or higher prices received for the physical commodities.  

Foreign Currency Risk – Nucor is exposed to foreign currency risk primarily through its operations in Canada, Europe and Mexico. We periodically use derivative contracts to mitigate the risk of currency fluctuations. Open foreign currency derivative contracts at December 31, 2018 and 2017 were insignificant  

 Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data