Part I  

 Item 1.  Business  

General  

People’s United Financial, Inc. (“People’s United” or the “Company”) is a bank holding company and a financial holding company registered under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (the “BHC Act”), as amended, and is incorporated under the state laws of Delaware. People’s United is the holding company for People’s United Bank, National Association (the “Bank”), a national banking association headquartered in Bridgeport, Connecticut.  

Effective April 1, 2017, People’s United completed its acquisition of Suffolk Bancorp (“Suffolk”) based in Riverhead, New York. Effective August 1, 2017, the Bank completed its acquisition of LEAF Commercial Capital, Inc. (“LEAF”). Effective June 27, 2018, the Bank completed its acquisition of Vend Lease Company (“Vend Lease”). Effective October 1, 2018, People’s United completed its acquisition of First Connecticut Bancorp Inc. (“First Connecticut”) based in Farmington, Connecticut. The assets acquired and liabilities assumed in these transactions were recorded at their fair values as of their respective closing dates. See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a further discussion on these acquisitions. People’s United’s results of operations include the results of the acquired entities beginning with their respective effective dates.  

The principal business of People’s United is to provide, through the Bank and its subsidiaries, commercial banking, retail banking and wealth management services to individual, corporate and municipal customers. Traditional banking activities are conducted primarily within New England and southeastern New York, and include extending secured and unsecured commercial and consumer loans, originating mortgage loans secured by residential and commercial properties, and accepting consumer, commercial and municipal deposits.  

In addition to traditional banking activities, the Bank provides specialized financial services tailored to specific markets including: personal, institutional and employee benefit trust; cash management; and municipal banking. Through its non-banking subsidiaries, the Bank offers: brokerage, financial advisory services, investment management services and life insurance through People’s Securities, Inc. (“PSI”); equipment financing through People’s Capital and Leasing Corp. (“PCLC”), People’s United Equipment Finance Corp. (“PUEFC”) and LEAF; and commercial insurance services through People’s United Insurance Agency, Inc. (“PUIA”).  

This full range of financial services is delivered through a network of 422 branches located in Connecticut, southeastern New York, Massachusetts, Vermont, Maine and New Hampshire, including 85 full-service Stop & Shop supermarket branches throughout Connecticut and 63 in southeastern New York that provide customers with seven-day-a-week banking. The Bank’s distribution network includes investment and brokerage offices, commercial banking offices, online banking and investment trading, a 24-hour telephone banking service and participation in a worldwide ATM network. PCLC, PUEFC and LEAF maintain a sales presence in 16 states to support equipment financing operations throughout the United States. The Bank maintains a mortgage warehouse lending group located in Kentucky and a national credits group that has participations in commercial loans and commercial real estate loans to borrowers in various industries on a national scale.  

People’s United’s operations are divided into three primary operating segments that represent its core businesses: Commercial Banking; Retail Banking; and Wealth Management. In addition, the Treasury area manages People’s United’s securities portfolio, short-term investments, brokered deposits and wholesale borrowings.  

1   

Table of Contents 

The Company’s operating segments have been aggregated into two reportable segments: Commercial Banking and Retail Banking. Commercial Banking consists principally of commercial real estate lending, commercial and industrial lending, and commercial deposit gathering activities. This segment also includes the equipment financing operations of PCLC, PUEFC and LEAF, as well as cash management, correspondent banking, municipal banking, institutional trust services, corporate trust, commercial insurance services provided through PUIA and private banking. Retail Banking includes, as its principal business lines, consumer lending (including residential mortgage and home equity lending) and consumer deposit gathering activities. This segment also includes brokerage, financial advisory services, investment management services and life insurance provided through PSI and non-institutional trust services.  

Further discussion of People’s United’s business and operations appears on pages 22 through 79.  

Supervision and Regulation  

People’s United Financial, Inc.  

General  

As a bank holding company and a financial holding company, People’s United is regulated under the BHC Act and is subject to supervision, examination and regulation by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the “FRB”). Among other things, this authority permits the FRB to restrict or prohibit activities that are determined to be a serious risk to the subsidiary bank. A bank holding company should have sufficient capital and an effective capital planning process, consistent with its overall risk profile and considering the size, scope, and complexity of its operations, to ensure its safe and sound operation. In addition, the FRB evaluates a bank holding company’s capital planning and capital distribution processes, and its capital sufficiency in light of relevant regulations and supervisory guidance applicable to bank holding companies.  

Activities Restrictions Applicable to Bank Holding Companies. The activities of a bank holding company, including People’s United, must be financially-related activities permissible for a bank holding company, unless the bank holding company has elected to be treated as a financial holding company. A bank holding company that has made a financial holding company election may also engage in activities permissible under section 4(k) of the BHC Act.  

Federal law prohibits a bank holding company directly or indirectly, from acquiring:  

   •    control (as defined under the BHC Act) of another bank (or a holding company parent) without prior FRB approval;  

   •    through merger, consolidation or purchase of assets, another bank or a holding company thereof, or acquiring all or substantially all of the assets of such institution or holding company without prior approval by the FRB or the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (the “OCC”); or  

   •    control of any depository institution not insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (the “FDIC”) (except through a merger with and into the holding company’s bank subsidiary that is approved by the OCC).  

The BHC Act prohibits a bank holding company (directly or indirectly, or through one or more subsidiaries) from acquiring another bank or holding company thereof without prior written approval of the FRB; acquiring or retaining, with certain exceptions, more than 5% of a non-subsidiary bank, a non-subsidiary holding company or a non-subsidiary company engaged in activities other than those permitted by the BHC Act; or acquiring or retaining control of a depository institution that is not federally insured. In evaluating applications by holding companies to acquire banks, the FRB must consider the financial and managerial resources and future prospects of the company and institution involved, the effect of the acquisition on the risk to the Deposit Insurance Fund (the “DIF”), the convenience and needs of the community, and competitive factors.  

2   

Table of Contents 

Federal Securities Law  

People’s United’s common stock is registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange Act”), as amended. People’s United is subject to the information, proxy solicitation, insider trading, and other requirements and restrictions of the Exchange Act.  

Delaware Corporation Law  

People’s United is incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware and is, therefore, subject to regulation by the state of Delaware. The rights of People’s United’s stockholders are governed by the Delaware General Corporation Law.  

Regulatory Capital Requirements  

Bank holding companies and national banks are subject to various regulations regarding capital requirements administered by U.S. banking agencies. The FRB (in the case of a bank holding company) and the OCC (in the case of a bank) may initiate certain actions if a bank holding company or a bank fails to meet minimum capital requirements. In addition, under its prompt corrective action regulations, the OCC is required to take certain supervisory actions (and may take additional discretionary actions) with respect to an undercapitalized bank. These actions could have a direct material effect on a bank’s financial statements. People’s United and the Bank are subject to regulatory capital requirements administered by the FRB and the OCC, respectively.  

In December 2010, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision released its final framework for capital requirements (the “Basel III framework” or “Basel III”). Final interagency rules to address implementation of the Basel III framework for U.S. financial institutions, including the Company and the Bank, became effective on January 1, 2015. When fully phased-in, these rules will: (i) set forth changes in the calculation of risk-weighted assets; (ii) introduce limitations on what is permissible for inclusion in Tier 1 capital; and (iii) require bank holding companies and their bank subsidiaries to maintain substantially more capital, with a greater emphasis on common equity.  

See Management’s Discussion and Analysis—Regulatory Capital Requirements beginning on page 73 for a further discussion regarding capital requirements.  

Dividends and Capital Distributions  

People’s United is dependent upon dividends from the Bank to provide funds for the payment of dividends to shareholders and other general corporate purposes. People’s United’s ability to pay cash dividends is governed by federal law and regulations, including requirements to maintain adequate capital above regulatory minimums and safety and soundness practices.  

The National Bank Act and OCC regulations impose limitations upon dividend payments by national banks. A national bank must file an application with the OCC if the total amount of its dividends for the applicable calendar year exceeds the national bank’s net income for that year plus its retained net income for the preceding two years. The Bank may not pay dividends to People’s United if, after paying those dividends, it would fail to meet the required minimum levels under risk-based capital guidelines or if the OCC notified the Bank that it was in need of more than normal supervision.  

In addition, a national bank is required to file an application with the OCC for the redemption of subordinated debt under certain circumstances, as well as for reductions in permanent capital.  

3   

Table of Contents 

Under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (the “FDI Act”), an insured depository institution, such as the Bank, is prohibited from making capital distributions, including the payment of dividends, if, after making such distribution, the institution would become “undercapitalized” (as such term is used in the FDI Act). Payment of dividends by the Bank also may be restricted at any time at the discretion of the appropriate regulator if it deems the payment to constitute an unsafe and unsound banking practice. See Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a further discussion on capital distributions.  

Supervision and Regulation  

People’s United Bank, National Association  

General  

The Bank is subject to regulation, examination, supervision and reporting requirements by the OCC as its primary regulator, by the FDIC as the deposit insurer and by the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection (the “BCFP”) with respect to compliance with designated consumer financial laws. Its deposit accounts are insured up to applicable limits by the FDIC under the DIF.  

The Bank files reports with the OCC concerning its activities and financial condition, and must obtain regulatory approval from the OCC prior to entering into certain transactions, such as mergers with, or acquisitions of, other depository institutions. The OCC conducts periodic examinations to assess compliance with various regulatory requirements. The OCC has substantial discretion to impose enforcement action on a national bank that fails to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, particularly with respect to capital requirements imposed on national banks. In addition, the FDIC has the authority to recommend to the OCC that enforcement action be taken with respect to a particular national bank and, if action is not taken by the OCC, the FDIC has authority to take such action under certain circumstances.  

This regulation and supervisory structure establishes a comprehensive framework of activities in which a national bank can engage and is intended primarily for the protection of the DIF, depositors and consumers. The regulatory structure also gives the regulatory authorities extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities and examination policies, including policies with respect to the classification of assets and the establishment of adequate loan loss reserves for regulatory purposes. Any change in such laws and regulations or interpretations thereof, whether by the OCC, the FDIC, and the BCFP or through legislation, could have a material adverse impact on the Bank and its operations.  

The Bank’s brokerage subsidiary, PSI, is regulated by the SEC, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority and state securities regulators. PUIA is subject to regulation by applicable state insurance regulators.  

Activity Powers. National association banks derive their lending, investment and other activity powers primarily from the National Bank Act and the regulations of the OCC thereunder. Under these laws and regulations, national banks generally may invest in:  

   •    real estate mortgages;  

   •    consumer and commercial loans;  

   •    certain types of debt securities; and  

   •    certain other assets.  

The ability of a national bank to invest in debt securities is limited to those securities that are readily marketable, investment grade and primarily non-speculative. OCC regulations also impose limits on the amount of investments in certain types of debt securities.  

4   

Table of Contents 

Safety and Soundness Standards. Each federal banking agency, including the OCC, has adopted guidelines establishing general standards relating to internal controls, information and internal audit systems, loan documentation, credit underwriting, interest rate exposure, asset growth, asset quality, earnings and compensation, fees and benefits. In general, the guidelines require, among other things, appropriate systems and practices to identify and manage the risks and exposures specified in the guidelines.  

In addition, the OCC adopted regulations to require a national bank that is given notice by the OCC that it is not satisfying any of such safety and soundness standards to submit a compliance plan to the OCC. If, after being so notified, a national bank fails to submit an acceptable compliance plan or fails in any material respect to implement an accepted compliance plan, the OCC may issue an order directing corrective and other actions of the types to which a significantly undercapitalized institution is subject under the “prompt corrective action” provisions of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act (“FDICIA”). If a national bank fails to comply with such an order, the OCC may seek to enforce the order in judicial proceedings and to impose civil monetary penalties.  

Prompt Corrective Action. FDICIA also established a system of prompt corrective action to resolve the problems of undercapitalized institutions. Under this system, federal bank regulators, including the OCC, are required to take certain, and authorized to take other, supervisory actions against undercapitalized institutions, based upon five categories of capitalization which FDICIA created: “well-capitalized,” “adequately capitalized,” “undercapitalized,” “significantly undercapitalized” and “critically undercapitalized.”  

The severity of the action authorized or required to be taken under the prompt corrective action regulations increases as a bank’s capital decreases within the three undercapitalized categories. All banks are prohibited from paying dividends or other capital distributions or paying management fees to any controlling person if, following such distribution, the bank would be undercapitalized. The OCC is required to monitor closely the condition of an undercapitalized bank and to restrict the growth of its assets. An undercapitalized bank is required to file a capital restoration plan within 45 days of the date the bank receives notice or is deemed to have notice that it is within any of the three undercapitalized categories, and the plan must be guaranteed by a parent holding company.  

The aggregate liability of a parent holding company is limited to the lesser of:  

   •    an amount equal to 5% of the bank’s total assets at the time it became “undercapitalized”; and  

   •    the amount that is necessary (or would have been necessary) to bring the bank into compliance with all capital standards applicable with respect to such bank as of the time it fails to comply with a capital restoration plan.  

If a bank fails to submit an acceptable plan, it is treated as if it were “significantly undercapitalized.” Banks that are significantly or critically undercapitalized are subject to a wider range of regulatory requirements and restrictions. Under OCC regulations, generally, a national bank is treated as “well-capitalized” if its Total risk-based capital ratio is 10% or greater, its Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio is 8% or greater, its Common Equity Tier 1 (“CET 1”) capital ratio is 6.5% or greater and its Tier 1 leverage ratio is 5% or greater, and it is not subject to any order or directive by the OCC to meet a specific capital level. As of December 31, 2018, the Bank’s regulatory capital ratios exceeded the OCC’s numeric criteria for classification as a “well-capitalized” institution. Basel III also revised the prompt corrective action framework by incorporating new regulatory capital minimums.  

Insurance Activities. National banks are generally permitted to engage in certain insurance and annuity activities through subsidiaries. However, federal banking laws prohibit depository institutions from conditioning the extension of credit to individuals upon either the purchase of an insurance product or annuity from an entity affiliated with the depository institution or an agreement by the consumer not to purchase an insurance product or annuity from an entity that is not affiliated with the depository institution. Applicable regulations also require prior disclosure of this prohibition to potential insurance product or annuity customers.  

5   

Table of Contents 

Federal banking agencies, including the OCC, also require depository institutions that offer non-deposit investment products, such as certain annuity and related insurance products, to disclose to the consumer that the products are not federally insured, are not guaranteed by the institution and are subject to investment risk including possible loss of principal. These disclosure requirements apply if the institution offers the non-deposit investment products directly or through affiliates or subsidiaries.  

Deposit Insurance. The Bank is a member of, and pays its deposit insurance assessments to, the DIF.  

The FDIC has established a system for setting deposit insurance premiums based upon the risks a particular bank poses to the DIF. The assessment is based on a bank’s average consolidated total assets minus average tangible equity (defined as Tier 1 capital). The size of the DIF is targeted at 2% of insured deposits. A reduced assessment rate schedule applies once the DIF reaches 1.15% of insured deposits, with additional reductions when the DIF reaches 2% and 2.5% of insured deposits, respectively. The FDIC applies a scorecard-based assessment system for financial institutions with more than $10 billion in assets (such as the Bank). One of the financial ratios used in the scorecard is the ratio of “higher risk” assets to Tier 1 capital and reserves. The classification of assets such as commercial and industrial loans, securities and consumer loans as “higher risk” is determined in accordance with applicable FDIC regulations and guidance.  

In March 2016, the FDIC issued a final rule that will serve to implement a Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 (the “DFA”) provision requiring banks with over $10 billion in assets to be responsible for recapitalizing the DIF to 1.35% of insured deposits after it reaches a 1.15% reserve ratio. The rule became effective on July 1, 2016. For banks with over $10 billion in assets, the rule imposes a 4.5 basis point surcharge to bring the DIF’s reserve ratio to 1.35% by the end of 2018. For the surcharge only, the assessment base would be reduced by $10 billion. In November 2018, the FDIC announced that the DIF’s reserve ratio had exceeded the 1.35% minimum reserve ratio. As such, beginning in the fourth quarter of 2018, banks with over $10 billion in assets are no longer subject to the surcharge. See Management’s Discussion and Analysis—Non-Interest Expense beginning on page 43 for a further discussion regarding regulatory assessments.  

In addition, all FDIC-insured institutions are required to pay assessments to the FDIC at an annual rate of approximately 0.0014% of insured deposits to fund interest payments on bonds issued by the Financing Corporation, an agency of the federal government established to recapitalize the predecessor to the Savings Association Insurance Fund. These assessments will continue until the Financing Corporation bonds mature between 2017 and 2019.  

Under the FDI Act, the FDIC may terminate the insurance of an institution’s deposits upon a finding that the institution has engaged in unsafe or unsound practices, is in an unsafe or unsound condition to continue operations or has violated any applicable law, regulation, rule, order or condition imposed by the FDIC.  

Transactions with Affiliates. National banks are subject to the affiliate and insider transaction rules set forth in Sections 23A, 23B, 22(g) and 22(h) of the Federal Reserve Act, and their implementing regulations, Regulation W and Regulation O, issued by the FRB. Affiliated transaction provisions, among other things, prohibit or limit a national bank from extending credit to, or entering into certain transactions with, its affiliates and principal stockholders, directors and executive officers.  

In addition, national banks are prohibited from making a loan to an affiliate that is engaged in non-bank holding company activities and purchasing or investing in securities issued by an affiliate that is not a subsidiary. The FRB and the OCC require each depository institution that is subject to the affiliate transaction restrictions of Sections 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act to implement policies and procedures to ensure compliance with Regulation W.  

6   

Table of Contents 

In addition to the insider transaction limitations of Sections 22(g) and 22(h) of the Federal Reserve Act, Section 402 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 prohibits the extension of personal loans to directors and executive officers of issuers (as defined in the Sarbanes-Oxley Act). The prohibition, however, does not apply to mortgage loans advanced by an insured depository institution, such as the Bank, that are subject to the insider lending restrictions of Section 22(h) of the Federal Reserve Act.  

Privacy Standards. The Bank is subject to OCC regulations implementing statutorily-mandated privacy protection. These regulations require the Bank to disclose its privacy policy, including identifying with whom it shares “non-public personal information,” to customers at the time of establishing the customer relationship and annually thereafter. In addition, the Bank is required to provide its customers with the ability to “opt-out” of having the Bank share their non-public personal information with unaffiliated third parties before the Bank can disclose such information, subject to certain exceptions.  

In addition to certain state laws governing protection of customer information, the Bank is subject to federal regulatory guidelines establishing standards for safeguarding customer information. The guidelines describe the agencies’ expectations for the creation, implementation and maintenance of an information security program, which would include administrative, technical and physical safeguards appropriate to the size and complexity of the institution and the nature and scope of its activities. The standards set forth in the guidelines are intended to ensure the security and confidentiality of customer records and information, protect against any anticipated threats or hazards to the security or integrity of such records and protect against unauthorized access to or use of such records or information that could result in substantial harm or inconvenience to any customer. Federal guidelines also impose certain customer disclosures and other actions in the event of unauthorized access to customer information.  

Community Reinvestment Act. Under the Community Reinvestment Act (the “CRA”), as implemented by the OCC regulations, any national bank, including the Bank, has a continuing and affirmative obligation consistent with its safe and sound operation to help meet the credit needs of its entire community, including low and moderate income neighborhoods. The CRA does not establish specific lending requirements or programs for financial institutions nor does it limit an institution’s discretion to develop the types of products and services that it believes are best suited to its particular community. The CRA requires the OCC, in connection with its examination of a federally-chartered savings bank, to assess the depository institution’s record of meeting the credit needs of its community and to take such record into account in its evaluation of certain applications by such institution.  

Current CRA regulations rate an institution based on its actual performance in meeting community needs. In particular, the evaluation system focuses on three tests:  

   •    a lending test, to evaluate the institution’s record of making loans in its service areas;  

   •    an investment test, to evaluate the institution’s record of investing in community development projects, affordable housing and programs benefiting low or moderate income individuals and businesses; and  

   •    a service test, to evaluate the institution’s delivery of services through its branches, ATMs and other offices.  

The CRA also requires all institutions to make public disclosure of their CRA ratings. The Bank received a “satisfactory” rating in its most recent CRA examination for the evaluation period ending December 31, 2015. The Federal banking agencies adopted regulations implementing the requirements under the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act that insured depository institutions publicly disclose certain agreements that are in fulfillment of the CRA. The Bank has no such agreements in place at this time.  

7   

Table of Contents 

Loans to One Borrower. Generally, national banks may not make a loan or extend credit, including credit associated with derivatives and securities financing transactions, to a single or related group of borrowers in excess of 15% of the institution’s unimpaired capital and surplus. Additional amounts may be loaned, not in excess of 10% of unimpaired capital and surplus, if such loans or extensions of credit are secured by readily-marketable collateral. The Bank is in compliance with applicable loans to one borrower limitations.  

Nontraditional Mortgage Products. The Federal banking agencies have issued guidance for institutions that originate or service nontraditional or alternative mortgage products, defined to include all residential mortgage loan products that allow borrowers to defer repayment on principal or interest, such as interest-only mortgages and payment option adjustable-rate mortgages. A portion of the Bank’s adjustable-rate residential mortgage loans represent interest-only residential mortgage loans. None of these loans permit negative amortization or optional payment amounts.  

Recognizing that alternative mortgage products expose institutions to increased risks as compared to traditional loans where payments amortize or reduce the principal amount, the guidance requires increased scrutiny for alternative mortgage products. Institutions that originate or service alternative mortgages should have: (i) strong risk management practices that include maintenance of capital levels and allowance for loan losses commensurate with the risk; (ii) prudent lending policies and underwriting standards that address a borrower’s repayment capacity; and (iii) programs and practices designed to ensure that consumers receive clear and balanced information to assist in making informed decisions about mortgage products. The guidance also recommends heightened controls and safeguards when an institution combines an alternative mortgage product with features that compound risk, such as a simultaneous second-lien or the use of reduced documentation to evaluate a loan application. The Bank complies with the guidance on non-traditional mortgage products as it is interpreted and applied by the OCC.  

Liquidity. The Bank maintains sufficient liquidity to ensure its safe and sound operation, in accordance with applicable OCC regulations.  

Assessments. The OCC charges assessments to recover the cost of examining national banks and their affiliates. These assessments are based on three components: (i) the size of the institution on which the basic assessment is based; (ii) the institution’s supervisory condition, which results in an additional assessment based on a percentage of the basic assessment for any savings institution with a composite rating of 3, 4 or 5 in its most recent safety and soundness examination; and (iii) the complexity of the institution’s operations, which results in an additional assessment based on a percentage of the basic assessment for any savings institution that managed over $1 billion in trust assets, serviced for others loans aggregating more than $1 billion, or had certain off-balance-sheet assets aggregating more than $1 billion.  

Branching. Under OCC branching regulations, the Bank is generally authorized to open branches nationwide. The Bank is required to submit an application to the OCC and publish a public notice prior to establishing a new branch or relocating an existing branch. OCC authority preempts any state law purporting to regulate branching by national banks.  

Anti-Money Laundering and Customer Identification. The Bank is subject to OCC and Financial Crimes Enforcement Network regulations implementing the Bank Secrecy Act, as amended by the USA PATRIOT Act. The USA PATRIOT Act gives the federal government powers to address terrorist threats through enhanced domestic security measures, expanded surveillance powers, increased information sharing and broadened anti-money laundering requirements. By way of amendments to the Bank Secrecy Act, Title III of the USA PATRIOT Act takes measures intended to encourage information sharing among banks, regulatory agencies and law enforcement bodies. Further, certain provisions of Title III impose affirmative reporting obligations on a broad range of financial institutions, including national banks like the Bank.  

8   

Table of Contents 

Federal Home Loan Bank System. The Bank is a member of the Federal Home Loan Bank (the “FHLB”) system, which consists of twelve regional FHLBs, each subject to supervision and regulation by the Federal Housing Finance Agency. The FHLB system provides a central credit facility primarily for member institutions as well as other entities involved in home mortgage lending. It is funded primarily from proceeds derived from the sale of consolidated obligations of the FHLBs. It makes loans or advances to members in accordance with policies and procedures, including collateral requirements, established by the respective boards of directors of the FHLBs. These policies and procedures are subject to the regulation and oversight of the Federal Housing Finance Agency, which has also established standards of community or investment service that members must meet to maintain access to long-term advances.  

The Bank, as a member of the FHLB of Boston, is currently required to purchase and hold shares of capital stock in the FHLB of Boston in an amount equal to 0.35% of the Bank’s Membership Stock Investment Base plus an Activity Based Stock Investment Requirement. The Activity Based Stock Investment Requirement is equal to 3.0% of the principal balance of FHLB advances with an original maturity of one day and 4.0% of the principal balance of FHLB advances with an original maturity of two days or longer. The Bank is in compliance with these requirements. As a result of prior acquisitions, the Bank also holds shares of capital stock in the FHLB of New York. The Bank, as a member of the Federal Reserve Bank system, is currently required to purchase and hold shares of capital stock in the Federal Reserve Bank of New York (the “FRB-NY”) in an amount equal to 6% of its capital and surplus.  

Reserve Requirements. FRB reserve regulations require banks to maintain reserves against their transaction accounts (primarily negotiable order of withdrawal and demand deposit accounts). Institutions must maintain a reserve of 3% against aggregate transaction account balances between $16.3 million and $124.2 million (subject to adjustment by the FRB) plus a reserve of 10% (subject to adjustment by the FRB within specific limits) against that portion of total transaction account balances in excess of $124.2 million. The first $16.3 million of otherwise reservable balances is exempt from the reserve requirements. The Bank is in compliance with the foregoing requirements. The required reserves must be maintained in the form of vault cash, or an interest-bearing account at a Federal Reserve Bank, or a pass-through account as defined by the FRB.  

Market Area and Competition  

People’s United’s primary market areas are New England and southeastern New York, with Connecticut, New York and Massachusetts having the largest concentration of its loans, deposits and branches. At December 31, 2018, 26%, 20% and 18% of the Company’s loans by outstanding principal amount were to customers located within Connecticut, New York and Massachusetts, respectively. Loans to customers located in the New England states as a group represented 56% of total loans at December 31, 2018. However, substantially the entire equipment financing portfolio (95% at December 31, 2018) was to customers located outside of New England. At December 31, 2018, 25% of the equipment financing portfolio was to customers located in Texas, California and New York, and no other state exposure was greater than 5%.  

As of June 30, 2018, People’s United had: (i) the largest market share of deposits in Fairfield County, Connecticut; (ii) the third largest market share of deposits in the state of Connecticut; and (iii) the largest market share of deposits in the state of Vermont. People’s United competes for deposits, loans and financial services with commercial banks, savings institutions, commercial and consumer finance companies, mortgage banking companies, insurance companies, credit unions and a variety of other institutional lenders and securities firms.  

9   

Table of Contents 

As People’s United’s predominant market, Connecticut is one of the most attractive banking markets in the U.S. With a total population of approximately 3.6 million and a median household income of $78,970, Connecticut ranks seventh in the U.S., well above the U.S. median household income of $63,174, according to U.S. Census data and SNL Financial. The median household income in New York, which has the Company’s second highest number of branches, was $68,659, according to U.S. Census data and SNL Financial. The median household income in Massachusetts and Vermont, which have the Company’s third and fourth highest number of branches, was $82,084 and $63,157, respectively, according to U.S. Census data and SNL Financial.  

The principal basis of competition for deposits is the interest rate paid for those deposits and related fees, the convenience of access to services through traditional and non-traditional delivery alternatives, and the quality of services to customers. The principal basis of competition for loans is through the interest rates and loan fees charged and the development of relationships based on the efficiency, convenience and quality of services provided to borrowers. Further competition has been created through the rapid acceleration of commerce conducted over the Internet. This has enabled institutions, including People’s United, to compete in markets outside their traditional geographic boundaries.  

Personnel  

As of December 31, 2018, People’s United had 5,536 full-time and 384 part-time employees.  

Access to Information  

As a public company, People’s United is subject to the informational requirements of the Exchange Act, as amended and, in accordance therewith, files reports, proxy and information statements and other information with the SEC. Such reports, proxy and information statements and other information can be inspected and copied at prescribed rates at the public reference room maintained by the SEC at 100 F Street N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549 and are available on the SEC’s EDGAR database on the internet at www.sec.gov. Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for further information on the public reference room. People’s United’s common stock is listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol “PBCT.”  

Copies of many of these reports are also available through People’s United’s website at www.peoples.com.  

People’s United currently provides website access to the following reports:  

Form 10-K;  

Form 10-Q;  

Form 8-K;  

Annual Report to Shareholders; and  

Proxy Statement for Annual Meeting of Shareholders  

10   

Table of Contents 

 Item 1A.  Risk Factors