Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Cautionary Note Concerning Forward-Looking Statements

The discussion under this caption "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and elsewhere in this document, including, for example, under the "Risk Factors" and "Business" captions, includes "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. All statements other than statements of historical fact, including statements regarding guidance (including our expectations for the first quarter and full year of 2019 and our earnings and yield estimates for 2019 set forth under the heading "Outlook" below), business and industry prospects or future results of operations or financial position, made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are forward-looking. Words such as "anticipate," "believe," "could," "estimate," "expect," "goal," "intend," "may," "plan," "project," "seek," "should," "will," "driving" and similar expressions are intended to further identify any of these forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements reflect management's current expectations but they are based on judgments and are inherently uncertain. Furthermore, they are subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause our actual results, performance or achievements to differ materially from the future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied in those forward-looking statements. Examples of these risks, uncertainties and other factors include, but are not limited to, those discussed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and, in particular, the risks discussed under the caption "Risk Factors" in Part I, Item 1A of this report.

All forward-looking statements made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K speak only as of the date of this document. Given these risks and uncertainties, readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. 

Overview

The discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations have been organized to present the following:

•a review of our critical accounting policies and of our financial presentation, including discussion of certain operational and financial metrics we utilize to assist us in managing our business;[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•a discussion of our liquidity and capital resources, including our future capital and contractual commitments and potential funding sources.

Critical Accounting Policies

Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP"). (Refer to Note 1. General and Note 2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies to our consolidated financial statements under Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data). Certain of our accounting policies are deemed "critical," as they require management's highest degree of judgment, estimates and assumptions. We have discussed these accounting policies and estimates with the audit committee of our board of directors. We believe our most critical accounting policies are as follows:

Ship Accounting

Our ships represent our most significant assets and are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and amortization. Depreciation of ships is generally computed net of a 15% projected residual value using the straight-line method over the estimated useful life of the asset, which is generally 30 years. The 30-year useful life of our newly 

38
constructed ships and 15% associated residual value are both based on the weighted-average of all major components of a ship. Our useful life and residual value estimates take into consideration the impact of anticipated technological changes, long-term cruise and vacation market conditions and historical useful lives of similarly-built ships. In addition, we take into consideration our estimates of the weighted-average useful lives of the ships' major component systems, such as hull, superstructure, main electric, engines and cabins. Given the very large and complex nature of our ships, our accounting estimates related to ships and determinations of ship improvement costs to be capitalized require considerable judgment and are inherently uncertain. We do not have cost segregation studies performed to specifically componentize our ship systems. Therefore, we estimate the costs of component systems based principally on general and technical information known about major ship component systems and their lives and our knowledge of the cruise vacation industry. We do not identify and track depreciation by ship component systems, but instead utilize these estimates to determine the net cost basis of assets replaced or refurbished. Improvement costs that we believe add value to our ships are capitalized as additions to the ship and depreciated over the shorter of the improvements' estimated useful lives or that of the associated ship. The estimated cost and accumulated depreciation of replaced or refurbished ship components are written off and any resulting losses are recognized in Cruise operating expenses.

We use the deferral method to account for drydocking costs. Under the deferral method, drydocking costs incurred are deferred and charged to expense on a straight-line basis over the period to the next scheduled drydock, which we estimate to be a period of thirty to sixty months based on the vessel's age as required by Class. Deferred drydock costs consist of the costs to drydock the vessel and other costs incurred in connection with the drydock which are necessary to maintain the vessel's Class certification. Class certification is necessary in order for our cruise ships to be flagged in a specific country, obtain liability insurance and legally operate as passenger cruise ships. The activities associated with those drydocking costs cannot be performed while the vessel is in service and, as such, are done during a drydock as a planned major maintenance activity. The significant deferred drydock costs consist of hauling and wharfage services provided by the drydock facility, hull inspection and related activities (e.g., scraping, pressure cleaning, bottom painting), maintenance to steering propulsion, thruster equipment and ballast tanks, port services such as tugs, pilotage and line handling, and freight associated with these items. We perform a detailed analysis of the various activities performed for each drydock and only defer those costs that are directly related to planned major maintenance activities necessary to maintain Class. The costs deferred are related to activities not otherwise routinely periodically performed to maintain a vessel's designed and intended operating capability. Repairs and maintenance activities are charged to expense as incurred.

We use judgment when estimating the period between drydocks, which can result in adjustments to the estimated amortization of drydock costs. If the vessel is disposed of before the next drydock, the remaining balance in deferred drydock is written-off to the gain or loss upon disposal of vessel in the period in which the sale takes place. We also use judgment when identifying costs incurred during a drydock which are necessary to maintain the vessel's Class certification as compared to those costs attributable to repairs and maintenance which are expensed as incurred. 

We believe we have made reasonable estimates for ship accounting purposes. However, should certain factors or circumstances cause us to revise our estimates of ship useful lives or projected residual values, depreciation expense could be materially higher or lower. If circumstances cause us to change our assumptions in making determinations as to whether ship improvements should be capitalized, the amounts we expense each year as repairs and maintenance costs could increase, partially offset by a decrease in depreciation expense. If we had reduced our estimated average ship useful life by one year, depreciation expense for 2018 would have increased by approximately $63.8 million. If our ships were estimated to have no residual value, depreciation expense for 2018 would have increased by approximately $243.0 million.

Business Combinations

On July 31, 2018, we acquired a 66.7% equity stake in Silversea Cruises for $1.02 billion in cash and contingent consideration. Refer to Note 3. Business Combination to our consolidated financial statements under Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data for further information on the acquisition 

We account for business combinations in accordance with ASC 805, Business Combinations, by applying the acquisition method of accounting. The acquisition method of accounting requires that we record the assets acquired and liabilities assumed, and the noncontrolling interest, if any, at their respective fair values at the acquisition date. Goodwill is recognized as the excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the net assets acquired. Significant 

39
estimates and assumptions are made by management to value such assets and liabilities based on third party valuations such as appraisals or internal valuations based on discounted cash flow analyses or other valuation techniques. Although we believe that those estimates and assumptions are reasonable and appropriate, they are inherently uncertain and subject to change. If during the measurement period (not to exceed one year), additional information is obtained about facts and circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date related to the fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed, we may adjust our estimates to account for subsequent adjustments to the provisional amounts recognized at the acquisition date, resulting in an offsetting adjustment to the goodwill associated with the business acquired.

Uncertain tax positions and tax-related valuation allowances are initially established in connection with a business combination as of the acquisition date. We continue to collect information and reevaluate these estimates and assumptions quarterly. We will record any adjustments to our preliminary estimates to goodwill, provided that we are within the one-year measurement period.

Any contingent consideration is estimated at fair value at the acquisition date. Liability-classified contingent consideration is remeasured each reporting period, with changes in fair value recognized in earnings until the contingent consideration is settled.

Valuation of Goodwill, Indefinite-Lived Intangible Assets and Long-Lived Assets

We review goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment at the reporting unit level annually or, when events or circumstances dictate, more frequently. The impairment review for goodwill consists of a qualitative assessment of whether it is more-likely-than-not that a reporting unit's fair value is less than its carrying amount, and if necessary, a two-step goodwill impairment test. Factors to consider when performing the qualitative assessment include general economic conditions, limitations on accessing capital, changes in forecasted operating results, changes in fuel prices and fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. If the qualitative assessment demonstrates that it is more-likely-than-not that the estimated fair value of the reporting unit exceeds its carrying value, it is not necessary to perform the two-step goodwill impairment test. We may elect to bypass the qualitative assessment and proceed directly to step one, for any reporting unit, in any period. On a periodic basis, we elect to bypass the qualitative assessment and proceed to step one to corroborate the results of recent years' qualitative assessments. We can resume the qualitative assessment for any reporting unit in any subsequent period. 

When performing the two-step goodwill impairment test, the fair value of the reporting unit is determined and compared to the carrying value of the net assets allocated to the reporting unit. We estimate the fair value of our reporting units using a probability-weighted discounted cash flow model. The estimation of fair value utilizing discounted expected future cash flows includes numerous uncertainties which require our significant judgment when making assumptions of expected revenues, operating costs, marketing, selling and administrative expenses, interest rates, ship additions and retirements as well as assumptions regarding the cruise vacation industry's competitive environment and general economic and business conditions, among other factors. The principal assumptions we use in the discounted cash flow model are projected operating results, weighted-average cost of capital, and terminal value. The discounted cash flow model uses the most current projected operating results for the upcoming fiscal year as a base. To that base, we add future years' cash flows assuming multiple revenue and expense scenarios that reflect the impact of different global economic environments beyond the base year on the reporting unit. We discount the projected cash flows using rates specific to the reporting unit based on its weighted-average cost of capital. If the fair value of the reporting unit exceeds its carrying value, no further analysis or write-down of goodwill is required. If the fair value of the reporting unit is less than the carrying value of its net assets, the implied fair value of the reporting unit is allocated to all its underlying assets and liabilities, including both recognized and unrecognized tangible and intangible assets, based on their fair value. If necessary, goodwill is then written down to its implied fair value.

The impairment review for indefinite-life intangible assets consists of a comparison of the fair value of the asset with its carrying amount. We estimate the fair value of these assets using a discounted cash flow model and various valuation methods depending on the nature of the intangible asset, such as the relief-from-royalty method for trademarks and trade names. If the carrying amount exceeds its fair value, an impairment loss is recognized in an amount equal to that excess. If the fair value exceeds its carrying amount, the indefinite-life intangible asset is not considered impaired. As of December 31, 2018, the carrying amount of indefinite-life intangible assets was $351.7 million, which primarily relates to the Silversea Cruises trade name acquired in the Silversea Cruises acquisition. Other intangible assets assigned finite useful lives are amortized on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives. Refer to Note 6, Intangible 

40
Assets to our consolidated financial statements under Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplemental Data for further information on indefinite-life intangible assets.

We review our ships and other long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate, based on estimated undiscounted future cash flows, that the carrying amount of these assets may not be fully recoverable. We evaluate asset impairment at the lowest level for which identifiable cash flows are largely independent of the cash flows of other assets and liabilities. The lowest level for which we maintain identifiable cash flows that are independent of the cash flows of other assets and liabilities is at the ship level for our ships and, prior to the sale of the aircraft, at the aggregated asset group level for our aircraft. If estimated future cash flows are less than the carrying value of an asset, an impairment charge is recognized to the extent its carrying value exceeds fair value.

We estimate fair value based on quoted market prices in active markets, if available. If active markets are not available, we base fair value on independent appraisals, sales price negotiations and projected future cash flows discounted at a rate estimated by management to be commensurate with the business risk. Quoted market prices are often not available for individual reporting units and for indefinite-life intangible assets. Accordingly, we estimate the fair value of a reporting unit and an indefinite-life intangible asset using an expected present value technique.

Royal Caribbean International

During the fourth quarter of 2018, we performed a qualitative assessment of the Royal Caribbean International reporting unit. Based on our qualitative assessment, we concluded that it was more-likely-than-not that the estimated fair value of the Royal Caribbean International reporting unit exceeded its carrying value and thus, we did not proceed to the two-step goodwill impairment test. No indicators of impairment exist primarily because the reporting unit's fair value has consistently exceeded its carrying value by a significant margin and forecasts of operating results expected to be generated by the reporting unit appear sufficient to support its carrying value. As of December 31, 2018, the carrying amount of goodwill attributable to our Royal Caribbean reporting unit was $286.7 million.

Silversea Cruises

The goodwill for the Silversea Cruises reporting unit was recorded at fair value at July 31, 2018, the acquisition date. Refer to Note 3. Business Combination to our consolidated financial statements under Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplemental Data for further information on the Silversea Cruises acquisition. During the fourth quarter of 2018, we performed a qualitative assessment of the Silversea Cruises reporting unit. Based on our qualitative assessment, we concluded that it was more-likely-than-not that the estimated fair value of the Silversea Cruises reporting unit exceeded its carrying value and thus, we did not proceed to the two-step goodwill impairment test. No indicators of impairment exist primarily because forecasts of operating results expected to be generated by the reporting unit appear sufficient to support its carrying value. As of December 31, 2018, the carrying amount of goodwill attributable to our Silversea Cruises reporting unit was $1.1 billion.

Derivative Instruments

We enter into various forward, swap and option contracts to manage our interest rate exposure and to limit our exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and fuel prices. These instruments are recorded on the balance sheet at their fair value and the vast majority are designated as hedges. We also use non-derivative financial instruments designated as hedges of our net investment in our foreign operations and investments. Although certain of our derivative financial instruments do not qualify or are not accounted for under hedge accounting, we do not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading or other speculative purposes. We account for derivative financial instruments in accordance with authoritative guidance. Refer to Note 2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Note 17. Fair Value Measurements and Derivative Instruments to our consolidated financial statements under Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data for more information on related authoritative guidance, the Company's hedging programs and derivative financial instruments.

On a regular basis, we enter into foreign currency forward contracts, interest rate and fuel swaps and options with third-party institutions in over-the-counter markets. We estimate the fair value of our foreign currency forward contracts and interest rate swaps using expected future cash flows based on the instruments' contract terms and published forward prices for foreign currency exchange and interest rates. We apply present value techniques and LIBOR or EURIBOR-based discount rates to convert the expected future cash flows to the current fair value of the instruments.

41
We estimate the fair value of our fuel swaps using expected future cash flows based on the swaps' contract terms and forward prices. We derive forward prices from forward fuel curves based on pricing inputs provided by third-party institutions that transact in the fuel indices we hedge. We validate these pricing inputs against actual market transactions and published price quotes for similar assets. We apply present value techniques and LIBOR-based discount rates to convert the expected future cash flows to the current fair value of the instruments. We also corroborate our fair value estimates using valuations provided by our counterparties.

We adjust the valuation of our derivative financial instruments to incorporate credit risk.

We believe it is unlikely that materially different estimates for the fair value of our foreign currency forward contracts and interest rate and fuel swaps and options would be derived from other appropriate valuation models using similar assumptions, inputs or conditions suggested by actual historical experience.

Contingencies—Litigation

On an ongoing basis, we assess the potential liabilities related to any lawsuits or claims brought against us. While it is typically very difficult to determine the timing and ultimate outcome of such actions, we use our best judgment to determine if it is probable that we will incur an expense related to the settlement or final adjudication of such matters and whether a reasonable estimation of such probable loss, if any, can be made. In assessing probable losses, we take into consideration estimates of the amount of insurance recoveries, if any, which are recorded as assets when recoverability is probable. We accrue a liability when we believe a loss is probable and the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated. Due to the inherent uncertainties related to the eventual outcome of litigation and potential insurance recoveries, it is possible that certain matters may be resolved for amounts materially different from any provisions or disclosures that we have previously made.

Seasonality

Our revenues are seasonal based on demand for cruises. Demand is strongest for cruises during the Northern Hemisphere's summer months and holidays. In order to mitigate the impact of the winter weather in the Northern Hemisphere and to capitalize on the summer season in the Southern Hemisphere, our brands have focused on deployment to the Caribbean, Asia and Australia during that period.

Financial Presentation

Description of Certain Line Items

Revenues

Our revenues are comprised of the following:

•Passenger ticket revenues, which consist of revenue recognized from the sale of passenger tickets and the sale of air transportation to and from our ships; and

•Onboard and other revenues, which consist primarily of revenues from the sale of goods and/or services onboard our ships not included in passenger ticket prices, cancellation fees, sales of vacation protection insurance and pre- and post-cruise tours. Onboard and other revenues also includes revenues we receive from independent third-party concessionaires that pay us a percentage of their revenues in exchange for the right to provide selected goods and/or services onboard our ships, as well as revenues received for our bareboat charter, procurement and management related services we perform on behalf of our unconsolidated affiliates.

Cruise Operating Expenses

Our cruise operating expenses are comprised of the following:

•Commissions, transportation and other expenses, which consist of those costs directly associated with passenger ticket revenues, including travel agent commissions, air and other transportation expenses, port costs that vary with passenger head counts and related credit card fees;

42
•Onboard and other expenses, which consist of the direct costs associated with onboard and other revenues, including the costs of products sold onboard our ships, vacation protection insurance premiums, costs associated with pre- and post-cruise tours and related credit card fees as well as the minimal costs associated with concession revenues, as the costs are mostly incurred by third-party concessionaires and costs incurred for the procurement and management related services we perform on behalf of our unconsolidated affiliates;

•Payroll and related expenses, which consist of costs for shipboard personnel (costs associated with our shoreside personnel are included in Marketing, selling and administrative expenses);

•Food expenses, which include food costs for both guests and crew;

•Fuel expenses, which include fuel and related delivery, storage and emission consumable costs and the financial impact of fuel swap agreements; and

•Other operating expenses, which consist primarily of operating costs such as repairs and maintenance, port costs that do not vary with passenger head counts, vessel related insurance, entertainment and gains and/or losses related to the sale of our ships, if any. 

We do not allocate payroll and related expenses, food expenses, fuel expenses or other operating expenses to the expense categories attributable to passenger ticket revenues or onboard and other revenues since they are incurred to provide the total cruise vacation experience.

Selected Operational and Financial Metrics

We utilize a variety of operational and financial metrics which are defined below to evaluate our performance and financial condition. As discussed in more detail herein, certain of these metrics are non-GAAP financial measures. These non-GAAP financial measures are provided along with the related GAAP financial measures as we believe they provide useful information to investors as a supplement to our consolidated financial statements, which are prepared and presented in accordance with GAAP. The presentation of non-GAAP financial information is not intended to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for, or superior to, the financial information prepared and presented in accordance with GAAP.

Adjusted Earnings per Share ("Adjusted EPS") represents Adjusted Net Income attributable to Royal Caribbean Cruises Ltd. divided by weighted average shares outstanding or by diluted weighted average shares outstanding, as applicable. We believe that this non-GAAP measure is meaningful when assessing our performance on a comparative basis.

Adjusted Net Income attributable to Royal Caribbean Cruises Ltd. ("Adjusted Net Income") represents net income less net income attributable to noncontrolling interest excluding certain items that we believe adjusting for is meaningful when assessing our performance on a comparative basis. For the periods presented, these items included (i) the impairment loss related to Skysea Holding, (ii) the impairment loss and other costs related to the exit of our tour operations business, (iii) the transaction costs related to the Silversea Cruises acquisition, (iv) the amortization of the Silversea Cruises intangible assets resulting from the acquisition, (v) the noncontrolling interest adjustment to exclude the impact of the contractual accretion requirements associated with the put option held by Silversea Cruises Group Ltd.'s noncontrolling interest, (vi) the impact of the change in accounting principle related to the recognition of stock-based compensation expense from the graded attribution method to the straight-line attribution method for time-based stock awards, (vii) the net loss related to the elimination of the Pullmantur reporting lag, (viii) the net gain related to the 51% sale of the Pullmantur and CDF Croisières de France ("CDF") brands, (ix) the restructuring charges and other initiative costs related to our Pullmantur right-sizing strategy and (x) other restructuring initiatives. 

Available Passenger Cruise Days ("APCD") is our measurement of capacity and represents double occupancy per cabin multiplied by the number of cruise days for the period, which excludes canceled cruise days and drydock days. We use this measure to perform capacity and rate analysis to identify our main non-capacity drivers that cause our cruise revenue and expenses to vary.

Gross Cruise Costs represent the sum of total cruise operating expenses plus marketing, selling and administrative expenses. For the periods presented, Gross Cruise Costs exclude the impairment loss and other costs related to the exit of our tour operations business, the transaction costs related to the Silversea Cruises acquisition, the impact of the 

43
change in accounting principle related to the recognition of stock-based compensation expense from the graded attribution method to the straight-line attribution method for time-based stock awards and restructuring charges, which were included within Marketing, selling and administrative expenses.

Gross Yields represent total revenues per APCD.

Net Cruise Costs and Net Cruise Costs Excluding Fuel represent Gross Cruise Costs excluding commissions, transportation and other expenses and onboard and other expenses and, in the case of Net Cruise Costs Excluding Fuel, fuel expenses (each of which is described above under the Description of Certain Line Items heading). In measuring our ability to control costs in a manner that positively impacts net income, we believe changes in Net Cruise Costs and Net Cruise Costs Excluding Fuel to be the most relevant indicators of our performance. A reconciliation of historical Gross Cruise Costs to Net Cruise Costs and Net Cruise Costs Excluding Fuel is provided below under Results of Operations. For the periods presented, Net Cruise Costs excludes the net gain related to the 51% sale of the Pullmantur and CDF brands, restructuring charges and other initiative costs related to our Pullmantur right-sizing strategy and other restructuring initiatives. 

Net Revenues represent total revenues less commissions, transportation and other expenses and onboard and other expenses (each of which is described above under the Description of Certain Line Items heading). 

Net Yields represent Net Revenues per APCD. We utilize Net Revenues and Net Yields to manage our business on a day-to-day basis as we believe that they are the most relevant measures of our pricing performance because they reflect the cruise revenues earned by us net of our most significant variable costs, which are commissions, transportation and other expenses and onboard and other expenses. A reconciliation of historical Gross Yields to Net Yields is provided below under Results of Operations. For the periods presented, Net Yields excludes initiative costs related to the sale of the Pullmantur and CDF brands.

Occupancy, in accordance with cruise vacation industry practice, is calculated by dividing Passenger Cruise Days by APCD. A percentage in excess of 100% indicates that three or more passengers occupied some cabins.

Passenger Cruise Days represent the number of passengers carried for the period multiplied by the number of days of their respective cruises.

We believe Net Yields, Net Cruise Costs and Net Cruise Costs Excluding Fuel are our most relevant non-GAAP financial measures. However, a significant portion of our revenue and expenses are denominated in currencies other than the United States dollar. Because our reporting currency is the United States dollar, the value of these revenues and expenses can be affected by changes in currency exchange rates. Although such changes in local currency prices are just one of many elements impacting our revenues and expenses, they can be an important element. For this reason, we also monitor Net Yields, Net Cruise Costs and Net Cruise Costs Excluding Fuel as if the current period's currency exchange rates had remained constant with the comparable prior period's rates, or on a "Constant Currency" basis.

It should be emphasized that Constant Currency is primarily used for comparing short-term changes and/or projections. Changes in guest sourcing and shifting the amount of purchases between currencies can change the impact of the purely currency-based fluctuations.

The use of certain significant non-GAAP measures, such as Net Yields, Net Cruise Costs and Net Cruise Costs Excluding Fuel, allows us to perform capacity and rate analysis to separate the impact of known capacity changes from other less predictable changes which affect our business. We believe these non-GAAP measures provide expanded insight to measure revenue and cost performance in addition to the standard GAAP based financial measures. There are no specific rules or regulations for determining non-GAAP and Constant Currency measures, and as such, they may not be comparable to other companies within the industry. 

We have not provided a quantitative reconciliation of (i) projected Total revenues to projected Net Revenues, (ii) projected Gross Yields to projected Net Yields, (iii) projected Gross Cruise Costs to projected Net Cruise Costs and projected Net Cruise Costs Excluding Fuel and (iv) projected Net Income attributable to Royal Caribbean Cruises Ltd. and Earnings per Share to projected Adjusted Net Income and Adjusted Earnings per Share because preparation of meaningful GAAP projections of Total revenues, Gross Yields, Gross Cruise Costs, Net Income attributable to Royal Caribbean Cruises Ltd. and Earnings per Share would require unreasonable effort. Due to significant uncertainty, we 

44
are unable to predict, without unreasonable effort, the future movement of foreign exchange rates, fuel prices and interest rates inclusive of our related hedging programs. In addition, we are unable to determine the future impact of restructuring expenses or other non-core business related gains and losses which may result from strategic initiatives. These items are uncertain and could be material to our results of operations in accordance with GAAP. Due to this uncertainty, we do not believe that reconciling information for such projected figures would be meaningful.

45
Executive Overview

Our 2018 net income was $1.8 billion, or $8.56 per diluted share, compared to $1.6 billion, or $7.53 per diluted share, in 2017. Adjusted Net Income for 2018 was $1.9 billion, or $8.86 per diluted share, compared to $1.6 billion, or $7.53 per diluted share, in 2017. Adjusted EPS for 2018 represents the fifth straight year we achieved double digit earnings growth with an 18% increase compared to 2017. 

Additionally, Net Yields on a Constant-Currency basis increased for the ninth consecutive year. For the year ended December 31, 2018, our Net Yields on a Constant-Currency basis increased by 4.4%, primarily driven by increases in both ticket and onboard yields. Net onboard revenue yield in 2018 grew by 5.1% year-over-year on a Constant Currency basis. Growth came from a variety of revenue enhancing initiatives, including beverage package sales and promotions, gaming initiatives and new strategies and promotions on our shore excursions, specialty restaurants and Internet services.

We remain dedicated to finding efficiencies, identifying synergies and reducing costs, while at the same time, focusing on strategic investments in areas that will boost revenue. In 2018, our Net Cruise Costs Excluding Fuel increased by 4.1% on a Constant Currency basis compared to 2017. 

The Company remains focused on improving returns for our shareholders. In 2018, we bought back $575 million shares of common stock and we have $700 million remaining under our $1.0 billion share repurchase program that was announced in May 2018. Consistent with our earnings growth, we also announced a 17% increase to our common stock dividend, our sixth consecutive year with a dividend increase.

For the first time in our history, in 2018, three of our Global Brands each welcomed a ship. Royal Caribbean International welcomed newbuild Symphony of the Seas in March; Azamara Club Cruises welcomed Azamara Pursuit in September; and Celebrity Cruises welcomed newbuild Celebrity Edge in November. Also in 2018, TUI Cruises, our 50% joint venture, took delivery of a new Mein Schiff 1.

In addition, in July 2018, we acquired a 66.7% equity stake in Silversea Cruises, an ultra-luxury and expedition cruise line with nine ships. This acquisition enhances our presence in the ultra-luxury and expedition markets and provide us with an opportunity to drive long-term capacity growth in these markets.

In 2019, we expect our capacity to increase by 8.6% as each of the ships added to our Global Brands' fleet in 2018 will have it first full year of sailings. In addition, our Royal Caribbean brand will welcome Spectrum of the Seas, our first ship tailored to the Chinese market, which will expand our commitment to that market. In the second quarter of 2019, our Celebrity Cruises brand will welcome Celebrity Flora, the brand's first newbuild designed specifically for the Galapagos Islands. Additionally, we will have our first full year with Silversea Cruises and will launch Perfect Day at CocoCay in Spring 2019, the first development in our Perfect Day Island Collection. 

From an offering perspective, we are expanding our short Caribbean program that includes the newly modernized Mariner of the Seas and the soon-to-be modernized Navigator of the Seas. We are also improving our Alaska itineraries to include larger ships for both our Royal Caribbean International and Celebrity Cruises brands. Additionally, Silversea Cruises' newest ship, the Silver Muse, will be in Alaska and Azamara will have its first Alaskan season. 

46
Results of Operations

In addition to the items discussed above under "Executive Overview," significant items for 2018 include:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Other items for 2018 include:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•In March 2018, we completed the purchase of Azamara Pursuit, which entered service during the third quarter of 2018.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

47
(expense) within our consolidated statements of comprehensive income (loss). Refer to Note 8. Other Assets to our consolidated financial statements under Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data for further information on the impairment.

We reported Net Income attributable to Royal Caribbean Cruises Ltd, Adjusted Net Income, earnings per share and Adjusted Earnings per Share as shown in the following table (in thousands, except per share data): 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(2)In 2014, we created a tour operations business that focused on developing, marketing and selling land based tours around the world through an e-commerce platform. During the second quarter of 2018, we decided to cease operations and exit this business. As a result, we incurred exit costs, primarily consisting of fixed asset impairment charges and severance expense. [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

48
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(5)In January 2018, we elected to change our accounting policy for recognizing stock-based compensation expense from the graded attribution method to the straight-line attribution method for time-based stock awards. Refer to Note 2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies to our consolidated financial statements under Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data for further information on our accounting policy. 

The following table presents operating results as a percentage of total revenues for the last three years:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Selected statistical information is shown in the following table:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]___________________________________________________________________[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(2)These amounts do not include November and December 2015 amounts for Pullmantur as the net Pullmantur result for those months was included within Other expense in our consolidated statements of comprehensive income (loss) for the year ended December 31, 2016, as a result of the elimination of the Pullmantur reporting lag, and did not affect Gross Yields, Net Yields, Gross Cruise Costs, 

49
Net Cruise Costs and Net Cruise Costs Excluding Fuel. Additionally, effective August 2016, we no longer include Pullmantur Holdings in these amounts.

Gross Yields and Net Yields were calculated as follows (in thousands, except APCD and Yields):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

50
Gross Cruise Costs, Net Cruise Costs and Net Cruise Costs Excluding Fuel were calculated as follows (in thousands, except APCD and costs per APCD):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]___________________________________________________________________

(1)For the year ended December 31, 2018, the amount does not include transaction costs related to the Silversea Cruises acquisition of $31.8 million, the impairment and other costs related to the exit of our tour operations business of $11.3 million and the impact of the change in accounting principle of $9.2 million related to the recognition of stock-based compensation expense. Refer to Note 2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies to our consolidated financial statements under Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data for further information on the change in an accounting principle.

(2)For the year ended December 31, 2016, the amount does not include restructuring charges of $8.5 million.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

51
Outlook

The company does not make predictions about fuel pricing, interest rates or currency exchange rates but does provide guidance about its future business activities. On January 30, 2019, we announced the following initial full year and first quarter 2019 guidance based on the then current fuel pricing, interest rates and currency exchange rates:

Full Year 2019

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

First Quarter 2019 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Since our earnings release on January 30, 2019, bookings have remained consistent with our previous expectations. Fuel prices and foreign currency exchange rates have fluctuated and are likely to continue to do so. Accordingly, except for the influence of fuel prices and foreign currency exchange rates, our forecast remains essentially unchanged.

52
Volatility in foreign currency exchange rates affects the United States dollar value of our earnings. Based on our highest net exposure for each quarter and the full year 2019, the top five foreign currencies are ranked below. For example, the Australian Dollar is the most impactful currency in the first and fourth quarters of 2019. Rankings are based on estimated net exposures.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The currency abbreviations above are defined as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Year Ended December 31, 2018 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2017 

In this section, references to 2018 refer to the year ended December 31, 2018 and references to 2017 refer to the year ended December 31, 2017.

Revenues

Total revenues for 2018 increased $716.0 million, or 8.2%, to $9.5 billion from $8.8 billion in 2017.

Passenger ticket revenues comprised 71.5% of our 2018 total revenues. Passenger ticket revenues increased by $479.5 million, or 7.6% from 2017. The increase was primarily due to:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•the favorable effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates related to our revenue transactions denominated in currencies other than the United States dollar of $7.8 million.

The remaining 28.5% of 2018 total revenues was comprised of Onboard and other revenues, which increased $236.5 million, or 9.6%. The increase in Onboard and other revenues was primarily due to:

•a $112.5 million increase in onboard revenue attributable to higher spending on a per passenger basis primarily due to our revenue enhancing initiatives, including beverage package sales and promotions, gaming initiatives, and new strategies and promotions on our shore excursions, specialty restaurants and Internet services; [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

53
•a $23.2 million increase in other revenues primarily due to cancellation fees mostly associated with non-refundable deposit promotions and the addition of Silversea Cruises.

Onboard and other revenues included concession revenues of $339.0 million in 2018 and $326.5 million in 2017.

Cruise Operating Expenses 

Total cruise operating expenses for 2018 increased $365.6 million, or 7.5%, to $5.3 billion in 2018 from $4.9 billion in 2017. The increase was primarily due to:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•a $37.3 million increase in payroll and related expenses primarily driven by Silversea Cruises' higher crew to passenger ratio, an increase in employee bonuses and changes in our gratuity structure;

•a $23.5 million increase in air expense primarily related to the addition of Silversea Cruises and itinerary changes;

•a $19.7 million increase in vessel maintenance primarily due to the timing of scheduled drydocks; and

•an unfavorable effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates related to our cruise operating expenses denominated in currencies other than the United States dollar of $8.1 million.

Marketing, Selling and Administrative Expenses

Marketing, selling and administrative expenses for 2018 increased $117.1 million, or 9.9%, to $1.3 billion from $1.2 billion in 2017. The increase was primarily due to transaction costs incurred by us related to the Silversea Cruises acquisition, marketing, selling and administrative expenses due to the addition of Silversea Cruises, the impairment and other costs related to the exit of our tour operations business, which occurred in 2018, and an increase in payroll and benefits expense primarily driven by an increase in headcount, partially offset by lower stock prices year over year related to our performance share awards, as well as higher spending on advertisement.

Depreciation and Amortization Expenses

Depreciation and amortization expenses for 2018 increased $82.5 million, or 8.7%, to $1.0 billion. The increase was primarily due to the addition of Symphony of the Seas, Azamara Pursuit and Silversea Cruises to our fleet and, to a lesser extent, the addition of Celebrity Edge, new shipboard additions associated with our ship upgrade projects and additions related to our shoreside projects. The increase was partially offset by the sale of Legend of the Seas in 2017.

Other Income (Expense)

Interest expense, net of interest capitalized, increased $33.7 million, or 11.2%, to $333.7 million in 2018 from $300.0 million in 2017. The increase was primarily due to a higher average debt level in 2018 compared to 2017 attributable to the financing of Symphony of the Seas, Celebrity Edge and our acquisition of Silversea Cruises in 2018, and higher interest rates in 2018 compared to 2017, partially offset by an increase in capitalized interest due to our ships on order.

Equity investment income increased $54.5 million, or 34.9%, to $210.8 million in 2018 from $156.2 million in 2017 primarily due to an increase in income from TUI Cruises. 

Other income was $11.1 million in 2018 compared to Other expense of $5.3 million in 2017. The change of $16.4 million was mainly due to a gain of $21.8 million in 2018 related to the recognition of the remaining balance of a deferred gain from the sale of Celebrity Galaxy to TUI Cruises in March 2009. In April 2018, TUI Cruises sold this ship to an affiliate of TUI AG, resulting in the recognition of the remaining balance of the deferred gain. In addition, Other income in 2018 includes a gain of $13.7 million related to the sale of our remaining equity interest in a travel agency business that we sold in 2015. The increase in Other income was partially offset by an impairment charge of $23.3 million to write down our investment balance, debt facility and other receivables due from Skysea Holding to 

54
their net realizable value in 2018. For further information on the deferred gain recognized and impairment charge, refer to Note 8. Other Assets to our consolidated financial statements under Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.

Gross and Net Yields

Gross and Net Yields increased 4.0% and 4.5% in 2018, respectively, compared to 2017 primarily due to the increase in passenger ticket and onboard and other revenues, which are further discussed above. Gross and Net Yields on a Constant Currency basis increased 3.8% and 4.4%, respectively, in 2018 compared to 2017.

Gross and Net Cruise Costs

Gross and Net Cruise Costs increased 7.4% and 8.0%, respectively, in 2018 compared to 2017 and Gross and Net Cruise Costs per APCD increased 3.2% and 3.8%, respectively, in 2018, compared to 2017, primarily due to the increase in cruise operating expenses discussed above. Gross and Net Cruise Costs on a Constant Currency basis increased 7.2% and 7.7% respectively, in 2018 compared to 2017. 

Net Cruise Costs Excluding Fuel

Net Cruise Costs Excluding Fuel per APCD increased 4.4% in 2018 compared to 2017 and on a Constant Currency basis increased 4.1% in 2018 compared to 2017.

Other Comprehensive (Loss) Income

Other comprehensive loss in 2018 was $293.5 million compared to Other comprehensive income of $582.2 million in 2017. The change of $875.7 million was primarily due to the Loss on cash flow derivative hedges in 2018 of $286.9 million compared to the Gain on cash flow derivative hedges of $570.5 million in 2017. The change of $857.4 million in 2018 was primarily due to a decrease in foreign currency forward contract values in 2018 compared to an increase in 2017, a decrease in fuel swap instrument values in 2018 compared to an increase in 2017 and fuel swap losses recognized in income in 2017 compared to fuel swap gains recognized in income in 2018.

Year Ended December 31, 2017 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2016 

In this section, references to 2017 refer to the year ended December 31, 2017 and references to 2016 refer to the year ended December 31, 2016.

Revenues

Total revenues for 2017 increased $281.4 million, or 3.3%, to $8.8 billion from $8.5 billion in 2016.

Passenger ticket revenues comprised 71.9% of our 2017 total revenues. Passenger ticket revenues increased by $163.8 million, or 2.7% from 2016, despite the impact of canceled sailings resulting from hurricane-related disruptions during the third quarter of 2017. The increase was primarily due to:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•the favorable effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates related to our revenue transactions denominated in currencies other than the United States dollar of approximately $10.6 million.

The increase in Passenger ticket revenues was partially offset by a 2.4% decrease in capacity, which decreased Passenger ticket revenues by $148.5 million primarily due to the sale of our majority interest in Pullmantur Holdings during the third quarter of 2016, the sale of Splendour of the Seas in the second quarter of 2016 and the sale of Legend of the Seas in first quarter of 2017, which was partially offset by an increase in capacity due to the addition of Ovation of the Seas and Harmony of the Seas into our fleet during the second quarter of 2016.

The remaining 28.1% of 2017 total revenues was comprised of Onboard and other revenues, which increased $117.6 million, or 5.0%. The increase in Onboard and other revenues was primarily due to:

55
•a $125.3 million increase in onboard revenue attributable to higher spending on a per passenger basis primarily due to our revenue enhancing initiatives, including beverage package, shore excursion and specialty restaurant sales and promotions and increased revenue associated with internet and other telecommunication services; and 

•a $45.7 million increase in other revenue primarily due to charter revenue and management fees earned from Pullmantur Holdings.

The increase was partially offset by a $55.6 million decrease attributable to the 2.4% decrease in capacity noted above, including the impact of canceled sailings resulting from hurricane-related disruptions during the third quarter of 2017. 

Onboard and other revenues included concession revenues of $326.5 million in 2017 and $316.9 million in 2016.

Cruise Operating Expenses

Total cruise operating expenses for 2017 decreased $119.0 million, or 2.4%, to $4.9 billion in 2017 from $5.0 billion in 2016. The decrease was primarily due to:

•a $120.5 million decrease attributable to the 2.4% decrease in capacity noted above;[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•a $17.2 million decrease in air expense due to itinerary changes and lower ticket costs;

•a $16.8 million decrease in vessel maintenance primarily due to the timing of scheduled drydocks; and

•a $15.5 million decrease in fuel expense, excluding the impact of the decrease in capacity. Our cost of fuel (net of the financial impact of fuel swap agreements) for 2017 decreased 4.6% per metric ton compared to 2016.

The decrease was partially offset by:

•a $33.8 million increase in commissions expense mainly due to the increase in ticket prices discussed above and changes in commission incentives;

•a $19.3 million increase in head taxes primarily due to itinerary changes; and

•an $18.9 million increase in food expenses mainly due to our new culinary initiatives.

Marketing, Selling and Administrative Expenses

Marketing, selling and administrative expenses for 2017 increased $77.3 million, or 7.0%, to $1.2 billion from $1.1 billion in 2016. The increase was primarily due to an increase in payroll and benefits mostly driven by higher stock prices year over year related to our performance share awards, partially offset by a decrease in expenses due to the sale of our majority interest in Pullmantur Holdings.

Depreciation and Amortization Expenses

Depreciation and amortization expenses for 2017 increased $56.3 million, or 6.3%, to $951.2 million from $894.9 million in 2016. The increase was primarily due to the addition of Ovation of the Seas and Harmony of the Seas in the second quarter of 2016, new shipboard additions associated with our ship upgrade projects and, to a lesser extent, additions related to our shoreside projects. The increase was partially offset by the decrease in depreciation associated with the sale of Legend of the Seas in the first quarter of 2017 and, to a lesser extent, the sale of Splendour of the Seas in the second quarter of 2016.

56
Other Income (Expense)

Interest expense, net of interest capitalized, decreased $7.4 million, or 2.4%, to $300.0 million in 2017 from $307.4 million in 2016. The decrease was due to a lower average debt level in 2017 compared to 2016, partially offset by higher interest rates in 2017 compared to 2016.

Equity investment income increased $27.9 million, or 21.7%, to $156.2 million in 2017 from $128.4 million in 2016 primarily due to an increase in income from TUI Cruises. 

Other expense decreased $30.4 million, or 85.2%, to $5.3 million in 2017 from $35.7 million in 2016. The decrease was primarily due to a net loss of $21.7 million related to the elimination of the Pullmantur reporting lag in 2016 which did not recur in 2017.

Gross and Net Yields

Gross and Net Yields increased 5.9% and 6.5% in 2017, respectively, compared to 2016 primarily due to the increase in passenger ticket and onboard and other revenues discussed above. 

Gross and Net Cruise Costs

Gross Cruise Costs remained consistent in 2017 compared to 2016. Net Cruise Costs decreased 1.2% in 2017 compared to 2016 primarily due to the decrease in capacity and cruise operating expenses discussed above. Gross Cruise Costs per APCD and Net Cruise Costs per APCD increased 1.9% and 1.3% in 2017, respectively, compared to 2016. The increase was mainly due to the hurricane related disruptions during the third quarter of 2017 which reduced our capacity; however, certain operating expenses were still incurred, negatively impacting our metrics per APCD. Net Cruise Costs Excluding Fuel per APCD increased 2.0% in 2017 compared to 2016.

Other Comprehensive Income

Other comprehensive income in 2017 was $582.2 million compared to $411.9 million in 2016. The increase of $170.3 million, or 41.3%, was primarily due to the Gain on cash flow derivative hedges in 2017 of $570.5 million compared to $411.2 million in 2016. The increase of $159.3 million in 2017 was primarily due to an increase in foreign currency forward contract values in 2017 compared to a decrease in 2016, which was partially offset by lower amounts of fuel swap losses reclassified to income in 2017 and a smaller increase in fuel swap instrument values in 2017 compared to 2016.

Future Application of Accounting Standards

Refer to Note 2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies to our consolidated financial statements under Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data for further information on Recent Accounting Pronouncements.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

Sources and Uses of Cash 

Cash flow generated from operations provides us with a significant source of liquidity. Net cash provided by operating activities increased $604.6 million to $3.5 billion in 2018 compared to $2.9 billion in 2017. The increase in cash provided by operating activities was primarily attributable to an increase in proceeds from customer deposits, an increase in cash receipts from onboard spending and an increase of $133.4 million in dividends received from unconsolidated affiliates.

Net cash provided by operating activities increased $357.9 million to $2.9 billion in 2017 compared to $2.5 billion in 2016. The increase in cash provided by operating activities was primarily attributable to an increase in proceeds from customer deposits, an increase in cash receipts from onboard spending and a decrease in fuel costs in 2017 compared to 2016. Additionally, dividends received from unconsolidated affiliates increased by $33.7 million.

Net cash used in investing activities increased $4.3 billion to $4.5 billion in 2018 compared to $213.6 million in 2017. The increase was primarily attributable to an increase in capital expenditures of $3.1 billion primarily due to the 

57
delivery of Symphony of the Seas and Celebrity Edge and to a lesser extent the purchase of Azamara Pursuit in 2018 compared to no ship deliveries or purchases in 2017 and $916.1 million of cash paid for the acquisition of Silversea Cruises, net of cash acquired, in 2018 as well as $230.0 million of proceeds received from the sale of property and equipment in 2017, which did not recur in 2018.

Net cash used in investing activities decreased $2.5 billion to $213.6 million in 2017 compared to $2.7 billion in 2016. The decrease was primarily attributable to a decrease in capital expenditures of $1.9 billion due to ship deliveries in 2016 of Ovation of the Seas and Harmony of the Seas, compared to no ship deliveries in 2017. In addition, we received $230.0 million of proceeds from the sale of property and equipment in 2017 which did not occur in 2016. Furthermore, during 2017, we received cash of $63.2 million on settlements on our foreign currency forward contracts compared to net cash paid of $213.2 million during 2016.

Net cash provided by financing activities was $1.2 billion in 2018 compared to Net cash used in financing activities of $2.7 billion in 2017. The change was primarily attributable to an increase in proceeds from the issuance of commercial paper notes of $4.7 billion in 2018 compared to none issued in 2017 and an increase in debt proceeds of $2.7 billion in 2018 compared to 2017. The increase in debt proceeds in 2018 was primarily due to the $1.2 billion unsecured term loan borrowed to finance Symphony of the Seas, the $729.0 million unsecured term loan borrowed to finance Celebrity Edge, the $700.0 million unsecured term loan borrowed to finance the acquisition of Silversea Cruises, an increase in borrowings on our revolving credit facilities and the $130.0 million credit agreement.

This increase was partially offset by repayments of commercial paper notes of $4.0 billion in 2018 compared to no repayments in 2017, an increase in stock repurchases of $350.0 million and a higher amount of dividends paid during 2018 compared to 2017.

Net cash used in financing activities was $2.7 billion in 2017 compared to Net cash provided in financing activities of $243.8 million in 2016. The change was primarily attributable to a decrease in debt proceeds of $1.5 billion, an increase in debt repayments of $1.5 billion and a higher amount of dividends paid during 2017 compared to 2016, partially offset by a decrease of stock repurchases of $75.0 million during 2017 compared to 2016. The decrease in debt proceeds was primarily due to the $841.8 million unsecured term loan borrowed in 2016 to finance Ovation of the Seas and the €700.7 million and $226.1 million unsecured term loans borrowed in 2016 to finance Harmony of the Seas that did not recur in 2017 and lower drawings on our revolving credit facilities during 2017 compared to 2016, partially offset by $800 million in proceeds received from unsecured senior notes issued during 2017 which did not occur in 2016. The increase in repayment of debt was primarily due to higher payments on our revolving credit facilities.

Future Capital Commitments

Our future capital commitments consist primarily of new ship orders. As of December 31, 2018, we have one Oasis-class ship, two Quantum-class ships and two ships of a new generation, known as our Icon-class, on order for our Royal Caribbean International brand with an aggregate capacity of approximately 25,300 berths. As of December 31, 2018, we have three Edge-class ships and a ship designed for the Galapagos Islands on order for our Celebrity Cruises brand with an aggregate capacity of approximately 9,400 berths. Additionally as of December 31, 2018, we have three ships on order for our Silversea Cruises brand with an aggregate capacity of approximately 1,200 berths. Refer to Item 1. Business-Operations for further information on our ships on order. For each of these orders, we have committed financing arrangements in place covering 80% of the cost of the ship, almost all of which include sovereign financing guarantees.

As of December 31, 2018, the aggregate cost of our ships on order, not including any ships on order by our Partner Brands and the Silversea Cruises ships that remain contingent upon final documentation and financing, was approximately $11.4 billion, of which we had deposited $651.7 million as of such date. Approximately 53.5% of the aggregate cost was exposed to fluctuations in the Euro exchange rate at December 31, 2018. (Refer to Note 17. Fair Value Measurements and Derivative Instruments and Note 18. Commitments and Contingencies to our consolidated financial statements under Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data).

In February 2019, we entered into an agreement with Chantiers de l’Atlantique to build the sixth Oasis-class ship for Royal Caribbean International. The ship is expected to have an aggregate capacity of approximately 5,700 berths 

58
and is expected to enter service in the fourth quarter of 2023. The order with Chantiers de l’Atlantique is contingent upon completion of conditions precedent and financing, which is expected to be completed in 2019.

As of December 31, 2018, anticipated overall capital expenditures, based on our existing ships on order, are approximately $2.9 billion for 2019, $3.3 billion for 2020, $2.9 billion for 2021 and $3.4 billion for 2022.

Contractual Obligations

As of December 31, 2018, our contractual obligations were as follows (in thousands):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

___________________________________________________________________

(1) We are obligated under noncancelable operating leases primarily for offices, warehouses and motor vehicles. Amounts represent contractual obligations with initial terms in excess of one year.

(2) Debt obligations mature at various dates through fiscal year 2036 and bear interest at fixed and variable rates. Interest on variable-rate debt is calculated based on forecasted debt balances, including the impact of interest rate swap agreements, using the applicable rate at December 31, 2018. Debt denominated in other currencies is calculated based on the applicable exchange rate at December 31, 2018.

(3) Amounts primarily represent future commitments with remaining terms in excess of one year to pay for our usage of certain port facilities, marine consumables, services and maintenance contracts. 

(4) Amounts do not include potential obligations which remain subject to cancellation at our sole discretion and activity related to Silversea Cruises during the three-month reporting lag period. Additionally, amounts do not include the conditional agreement with Meyer Werft for the two Silversea Cruises ships of a new generation. [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(7) Amounts represent capital lease obligations with initial terms in excess of one year.

(8) Amounts represent fees payable to sovereign guarantors in connection with certain of our export credit debt facilities and facility fees on our revolving credit facilities.

Please refer to Funding Needs and Sources below for discussion on the planned funding of the above contractual obligations. 

As a normal part of our business, depending on market conditions, pricing and our overall growth strategy, we continuously consider opportunities to enter into contracts for the building of additional ships. We may also consider the sale of ships or the purchase of existing ships. We continuously consider potential acquisitions and strategic alliances. 

59
If any of these were to occur, they would be financed through the incurrence of additional indebtedness, the issuance of additional shares of equity securities or through cash flows from operations.

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

We and TUI AG have each guaranteed the repayment by TUI Cruises of 50% of a bank loan. As of December 31, 2018, the outstanding principal amount of the loan was €37.0 million, or approximately $42.3 million, based on the exchange rate at December 31, 2018. The loan amortizes quarterly and is currently secured by a first mortgage on Mein Schiff Herz, previously known as Mein Schiff 2. Based on current facts and circumstances, we do not believe potential obligations under our guarantee of this bank loan are probable.

TUI Cruises has entered into various ship construction and credit agreements that include certain restrictions on each of our and TUI AG's ability to reduce our current ownership interest in TUI Cruises below 37.55% through May 2031.

In July 2016, we executed an agreement with Miami Dade County (“MDC”), which was simultaneously assigned to Sumitomo Banking Corporation (“SMBC”), to lease land from MDC and construct a new cruise terminal of approximately 170,000 square feet at PortMiami in Miami, Florida, which was completed during the fourth quarter of 2018 and serves as a homeport. During the construction period, SMBC funded the costs of the terminal’s construction and land lease. Once the terminal was substantially completed, we commenced operating and leasing the terminal from SMBC for a five-year term. We determined that the lease arrangement between SMBC and us should be accounted for as an operating lease.

Some of the contracts that we enter into include indemnification provisions that obligate us to make payments to the counterparty if certain events occur. These contingencies generally relate to changes in taxes, increased lender capital costs and other similar costs. The indemnification clauses are often standard contractual terms and are entered into in the normal course of business. There are no stated or notional amounts included in the indemnification clauses and we are not able to estimate the maximum potential amount of future payments, if any, under these indemnification clauses. We have not been required to make any payments under such indemnification clauses in the past and, under current circumstances, we do not believe an indemnification obligation is probable.

As of December 31, 2018, other than the items described above, we are not party to any other off-balance sheet arrangements, including guarantee contracts, retained or contingent interest, certain derivative instruments and variable interest entities, that either have, or are reasonably likely to have, a current or future material effect on our financial position.

Funding Needs and Sources

We have significant contractual obligations of which our debt service obligations and the capital expenditures associated with our ship purchases represent our largest funding needs. As of December 31, 2018, we had approximately $4.3 billion in contractual obligations due through December 31, 2019 of which approximately $1.6 billion relates to debt maturities, $349.7 million relates to interest on long-term debt and $1.2 billion relates to progress payments on our ship orders and the final installments payable due upon the deliveries of Spectrum of the Seas and Celebrity Flora in 2019. We have historically relied on a combination of cash flows provided by operations, drawdowns under our available credit facilities, the incurrence of additional debt and/or the refinancing of our existing debt and the issuance of additional shares of equity securities to fund these obligations.

As of December 31, 2018, we had a working capital deficit of $5.9 billion, which included $1.6 billion of current portion of debt, including capital leases, and $775.5 million of commercial paper. As of December 31, 2017, we had a working capital deficit of $3.9 billion, which included $1.2 billion of current portion of debt, including capital leases. Similar to others in our industry, we operate with a substantial working capital deficit. This deficit is mainly attributable to the fact that, under our business model, a vast majority of our passenger ticket receipts are collected in advance of the applicable sailing date. These advance passenger receipts remain a current liability until the sailing date. The cash generated from these advance receipts is used interchangeably with cash on hand from other sources, such as our revolving credit facilities, commercial paper and other cash from operations. The cash received as advanced receipts 

60
can be used to fund operating expenses for the applicable future sailing or otherwise, pay down our revolving credit facilities and commercial paper notes, invest in long term investments or any other use of cash. In addition, we have a relatively low-level of accounts receivable and rapid turnover results in a limited investment in inventories. We generate substantial cash flows from operations, and our business model, along with our unsecured revolving credit facilities, has historically allowed us to maintain this working capital deficit and still meet our operating, investing and financing needs. We expect that we will continue to have working capital deficits in the future.

As of December 31, 2018, we had liquidity of $1.3 billion, consisting of $287.9 million in cash and cash equivalents and $1.0 billion available under our unsecured credit facilities, net of our outstanding commercial paper notes. We anticipate that our cash flows from operations and our current financing arrangements, as described above, will be adequate to meet our capital expenditures and debt repayments over the next twelve-month period. 

As of December 31, 2018, we have $700.0 million that remains available for future common stock repurchase transactions under a 24-month common stock repurchase program for up to $1.0 billion authorized by our board of directors in May 2018. Repurchases under the program may be made at management's discretion from time to time on the open market or through privately negotiated transactions and are expected to be funded from available cash or borrowings under our revolving credit facilities. Refer to Note 11. Shareholders' Equity to our consolidated financial statements under Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplemental Data for further information.

If any person acquires ownership of more than 50% of our common stock or, subject to certain exceptions, during any 24-month period, a majority of our board of directors is no longer comprised of individuals who were members of our board of directors on the first day of such period, we may be obligated to prepay indebtedness outstanding under our credit facilities, which we may be unable to replace on similar terms. Our public debt securities also contain change of control provisions that would be triggered by a third-party acquisition of greater than 50% of our common stock coupled with a ratings downgrade. If this were to occur, it would have an adverse impact on our liquidity and operations.

Debt Covenants

Certain of our financing agreements contain covenants that require us, among other things, to maintain minimum net worth of at least $8.9 billion, a fixed charge coverage ratio of at least 1.25x and limit our net debt-to-capital ratio to no more than 62.5%. The fixed charge coverage ratio is calculated by dividing net cash from operations for the past four quarters by the sum of dividend payments plus scheduled principal debt payments in excess of any new financings for the past four quarters. Our minimum net worth and maximum net debt-to-capital calculations exclude the impact of Accumulated other comprehensive loss on Total shareholders' equity. We were well in excess of all debt covenant requirements as of December 31, 2018. The specific covenants and related definitions can be found in the applicable debt agreements, the majority of which have been previously filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.

Dividends

In December 2018, we declared a cash dividend on our common stock of $0.70 per share which was paid in the first quarter of 2019. We declared a cash dividend on our common stock of $0.70 per share during the third quarter of 2018 which was paid in the fourth quarter of 2018. During the first and second quarters of 2018, we declared a cash dividend on our common stock of $0.60 per share which was paid in the second and third quarters of 2018, respectively. During the first quarter of 2018, we also paid a cash dividend on our common stock of $0.60 per share which was declared during the fourth quarter of 2017.

61
Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk