PART I

ITEM 1. BUSINESS

General

Raytheon Company, together with its subsidiaries, is a technology and innovation leader specializing in defense and other government markets throughout the world. The terms “we,” “us,” “our,” “Raytheon” and the “Company” mean Raytheon Company and its subsidiaries, unless the context indicates another meaning. We develop technologically advanced and integrated products, services and solutions in our core markets: integrated air and missile defense; electronic warfare; command, control, communications, computers, cyber, intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance; space systems; effects; and cyber. We serve both domestic and international customers primarily as a prime contractor or subcontractor on a broad portfolio of defense and related programs for government customers.

We were founded in 1922 and have grown internally and through a number of acquisitions. We are incorporated in the state of Delaware. Our principal executive offices are located at 870 Winter Street, Waltham, Massachusetts 02451.

In this section, we describe our business, including our business segments, product lines, customers, operations and other considerations.

Business Segments

We operate in five business segments:

–Integrated Defense Systems;

–Intelligence, Information and Services;

–Missile Systems;

–Space and Airborne Systems; and

–Forcepoint.

The following is a description of each of our business segments. As part of the description, we include a discussion of some of the segment’s notable initiatives and achievements in 2018, such as certain key contract awards and new product introductions. 

Integrated Defense Systems (IDS)—IDS, headquartered in Tewksbury, Massachusetts, is a leader in integrated air and missile defense; large land- and sea-based radar solutions; command, control, communications, computers, cyber and intelligence solutions; naval combat and ship electronic and sensing systems; and undersea sensing and effects solutions. IDS delivers combat-proven performance against the complete spectrum of airborne and ballistic missile threats and is a world leader in the technology, development, and production of sensors and mission systems. IDS provides solutions to the U.S. Department of Defense (DoD), and more than 50 international customers which represent more than half of IDS’s business. 

In 2018, IDS booked several significant awards to provide advanced Patriot® Air and Missile Defense (A&MD) systems for the U.S. Army and other international customers. IDS was awarded contracts to provide Patriot A&MD systems to Poland, Sweden and Romania as well as new contracts to provide additional Patriot A&MD systems to other international customers. In addition, IDS was one of two contractors down-selected for the U.S. Army’s Lower Tier Air and Missile Defense Sensor (LTAMDS) competition, which is currently in the Technical Maturity and Risk Reduction (TMRR) phase. IDS also received awards during the year to provide Guidance Enhanced Missiles (GEM-T) for an international customer and for the Collins class submarine program for the Royal Australian Navy. In addition, the U.S. Navy awarded IDS options to continue to produce the low-rate initial production Air and Missile Defense Radar (AMDR) units for the DDG-51 class of warships and selected IDS to provide the innovative undersea mine neutralization system known as Barracuda. 

IDS has the following principal product lines:

Mission Systems and Sensors (MSS)—MSS provides integrated whole-life air and missile defense systems. MSS produces systems and solutions, including early warning radar, the Army Navy/Transportable Radar Surveillance-Model 2 (AN/TPY-2), Three-Dimensional Expeditionary Long-Range Radar (3DELRR), and other land-based surveillance and search radars, which provide threat detection, precision tracking, discrimination and classification of ballistic missile threats. In addition, MSS provides command, control, communications, computers, cyber and intelligence solutions through the development, delivery 

 1
and support of complex integrated, networked, actionable combat command and control solutions for air and land combat commanders. MSS also provides tailored capabilities to deliver Air Defense Operations Centers (ADOC) for integrated command and control, fire direction and weapons systems and sensors to our global customers. Key MSS customers include the U.S. Army and Air Force, the Missile Defense Agency (MDA), and international customers.

Integrated Air and Missile Defense (IAMD)—IAMD provides combat-proven air and missile defense systems, including the Patriot A&MD system which is the cornerstone of the air and missile defense architecture for 16 nations around the world, including the U.S. and seven NATO nations. The National Advanced Surface-to-Air Missile System (NASAMS™), also offered by IAMD, is a highly adaptable mid-range solution for any operational air defense requirement. It is deployed in the U.S. and nine other nations around the world. Key IAMD customers include the U.S. Army and international customers. Total sales from IAMD were approximately 10% of our consolidated revenues for 2018, 2017 and 2016.

Seapower Capability Systems (SCS)—SCS is a provider and integrator of maritime air and missile defense radar systems, naval combat management, and airborne anti-submarine and mine warfare systems, as well as sensors, maritime naval navigation systems, and torpedoes for U.S. and international navies. SCS provides the low-rate initial production AMDR units, designated as AN/SPY-6, for the U.S. Navy’s DDG 51 class of warships. SCS’s contracts with the U.S. Navy also include Enterprise Air Surveillance Radar (EASR) for aircraft carriers and amphibious warfare ships, and, in the anti-submarine warfare arena, a new variable depth sonar solution for the littoral combat ship class. In addition, as a ship integrator for the U.S. Navy, SCS provides mission systems equipment and combat and missions system integration for the following ship classes: DDG 1000 destroyers; LPD 17 amphibious warfare ships; and CVN 78 aircraft carriers. The U.S. Navy also recently selected IDS to provide the innovative undersea mine neutralization system known as Barracuda.

IDS also includes the Advanced Technology (AT) product line, which executes contract research and development programs primarily with the Office of Naval Research (ONR), the Strategic Capabilities Office (SCO) and the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA) in advanced materials, semiconductors such as Gallium Nitride (GaN) and next-generation systems such as Flexible Digital Array Radar (FlexDAR) and Cross Domain Surveillance and Targeting (CDMaST), to support Raytheon product lines. AT also pursues attractive adjacent growth markets such as undersea warfare and directed energy. In addition, IDS works closely with the U.S. government research labs including ONR, MIT Lincoln Labs and DARPA.

Intelligence, Information and Services (IIS)—IIS, headquartered in Dulles, Virginia, provides a full range of technical and professional services to intelligence, defense, federal and commercial customers worldwide. IIS specializes in global Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance (ISR); navigation; DoD space and weather solutions; cybersecurity; analytics; training; logistics; mission support; advanced software-based complex systems; automation and sustainment solutions; and international and domestic Air Traffic Management (ATM) systems. Key customers include the U.S. Intelligence Community, the U.S. Armed Forces, the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), the Department of Homeland Security (DHS), NASA and a number of international customers. 

During 2018, IIS won a number of important classified and unclassified contracts, including multi-year contracts to provide a new international government customer with advanced cybersecurity solutions and associated training, knowledge transfer and operational and sustainment support. IIS was also awarded a contract for software support to sustain and modernize missile defense and other strategic systems for the U.S. Army.

IIS has the following principal product lines:

Cybersecurity and Special Missions (CSM)—CSM provides broad cyber domain capabilities and advanced solutions to strengthen critical systems and support mission execution. CSM designs, implements and integrates customized cyber products and services and quick-reaction solutions, as well as high-consequence special mission support for the U.S. Intelligence Community, the DoD, civil federal agencies, international governments and commercial enterprises. Raytheon leverages and incorporates CSM cyber capabilities across the Company.

Global Training Solutions (GTS)—GTS provides integrated operational training through comprehensive support for live, virtual and constructive training exercises and operations, maintenance for training and range systems, curriculum development and instruction, management oversight and administration for contractor activities, and supply support for government-owned property and material. Previously, GTS provided these services principally under the Warfighter Field Operations Customer Support (Warfighter FOCUS) contract with the U.S. Army, which continues to transition to a number of competitively awarded 

 2
replacement programs through 2019. GTS will participate in some of the planned replacement programs; however, some of the work has been awarded to other contractors. GTS also provides critical training solutions through Raytheon Professional Services, with commercial solutions, processes, tools and experts for domestic and international commercial customers.

Navigation, Weather and Services (NWS)—NWS, which combined the previous Navigation and Environmental Solutions (NES) and Transportation and Support Services (TSS) product lines, primarily supports programs for NASA, NOAA, the DoD and the FAA by implementing secure environmental and navigation ground solutions and data processing. NWS capabilities include ground systems for command and control of space assets, domestic and international ATM, large-scale data processing and exploitation, storage architectures, and high-performance data handling and processing systems. Key programs include the Joint Polar Satellite System (JPSS), which supports multiple civil, defense and international polar-orbiting environmental satellites, the ATM solution Standard Terminal Automation Replacement System (STARS), the Joint Precision Approach and Landing System (JPALS) and the Global Positioning System Next Generation Operational Control System (GPS-OCX). NWS also delivers product support services for other Raytheon businesses, including system deployment, installation and integration, logistics and training for military and civil customers in over 80 countries.

Global Intelligence Solutions (GIS)—GIS provides strategic ISR and advanced technology solutions and services through large-scale satellite command and control, mission planning, constellation management, data processing, mission analytics, and secure data sharing. GIS's highly automated information solutions manage the collection and integration of information across multiple domains. GIS serves the DoD, the Intelligence Community, commercial customers and international partners.

Mission Support and Modernization (MSM)—MSM provides multi-domain command and control, platform modernization and cybersecurity services, and mission-based software development using commercial best practices for the U.S. military, civil agencies and partner nations. MSM’s core services are applied in two broad areas: supporting global mission operations; and modernizing legacy weapons and platforms by integrating the latest software solutions. MSM’s programs include developing advanced ground stations to control unmanned systems, such as Global Hawk®; providing cyber-resiliency and avionics solutions for a wide range of aircraft, including the V-22, CH-53 and HH-60; upgrading the U.S. Army and Air Force Distributed Common Ground System (DCGS); integrating commercial software solutions into the U.S. Air Force’s Air and Space Operations Center (AOC); deploying and integrating critical border security solutions for partner nations; and operating the North American Aerospace Defense Command (NORAD) command center, NASA's Neutral Buoyancy Lab and, through its RGNext joint venture, U.S. Air Force space launch facilities.

IIS also operates the Cyber Operations, Development and Evaluation (CODE) Center, an advanced cyber range in which the Company integrates our capabilities and demonstrates, tests and assesses new cyber products and services to determine how they can best integrate into a customer’s Cyber Security Operations Center (CSOC). IIS leverages CODE Center capabilities to drive both internal and external research and development with Governmental entities and commercial cyber protection companies. 

Missile Systems (MS)—MS, headquartered in Tucson, Arizona, designs, develops, integrates and produces missile and combat systems for the armed forces of the U.S. and allied nations. Leveraging its capabilities in advanced airframes, guidance and navigation systems, high-resolution sensors, surveillance, hypersonic systems, targeting and netted systems, MS provides and supports a broad range of advanced weapon systems including missiles, smart munitions, close-in weapon systems, projectiles, kinetic kill vehicles, directed energy effectors and advanced combat sensor solutions. Key customers include the U.S. Navy, Army, Air Force and Marine Corps, the MDA, and the armed forces of more than 40 allied nations. 

In 2018, MS continued to capture key contract awards from a broad global customer base, including awards for the Standard Missile-3 (SM-3®), Phalanx® Close-In Weapon System (CIWS), Advanced Medium-Range Air-to-Air Missile (AMRAAM®), AIM-9X Sidewinder short-range air-to-air missile, as well as key strategic awards on the U.S. Air Force’s Long Range Standoff (LRSO) program, the U.S Navy’s over-the-horizon weapon system (the Naval Strike Missile, or NSM) and a number of classified and unclassified awards in hypersonic, sensor, undersea warfare and missile defense technologies. MS also completed successful flight tests on the SM-3, Standard Missile-6 (SM-6®) and StormBreaker™ programs.

 3
Effective January 1, 2019, MS combined the previous Air and Missile Defense Systems (AMDS) and Naval and Area Mission Defense (NAMD) product lines to form the Strategic and Naval Systems (SNS) product line. MS has the following principal product lines: 

Air Warfare Systems (AWS)—AWS products and services enable the U.S. Armed Forces and international customers to attack, suppress and destroy air-, sea- and ground-based targets. Products include the AMRAAM, a state-of-the-art, highly dependable and battle-proven air-to-air missile that also has a surface-to-air launch application; the Tomahawk cruise missile, an advanced surface- or submarine-launched cruise missile with loitering and network communication capability; StormBreaker, an air-to-ground glide weapon designed to engage moving targets in adverse weather and through battlefield conditions; the Joint Standoff Weapon (JSOW®), a family of air-to-ground weapons that employ an integrated GPS/inertial navigation system that guides the weapon to the target; the Paveway™ family of laser and GPS precision guided munitions; the AIM-9X Sidewinder short-range air-to-air missile; the Miniature Air Launched Decoy-Jammer (MALD®-J), a stand-in, high endurance electronic warfare decoy/jammer used to deceive and degrade air defenses; the High-Speed Anti-Radiation Missile (HARM®) and the HARM Targeting System; the Maverick® precision strike missile; and the Griffin®, a small lightweight missile that can be employed from aircraft, unmanned aerial vehicles, ships or ground-launched against light targets. Also, AWS partners with Kongsberg Defence Systems on the NSM and the Joint Strike Missile (JSM), which are over-the-horizon anti-surface warfare and land attack weapons systems to be used on various aircraft platforms and ship classes. Total sales from AWS were approximately 10% of our consolidated revenues for 2018, 2017, and 2016.

Strategic and Naval Systems (SNS)—SNS designs, develops, produces, and supports air and missile defense interceptor systems along with highly effective, layered ship defense systems for U.S. Armed Forces and more than 30 allied countries across multiple platforms to counter the threats of today and tomorrow. SNS's primary customers are the MDA and the U.S. Navy as well as various international customers. The SNS portfolio includes the Standard Missile family of products with capabilities including sea- and land-based endo- and exoatmospheric defense against short- and intermediate-range ballistic missiles and tri-mission defense against air, surface and ballistic missile threats. The product line designs, develops, integrates, manufactures, and supports the Phalanx CIWS, employed afloat and ashore, the Rolling Airframe Missile (RAM™) and Launcher System, the SeaRAM® system, and the Evolved Seasparrow Missile (ESSM®) family of missiles protecting ships against air, subsurface and surface cruise/ballistic missile threats. In addition, SNS’s contracts with the MDA include sustainment of the Exoatmospheric Kill Vehicle (EKV) and development of the Redesigned Kill Vehicle (RKV) which are the primary weapons payloads of the Ground Based Interceptor (GBI) for ballistic missile defense. SNS continues to leverage its strategic international cooperative partnerships to evolve its existing products and technologies with a goal of addressing the full spectrum of threats to both the U.S. and our allies. Total sales from SNS were approximately 10% of our consolidated revenues for 2018, 2017, and 2016.

Land Warfare Systems (LWS)—LWS provides precision missiles and munitions, advanced electro-optical/infrared (EO/IR) sensors, and integrated mission solutions in the land domain for the U.S. Army and Marine Corps, and the militaries of more than 40 allied nations. LWS capabilities are designed to provide warfighters the situational awareness and lethality they need to overmatch and defeat evolving complex threats. The LWS portfolio includes the Tube-launched, Optically-tracked, Wireless-guided (TOW®) weapon system, a long-range precision anti-armor/anti-fortification/anti-amphibious-landing weapon system, and Excalibur®, a GPS-guided artillery round providing indirect precision fire for ground forces. In addition, LWS collaborates with Israel’s Rafael Advanced Defense Systems to provide the SkyHunter® missile and the SkyCeptor™ interceptor, designed to help protect U.S. Armed Forces and their allies from incoming threats. The 3rd Generation Forward Looking Infrared (FLIR), currently in development, leverages proven sensor technology to provide the warfighter with high-definition resolution and magnification of target images in darkness and in a range of adverse environmental conditions. LWS also produces unmanned aircraft systems including the Coyote®.

Advanced Missile Systems (AMS)—AMS focuses on the development and early introduction of next-generation, end-to-end system solutions that support the AWS, SNS, LWS and other Raytheon product lines. AMS is engaged in opportunities involving the transition from weapon development to warfighter fielding in the areas of next generation missile systems, hypersonic weapons, unmanned aircraft systems, non-kinetic solutions, space applications, undersea warfare and collaborative weapon technologies. In addition to MS’s other key customers, AMS works closely with U.S. Special Operations Forces, DARPA, the SCO, the ONR, the Air Force Research Laboratory (AFRL) and the research lab community.

Space and Airborne Systems (SAS)—SAS, headquartered in McKinney, Texas, is a leader in the design, development and manufacture of integrated sensor and communication systems for advanced missions. These missions include intelligence, 

 4
surveillance and reconnaissance; precision engagement; manned and unmanned aerial operations; and space. Leveraging state-of-the-art technologies, mission systems and domain knowledge, SAS designs, manufactures, supports and sustains civil and military electro-optical/infrared (EO/IR) sensors; airborne radars for surveillance and fire control applications; lasers; precision guidance systems; signals intelligence systems; processors; electronic warfare systems; tactical and strategic communications; and space-qualified systems. Key customers are the U.S. Navy, Air Force, and Army, international allies and classified customers.

In 2018, SAS was selected to develop and deliver the next-generation Electro-Optical Distributed Aperture System (EODAS) for Lockheed Martin’s F-35 fighter jet. In addition, SAS was one of two subcontractors down-selected by the program’s prime contractor for the U.S. Air Force’s Next Generation Overhead Persistent Infrared (Next Gen OPIR) Geosynchronous (GEO) missile warning satellite system competition. SAS was awarded a contract with the U.K. Ministry of Defence to provide support and sustainment services to the U.K. Royal Air Force's Shadow aircraft fleet, and a contract with the U.S. Air Force to upgrade and build Multi-Spectral Targeting Systems (MTS) for the MQ-9 Reaper attack unmanned aerial vehicle. SAS was also awarded a number of classified contracts in intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance, space protection, electronic warfare and signals intelligence.

SAS has the following principal product lines:

Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance Systems (ISRS)—ISRS designs, develops and manufactures a wide array of advanced Multispectral EO/IR sensors, Active Electronically Scanned Array (AESA) and mechanically scanned radars and various integrated airborne intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance systems solutions to provide customers with actionable information for strike, persistent surveillance and special mission platforms. These systems perform detection, identification, tracking, targeting, navigation, weather, and situational awareness tasks on a variety of airborne platforms, including maritime, littoral and overland patrol aircraft, unmanned aerial systems, and other tactical, attack and transport rotary- and fixed-wing aircraft. Key ISRS programs include F-35 next-generation EODAS, MTS on numerous unmanned and manned aircraft; the Silent Knight Terrain Following/Terrain Avoiding radar for rotary-wing platforms; and an international classified program.

Secure Sensor Solutions (S3)—S3 designs, manufactures and develops cost-effective, high-performance integrated sensor solutions for tactical and strategic platforms, which deliver trusted, actionable information for mission assurance. S3 provides integrated advanced fire control radars to customers, including the U.S. Navy, Marine Corps, and Air Force and international governments. S3 produces AESA radars for the U.S. Air Force’s F-15 and B-2 aircraft, the U.S. Navy’s F/A-18E/F and EA-18G and radars for several international customers. S3 develops Airborne Early Warning & Reconnaissance Systems (AEWRS) across multiple platforms, for U.S. and international customers, including the Global Hawk and U2. S3 also develops sophisticated anti-jam GPS solutions for many customers and provides a wide range of state-of-the-art product families and engineering services for the DoD’s response to dynamic threat environments.

Electronic Warfare Systems (EWS)—EWS designs and manufactures cost-effective, high-performance electronic warfare systems and equipment for strategic and tactical aircraft, helicopters, surface ships and ground forces for the U.S. Air Force, Army, Navy, Special Operations Forces, and intelligence agencies and international governments. EWS products deliver a range of non-kinetic effects ranging from radar jamming to information operations. The EWS portfolio includes the Next Generation Jammer (NGJ) program, the High-Energy Laser (HEL) Weapon Systems for Counter-UAS and Precision Strike program, infrared and visible focal plane array manufacturing operations, integrated electronic warfare suites, development of electronic warfare planning and management tools (EW PMT), the Multi-function Integrated Receiver/Exciter System (MFIRES) product family, advanced classified programs, and products which include towed decoys, radar warning receivers, radar and communications countermeasures and missile warning sensors. 

Integrated Communications Systems (ICS)—ICS is a market leader in tactical airborne communications, software-defined radio technology, advanced tactical networking, cryptology and real-time sensor networking. The ARC-231 radio is deployed on U.S. and international rotary-wing platforms and fixed-wing aircraft. The Vinson/ANDVT Cryptology Modernization (VACM) family of products provides secure communications for U.S. and international customers. ICS is the only producer of Advanced Extremely High Frequency (AEHF) satellite terminals for all U.S. military branches, providing protected, highly secure satellite communications terminals for the U.S. military, including the Navy Multiband Terminal (NMT) and the Air Force Family of Advanced Beyond Line of Sight Terminal (FAB-T) and related ground terminals.

 5
Space Systems (SS)—SS designs and manufactures space and space-qualified sensor payloads for large national programs and develops innovative solutions for emerging commercial, intelligence, defense and civil space applications. SS provides EO/IR, radio frequency (RF), radar and laser space-based sensors to customers, including the DoD, MDA, NASA, classified and commercial customers, and international governments. SS also provides the Visible Infrared Imaging Radiometer Suite (VIIRS), an advanced imaging and radiometric sensor for NASA and NOAA weather/environmental monitoring programs.

Advanced Concepts Technology (ACT), an innovation incubator, is also part of SAS. ACT conducts both internal and contract research and development for customers, including the AFRL and DARPA. ACT produces cutting-edge products and capabilities, including next-generation all-weather millimeter wave targeting radars, advanced mission system architecture, electro-optical (EO) and RF technologies, advanced speech recognition with natural language understanding, and systems exploiting acoustic phenomenology. In addition, our BBN Technologies develops technology to direct and control swarms of small, autonomous air and ground vehicles for DARPA.

Forcepoint—Forcepoint, headquartered in Austin, Texas, develops cybersecurity products serving commercial and government organizations worldwide. Forcepoint is a joint venture of Raytheon and Vista Equity Partners created in May 2015 that brought together the capabilities of the legacy Raytheon Cyber Products (RCP) and Websense, Inc. (Websense) businesses. Forcepoint delivers a portfolio of human-centric cybersecurity capabilities that incorporate behavior based insights, including risk adaptive data loss prevention; user and entity behavior analytics (UEBA) and cloud access security broker (CASB) capabilities; insider threat solutions; next-generation firewall (NGFW) technology; cloud and on premise web and email security; and cross domain transfer products. Forcepoint's customers deploy its software products on standard servers, mobile endpoints or other information technology hardware, including Forcepoint optimized appliances, as a software-as-a-service (otherwise referred to as a cloud-based or cloud service) offering, or in a hybrid hardware/cloud configuration. Forcepoint’s customers include large enterprises, small- and medium-sized businesses and both domestic and international government agencies.

Forcepoint has the following principal product lines:

Global Governments and Critical Infrastructure—In addition to providing the full suite of Forcepoint products to government customers, Global Governments and Critical Infrastructure provides a suite of cross domain and insider threat technologies designed to enable defense, intelligence and civilian agencies to securely and efficiently access and transfer data, including streaming video, across multiple domains. In addition, Forcepoint provides these technologies to critical infrastructure customers. Global Governments and Critical Infrastructure products are deployed primarily in high assurance environments. 

Enterprise Security—Enterprise Security, formerly called Commercial Security, consists of the User and Data Security solution area and the Cloud Access and Network Security solution area. User and Data Security provides risk adaptive data loss prevention; UEBA; and insider threat security products. Forcepoint’s data loss prevention suite of products extend data security control solutions to enterprise cloud applications, end user software applications and sensitive data and intellectual property on laptops, both on- and off-network, and include dynamic data protection, which allows automated enforcement at the individual level driven by analytics-defined risk indicators. Forcepoint’s UEBA products analyze large amounts of data to assess risk. Forcepoint’s insider threat suite of products spans analytics, insider threat, advanced threat protection and related security features. Cloud Access and Network Security solutions provide a range of appliances that consolidate multiple security capabilities and deliver real-time security functionality, including content security and firewall capabilities. The content security solutions integrate Forcepoint's web, email, filtering, and NGFW technologies into a single security architecture that may be deployed in the cloud, on premise (e.g. a proxy server or firewall) and in a hybrid environment. In addition, Forcepoint’s CASB product provides visibility, access and control as users interact with data in cloud applications. The firewall products consist of the Forcepoint NGFW and the Forcepoint Sidewinder proxy firewall products. The Forcepoint NGFW product provides software and hardware solutions that focus on high-availability, centralized management and policy deployment across large networks and protection from advanced evasion techniques. The Forcepoint Sidewinder product provides proxy-based firewall software and hardware solutions, designed to allow for clear visibility and control of command filtering, protocol enforcement and application access.

In addition to the principal product lines, Forcepoint provides consulting services of certified engineers who assess, plan, design, analyze and optimize security solutions for its customers' business environments.

 6
Sales to the U.S. Government

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Excludes foreign military sales through the U.S. government.

Our principal U.S. government customer is the DoD; other U.S. government customers include U.S. Intelligence Community agencies, NASA, the DHS and the FAA.

U.S. Government Contracts and Regulation

We act as a prime contractor or major subcontractor for numerous U.S. government programs. As a result, we are subject to extensive regulations and requirements of the U.S. government agencies and entities that govern these programs, including with respect to the award, administration and performance of contracts under such programs. We are also subject to certain unique business risks associated with U.S. government program funding and appropriations, U.S. government contracts, and supplying technologically-advanced, cutting-edge defense-related products and services to the U.S. government. 

U.S. government contracts generally are subject to the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR), which sets forth policies, procedures and requirements for the acquisition of goods and services by the U.S. government; department-specific regulations that implement or supplement the FAR, such as the DoD's Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement (DFARS); and other applicable laws and regulations. These regulations impose a broad range of requirements, many of which are unique to government contracting, including various procurement, import and export, security, contract pricing and cost, contract termination and adjustment, audit and product integrity requirements. A contractor's failure to comply with these regulations and requirements could result in reductions to the value of contracts, contract modifications or termination, cash withholds on contract payments, forfeiture of profits, and the assessment of penalties and fines, and could lead to suspension or debarment, for cause, from U.S. government contracting or subcontracting for a period of time. In addition, government contractors are also subject to routine audits and investigations by U.S. government agencies such as the Defense Contract Audit Agency (DCAA) and Defense Contract Management Agency (DCMA). These agencies review a contractor's performance under its contracts, cost structure and compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards. The DCAA and DCMA also review the adequacy of and a contractor's compliance with its internal control systems and policies, including the contractor's accounting, purchasing, property, estimating, earned value management and material management accounting systems. For a discussion of certain risks associated with compliance with U.S. government contract regulations and requirements, see Item 1A of this Form 10-K. 

U.S. government contracts include both cost reimbursement and fixed-price contracts. Cost reimbursement contracts, subject to a contractual cost-ceiling amount in certain cases, provide for the reimbursement of allowable costs plus the payment of a fee. These contracts fall into three basic types: (1) cost-plus fixed fee contracts which provide for the payment of a fixed fee irrespective of the final cost of performance; (2) cost-plus incentive fee contracts which provide for increases or decreases in the target incentive fee, within specified limits, based upon actual cost results compared to contractual cost targets; and (3) cost-plus award fee contracts which provide for the payment of an award fee determined at the discretion of the customer based upon the performance of the contractor against pre-established criteria. Under cost reimbursement contracts, the contractor is reimbursed periodically for allowable costs and is paid a portion of the fee based on contract progress. Some costs incidental to performing contracts have been made partially or wholly unallowable for reimbursement by statute, the FAR or other regulation. Examples of such costs include charitable contributions, certain merger and acquisition costs, lobbying costs, interest expense and certain litigation defense costs. We also classify time-and-materials (T&M) contracts as cost reimbursement contracts as they are typically used to cover certain contract costs plus a set amount of fee.

Fixed-price contracts are predominantly either firm fixed-price (FFP) contracts or fixed-price incentive (FPI) contracts. Under FFP contracts, the contractor agrees to perform a specific scope of work for a fixed price and as a result, benefits from cost savings and carries the burden of cost overruns. Under FPI contracts, the contractor shares with the U.S. government savings accrued from contracts performed for less than target costs and costs incurred in excess of target costs up to a negotiated ceiling price (which is higher than the target costs) and carries the entire burden of costs exceeding the negotiated ceiling 

 7
price. Accordingly, under such contracts, the contractor's profit may also be adjusted up or down depending upon whether specified cost objectives are met. Under FFP and FPI type contracts, the contractor usually receives either performance-based payments (PBPs) equaling up to 90% of the contract price or monthly progress payments from the U.S. government generally in amounts equaling 80% of costs incurred under U.S. government contracts. The remaining amount, including profits or incentive fees, is billed upon delivery and acceptance of end items under the contract. The DoD has expressed a preference to utilize FPI as opposed to FFP contracts. In the event we experience a greater proportion of FPI contracts and/or progress payments for our fixed-price DoD contracts in the future than historically, it could have an adverse effect on our operating margins, cash flow and liquidity. For a discussion of certain risks associated with fixed-price and cost reimbursement contracts and risks associated with changes in U.S. government procurement rules, regulations and business practices, see Item 1A of this Form 10-K.

U.S. government contracts generally also permit the government to terminate the contract, in whole or in part, without prior notice, at the U.S. government's convenience or for default based on performance. If a contract is terminated for convenience, the contractor is generally entitled to payments for its allowable costs and will receive some allowance for profit on the work performed. If a contract is terminated for default, the contractor is generally entitled to payments for its work that has been accepted by the U.S. government, but a termination arising out of our default could expose us to liability and have a negative impact on our ability to obtain future contracts and orders. The U.S. government's right to terminate its contracts has not had a material adverse effect upon our operations, financial condition or liquidity. For a discussion of the risks associated with the U.S. government's right to terminate its contracts, see Item 1A of this Form 10-K. 

U.S. government programs generally are implemented by the award of individual contracts and subcontracts. Congress generally appropriates funds on a fiscal year basis even though a program may extend across several fiscal years. Consequently, programs are often only partially funded initially and additional funds are committed only as Congress makes further appropriations. The contracts and subcontracts under a program generally are subject to termination for convenience or adjustment if appropriations for such programs are not available or change. The U.S. government is required to equitably adjust a contract price for additions or reductions in scope or other changes ordered by it. For a discussion of the risks associated with program funding and appropriations, see Item 1A and “Overview” within Item 7 of this Form 10-K. In addition, because we are engaged in supplying technologically-advanced, cutting-edge defense-related products and services to the U.S. government, we are subject to certain business risks, some of which are specific to our industry. These risks include: (1) the cost and ability to obtain and retain trained, skilled and qualified employees; (2) the uncertainty and instability of prices and supply of raw materials and components; (3) the problems associated with advanced designs, which may result in unforeseen technological difficulties and cost overruns; (4) the intense competition and the constant necessity for improvement in facility utilization and personnel training; and (5) the impact of potential security and cyber threats. Our sales to the U.S. government may be affected by changes in procurement policies, budget considerations, changing priorities for national defense, global political environments and other factors. See Item 1A and “Overview” within Item 7 of this Form 10-K for a more detailed discussion of these and other related risks.

We are also involved in U.S. government programs that are classified by the U.S. government and cannot be specifically described in this Form 10-K. The operating results of these classified programs are included in the applicable business segment's and our consolidated results of operations. The business risks and considerations associated with these and our international classified programs generally do not differ materially from those of our other U.S. government and international programs and products. 

International Sales

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Our international sales are conducted through Raytheon Company and certain U.S. and international subsidiaries. For example, Raytheon Systems Limited (RSL), a U.K. subsidiary, provides a wide range of products and services, most notably with our MS, SAS and IIS business segments, to commercial, defense and other government customers in the U.K. and globally. Raytheon Australia delivers integrated solutions to the Australian Defence Force, most notably with our IDS and IIS business segments. Generally, we internally fund our international subsidiary working capital requirements in the applicable countries. 

 8
In connection with certain international sales, we utilize the services of sales representatives who are paid commissions in return for services rendered, and international consultants and advisors who are typically paid a fixed retainer fee. Our Forcepoint joint venture also sells certain products and services, both domestically and internationally, primarily through a network of distributors and value-added resellers.

Sales and income from international operations and investments are subject to U.S. government laws, regulations and policies, including the International Traffic in Arms Regulations (ITAR), the Export Administration Regulations (EAR) and the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA), and other anti-corruption sanctions and export laws and regulations. Depending on the type of international sale, Raytheon must either seek approvals from the U.S. government under the foreign military sales process or may require an export authorization and the issuance of a license by either the U.S. Department of State, the U.S. Department of Commerce or the U.S. Department of the Treasury. Such licenses and authorizations may be denied or delayed for reasons of U.S. national security or foreign policy. In addition, for certain international sales, the Department of State must notify Congress prior to authorizing such exports. Congress may also take action to block or delay certain proposed defense sales.

Our international sales are also subject to foreign government laws, regulations and procurement policies and practices in addition to U.S. government requirements. In addition, our international business is sensitive to changes in the priorities and budgets of international customers and geopolitical uncertainties, which may be driven by changes in threat environments, volatility in worldwide economic conditions, regional and local economic and political factors, U.S. foreign policy and other risks and uncertainties. Additional information regarding the risks associated with our international business is contained in Item 1A of this Form 10-K.

Classified Sales

Classified sales include U.S. government sales on programs designated as classified by the U.S. government, as well as international sales on programs for which the customer, end user or end product is prohibited from being publicly disclosed. Total classified sales as a percentage of total net sales were 19% in 2018 and 17% in 2017 and 2016.

Backlog

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Excludes foreign military sales backlog through the U.S. government which is included in total international backlog.

Approximately half of the December 31, 2018 year-end backlog is not expected to be filled during the following 12 months. These amounts include both funded backlog (unfilled orders for which funding is authorized, appropriated and contractually obligated by the customer) and unfunded backlog (firm orders for which funding has not been appropriated or obligated to us). For additional information related to backlog figures, see “Segment Results” within Item 7 of this Form 10-K.

Competition

We directly participate in most major areas of development in the defense and government electronics, space, information technology and technical services and support markets. Technical superiority, reputation, price, past performance, delivery schedules, and reliability are among the principal competitive factors considered by customers in these markets. We conduct extensive research and development activities to continually enhance our existing products and services and develop new products and services to meet our customers’ changing needs and requirements, and address new market opportunities. We also compete in the commercial cybersecurity market, which is characterized by rapid changes in technology, products, customer specifications and industry standards. We compete worldwide with a number of U.S. and international companies 

 9
in these markets, some of which may have more extensive or more specialized engineering, manufacturing and marketing capabilities than we do in some areas. We frequently partner on various programs with our major suppliers, some of whom are, from time to time, competitors on other programs. In addition, U.S. defense spending levels in the future are difficult to predict. Changes in U.S. defense spending may potentially limit certain future market opportunities. See Item 1A and “Overview” within Item 7 of this Form 10-K for a more detailed discussion of these and other related risks.

Raw Materials, Suppliers and Seasonality

We are dependent upon the availability of materials and major components and the performance of our suppliers and subcontractors. Some products require relatively scarce raw materials and parts. We generally have not experienced significant difficulties in procuring the necessary raw materials, components and other supplies for our products. However, consolidations and business closures among our suppliers may affect our ability to do so. In addition, our suppliers may experience materials or parts shortages for various reasons, including as a result of geopolitical and international trade developments. Further, some scarce raw materials required for our products are largely controlled by a single country, and therefore the ability to source those materials is dependent on U.S. relations with that country.

In addition, we must comply with specific procurement requirements which may, in effect, limit the suppliers and subcontractors we may utilize. In some instances, for a variety of reasons, we are dependent on sole-source suppliers. We enter into long-term or volume purchase agreements with certain suppliers and take other actions to ensure the availability of needed materials, components and subsystems. We are also dependent on suppliers to provide genuine original equipment manufacturer parts and have a robust set of standardized policies to detect counterfeit material, especially electronic components, throughout our supply chain. For a discussion of the risks associated with our raw materials and suppliers, see Item 1A of this Form 10-K.

In recent years, our revenues in the second half of the year have generally exceeded revenues in the first half. Some of the factors that can affect revenue recognition between accounting periods include the timing of new program awards (including international contract awards and approvals), the availability of U.S. government funding, product deliveries (which are dependent on availability of materials) and customer acceptance. We expect this trend to continue in 2019. Additional information regarding the risks associated with our raw materials, suppliers, and seasonality is contained in Item 1A of this Form 10-K.

Intellectual Property

We own an intellectual property portfolio that includes many U.S. and foreign patents, as well as unpatented trade secrets and know-how, data, software, trademarks and copyrights, all of which contribute to the preservation of our competitive position in the market, and our ability to continue to compete in the market. In certain instances, we have augmented our technology base by licensing the proprietary intellectual property of others. We also license our intellectual property to others, including our customers. The U.S. government has licenses to certain of our intellectual property, including certain patents, developed in the performance of U.S. government contracts, and has the right to use and authorize others to use such intellectual property, including the inventions covered by such patents, for U.S. government purposes. Foreign governments may also have licenses to certain of our intellectual property in connection with our performance of foreign government contracts. While our intellectual property rights in the aggregate are important to our operations, we do not believe that any particular trade secret, patent, trademark, copyright, license or other intellectual property right is of such importance that its loss, expiration or termination would have a material effect on our business. Additional information regarding the risks associated with our intellectual property is contained in Item 1A of this Form 10-K.

Employment

As of December 31, 2018, we had approximately 67,000 employees. 

Environmental Regulation

Our operations are subject to and affected by a variety of international, federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations. A criminal violation of certain U.S. environmental statutes such as the Clean Air Act and Clean Water Act could result in suspension, debarment or disqualification by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). A facility determined to be in violation of the criminal provisions of these statutes can be prohibited from performing any U.S. government contract work until the violation has been corrected and the EPA approves the reinstatement of the facility.

We have potential exposure for environmental remediation at various sites: (1) owned or operated by us, whether currently or in the past; (2) where we have been named a Potentially Responsible Party (PRP) by the EPA or similarly named by an 

 10
international, state or local government entity; and (3) where a non-governmental third party is pursuing a cost recovery or contribution claim against us. Under existing U.S. environmental laws, liability for site remediation is generally “joint and several,” meaning that the liable party could become solely responsible for the full cost of funding the remediation. Liable parties typically agree amongst themselves to share, on an allocated basis, the costs and expenses of the remediation. In the unlikely event that we are required to fund more than our share or the entire cost of remediation of a site, the statutory framework provides that we may pursue rights of contribution from other responsible parties.

We have provided for our estimated share of the costs to complete environmental remediation where we have determined that it is probable that we will incur such costs in the future and the costs can be reasonably estimated. The timing and costs of environmental remediation are difficult to estimate due to uncertainties regarding: (1) the extent of the remediation; (2) the discovery and application of innovative remediation technologies; and (3) the status and interpretation of laws and regulations. Our estimates do not reflect the possibility that we may recover some of our costs from insurance or from pursuing other parties. For multi-party sites, we expect that the actual cost of remediation will be shared among liable parties and our estimates do not reflect the unlikely event that we would be required to fund more than our share or the entire cost of remediation of a site. In addition, a portion of our costs is eligible for future recovery through the pricing of our products and services to the U.S. government.

We manage various government-owned facilities on behalf of the U.S. government. At such facilities, environmental compliance and remediation costs have historically been primarily the responsibility of the U.S. government and we have relied (and continue to rely with respect to past practices) upon U.S. government funding to pay such costs. While the government remains responsible for capital and operating costs associated with environmental compliance, responsibility for fines and penalties associated with environmental noncompliance is typically borne by either the U.S. government or the contractor, depending on the contract and the relevant facts. Fines and penalties are unallowable costs under the contracts pursuant to which such facilities are managed.

Additional information regarding the effect of compliance with environmental protection requirements and the resolution of environmental claims against us and our operations, including expected remediation costs, is contained in Item 1A, “Commitments and Contingencies” within Item 7 and “Note 10: Commitments and Contingencies” within Item 8 of this Form 10-K.

Available Information

Our internet address is www.raytheon.com. We use our Investor Relations website as a routine channel for distribution of important information, including news releases, analyst presentations and financial information. We make available free of charge on or through our Investor Relations website our annual reports and quarterly reports on Forms 10-K and 10-Q (including related filings in inline eXtensible Business Reporting Language (iXBRL) format), current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The SEC maintains an internet site at www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy statements and other information regarding registrants that file electronically, including Raytheon.

Additionally, we also make available on or through our website copies of our key corporate governance documents, including our Governance Principles, Certificate of Incorporation, By-laws and charters for the Audit Committee, Management Development and Compensation Committee (MDCC), Governance and Nominating Committee, Public Policy and Corporate Responsibility Committee and Special Activities Committee of the Board of Directors and our code of ethics entitled “Code of Conduct.” Raytheon stockholders may request free copies of these documents from our Investor Relations Department by writing to Raytheon Company, Investor Relations, 870 Winter Street, Waltham, MA 02451, by calling (781) 522-5123 or by sending an email request to invest@raytheon.com.

The content on any website referred to in this Form 10-K is not incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K unless expressly noted.

 11
ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS