ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

Our primary market exposures are to interest rates and foreign exchange rates. 

We generally supplement our working capital requirements with a combination of variable-rate short-term and fixed-rate long-term financing. We may enter into interest rate swap agreements with commercial and investment banks to manage interest rates associated with our financing arrangements. We enter into foreign currency forward contracts with commercial banks to fix the foreign currency exchange rates on specific commitments, payments to vendors and customer receipts denominated in foreign currencies. The market-risk sensitive instruments we use for hedging are directly related to a particular asset, liability or transaction for which a firm commitment is in place. We do not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes.

The following tables provide information as of December 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017 about our market risk exposure associated with changing interest rates. For long-term debt obligations, the table presents principal cash flows by maturity date and average interest rates related to outstanding obligations. There were no interest rate swaps outstanding at December 31, 2018 or December 31, 2017.

Principal payments and interest rate detail for long-term debt by contractual maturity date as of December 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively, were as follows:  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

In addition, the aggregate notional amount of our outstanding foreign currency forward contracts was $1,772 million and $1,354 million at December 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively. The net notional exposure of these contracts was $840 million and $525 million at December 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively.

The fair value of asset derivatives included in other assets, net and liability derivatives included in other current liabilities in our consolidated balance sheets related to foreign currency forward contracts were $26 million and $34 million, respectively at December 31, 2018 and $28 million and $17 million, respectively at December 31, 2017. 

For foreign currency forward contracts designated and qualifying for hedge accounting, we record the effective portion of the gain or loss on the derivative in accumulated other comprehensive loss (AOCL), net of tax, and reclassify it into earnings in the same period or periods during which the hedged revenue or cost of sales transaction affects earnings. Realized gains and losses resulting from these cash flow hedges offset the foreign currency exchange gains and losses on the underlying assets or liabilities being hedged. We believe our exposure due to changes in foreign currency rates is not material due to our hedging policy. 

 73
ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA