Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 

(Dollars and shares in millions, unless otherwise noted, except per share data)

Company Background

Inspired by more than 120 years of business success and five generations of family leadership, The J. M. Smucker Company makes food that people and pets love. The Company’s portfolio of 40+ brands, which are found in 90 percent of U.S. homes and countless restaurants, include iconic products consumers have always loved such as Folgers, Jif, and Milk-Bone plus new favorites like Café Bustelo, Smucker’s Uncrustables, and Rachael Ray Nutrish. Over the past two decades, the Company has grown rapidly by thoughtfully acquiring leading and emerging brands, while ensuring the business has a positive impact on its 7,000+ employees, the communities it is a part of, and the planet. 

We have four reportable segments: U.S. Retail Coffee, U.S. Retail Consumer Foods, U.S. Retail Pet Foods, and International and Away From Home. The U.S. retail market segments in total comprised 86 percent of net sales in 2019 and represent a major portion of our strategic focus – the sale of branded food and beverage products with leadership positions to consumers through retail outlets in North America. In the U.S. retail market segments, our products are sold primarily to food retailers, club stores, pet specialty stores, discount and dollar stores, food wholesalers, online retailers, drug stores, natural foods stores and distributors, military commissaries, and mass merchandisers. The products included in the International and Away From Home segment are distributed domestically and in foreign countries through retail channels and foodservice distributors and operators (e.g., restaurants, lodging, schools and universities, health care operators).

Strategic Overview

We remain rooted in our Basic Beliefs of Quality, People, Ethics, Growth, and Independence established by our founder and namesake, Jerome Smucker, more than a century ago. Today, these Basic Beliefs are the core of our unique corporate culture and serve as a foundation for decision-making and actions. We have been led by five generations of family leadership, having had only six chief executive officers in 122 years. This continuity of management and thought extends to the broader leadership team that embodies the values and embraces the business practices that have contributed to our consistent growth. Our strategic vision is to own and market a portfolio of food and beverage brands that combines number one and leading brands with emerging, on-trend brands to drive balanced, long-term growth, primarily in North America.

Our strategic long-term growth objectives are to increase net sales by 2 to 3 percent and operating income excluding non-GAAP adjustments (“adjusted operating income”) by 5 percent annually on average. Our long-term growth objective related to income per diluted share excluding non-GAAP adjustments (“adjusted earnings per share”) is to achieve an average increase of 8 percent annually. We expect organic growth, including new products, to drive much of our top-line growth, while the contribution from acquisitions will vary from year to year. Our non-GAAP adjustments include amortization expense and impairment charges related to intangible assets, integration and restructuring costs, unallocated gains and losses on commodity and foreign currency exchange derivatives, and, beginning in 2018, certain one-time discrete tax adjustments. Refer to “Non-GAAP Financial Measures” in this discussion and analysis for further information.

Net sales has increased at a compound annual growth rate of 7 percent over the past five years, driven by the acquisitions of 

Big Heart in 2015 and Ainsworth in the current year, while adjusted operating income and adjusted earnings per share have increased at a rate of 7 percent and 6 percent, respectively, over the same period. Net cash provided by operating activities has increased at a compound annual growth rate of 6 percent. Our cash deployment strategy is to balance reinvesting in our business through acquisitions and capital expenditures with returning cash to our shareholders through the payment of dividends and share repurchases. Our strategy also includes a significant focus on debt repayment. 

On May 14, 2018, we acquired the stock of Ainsworth in an all-cash transaction, which was funded by debt and valued at $1.9 billion, inclusive of a working capital adjustment. Ainsworth is a leading producer, distributor, and marketer of premium pet food and pet snacks, predominantly within the U.S. The majority of Ainsworth’s sales are generated by the Rachael Ray Nutrish brand, which is driving significant growth in the premium pet food category. Annual cost synergies of approximately $55.0 are expected to be fully realized by the end of 2021, most of which will be achieved by the end of 2020. We realized synergies of $23.5 in 2019. The transaction was accounted for under the acquisition method of accounting and, accordingly, the results of Ainsworth’s operations, including $747.0 and $40.8 in net sales and operating income, respectively, are included in our consolidated financial statements in 2019. 

19

On August 31, 2018, we sold our U.S. baking business to Brynwood Partners VII L.P. and Brynwood Partners VIII L.P., subsidiaries of Brynwood Partners, an unrelated party. The transaction included products that were primarily sold in U.S. retail channels under the Pillsbury, Martha White, Hungry Jack, White Lily, and Jim Dandy brands, along with all relevant trademarks and licensing agreements, and our manufacturing facility in Toledo, Ohio. This business generated net sales of approximately $370.0 in 2018, primarily in the U.S. Retail Consumer Foods segment. The transaction did not include our baking business in Canada. We received proceeds from the divestiture of $369.5, which were net of cash transactions costs and a working capital adjustment. Upon completion of the transaction, we recognized a pre-tax gain of $27.7 during 2019, which is included in other operating expense (income) – net within the Statement of Consolidated Income. 

Results of Operations

This discussion and analysis deals with comparisons of material changes in the consolidated financial statements for the years ended April 30, 2019 and 2018. For the comparisons of the years ended April 30, 2018 and 2017, see the Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Part II, Item 7 of our 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(A)We use non-GAAP financial measures to evaluate our performance. Refer to “Non-GAAP Financial Measures” in this discussion and analysis for a reconciliation to the comparable GAAP financial measure.

Net Sales

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Amounts may not add due to rounding.

(A)Net sales excluding acquisition, divestiture, and foreign currency exchange is a non-GAAP measure used to evaluate performance internally. This measure provides useful information to investors because it enables comparison of results on a year-over-year basis. 

Net sales in 2019 increased $480.9, or 7 percent, reflecting a $747.0 contribution from the Ainsworth acquisition, partially offset by the impact of $254.0 of noncomparable net sales in the prior year related to the divestiture of the U.S. baking business during the second quarter of 2019. Net sales excluding acquisition, divestiture, and foreign currency exchange was comparable to the prior year, as the impact of lower net price realization, which reduced net sales by 1 percentage point, was offset by the impact of favorable volume/mix, which contributed 1 percentage point to net sales. The lower net price 

20

realization was mostly related to coffee, peanut butter, and oils, and the favorable volume/mix was primarily driven by growth in coffee, Smucker’s Uncrustables, and Jif Power-UpsTM, partially offset by a decline in pet food and pet snacks.

Operating Income

The following table presents the components of operating income as a percentage of net sales.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Amounts may not add due to rounding.

Gross profit increased $79.6, or 3 percent, in 2019, primarily driven by the addition of Ainsworth, partially offset by the noncomparable impact related to the U.S. baking business divestiture. An unfavorable net impact of lower prices and higher costs was mostly driven by an unfavorable change in the impact of derivative gains and losses, which was partially offset by the impact of favorable volume/mix. 

Operating income decreased $115.4, or 11 percent, as higher gross profit and a $27.7 pre-tax gain related to the sale of the U.S. baking business were more than offset by a $145.7 increase in selling, distribution, and administrative expenses and a $33.5 increase in amortization expense, both of which were primarily due to the Ainsworth acquisition. In addition, intangible asset impairment charges increased by $28.2 as a result of charges in the U.S. Retail Pet Foods and U.S. Retail Consumer Foods segments in 2019, and special project costs increased by $14.8, driven by an increase in restructuring costs. For further information on the impairment charges, refer to “Critical Accounting Estimates and Policies” in this discussion and analysis.

Gross profit excluding non-GAAP adjustments (“adjusted gross profit”) increased $167.2, or 6 percent, in 2019, with the primary difference from GAAP results being the exclusion of a $91.5 unfavorable change in the impact of unallocated derivative gains and losses as compared to the prior year. Adjusted operating income increased $52.6, or 4 percent, further reflecting the exclusion of amortization expense, the impairment charges, and special project costs.

Interest Expense

Net interest expense increased $33.8, or 19 percent, in 2019, primarily due to the impact of the incremental debt issued to finance the Ainsworth acquisition. For additional information, see “Capital Resources” in this discussion and analysis.

Income Taxes

The effective tax rate of 26.7 percent for 2019 varied from the U.S. statutory tax rate of 21.0 percent primarily due to the impact of state income taxes, additional income tax expense associated with the sale of the U.S. baking business, and a goodwill impairment charge within the U.S. Retail Consumer Foods segment, partially offset by a noncash deferred tax benefit related to the integration of Ainsworth. 

Income tax expense of $187.2 for 2019 reflects an immaterial adjustment related to the completion of the accounting for the income tax effects of the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the “Act”) during the third quarter. Despite the completion of the accounting, the amounts recorded may change as a result of future guidance and interpretation from the Internal Revenue Service and various other taxing jurisdictions, all of which are continuing to analyze the complexities and interdependencies 

21

of the provisions of the Act. Any future legislative and interpretive actions could result in additional income tax impacts, which could be material in the period any such changes are enacted. We anticipate a full-year effective tax rate for 2020 in the range of 24.5 to 25.0 percent. 

The income tax benefit of $477.6 for 2018 reflected the recognition of a net benefit of $765.8 related to our discrete adjustments resulting directly from the Act, partially offset by additional income tax expense related to a Pet Foods reporting unit goodwill impairment charge. The net benefit of $765.8 included the revaluation of net deferred tax liabilities at the reduced federal income tax rate, offset in part by the estimated impact of a one-time repatriation tax on earnings of certain foreign subsidiaries that were previously tax deferred. For further information, refer to Note 13: Income Taxes. 

Integration Activities

We expect to incur approximately $50.0 in integration costs related to the Ainsworth acquisition, the majority of which are expected to be cash charges. Of the total anticipated integration costs, we expect approximately half to be employee-related. During 2019, we incurred integration charges of $32.1. All remaining integration costs are expected to be incurred by the end of 2020. For further information, refer to Note 3: Integration and Restructuring Costs. 

Restructuring Activities

An organization optimization program was approved by the Board of Directors (the “Board”) during the fourth quarter of 2016. Under this program, we identified opportunities to reduce costs and optimize the organization. Related projects included an organizational redesign and the optimization of our manufacturing footprint. The program was expanded at the end of 2018 to include the restructuring of our geographic footprint, which includes the centralization of our pet food and pet snacks business, as well as certain international non-manufacturing functions, to our corporate headquarters in Orrville, Ohio, furthering collaboration and enhanced agility, while improving cost efficiency. 

The organization optimization program was completed during 2019, and as a result, we closed our international offices in China and Mexico, as well as the San Francisco and Burbank, California, offices. We incurred total cumulative restructuring costs of $74.6, of which $32.0 was incurred during 2019. The costs incurred were primarily employee-related, as the program resulted in total headcount reductions of approximately 450 full-time positions. For further information, refer to Note 3: Integration and Restructuring Costs.

Commodities Overview

The raw materials we use are primarily commodities, agricultural-based products, and packaging materials. The most significant of these materials, based on 2019 annual spend, are green coffee, peanuts, animal protein meals, oils and fats, and plastic containers. Green coffee and certain oils are traded on active regulated exchanges, and the price of these commodities fluctuates based on market conditions. Derivative instruments, including futures and options, are used to minimize the impact of price volatility for these commodities.

We source green coffee from more than 20 coffee-producing countries. Its price is subject to high volatility due to factors such as weather, global supply and demand, plant disease, investor speculation, and political and economic conditions in the source countries.

We source peanuts, animal protein meals, and oils and fats mainly from North America. We are one of the largest procurers of peanuts in the U.S. and frequently enter into long-term purchase contracts for various periods of time to mitigate the risk of a shortage of this commodity. The oils we purchase are mainly soybean and canola. The price of peanuts, animal protein meals, and oils are driven primarily by weather, which impacts crop sizes and yield, as well as global demand, especially from large importing countries such as China and India. In addition, the price of oils has been impacted by demand from the biofuels industry. 

We frequently enter into long-term contracts to purchase plastic containers, which are sourced mainly from within the U.S. Plastic resin is made from petrochemical feedstock and natural gas feedstock, and the price can be influenced by feedstock, energy, and crude oil prices as well as global economic conditions.

Excluding the impact of derivative gains and losses, our overall commodity costs in 2019 were lower than in 2018, primarily due to lower costs for green coffee, slightly offset by higher costs for peanuts.

Segment Results

We have four reportable segments: U.S. Retail Coffee, U.S. Retail Consumer Foods, U.S. Retail Pet Foods, and International and Away From Home. The U.S. Retail Coffee segment primarily includes the domestic sales of Folgers, Dunkin’ Donuts, 

22

and Café Bustelo branded coffee; the U.S. Retail Consumer Foods segment primarily includes domestic sales of Smucker’s, Jif, and Crisco branded products; and the U.S. Retail Pet Foods segment primarily includes domestic sales of Rachael Ray Nutrish, Meow Mix, Milk-Bone, Natural Balance, Kibbles ’n Bits, 9Lives, Nature’s Recipe, and Pup-Peroni branded products. The International and Away From Home segment comprises products distributed domestically and in foreign countries through retail channels and foodservice distributors and operators (e.g., restaurants, lodging, schools and universities, health care operators).

Effective May 1, 2018, the convenience store channel, which was previously included in the U.S. retail segments, is now included in the International and Away From Home segment. Segment performance for 2018 has been reclassified for this realignment.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

U.S. Retail Coffee

The U.S. Retail Coffee segment net sales increased $35.5 in 2019. Favorable volume/mix contributed 4 percentage points, driven by the Dunkin’ Donuts, 1850, and Café Bustelo brands, partially offset by declines in Folgers roast and ground coffee. The favorable volume/mix was partially offset by lower net price realization, which reduced net sales by 2 percentage points, primarily driven by the Folgers brand. Segment profit increased $63.9, primarily due to lower input costs and favorable volume/mix, partially offset by lower net price realization and an increase in marketing expense, the majority of which related to the 1850 launch.

U.S. Retail Consumer Foods

The U.S. Retail Consumer Foods segment net sales decreased $224.1 in 2019, reflecting the impact of $247.3 of noncomparable net sales in the prior year related to the divested U.S. baking business. Excluding the noncomparable impact of the divested business, net sales increased 1 percent, driven by favorable volume/mix, which contributed 4 percentage points, primarily related to Smucker’s Uncrustables, Jif Power-Ups, and Crisco oils. The favorable volume/mix was partially offset by lower net price realization, which reduced net sales by 2 percentage points, driven by the Jif brand and a price decline on the Crisco brand at the beginning of the fiscal year. Segment profit decreased $69.2, and decreased $55.2 excluding the noncomparable segment profit in the prior year and the gain from the divestiture. The segment profit decline primarily resulted from lower net price realization and higher input costs, mostly related to peanut butter, and an increase in marketing expense driven by Jif Power-Ups. These factors were partially offset by the impact of favorable volume/mix. In response to an anticipated decline in our peanut costs, we implemented a list price decrease on select Jif products sold in the U.S. effective March 2019. Although not reflected in segment profit, a goodwill impairment charge of $97.9 related to the Natural Foods reporting unit within the U.S. Retail Consumer Foods segment was recognized in the fourth quarter of 2019. For additional information, see Note 7: Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets.

U.S. Retail Pet Foods

The U.S. Retail Pet Foods segment net sales increased $714.2 in 2019, reflecting the $747.0 contribution from Ainsworth. Excluding Ainsworth, net sales declined $32.8, primarily due to unfavorable volume/mix, which reduced net sales by 

23

2 percentage points. The impact of the discontinuation of certain private label and Gravy Train® wet dog food products and declines for the Natural Balance brand were partially offset by gains for the Meow Mix and Nature’s Recipe brands. Segment profit increased $64.0, driven by the addition of Ainsworth. Excluding Ainsworth, segment profit decreased $29.1, as the impact of higher input costs was only partially offset by a reduction in marketing expense. In response to a sustained increase in input costs, we implemented a list price increase on select pet food products sold in the U.S. effective February 2019. Although not reflected in segment profit, an impairment charge of $107.2 associated with certain indefinite-lived trademarks within the U.S. Retail Pet Foods segment was recognized in the third quarter of 2019, while the prior year included impairment charges of $176.9 related to the goodwill of the Pet Foods reporting unit and certain indefinite-lived trademarks within the segment. For additional information, see Note 7: Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets.

International and Away From Home

The International and Away From Home segment net sales decreased $44.7 in 2019, due to lower net price realization, $13.7 of unfavorable foreign currency exchange, and unfavorable volume/mix, each of which reduced net sales by 1 percentage point. The net sales decline also reflects the impact of $6.7 of noncomparable net sales in the prior year related to the divested U.S. baking business. Segment profit decreased $1.6, reflecting lower net price realization, the unfavorable impact of foreign currency exchange, and unfavorable volume/mix, which were offset by the impacts of lower input costs and lower marketing expense.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

Liquidity

Our principal source of funds is cash generated from operations, supplemented by borrowings against our commercial paper program and revolving credit facility. Total cash and cash equivalents decreased to $101.3 at April 30, 2019, compared to $192.6 at April 30, 2018.

Within the U.S. Retail Coffee and U.S. Retail Consumer Foods segments, we have historically experienced a significant use of cash to fund working capital requirements during the first half of each fiscal year, primarily due to the buildup of inventories to support the Fall Bake and Holiday period, the additional increase of coffee inventory in advance of the Atlantic hurricane season, and seasonal fruit procurement. In these businesses, cash provided by operations in the second half of the fiscal year has significantly exceeded the amount in the first half of the year, upon completion of the Fall Bake and Holiday period. In contrast, the U.S. Retail Pet Foods segment has not experienced significant seasonality.

Due to the divestiture of the seasonal U.S. baking business during the second quarter of 2019, we expect that the impact of seasonality on our future working capital requirements will be reduced. Further, we anticipate that the growth of the U.S. Retail Pet Foods segment as a result of the Ainsworth acquisition during the first quarter of 2019 will cause a further reduction in the seasonality of our overall working capital requirements.

The following table presents selected cash flow information.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(A)Free cash flow is a non-GAAP financial measure used by management to evaluate the amount of cash available for debt repayment, dividend distribution, acquisition opportunities, share repurchases, and other corporate purposes.

The $76.8 decrease in cash provided by operating activities in 2019 was mainly due to lower net income adjusted for noncash items. The reduction in working capital during the current year was comparable to the prior year, as an unfavorable impact related to trade receivables was mostly offset by a favorable impact related to income taxes. Trade receivables increased during the current year as a result of higher sales, while trade receivables decreased during the prior year. The favorable impact related to income taxes was due to lower federal payments and a $30.0 income tax refund during 2019. The lower federal payments in the current year were driven by the reduced statutory tax rate that resulted from U.S. tax reform. 

24

Cash used for investing activities in 2019 consisted of $1.9 billion related to the Ainsworth acquisition, $359.8 in capital expenditures, and a $29.8 increase in our derivative cash margin account balances, partially offset by net proceeds from the divestiture of the U.S. baking business of $369.5. Cash used for investing activities in 2018 consisted primarily of $321.9 in capital expenditures, partially offset by a $30.9 reduction in our derivative cash margin account balances. 

Cash provided by financing activities in 2019 consisted primarily of $1.5 billion in long-term debt proceeds and a $282.0 net increase in short-term borrowings, partially offset by long-term debt repayments of $700.0 and dividend payments of $377.9. For additional information on our new borrowings, see “Capital Resources” in this discussion and analysis. Cash used for financing activities in 2018 consisted primarily of $1.1 billion in long-term debt repayments, dividend payments of $350.3, and a $310.0 net decrease in short-term borrowings during the year, which were partially offset by $799.6 in long-term debt proceeds.

We, like other food manufacturers, are from time to time subject to various administrative, regulatory, and other legal proceedings arising in the ordinary course of business. We are currently a defendant in a variety of such legal proceedings, including certain lawsuits related to the alleged price-fixing of shelf stable tuna products prior to 2011 by a business previously owned by, but divested prior to our acquisition of, Big Heart, the significant majority of which we settled during 2019 and the remainder of which we anticipate resolving in the near future. While we cannot predict with certainty the ultimate results of these proceedings or potential settlements associated with these matters, we have accrued losses for certain contingent liabilities that we have determined are probable and reasonably estimable at April 30, 2019. Based on the information known to date, with the exception of the matter discussed below, we do not believe the final outcome of these proceedings could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. 

In addition to the legal proceedings discussed above, we are currently a defendant in CERT v. Brad Barry LLC, et al., which alleges that we, in addition to nearly eighty other defendants who manufacture, package, distribute, or sell coffee, failed to provide warnings for our coffee products of exposure to the chemical acrylamide as required under Proposition 65. As part of a joint defense group organized to defend against the lawsuit, we dispute these claims. Acrylamide is not added to coffee, but is inherently present in all coffee in small amounts (measured in parts per billion) as a byproduct of the coffee bean roasting process. The outcome and the financial impact of the case, if any, cannot be predicted at this time. Accordingly, no loss contingency has been recorded for this matter as of April 30, 2019, as the likelihood of loss is not considered probable or estimable. However, if we are required to pay significant statutory penalties or to add warning labels to any of our products or place warnings in certain locations where our products are sold as a result of Proposition 65, our business and financial results could be adversely impacted, and sales of those products could suffer not only in those locations but elsewhere. For additional information, see Note 15: Contingencies.

Capital Resources

The following table presents our capital structure.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

In April 2018, we entered into a senior unsecured delayed-draw Term Loan Credit Agreement (“Term Loan”) with a syndicate of banks and an available commitment amount of $1.5 billion. The full amount of the Term Loan was drawn on May 14, 2018, to partially finance the Ainsworth acquisition. Borrowings under the Term Loan bear interest on the prevailing U.S. Prime Rate or London Interbank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”), based on our election, and is payable either on a quarterly basis or at the end of the borrowing term. The Term Loan matures on May 14, 2021, and does not require scheduled amortization payments. Voluntary prepayments are permitted without premium or penalty. As of April 30, 2019, we have prepaid $700.0 on the Term Loan. The interest rate on the Term Loan at April 30, 2019, was 3.62 percent. 

25

We have available a $1.8 billion unsecured revolving credit facility with a group of 11 banks that matures in September 2022. Additionally, we participate in a commercial paper program under which we can issue short-term, unsecured commercial paper not to exceed $1.8 billion at any time. The commercial paper program is backed by our revolving credit facility and reduces what we can borrow under the revolving credit facility by the amount of commercial paper outstanding. Commercial paper will be used as a continuing source of short-term financing for general corporate purposes. As of April 30, 2019, we had $426.0 of short-term borrowings outstanding, all of which were issued under our commercial paper program, at a weighted-average interest rate of 2.75 percent. 

We are in compliance with all of our debt covenants. For additional information on our long-term debt, sources of liquidity, and debt covenants, see Note 8: Debt and Financing Arrangements.

During 2019, we did not repurchase any common shares under a repurchase plan authorized by the Board. At April 30, 2019, approximately 3.6 million common shares remain available for repurchase pursuant to the Board’s authorizations. There is no guarantee as to the exact number of shares that may be repurchased or when such purchases may occur.

In June 2017, we began construction of a Smucker’s Uncrustables frozen sandwich manufacturing facility in Longmont, Colorado. The new facility will help meet growing demand for Smucker’s Uncrustables frozen sandwiches and will complement our existing facility in Scottsville, Kentucky. The Longmont facility will be constructed in two phases, the first of which includes an initial investment of up to $250.0 to construct and equip the new facility. The scope of a phase 2 expansion will depend on product demand. Production is expected to begin at the new facility during the second half of calendar year 2019.

The following table presents certain cash requirements related to 2020 investing and financing activities based on our current expectations. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Absent any material acquisitions or other significant investments, we believe that cash on hand, combined with cash provided by operations, borrowings available under our commercial paper program and revolving credit facility, and access to capital markets, will be sufficient to meet our cash requirements for the next 12 months, including capital expenditures, the payment of quarterly dividends, principal and interest payments on debt outstanding, and share repurchases. 

During 2019, we repatriated $122.9 of international cash in conjunction with the restructuring of our international holding and operating entities referenced in “Restructuring Activities” in this discussion and analysis to simplify and align our foreign structure with the current strategy of the International business. The applicable foreign withholding taxes and state income taxes were not significant. As of April 30, 2019, total cash and cash equivalents of $95.2 was held by our foreign subsidiaries, primarily in Canada. The undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries remain permanently reinvested. 

26

NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES

We use non-GAAP financial measures including: net sales excluding acquisition, divestiture, and foreign currency exchange; adjusted gross profit; adjusted operating income; adjusted income; adjusted earnings per share; earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization, and impairment charges related to intangible assets (“EBITDA (as adjusted)”); and free cash flow, as key measures for purposes of evaluating performance internally. We believe that investors’ understanding of our performance is enhanced by disclosing these performance measures. Furthermore, these non-GAAP financial measures are used by management in preparation of the annual budget and for the monthly analyses of our operating results. The Board of Directors also utilizes certain non-GAAP financial measures as components for measuring performance for incentive compensation purposes.

Non-GAAP measures exclude certain items affecting comparability, that can significantly affect the year-over-year assessment of operating results, which include amortization expense and impairment charges related to intangible assets, integration and restructuring costs (“special project costs”), and unallocated gains and losses on commodity and foreign currency exchange derivatives (“unallocated derivative gains and losses”). The special project costs in the following table relate to specific integration and restructuring projects, and the unallocated derivative gains and losses reflect the changes in fair value of our commodity and foreign currency exchange contracts. During 2018, we expanded our non-GAAP measures to also exclude certain one-time discrete tax adjustments. These adjustments, which were finalized in 2019, include the effect of the one-time items associated with the Act, comprised of the remeasurement of our U.S. deferred tax assets and liabilities and the recognition of the one-time repatriation tax on earnings of certain foreign subsidiaries that were previously tax deferred (“transition tax”). Also included in the one-time discrete tax adjustments are the permanent tax impacts related to the goodwill impairment charges recorded during 2019 and 2018. For further details on these adjustments, refer to Note 13: Income Taxes, and Note 7: Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets. We believe that excluding these one-time discrete tax adjustments from our non-GAAP measures provides comparability across the periods presented.

These non-GAAP financial measures are not intended to replace the presentation of financial results in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”). Rather, the presentation of these non-GAAP financial measures supplements other metrics we use to internally evaluate our businesses and facilitate the comparison of past and present operations and liquidity. These non-GAAP financial measures may not be comparable to similar measures used by other companies and may exclude certain nondiscretionary expenses and cash payments.

27

The following table reconciles certain non-GAAP measures to the comparable GAAP financial measure. See page 20 for a reconciliation of net sales adjusted for certain noncomparable items to the comparable GAAP financial measure.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(A)Income taxes, as adjusted, is based upon our GAAP effective tax rate and reflects the impact of items excluded from GAAP net income to derive adjusted income. Income taxes, as adjusted has been further adjusted to reflect the exclusion of certain one-time discrete tax adjustments related to U.S. tax reform and the goodwill impairment charges recorded during 2019 and 2018.

28

OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS

We do not have material off-balance sheet arrangements, financings, or other relationships with unconsolidated entities or other persons, also known as variable interest entities. Transactions with related parties are in the ordinary course of business and are not material to our results of operations, financial condition, or cash flows.

CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS

The following table summarizes our contractual obligations by fiscal year at April 30, 2019.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(A)Long-term debt obligations, including current portion, excludes the impact of offering discounts, make-whole payments, and debt issuance costs.

(B)Interest payments consists of the interest payments on our long-term debt, which reflect estimated payments for our variable-rate debt based on the current interest rate outlook, and exclude the mark-to-market impact of active interest rate contracts.

(C)Operating lease obligations consists of the minimum rental commitments under non-cancelable operating leases.

(D)Purchase obligations includes agreements that are enforceable and legally bind us to purchase goods or services, which primarily consist of obligations related to normal, ongoing purchase obligations in which we have guaranteed payment to ensure availability of raw materials. We expect to receive consideration for these purchase obligations in the form of materials and services. These purchase obligations do not represent all future purchases expected, but represent only those items for which we are contractually obligated. Amounts included in the table above represent our current best estimate of payments due. Actual cash payments may vary due to the variable pricing components of certain purchase obligations.

(E)Other liabilities consists primarily of projected commitments associated with our defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefit plans, as well as $5.4 related to capital lease obligations. The liability for unrecognized tax benefits and tax-related net interest of $17.1 under FASB Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) 740, Income Taxes, is excluded, since we are unable to reasonably estimate the timing of cash settlements with the respective taxing authorities.

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND POLICIES

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires that we make estimates and assumptions that in certain circumstances affect amounts reported in the accompanying consolidated financial statements. In preparing these financial statements, we have made our best estimates and judgments of certain amounts included in the financial statements, giving due consideration to materiality. We do not believe there is a great likelihood that materially different amounts would be reported under different conditions or using different assumptions related to the accounting policies described below. However, application of these accounting policies involves the exercise of judgment and use of assumptions as to future uncertainties and, as a result, actual results could differ from these estimates.

Trade Marketing and Merchandising Programs: In order to support our products, various promotional activities are conducted through retail trade, distributors, or directly with consumers, including in-store display and product placement programs, feature price discounts, coupons, and other similar activities. The costs of these programs are classified as a reduction of sales. We regularly review and revise, when we deem necessary, estimates of costs for these promotional programs based on estimates of what will be redeemed by retail trade, distributors, or consumers. These estimates are made using various techniques, including historical data on performance of similar promotional programs. Differences between estimated expenditures and actual performance are recognized as a change in estimate in a subsequent period. During 2019, 2018, and 2017, subsequent period adjustments were less than 2 percent of both consolidated pre-tax income and cash provided by operating activities. These promotional expenditures, including amounts classified as a reduction of sales, represented 36 percent of net sales in 2019. The possibility exists that reported results could be different if factors such as the level and success of the promotional programs or other conditions differ from expectations.

29

Income Taxes: We account for income taxes using the liability method. In the ordinary course of business, we are exposed to uncertainties related to tax filing positions and periodically assess the technical merits of these tax positions for all tax years that remain subject to examination, based upon the latest information available. For material uncertain tax positions, we have recognized a liability for unrecognized tax benefits, including any applicable interest and penalty charges.

We routinely evaluate the likelihood of realizing the benefit of our deferred tax assets and may record a valuation allowance if, based on all available evidence, we determine that it is more likely than not that all or some portion of such assets will not be realized. Valuation allowances related to deferred tax assets can be affected by changes in tax laws, statutory tax rates, and projected future taxable income levels. Changes in estimated realization of deferred tax assets would result in an adjustment to income in the period in which that determination is made, unless such changes are determined to be an adjustment to goodwill within the allowable measurement period under the acquisition method of accounting. 

The future tax benefit arising from the net deductible temporary differences and tax carryforwards is $163.6 and $129.1 at April 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively. In evaluating our ability to recover our deferred tax assets within the jurisdiction from which they arise, we consider all available positive and negative evidence, including scheduled reversals of deferred tax liabilities, projected future taxable income, tax planning strategies, and results of operations. For those jurisdictions where the expiration date of tax carry-forwards or the projected operating results indicate that realization is not likely, a valuation allowance would have been provided.

As of April 30, 2019, the undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries, primarily in Canada, remain permanently reinvested. 

Goodwill and Other Indefinite-Lived Intangible Assets: A significant portion of our assets is goodwill and other intangible assets, the majority of which are not amortized but are reviewed at least annually for impairment on February 1, and more often if indicators of impairment exist. At April 30, 2019, the carrying value of goodwill and other intangible assets totaled $13.0 billion, compared to total assets of $16.7 billion and total shareholders’ equity of $8.0 billion. If the carrying value of these assets exceeds the current estimated fair value, the asset is considered impaired, and this would result in a noncash charge to earnings. Any such impairment charge would reduce earnings and could be material. Events and conditions that could result in impairment include a sustained drop in the market price of our common shares, increased competition or loss of market share, obsolescence, product claims that result in a significant loss of sales or profitability over the product life, deterioration in macroeconomic conditions, or declining financial performance in comparison to projected results.

To test for goodwill impairment, we estimate the fair value of each of our reporting units using both a discounted cash flow valuation technique and a market-based approach. The impairment test incorporates estimates of future cash flows; allocations of certain assets, liabilities, and cash flows among reporting units; future growth rates; terminal value amounts; and the applicable weighted-average cost of capital used to discount those estimated cash flows. The estimates and projections used in the calculation of fair value are consistent with our current and long-range plans, including anticipated changes in market conditions, industry trends, growth rates, and planned capital expenditures. Changes in forecasted operations and other estimates and assumptions could impact the assessment of impairment in the future.

At April 30, 2019, goodwill totaled $6.3 billion. Goodwill is substantially concentrated within the U.S. Retail Pet Foods, U.S. Retail Coffee, and U.S. Retail Consumer Foods segments. During 2019, we recognized a goodwill impairment charge of $97.9 related to the goodwill of the Natural Foods reporting unit within the U.S. Retail Consumer Foods segment, which was driven by a reduction in our long-term net sales and profitability projections. There is no goodwill remaining within the Natural Foods reporting unit as a result of this charge. The estimated fair value of each remaining reporting unit was substantially in excess of its carrying value as of the annual test date, with the exception of the Pet Foods reporting unit, for which its fair value exceeded its carrying value by approximately 1 percent. A sensitivity analysis was performed for the Pet Foods reporting unit, assuming a hypothetical 50-basis-point decrease in the expected long-term growth rate or a hypothetical 50-basis-point increase in the weighted-average cost of capital, and both scenarios independently yielded an estimated fair value for the Pet Foods reporting unit below carrying value. 

Other indefinite-lived intangible assets, consisting entirely of trademarks, are also tested for impairment at least annually and more often if events or changes in circumstances indicate their carrying value may not be recoverable. To test these assets for impairment, we estimate the fair value of each asset based on a discounted cash flow model using various inputs, including projected revenues, an assumed royalty rate, and a discount rate. Changes in these estimates and assumptions could impact the assessment of impairment in the future. 

30

At April 30, 2019, other indefinite-lived intangible assets totaled $3.0 billion. Trademarks that represent our leading brands comprise more than 90 percent of the total carrying value of other indefinite-lived intangible assets. As of April 30, 2019, the estimated fair value was substantially in excess of the carrying value for the majority of these leading brand trademarks, and in all instances, the estimated fair value exceeded the carrying value by greater than 10 percent, with the exception of the indefinite-lived trademarks within the U.S. Retail Pet Foods segment. During 2019 and 2018, we recognized impairment charges of $107.2 and $31.9, respectively, related to certain indefinite-lived trademarks within the U.S. Retail Pet Foods segment, to the extent that the carrying value exceeded the estimated fair value.

The carrying values of the goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets within the U.S. Retail Pet Foods segment remain susceptible to future impairment charges given the narrow differences between fair value and carrying value at 

April 30, 2019. In addition, any significant adverse changes to the forecasted net sales or profitability, as well as any significant adverse changes in strategy, could result in future impairment charges which could be material. For additional information, see Note 7: Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets.

Pension and Other Postretirement Benefit Plans: To determine the ultimate obligation under our defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefit plans, we must estimate the future cost of benefits and attribute that cost to the time period during which each covered employee works. Various actuarial assumptions must be made in order to predict and measure costs and obligations many years prior to the settlement date, the most significant being the interest rates used to discount the obligations of the plans, the long-term rates of return on the plans’ assets, mortality assumptions, assumed pay increases, and the health care cost trend rates. We, along with third-party actuaries and investment managers, review all of these assumptions on an ongoing basis to ensure that the most reasonable information available is being considered.

We utilize a spot rate methodology for the estimation of service and interest cost for our plans by applying specific spot rates along the yield curve to the relevant projected cash flows, to provide a better estimate of service and interest costs. For 2020 expense recognition, we will use weighted-average discount rates for the U.S. defined benefit pension plans of 3.99 percent to determine benefit obligation, 4.20 percent to determine service cost, and 3.61 percent to determine interest cost, and a rate of compensation increase of 3.56 percent. For the Canadian defined benefit pension plans, we will use weighted-average discount rates of 3.21 percent to determine benefit obligation, 3.29 percent to determine service cost, and 2.86 percent to determine interest cost, and a rate of compensation increase of 3.00 percent. In addition, we anticipate using an expected rate of return on plan assets of 5.28 percent and 5.00 percent for the U.S. and Canadian defined benefit pension plans, respectively. 

FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

Certain statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of federal securities laws. The forward-looking statements may include statements concerning our current expectations, estimates, assumptions, and beliefs concerning future events, conditions, plans, and strategies that are not historical fact. Any statement that is not historical in nature is a forward-looking statement and may be identified by the use of words and phrases such as “expect,” “anticipate,” “believe,” “intend,” “will,” “plan,” and similar phrases.

Federal securities laws provide a safe harbor for forward-looking statements to encourage companies to provide prospective information. We are providing this cautionary statement in connection with the safe harbor provisions. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements, as such statements are by nature subject to risks, uncertainties, and other factors, many of which are outside of our control and could cause actual results to differ materially from such statements and from our historical results and experience. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, those set forth under the caption “Risk Factors” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, as well as the following:

•our ability to achieve synergies and cost savings related to the Ainsworth acquisition in the amounts and within the time frames currently anticipated;

•our ability to achieve cost savings related to our cost management programs in the amounts and within the time frames currently anticipated;

•our ability to generate sufficient cash flow to meet our cash deleveraging objectives;

•volatility of commodity, energy, and other input costs;

•risks associated with derivative and purchasing strategies we employ to manage commodity pricing and interest rate risks;

•the availability of reliable transportation on acceptable terms;

31

•our ability to implement and realize the full benefit of price changes, and the impact of the timing of the price changes to profits and cash flow in a particular period;

•the success and cost of marketing and sales programs and strategies intended to promote growth in our businesses, including product innovation;

•general competitive activity in the market, including competitors’ pricing practices and promotional spending levels;

•the impact of food security concerns involving either our products or our competitors’ products;

•the impact of accidents, extreme weather, and natural disasters;

•the concentration of certain of our businesses with key customers and suppliers, including single-source suppliers of certain key raw materials and finished goods, and our ability to manage and maintain key relationships;

•the timing and amount of capital expenditures and share repurchases;

•impairments in the carrying value of goodwill, other intangible assets, or other long-lived assets or changes in useful lives of other intangible assets;

•the impact of new or changes to existing governmental laws and regulations and their application, including tariffs;

•the outcome of tax examinations, changes in tax laws, and other tax matters;

•foreign currency and interest rate fluctuations; and

•risks related to other factors described under “Risk Factors” in other reports and statements we have filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.

Readers are cautioned not to unduly rely on such forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date made, when evaluating the information presented in this Annual Report. We do not undertake any obligation to update or revise these forward-looking statements to reflect new events or circumstances subsequent to the filing of this Annual Report on 

Form 10-K.

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.