ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

Market risk is the risk of erosion of our cash flows, earnings, asset values and equity due to adverse changes in market prices, and interest and foreign currency rates.

RISK POLICIES

Sempra Energy has policies governing its market risk management and trading activities. Sempra Energy and the California Utilities maintain separate and independent risk management committees, organizations and processes for the California Utilities and for all non-CPUC regulated affiliates to provide oversight of these activities. The committees consist of senior officers who establish policy, oversee energy risk management activities, and monitor the results of trading and other activities to ensure compliance with our stated energy risk management and trading policies. These activities include, but are not limited to, daily monitoring of market positions that create credit, liquidity and market risk. The respective oversight organizations and committees are independent from the energy procurement departments.

Along with other tools, we use VaR and liquidity metrics to measure our exposure to market risk associated with the commodity portfolios. VaR is an estimate of the potential loss on a position or portfolio of positions over a specified holding period, based on normal market conditions and within a given statistical confidence interval. A liquidity metric is intended to monitor the amount of financial resources needed for meeting potential margin calls as forward market prices move. VaR and liquidity risk metrics are calculated independently by the respective risk management oversight organizations.

The California Utilities use power and natural gas derivatives to manage natural gas and electric price risk associated with servicing load requirements. The use of power and natural gas derivatives is subject to certain limitations imposed by company policy and is in compliance with risk management and trading activity plans that have been filed with and approved by the CPUC. We discuss revenue recognition in Note 1 and the additional market-risk information regarding derivative instruments in Note 11 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

We have exposure to changes in commodity prices, interest rates and foreign currency rates and exposure to counterparty nonperformance. The following discussion of these primary market-risk exposures as of December 31, 2018 includes a discussion of how these exposures are managed.

128

COMMODITY PRICE RISK

Market risk related to physical commodities is created by volatility in the prices and basis of certain commodities. Our various subsidiaries are exposed, in varying degrees, to price risk, primarily to prices in the natural gas and electricity markets. Our policy is to manage this risk within a framework that considers the unique markets and operating and regulatory environments of each subsidiary.

Sempra Mexico, Sempra Renewables and Sempra LNG & Midstream are generally exposed to commodity price risk indirectly through their LNG, natural gas pipeline and storage, and power generating assets and their PPAs. These segments may utilize commodity transactions in the course of optimizing these assets. These transactions are typically priced based on market indices, but may also include fixed price purchases and sales of commodities. Any residual exposure is monitored as described above. A hypothetical 10-percent unfavorable change in commodity prices would not have resulted in a material change in the fair value of our commodity-based financial derivatives for these segments at December 31, 2018 and 2017. The impact of a change in energy commodity prices on our commodity-based financial derivative instruments at a point in time is not necessarily representative of the results that will be realized when the contracts are ultimately settled. Also, the impact of a change in energy commodity prices on our commodity-based financial derivative instruments does not typically include the generally offsetting impact of our underlying asset positions.

The California Utilities’ market-risk exposure is limited due to CPUC-authorized rate recovery of the costs of commodity purchases, interstate and intrastate transportation, and storage activity. However, SoCalGas may, at times, be exposed to market risk as a result of incentive mechanisms that reward or penalize the utility for commodity costs below or above certain benchmarks for SoCalGas’ GCIM. If commodity prices were to rise too rapidly, it is likely that volumes would decline. This decline would increase the per-unit fixed costs, which could lead to further volume declines. The California Utilities manage their risk within the parameters of their market risk management framework. As of and for the year ended December 31, 2018, the total VaR of the California Utilities’ natural gas and electric positions was not material, and the procurement activities were in compliance with the procurement plans filed with and approved by the CPUC.

INTEREST RATE RISK

We are exposed to fluctuations in interest rates primarily as a result of our having issued short- and long-term debt. Subject to regulatory constraints, we periodically enter into interest rate swap agreements to moderate our exposure to interest rate changes and to lower our overall cost of borrowing.

The table below shows the nominal amount of debt:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) After the effects of interest rate swaps. Before the effects of acquisition-related fair value adjustments, reductions/increases for unamortized discount/premium and reduction for debt issuance costs, and excluding capital lease obligations and build-to-suit lease.

Interest rate risk sensitivity analysis measures interest rate risk by calculating the estimated changes in earnings that would result from a hypothetical change in market interest rates. Earnings are affected by changes in interest rates on short-term debt and variable long-term debt. If weighted-average interest rates on short-term debt outstanding at December 31, 2018 increased or decreased by 10 percent, the change in earnings over the next 12-month period ended December 31, 2019 would be approximately $6 million. If interest rates increased or decreased by 10 percent on all variable-rate long-term debt at December 31, 2018, after considering the effects of interest rate swaps, the change in earnings over the next 12-month period ended December 31, 2019 would be $5 million. 

129

We provide further information about debt and interest rate swap transactions in Notes 7 and 11, respectively, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

We also are subject to the effect of interest rate fluctuations on the assets of our pension plans, other postretirement benefit plans, and SDG&E’s NDT. However, we expect the effects of these fluctuations, as they relate to the California Utilities, to be recovered in future rates.

CREDIT RISK

Credit risk is the risk of loss that would be incurred as a result of nonperformance by our counterparties on their contractual obligations. We monitor credit risk through a credit-approval process and the assignment and monitoring of credit limits. We establish these credit limits based on risk and return considerations under terms customarily available in the industry.

As with market risk, we have policies governing the management of credit risk that are administered by the respective credit departments for each of the California Utilities and, on a combined basis, for all non-CPUC regulated affiliates and overseen by their separate risk management committees.

This oversight includes calculating current and potential credit risk on a daily basis and monitoring actual balances in comparison to approved limits. We avoid concentration of counterparties whenever possible, and we believe our credit policies significantly reduce overall credit risk. These policies include an evaluation of:

▪prospective counterparties’ financial condition (including credit ratings);

▪collateral requirements;

▪the use of standardized agreements that allow for the netting of positive and negative exposures associated with a single counterparty; and

▪downgrade triggers.

We believe that we have provided adequate reserves for counterparty nonperformance.

When its development projects become operational, Sempra Energy relies significantly on the ability of suppliers to perform under long-term agreements and on our ability to enforce contract terms in the event of nonperformance. Also, the factors that we consider in evaluating a development project include negotiating customer and supplier agreements and, therefore, we rely on these agreements for future performance. We also may condition our decision to go forward on development projects on first obtaining these customer and supplier agreements.

As noted above in “Interest Rate Risk,” we periodically enter into interest rate swap agreements to moderate exposure to interest rate changes and to lower the overall cost of borrowing. We would be exposed to interest rate fluctuations on the underlying debt should a counterparty to the swap fail to perform.

CREDIT RATINGS

The credit ratings of Sempra Energy, SDG&E and SoCalGas remained at investment grade levels in 2018. At December 31, 2018: 

▪Moody’s issuer rating for Sempra Energy was Baa1 with a negative outlook, A2 with a stable outlook for SDG&E and its long-term rating for SoCalGas was A1 with a stable outlook;

▪S&P’s issuer credit rating for Sempra Energy was BBB+ with a negative outlook, A- with a negative outlook for SDG&E and A with a negative outlook for SoCalGas; and

▪Fitch Ratings’ long-term issuer default rating for Sempra Energy was BBB+ with a stable outlook, A- with a stable outlook for SDG&E and A with a stable outlook for SoCalGas.

On January 21, 2019, S&P downgraded SDG&E’s issuer credit rating to BBB+ from A- while maintaining its negative outlook. On January 22, 2019, Fitch Ratings affirmed SDG&E’s long-term issuer default rating at A- but revised the ratings outlook to negative from stable. On January 24, 2019, Moody’s placed SDG&E under review for downgrade. These ratings actions were primarily the result of recent wildfires in California in counties outside of the California Utilities’ electric service territory and the possible inability to recover costs and expenses in cases where California IOUs, like the California Utilities, are determined to have had equipment be the cause of a fire.

A downgrade of Sempra Energy’s or any of its subsidiaries’ credit ratings or rating outlooks may result in a requirement for collateral to be posted in the case of certain financing arrangements and may materially and adversely affect the market prices of their equity and debt securities, the rates at which borrowings are made and commercial paper is issued, and the various fees on 

130

their outstanding credit facilities. This could make it more costly for Sempra Energy, SDG&E, SoCalGas and Sempra Energy’s other subsidiaries to issue debt securities, to borrow under credit facilities and to raise certain other types of financing. We provide additional information about our credit ratings at Sempra Energy, SDG&E and SoCalGas in “Item 1A. Risk Factors.”

Sempra Energy has agreed that, if the credit rating of Oncor’s senior secured debt by any of the three major rating agencies falls below BBB (or the equivalent), Oncor will suspend dividends and other distributions (except for contractual tax payments), unless otherwise allowed by the PUCT.

Sempra Energy, SDG&E and SoCalGas have committed lines of credit to provide liquidity and to support commercial paper. Borrowings under these facilities bear interest at benchmark rates plus a margin that varies with market index rates and each borrower’s credit rating. Each facility also requires a commitment fee on available unused credit that may be impacted by each borrower’s credit rating. Under these committed lines: 

▪If Sempra Energy were to experience a ratings downgrade from its current level, the rate at which borrowings bear interest would increase by 25 to 50 bps, depending on the severity of the downgrade. The commitment fee on available unused credit would also increase 5 to 10 bps, depending on the severity of the downgrade.

▪If SDG&E were to experience a ratings downgrade from its current level, the rate at which borrowings bear interest would increase by 12.5 bps. The commitment fee on available unused credit would also increase 2.5 bps. 

▪If SoCalGas were to experience a ratings downgrade from its current level, the rate at which borrowings bear interest would increase by 12.5 to 25 bps, depending on the severity of the downgrade. The commitment fee on available unused credit would also increase 2.5 to 5 bps, depending on the severity of the downgrade. 

For Sempra Energy and SDG&E, their credit ratings also may affect their respective credit limits related to derivative instruments, as we discuss in Note 11 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

FOREIGN CURRENCY AND INFLATION RATE RISK

We discuss our foreign currency and inflation exposure in “Item 7. MD&A – Impact of Foreign Currency and Inflation Rates on Results of Operations.”

The hypothetical effect for every 10 percent appreciation in the U.S. dollar against the currencies of Mexico, Chile and Peru in which we have operations and investments are as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Amount represents the impact to earnings, primarily at our South American businesses, for a change in the average exchange rate throughout the reporting period.

(2) Amount primarily represents the effects of currency exchange rate movement from December 31, 2018 on monetary assets and liabilities and translation of non-U.S. deferred income tax balances at our Mexican subsidiaries.

(3) Amount represents the effects of currency exchange rate movement from December 31, 2018 recorded to OCI at the end of each reporting period, primarily at our South American businesses.

Monetary assets and liabilities at our Mexican subsidiaries that are denominated in U.S. dollars may fluctuate significantly throughout the year. These monetary assets and liabilities and certain nonmonetary assets and liabilities are adjusted for Mexican inflation for Mexican income tax purposes. Based on a net monetary liability position of $3.5 billion, including those related to our investments in JVs, at December 31, 2018, the hypothetical effect of a 10 percent increase in the Mexican inflation rate is approximately $67 million lower earnings as a result of higher income tax expense for our consolidated subsidiaries, as well as lower equity earnings for our JVs.

131

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA