PART I

Item 1.BUSINESS

General

SunTrust Banks, Inc. (“we,” “us,” “our,” “SunTrust,” or “the Company”) is a leading provider of financial services, with our headquarters located in Atlanta, Georgia. We are an organization driven by our Company purpose of Lighting the Way to Financial Well-Being — helping instill a sense of confidence in the financial circumstances of clients, communities, teammates, and owners is at the center of everything we do. Our principal subsidiary is SunTrust Bank (“the Bank”). The Company was incorporated in the State of Georgia in 1984 and offers a full line of financial services for consumers, businesses, corporations, institutions, and not-for-profit entities, both through branches (located primarily in Florida, Georgia, Virginia, North Carolina, Tennessee, Maryland, South Carolina, and the District of Columbia) and through other digital and national delivery channels. The Bank offers deposit, credit, mortgage banking, and trust and investment services to its clients through a selection of full-, self-, and assisted-service channels, including branch, call center, Teller Connect™ machines, ATMs, online, mobile, and tablet. Other subsidiaries provide capital markets, securities brokerage, investment banking, and wealth management services. At December 31, 2018, the Company had total assets of $216 billion and total deposits of $163 billion.

We operate two business segments: Consumer and Wholesale, with functional activities included in Corporate Other. 

Additional information regarding our businesses and subsidiaries, including the merger of our STM and Bank legal entities in the third quarter of 2018, is included in the information set forth in Item 7, MD&A, as well as Note 22, “Business Segment Reporting,” to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this Form 10-K.

Merger Agreement with BB&T 

On February 7, 2019, SunTrust entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the “Merger Agreement”) with BB&T Corporation (“BB&T”), a North Carolina corporation. The Merger Agreement provides that, upon the terms and subject to the conditions set forth therein, SunTrust will merge with and into BB&T (the “Merger”), with BB&T as the surviving entity in the Merger. Immediately following the Merger, SunTrust’s wholly owned subsidiary, SunTrust Bank, will merge with and into BB&T’s wholly owned subsidiary, Branch Banking and Trust Company (the “Bank Merger”), with Branch Banking and Trust Company as the surviving entity in the Bank Merger. The Merger Agreement was unanimously approved by the Board of Directors of each of BB&T and SunTrust.

Upon the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in the Merger Agreement, at the effective time of the Merger (the “Effective Time”), each issued share of common stock, par value $1.00 per share, of SunTrust (“SunTrust Common Stock”) that is outstanding immediately prior to the Effective Time, other than certain shares held by SunTrust or BB&T, will be converted into the right to receive 1.295 shares of common stock (the “Exchange Ratio”), par value $5.00 per share, of BB&T (“BB&T 

Common Stock”). Holders of SunTrust Common Stock will receive cash in lieu of fractional shares.

At the Effective Time, (i) each outstanding share of perpetual preferred stock, Series A, Series B, Series F, Series G and Series H, of SunTrust (collectively, “SunTrust Preferred Stock”) will be converted into the right to receive one share of an applicable newly issued series of BB&T preferred stock having the same terms as such share of SunTrust Preferred Stock, and (ii) each outstanding SunTrust equity award granted under SunTrust’s equity compensation plans will be converted into a corresponding award with respect to BB&T Common Stock, with the number of shares underlying such award (and, in the case of stock options, the applicable exercise price) adjusted based on the Exchange Ratio. Each such BB&T equity award will continue to have the same terms and conditions as applied to the corresponding SunTrust equity award, except that, in the case of SunTrust performance stock unit awards, the number of shares underlying the converted BB&T equity award will be fixed based on actual performance for the portion of the applicable performance period through the Effective Time and target performance for the balance of the applicable performance period and such award will continue to vest after the Effective Time solely based on continued service.

The Merger Agreement also provides, among other things, that as of the Effective Time, Kelly S. King, the current Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of BB&T, will continue to serve as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of the surviving entity and of the surviving bank until September 12, 2021, at which time he will serve as Executive Chairman of the surviving entity and the surviving bank until March 12, 2022. The Merger Agreement also provides that, as of the Effective Time, William H. Rogers, Jr., the current Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of SunTrust, will be appointed as a director and as President and Chief Operating Officer of the surviving entity and the surviving bank and will serve in such role until Mr. King is no longer serving as Chief Executive Officer of the surviving entity or the surviving bank, at which time Mr. Rogers will become Chief Executive Officer of the surviving entity and the surviving bank. Mr. Rogers will also become Chairman of the board of directors of the surviving entity and the surviving bank at such time as Mr. King is no longer serving as Executive Chairman. In addition, the board of directors of the surviving entity will be comprised of 22 directors, of which 11 will be former members of the Board of SunTrust and of which 11 will be former members of the board of directors of BB&T.

The Merger Agreement contains customary representations and warranties from both BB&T and SunTrust, and each party has agreed to customary covenants, including, among others, covenants relating to (1) the conduct of its business during the interim period between the execution of the Merger Agreement and the Effective Time, (2) its obligation to call a meeting of its shareholders to adopt the Merger Agreement, and, subject to certain exceptions, to recommend that its shareholders adopt the Merger Agreement, and (3) its non-solicitation obligations related to alternative acquisition proposals.

3

The completion of the Merger is subject to customary conditions, including (1) adoption of the Merger Agreement by SunTrust’s shareholders and by BB&T’s shareholders, (2) authorization for listing on the NYSE of the shares of BB&T Common Stock to be issued in the Merger, subject to official notice of issuance, (3) the receipt of required regulatory approvals, including the approval of the FRB, the FDIC, the North Carolina Commissioner of Banks and the Georgia Department of Banking and Finance, (4) effectiveness of the registration statement on Form S-4 for the BB&T Common Stock to be issued in the Merger, and (5) the absence of any order, injunction, decree or other legal restraint preventing the completion of the Merger or making the completion of the Merger illegal. Each party’s obligation to complete the Merger is also subject to certain additional customary conditions, including (a) subject to certain exceptions, the accuracy of the representations and warranties of the other party, (b) performance in all material respects by the other party of its obligations under the Merger Agreement and (c) receipt by such party of an opinion from its counsel to the effect that the Merger will qualify as a reorganization within the meaning of Section 368(a) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.

The Merger Agreement provides certain termination rights for both BB&T and SunTrust and further provides that a termination fee of $1.121 billion will be payable by either BB&T or SunTrust, as applicable, upon termination of the Merger Agreement under certain circumstances.

Please refer to Item 1A, “Risk Factors—Merger-related Risks,” for a discussion of certain risks related to our proposed Merger with BB&T.

Regulation and Supervision

We are limited under the BHC Act to banking, managing or controlling banks, and other activities that the FRB has determined to be closely related to banking. The Company, a BHC, elected to become a financial holding company pursuant to the GLBA, allowing it to engage in a broader range of activities that are (i) financial in nature or incidental to financial activities or (ii) complementary to a financial activity and do not pose a substantial risk to the safety and soundness of depository institutions or the financial system in general. These expanded services include securities underwriting and dealing, insurance underwriting, merchant banking, and insurance company portfolio investment, and are subject to the Volcker Rule and other restrictions discussed below.

As a financial holding company, the Company and its banking subsidiary are required to be “well capitalized” and “well managed” while maintaining at least a “satisfactory” CRA rating. In the event of noncompliance, the Federal Reserve may, among other things, limit the Company’s ability to conduct these broader financial activities or, if the deficiencies persist, may require the Company to divest its banking subsidiary. Furthermore, if the Company does not have a satisfactory CRA rating, it may not commence any new financial activities, although the Company will still be allowed to engage in activities closely related to banking.

The Federal Reserve regulates BHCs under the BHC Act, with residual supervisory authority over “functionally regulated” subsidiaries such as the Company's broker-dealer and investment 

adviser subsidiaries. Our non-banking subsidiaries are regulated by various other regulatory bodies with supervisory authority over the particular activities of those subsidiaries. For example, STRH and STIS are broker-dealers registered with the SEC and members of FINRA, and STAS is an investment advisor registered with the SEC. STIS is also an insurance agency registered with various state insurance departments.

The Bank is an FDIC-insured commercial bank chartered under the laws of the State of Georgia and is a member of the Federal Reserve System. In addition to regulation by the FRB, the Bank and the Company are regulated by the Georgia Department of Banking and Finance. The FDIC also has jurisdiction over certain activities of the Bank as an insured depository institution. As a Georgia-chartered commercial bank, the Bank's powers are limited to activities permitted by Georgia and federal banking laws. Generally, the Bank may engage in all usual banking activities, such as taking deposits, lending money, issuing letters of credit, currency trading, and offering safe deposit box services. 

As an umbrella supervisor under the GLBA's system of functional regulation, the FRB requires that financial holding companies operate in a safe and sound manner so that their financial condition does not threaten the viability of affiliated depository institutions. 

The Dodd-Frank Act, among other things, implemented changes that affected the oversight and supervision of financial institutions, provided for a new resolution procedure for large financial companies, created the CFPB, introduced more stringent regulatory capital requirements and significant changes in the regulation of OTC derivatives, reformed the regulation of credit rating agencies, increased controls and transparency in corporate governance and executive compensation practices, incorporated the Volcker Rule, required registration of advisers to certain private funds, and influenced significant changes in the securitization market. Dodd-Frank Act requirements typically apply to BHCs with greater than $10 billion of consolidated assets, and the requirements increase at certain asset size thresholds (most notably, $50 billion of consolidated assets and $250 billion of consolidated assets). In May 2018, the Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief, and Consumer Protection Act was signed into law which amends provisions in the Dodd-Frank Act as discussed in the “Enhanced Prudential Standards” section below.

Enhanced Prudential Standards 

BHCs with consolidated assets of $50 billion or more have been subject to enhanced prudential standards and capital requirements. The Dodd-Frank Act directs the FRB to establish heightened prudential standards for (i) risk-based capital requirements and leverage limits, (ii) liquidity risk management requirements, (iii) overall risk management requirements, (iv) stress testing, (v) resolution planning, (vi) credit exposure and concentration limits, and (vii) early remediation actions that must be taken under certain conditions in the early stages of financial distress.

In February 2014, the FRB adopted a final rule implementing enhanced liquidity and risk management requirements. This rule requires greater supervision and oversight of liquidity and general risk management by boards of 

4

directors and includes capital planning and stress testing requirements. In addition, the rule requires publicly traded U.S. BHCs with total consolidated assets of $10 billion or more to establish enterprise-wide risk committees. 

In May 2018, the Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief, and Consumer Protection Act (“EGRRCPA”) amended provisions in the Dodd-Frank Act and other statutes administered by the FRB. Among these amendments are provisions to tailor applicability of certain of the enhanced prudential standards, and to increase the $50 billion asset threshold in Section 165 of the Dodd-Frank Act to $250 billion. The EGRRCPA increases the $50 billion asset threshold in two stages. Immediately on the date of enactment, BHCs with total consolidated assets of less than $100 billion were no longer subject to Section 165. Eighteen months after the date of enactment, the threshold is raised to $250 billion. The EGRRCPA also provides that the FRB may apply any enhanced prudential standard to BHCs between $100 billion and $250 billion in total consolidated assets, subject to various qualifications and conditions. 

In October 2018, the OCC, FRB, and FDIC issued a joint NPR to address the tailoring provided for in the EGRRCPA for U.S. banking organizations with more than $100 billion in total consolidated assets, based on four risk categories. The proposal reflects the primary changes effected by the EGRRCPA in the applicability of the Section 165 enhanced prudential standards to each category. As a Category IV banking organization, which includes banking organizations in the $100 to $250 billion in total assets range, the Company would be exempted from the Dodd-Frank Act company-run stress testing requirement, and would be subject to biennial supervisory stress-testing. Additionally, the Company would no longer be required to comply with the LCR though it would continue to be subject to modified liquidity risk management requirements, quarterly internal liquidity stress testing, and a liquidity buffer requirement. The applicability of these enhanced prudential standards and certain others effected by the EGRRCPA remains subject to regulatory uncertainty as the FRB has yet to propose rules and to issue guidance on various specific aspects of their applicability and associated reporting. 

In February 2019, the FRB announced relief to certain less-complex BHCs as discussed in the “Capital Planning and Stress Testing” section below.

Enhanced Capital Standards 

In July 2013, the U.S. banking regulators promulgated final rules substantially implementing the Basel III capital framework and various Dodd-Frank Act provisions (the “Capital Rules”). The Capital Rules increased regulatory capital requirements of U.S. banking organizations and revised the level at which the Bank becomes subject to corrective action as described in the “Prompt Corrective Action” section below. The “Collins” amendment to the Dodd-Frank Act required federal banking regulators to impose a generally applicable leverage capital ratio regardless of institution size and to phase out certain “hybrid” capital elements from Tier 1 capital treatment. The Company became subject to the Capital Rules on January 1, 2015. For additional information regarding the Capital Rules, including recent updates and/or changes to the rules and related requirements, 

refer to the "Capital Resources" section of Item 7, MD&A, in this Form 10-K. 

Distributions

There are various legal and regulatory limits on the extent to which the Bank may pay dividends or otherwise supply funds to its Parent Company. Federal and state bank regulatory agencies have the authority to prevent the Bank from paying dividends or engaging in any other activity that, in the opinion of the agency, would constitute an unsafe or unsound practice. Restrictions on capital distributions, share repurchases and redemptions, and discretionary bonus payments to executive officers are imposed on banks and their parent companies that are unable to sustain the capital conservation buffer above the minimum CET1, Tier 1, and Total capital ratios. The capital conservation buffer is an amount above the minimum levels designed to ensure that banks remain well-capitalized, even in adverse economic scenarios.

See additional discussion of Basel III in the “Capital Resources” section of Item 7, MD&A, in this Form 10-K.

Mandatory Liquidity Coverage Ratio and Net Stable Funding Ratio 

In September 2014, the FRB, OCC, and the FDIC approved rulemaking that established, for the first time, a quantitative minimum LCR for large, internationally active banking organizations, and a less stringent LCR (“modified LCR”) for BHCs with less than $250 billion in total assets, such as the Company. The LCR requires a banking entity to maintain sufficient liquidity to withstand an acute 30-day liquidity stress scenario. The LCR became effective for the Company on January 1, 2016, with a minimum requirement of 90% of high-quality, liquid assets to total net cash outflows. Full compliance of 100% was required beginning January 1, 2017. The Company has met LCR requirements within the regulatory timelines and at December 31, 2018, its LCR was above the 100% regulatory requirement.

On December 19, 2016, the FRB published the final rule, promulgated as Regulation WW, which requires us to publicly disclose qualitative and quantitative information, with certain qualifications and permitted limitations related to information that is proprietary or confidential to the Company, about (i) certain components of our LCR calculation in a standardized tabular format (LCR disclosure template) and (ii) factors that have significant effect on the LCR, to facilitate an understanding of our calculations and results. The rule aims to promote market discipline by providing the public with comparable liquidity information about covered companies. The disclosures must be made on a covered company's public internet site or in a public financial or regulatory report. The disclosures must remain available to the public for at least five years from the time of initial disclosure. Covered companies subject to modified LCR, including the Company, were required to comply with disclosure requirements under this final rule for quarterly periods ending after October 1, 2018. The LCR disclosure can be found on the Company's investor relations website at http://investors.suntrust.com.

On May 3, 2016, the FRB, OCC, and the FDIC proposed a rule to implement the NSFR. The proposal would require large U.S. banking organizations to maintain a stable funding profile 

5

over a one-year horizon. The FRB proposed a modified NSFR requirement for bank holding companies with greater than $50 billion but less than $250 billion in total consolidated assets and less than $10 billion in total on balance sheet foreign exposure. As proposed, the rule would require us to publicly disclose our NSFR and the components of the NSFR each calendar quarter. The agencies intend the NSFR to complement the LCR, liquidity risk management, and stress testing requirements under the FRB's Regulation YY (enhanced prudential standards for BHCs with total consolidated assets of $50 billion or more). The proposed rule contains an implementation date of January 1, 2018; however, a final rule has not yet been issued.

As discussed in the “Enhanced Prudential Standards” section above, in October 2018, the OCC, FRB, and FDIC issued a joint NPR to tailor the application of the enhanced prudential standards. Under the proposal, four categories of standards would be applied to U.S. banking organizations based on size, complexity and other risk-based factors. If the NPR is finalized as proposed, the Company, classified as Category IV, would no longer be subject to the mandatory LCR and the proposed NSFR. Internal liquidity stress testing, liquidity buffer, and liquidity risk management requirements would still apply.

See additional discussion of the LCR and NSFR in the “Liquidity Risk Management” section of Item 7, MD&A, in this Form 10-K. 

Capital Planning and Stress Testing 

Pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, BHCs are required to conduct company-run stress tests and are subject to supervisory stress tests conducted by the FRB. BHCs with more than $10 billion in total consolidated assets must conduct an annual company-run stress test, and those with total consolidated assets exceeding $50 billion must conduct an additional mid-cycle stress test. For company-run stress tests, BHCs use the same planning horizon, capital action assumptions, and scenarios as those used in the supervisory stress tests. Stress testing is designed to assess whether the covered company's capital is sufficient to absorb losses during stressful conditions, while meeting obligations to creditors and counterparties, and, to the extent applicable, continuing to serve as credit intermediaries. 

The Company also is subject to supervisory stress testing requirements under the FRB's Capital Plan Rule, which the FRB implements as part of its CCAR process. CCAR is a broad supervisory program that includes stress testing and assesses a covered company’s practices for determining capital needs, including its risk measurement and management practices, capital planning and decision-making, and associated internal controls and governance. The Company is required to publish a summary of the results of its annual stress test, and the FRB publishes the results of the stress testing under adverse and severely adverse scenarios. 

The Capital Plan Rule finalized in late 2011 requires a U.S. BHC with consolidated assets of $50 billion or more to develop and maintain a capital plan that is reviewed and approved by its board of directors or a committee thereof. Capital plans are intended to allow the FRB to assess the BHC’s systems and processes of incorporating forward-looking projections of assets and liabilities, revenues and losses, and to monitor and maintain their internal capital adequacy. Under the Capital Plan Rule, each 

capital plan must address, among other capital actions, projected capital ratios under stress scenarios, planned dividends and other capital distributions, and share repurchases over a minimum nine quarter planning horizon. Prior to implementing a capital plan, a non-objection notification must be received from the FRB. If the FRB objects to our capital plan, we may not make certain capital distributions until the FRB's non-objection to the distribution is received.

In January 2017, the FRB released a final rule that revised capital plan and stress test rules, whereby certain BHCs with less than $250 billion in total consolidated assets, including the Company, are no longer subject to the qualitative component of the FRB’s annual CCAR. The final rule also modified certain regulatory reports to collect additional information on nonbank assets and to reduce reporting burdens for large and noncomplex firms. 

As discussed in the “Enhanced Prudential Standards” section above, in October 2018, the OCC, FRB, and FDIC issued a joint NPR to tailor the application of the enhanced prudential standards. Under the proposal, four categories of standards would be applied to U.S. banking organizations based on size, complexity and other risk-based factors. If the NPR is finalized as proposed, the Company, classified as Category IV, would no longer be required to conduct company-run stress tests nor to conduct mid-cycle stress tests. The Company would be subject to biennial supervisory stress tests and would still be required to submit an annual capital plan.

In February 2019, the FRB announced that certain less-complex BHCs with less than $250 billion in assets, including the Company, would not be subject to supervisory stress testing, company-run stress testing, or CCAR for 2019.

For additional information regarding Capital Planning and Stress Testing, refer to the “Capital Resources” section of Item 7, MD&A, in this Form 10-K.

Regulatory Regime for Swaps

The Dodd-Frank Act established a new comprehensive regulatory regime for the OTC swaps market, aimed at increasing transparency and reducing systemic risk in the derivatives markets, including requirements for central clearing, exchange trading, capital, margin, reporting, and recordkeeping. The Dodd-Frank Act requires that certain swap dealers register with one or both of the SEC and CFTC, depending on the nature of the swaps business. The Bank provisionally registered with the CFTC as a swap dealer, subjecting the Bank to new requirements under this regulatory regime including trade reporting and record keeping requirements, margin requirements, business conduct requirements (including daily valuations, disclosure of material risks associated with swaps and disclosure of material incentives and conflicts of interest), and mandatory clearing and exchange trading requirements for certain standardized swaps designated by the CFTC. Subject to the SEC's finalization of certain rules applicable to security-based swaps, which the SEC has re-proposed and remain in flux, the Bank expects to register with the SEC as a security-based swap dealer. Such registration will subject the Bank’s security-based swaps business to similar Dodd-Frank Act requirements, including trade reporting, business conduct standards, recordkeeping, margin, and potentially mandatory clearing and exchange requirements. In 

6

2020, our derivatives business involving uncleared swaps is expected to become subject to initial margin requirements established by the FRB, which may exceed current market practice.

Resolution Planning

BHCs with total consolidated assets of $50 billion or more must submit resolution plans to the FRB and FDIC addressing the company's strategy for rapid and orderly resolution in case of material financial distress or failure. 

The FRB and FDIC have widely promoted resolution plans as core elements of reforms intended to mitigate risks to the U.S. financial system and to end the “too big to fail” status of the largest financial institutions. Covered institutions are expected to file their resolution plans annually or at the direction of regulators, regardless of the financial condition or nature of operations of the institution. If a plan is not credible, the Company and the Bank may be restricted in expansionary activities, or be subjected to more stringent capital, leverage, or liquidity requirements. The Company and the Bank submitted resolution plans to the FRB and FDIC in December 2015. During 2016, the FRB and FDIC waived the covered financial institutions' requirement to file their resolution plans. The FRB and FDIC provided feedback regarding the Company's and the Bank's 2015 resolution plans during 2017. The Company submitted its updated resolution plan to the FRB in December 2017. The Bank updated its resolution plan to be responsive to feedback received and submitted it to the FDIC in June 2018.

The FDIC issued a final rule in November 2016 requiring insured depository institutions with more than two million deposit accounts to create and maintain comprehensive and detailed deposit account records to facilitate the determination of FDIC insured deposits in the event of a bank failure. Under the rule, the FDIC must be able to use the failing bank's systems, data, and staff to calculate the insured and uninsured amounts for each depositor and place holds on portions of uninsured deposits. The Bank will be required to be in compliance with this rule by May 2020.

Deposit Insurance 

The Bank’s depositors are insured by the FDIC up to the applicable limits, which is currently $250,000 per account ownership type. The FDIC provides deposit insurance through the DIF, which the FDIC maintains by assessing depository institutions, including the Bank, an insurance premium. The Dodd-Frank Act changed the statutory regime governing the DIF. By September 30, 2020, the FDIC must increase the amount in the DIF to 1.35% of insured deposits, impose a premium on banks to reach this goal, and offset the effect of assessment increases for institutions with less than $10 billion in total consolidated assets. In March 2016, the FDIC issued a final rule to address this surcharge on banks by collecting those premiums from banks with more than $10 billion in consolidated assets. This surcharge began in the third quarter of 2016. In November 2018, the FDIC announced that the DIF reached the 1.35% target threshold and that the surcharge would be discontinued effective with the fourth quarter of 2018 assessment.

Source of Strength

FRB policy requires BHCs to act as a source of financial strength to each subsidiary bank and to commit resources to support each subsidiary. This policy was codified in the Dodd-Frank Act, though no regulations have been proposed to define the scope of this financial support.

Anti-Money Laundering (“AML”), PATRIOT ACT; OFAC Sanctions

Anti-money laundering measures and economic sanctions have long been a matter of regulatory focus in the U.S. The Currency and Foreign Transactions Reporting Act of 1970, commonly referred to as the “Bank Secrecy Act” or “BSA,” requires U.S. financial institutions to assist U.S. government agencies to detect and prevent money laundering by imposing various reporting and recordkeeping requirements on financial institutions. Passage of the Patriot Act renewed and expanded this focus, extending greatly the breadth and depth of anti-money laundering measures required under the BSA. The Patriot Act requires all financial institutions to establish certain anti-money laundering compliance and due diligence programs, including enhanced due diligence policies, procedures, and controls for certain types of relationships deemed to pose heightened risks. In cooperation with federal banking regulatory agencies, the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network (“FinCEN”) is responsible for implementing, administering, and enforcing BSA compliance.

Federal banking regulators and FinCEN continue to emphasize their expectation that financial institutions establish and implement robust BSA/AML compliance programs. Consistent with this supervisory emphasis, in August 2014, FinCEN issued an advisory stressing its expectations for financial institutions’ BSA/AML compliance programs, including specific governance, staffing and resource allocation, and testing and monitoring requirements. Furthermore, FinCEN proposed a rule that would require financial institutions to obtain beneficial ownership information from all legal entities with which they conduct business.

OFAC has primary responsibility for administering and enforcing economic and trade sanctions, which are broad-based measures, derived from U.S. foreign policy and national security objectives. These sanctions are imposed on designated foreign countries and persons, terrorists, international narcotics traffickers, and persons involved in activities relating to proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. While the sanctions laws are separate from the BSA and AML laws, these regimes overlap in purpose. All U.S. persons must comply with U.S. sanctions laws. The Company must ensure that its operations, including its provision of services to clients, are designed to ensure compliance with U.S. sanctions laws. Among other things, the Company must block accounts of, and transactions with, sanctioned persons and report blocked transactions after their occurrence.

Over the past several years, federal banking regulators, FinCEN, and OFAC have increased supervisory and enforcement attention on U.S. anti-money laundering and sanctions laws, as evidenced by a significant increase in enforcement activity, including several high profile enforcement actions. Several of these actions have addressed violations of 

7

AML laws, U.S. sanctions laws, or both, resulting in the imposition of substantial civil monetary penalties. In both the BSA/AML and sanctions areas, enforcement actions have increasingly focused on publicly identifying individuals and holding those individuals, including compliance officers, accountable for deficiencies in BSA/AML compliance programs. State attorneys general and the DOJ have also pursued enforcement actions against banking entities alleged to have willfully violated AML and U.S. sanctions laws. 

Consumer Financial Protection

The CFPB, established by the Dodd-Frank Act, has broad rulemaking, supervisory, and enforcement powers under various federal consumer financial protection laws. Furthermore, the CFPB is authorized to engage in consumer financial education, track consumer complaints, request data, and promote the availability of financial services to under-served consumers and communities. The CFPB has primary examination and enforcement authority over institutions with assets of $10 billion or more. We are subject to a number of federal and state consumer protection laws, including the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Fair Credit Reporting Act, the Truth in Lending Act, the Truth in Savings Act, the Electronic Fund Transfer Act, the Expedited Funds Availability Act, the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act, the Fair Housing Act, the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act, the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act, the Service Members Civil Relief Act, the Military Lending Act, and these laws’ respective state-law counterparts. The Company also is subject to federal and state laws regarding unfair and deceptive acts and practices. Violations of applicable consumer protection laws can result in significant liability from litigation brought by customers, including actual damages, restitution, and attorneys’ fees. In addition, federal bank regulators, state attorneys general, and state and local consumer protection agencies may pursue remedies, such as imposition of regulatory sanctions and penalties, restrictions on expansionary activities, and requiring customer rescission rights. 

Prompt Corrective Action 

The federal banking agencies have broad powers with which to require companies to take prompt corrective action to resolve problems of insured depository institutions that do not meet minimum capital requirements. The law establishes five capital categories for this purpose: (i) well-capitalized, (ii) adequately capitalized, (iii) undercapitalized, (iv) significantly undercapitalized, and (v) critically undercapitalized. The Capital Rules amended the thresholds in the prompt corrective action framework to reflect the higher capital ratios required in the Capital Rules. Under the Capital Rules, to be considered well-capitalized, an institution generally must have risk-based Total capital and Tier 1 capital ratios of at least 10% and 6%, respectively, and must not be subject to any order or written directive to meet and maintain a specific capital level for any capital measure. While the prompt corrective action rules apply to banks and not BHCs, the FRB is authorized to take actions at the holding company level. The banking regulatory agencies are required to take mandatory supervisory actions and have the discretion to take other actions, as to insured depository institutions in the three undercapitalized categories, the severity 

of which depends on the assigned capital category. For example, an insured depository institution is generally prohibited from paying dividends or making capital distributions if it would be undercapitalized as a result. An undercapitalized institution must submit a capital restoration plan, which must be guaranteed up to certain amounts by its parent holding company. Significantly undercapitalized institutions may be subject to various requirements and restrictions, such as mandates to sell voting stock, reduce total assets, and limit or prohibit the receipt of correspondent bank deposits. Critically undercapitalized institutions are subject to appointment of a receiver or conservator.

Volcker Rule

Through the “Volcker Rule” and its implementing regulations, banking entities such as the Company and its affiliates are prohibited from engaging in proprietary trading and investing in, sponsoring, or having certain other relationships with, a private equity, hedge fund, or certain other types of private funds. There are limited exceptions to the prohibition on proprietary trading, such as trading in certain U.S. government or agency securities, engaging in certain underwriting or market-making activities, and certain hedging activities. There are also limited exceptions to the prohibitions on certain activities with covered private funds, such as for certain activities in connection with a banking entity's bona fide trust, fiduciary, or investment advisory business, as well as in connection with public welfare activities including low income housing finance. All permitted activities are subject to applicable federal or state laws, restrictions or limitations that may be imposed by the regulator, including capital and quantitative limitations as well as diversification requirements, and must not, among other things, pose a threat to the safety and soundness of the banking entity or the financial stability of the U.S. The Volcker Rule also imposes extensive internal controls and recordkeeping requirements on banking organizations to ensure their compliance with the Volcker Rule. While regulators are revisiting certain aspects of the requirements of the Volcker Rule, including potentially less burdensome requirements for regional banks such as the Bank, such proposals are at a preliminary stage, are subject to change and it remains uncertain if they will be implemented.

Branching 

The Dodd-Frank Act relaxed interstate branching restrictions by modifying the federal statute governing de novo interstate branching by state member banks. Consequently, a state member bank may open its initial branch in a state outside of the bank’s home state by way of an interstate bank branch, so long as a bank chartered under the laws of that state would be permitted to open a branch at that location.

Restrictions on Affiliate Transactions

There are limits and restrictions on transactions between the Bank and its subsidiaries, on the one hand, and the Company and other Company subsidiaries, on the other hand. Sections 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act and FRB's Regulation W, among other things, govern terms and conditions and limit the amount of extensions of credit, and the amount of collateral required to secure extensions of credit, by the Bank and its 

8

subsidiaries to the Company and other Company subsidiaries and limit purchases of assets by the Bank and its subsidiaries from the Company and other Company subsidiaries. The Dodd-Frank Act significantly enhanced and expanded the scope and coverage of the limitations imposed by Sections 23A and 23B, specifically, by including derivative transactions as credit extensions subject to Sections 23A and 23B. Furthermore, the Dodd-Frank Act requires that conforming collateral be maintained for the duration of covered transactions, rather than only at the time of the transaction. The FRB has increased its scrutiny of Regulation W transactions and has supported its supervision over Regulation W compliance with information received through the resolution planning process. The FRB has yet to amend Regulation W or provide guidance in light of the Dodd-Frank Act's changes to Sections 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act.

Incentive Compensation

In 2010, the FRB and other regulators jointly published final guidance for structuring incentive compensation arrangements at financial organizations. The guidance does not set forth any formulas or pay caps but contains certain principles that companies are required to follow with respect to employees and groups of employees that may expose the company to material amounts of risk. The three primary principles are (i) balanced risk-taking incentives, (ii) compatibility with effective controls and risk management, and (iii) strong corporate governance. The FRB monitors compliance with this guidance as part of its safety and soundness oversight.

In 2016, the FRB, SEC, and other regulators jointly published proposed rules on incentive compensation under Section 956 of the Dodd-Frank Act. The proposed rules would impose several substantive requirements on the form of our incentive compensation, including (i) requiring that incentive compensation payable to a “senior executive officer” or “significant-risk taker” be subject to a 7-year clawback requirement; (ii) requiring a substantial portion of incentive compensation payable to a “senior executive officer” or “significant-risk taker” to be deferred and subject to the risks of downward adjustment and forfeiture; (iii) prohibiting the acceleration of incentive compensation that is required to be deferred, other than in the event of death or disability; (iv) limiting the amount of incentive compensation payable to “senior executive officers” and “significant risk-takers” for the attainment of performance measures in excess of target measures (to 125% and 150% of the target amount for “senior executive officers” and “significant risk-takers,” respectively); and (v) requiring the implementation of an independent risk management framework. Most of the federal regulatory agencies charged with jointly implementing Section 956 of the Dodd-Frank Act have not included a reference to these proposed rules in their most recent regulatory agendas. As a result, it is not certain if or when the final rules will be issued.

Privacy and Cybersecurity

We are subject to many U.S. federal, state, and other laws and regulations governing requirements for maintaining policies and procedures to protect non-public confidential information of our customers. The GLBA requires us to periodically disclose our 

privacy policies and practices relating to sharing such information and permits consumers to opt out of our ability to share information with unaffiliated third parties under certain circumstances. Other laws and regulations, at both the federal and state level, impact our ability to share certain information with affiliates and non-affiliates for marketing or non-marketing purposes, or both, or to contact customers with marketing offers. The GLBA also requires banking institutions to implement a comprehensive information security program that includes administrative, technical, and physical safeguards to ensure the security and confidentiality of customer records and information. These security and privacy policies and procedures, for the protection of personal and confidential information, are in effect across all businesses and geographic locations. Refer to the “Enterprise Risk Management” section in Item 7 of this Form 10-K for additional information regarding privacy and cybersecurity risk management and oversight. 

Acquisitions

Our ability to grow through acquisitions is limited by various regulatory approval requirements. The FRB's prior approval is required if we wish to (i) acquire all, or substantially all, of the assets of any bank, (ii) acquire direct or indirect ownership or control of more than 5% of any class of voting securities of any bank or thrift, or (iii) merge or consolidate with any other BHC.

Pursuant to the Riegle-Neal Interstate Banking and Branching Efficiency Act of 1994, as amended by the Dodd-Frank Act, bank holding companies from any state may acquire banks located in any other state, subject to certain conditions, including concentration limits. Additionally, the BHC Act enumerates the factors the FRB must consider when reviewing the merger of BHCs, the acquisition of banks, or the acquisition of voting securities of a bank or BHC. These factors include the competitive effects of the proposal in the relevant geographic markets, the financial and managerial resources and future prospects of the companies and banks involved in the transaction, the effect of the transaction on the financial stability of the U.S., the organizations’ compliance with anti-money laundering laws and regulations, the convenience and needs of the communities to be served, and the records of performance, under the CRA, of the insured depository institutions involved in the transaction. In addition, in cases involving interstate bank acquisitions, the FRB must consider the concentration of deposits nationwide and in certain individual states. Under the Dodd-Frank Act, a BHC is generally prohibited from merging, consolidating with, or acquiring another company if the resulting company’s liabilities upon consummation would exceed 10% of the aggregate liabilities of the U.S. financial sector, including the U.S. liabilities of foreign financial companies.

Competition

We face competition from domestic and foreign lending institutions and numerous other providers of financial services. The Company competes using a client-centered model that focuses on working together as OneTeam to deliver high quality advice and service, while offering a broad range of products and services. We believe this approach better positions us to increase loyalty and deepen existing relationships, while also attracting new customers. Furthermore, the Company maintains a strong 

9

branch presence within the high-growth Southeast and Mid-Atlantic U.S., complemented by a national focus across most of its lines of business, thereby enhancing our competitive position. While we believe the Company is well positioned within the highly competitive financial services industry, the industry could become even more competitive as a result of legislative, regulatory, economic, and technological changes, as well as continued consolidation. The ability of non-banking entities to provide services previously limited to commercial banks has intensified competition. Because non-banking entities are not subject to many of the same regulatory supervision and restrictions as banks and bank holding companies, they can often operate with greater flexibility and with lower cost and capital structures. However, non-banking entities may not have the same access to deposit funds or government programs and, as a result, those non-banking entities may elect, as some have done, to become financial holding companies to gain such access. Securities firms and insurance companies that elect to become financial holding companies may acquire banks and other financial institutions, which could further alter the competitive environment in which we conduct business.

In addition, the ability to access and use technology is an increasingly significant competitive factor in the financial services industry. Having the right technology is a critically important component to client satisfaction as it affects our ability to deliver the products and services that clients desire, in a manner that they find convenient and attractive. Banks generally are facing increased competition from products and services offered by non-bank financial technology companies, particularly related to payment services and lending.

Employees

At December 31, 2018, the Company had 22,899 full-time equivalent employees. None of the employees within the Company are subject to a collective bargaining agreement. Management considers its employee relations to be in good standing.

Additional Information

See also the following additional information, which is incorporated herein by reference: Business Segments (under the captions “Business Segments” and “Business Segment Results” in Item 7, MD&A, in this Form 10-K, and Note 22, “Business Segment Reporting,” to the Consolidated Financial Statements 

in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, of this Form 10-K); Net Interest Income (under the captions “Net Interest Income/Margin (FTE)” in the MD&A and “Selected Financial Data” in Item 6); Securities (under the caption “Investment Securities” in the MD&A and Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements); Loans and Leases (under the captions “Loans,” “Allowance for Credit Losses,” and “Nonperforming Assets” in the MD&A and “Loans” and “Allowance for Credit Losses” in Notes 7 and 8, respectively, to the Consolidated Financial Statements); Deposits (under the caption “Deposits” in the MD&A); Short-Term Borrowings (under the caption “Short-Term Borrowings” in the MD&A and Note 13, “Borrowings and Contractual Commitments,” to the Consolidated Financial Statements); Trading Activities and Trading Assets and Liabilities (under the caption “Trading Assets and Liabilities and Derivative Instruments” in the MD&A and “Trading Assets and Liabilities and Derivative Instruments” and “Fair Value Election and Measurement” in Notes 5 and 20, respectively, to the Consolidated Financial Statements); Market Risk Management (under the caption “Market Risk Management” in the MD&A); Liquidity Risk Management (under the caption “Liquidity Risk Management” in the MD&A); Credit Risk Management (under the caption “Credit Risk Management” in the MD&A); and Operational Risk Management (under the caption “Operational Risk Management” in the MD&A).

The Company's Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act are available free of charge on the Company's investor relations website at http://investors.suntrust.com, as soon as reasonably practicable after the Company electronically files such material with, or furnishes it to, the SEC. Furthermore, on the Company's investor relations website, the Company makes available, under the heading "Governance" its (i) codes of ethics for the Board, senior financial officers, and employees, (ii) its Corporate Governance Guidelines, and (iii) the charters of SunTrust Board committees. If the Company makes changes in, or provides waivers from, the provisions of any of its codes of ethics that the SEC requires it to disclose, the Company intends to disclose these events in the “Governance” section of its investor relations website. Reports filed or furnished to the SEC are also available through the SEC's website at http://www.sec.gov.

10

Item 1A. RISK FACTORS