ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

GENERAL

As of December 31, 2018, we had consolidated total assets of $244.63 billion, consolidated total deposits of $180.36 billion, consolidated total shareholders' equity of $24.79 billion and over 40,000 employees. We operate in more than 100 geographic markets worldwide, including the U.S., Canada, Europe, the Middle East and Asia.

Our operations are organized into two lines of business, Investment Servicing and Investment Management, which are defined based on products and services provided. 

Investment Servicing provides services for institutional clients, including mutual funds, collective investment funds and other investment pools, corporate and public retirement plans, insurance companies, investment managers, foundations and endowments worldwide. Products include: custody; product and participant level accounting; daily pricing and administration; master trust and master custody; depotbank services (a fund oversight role created by regulation); record-keeping; cash management; foreign exchange, brokerage and other trading services; securities finance; our enhanced custody product, which integrates principal securities lending and custody; deposit and short-term investment facilities; loans and lease financing; investment manager and alternative investment manager operations outsourcing; performance, risk and compliance analytics; and financial data management to support institutional investors. New products and services resulting from our acquisition of Charles River Development on October 1, 2018 include: portfolio modeling and construction; trade order management; investment risk and compliance; and wealth management solutions.

Investment Management, through State Street Global Advisors, provides a broad range of investment management strategies and products for our clients. Our investment management strategies and products span the risk/reward spectrum, including core and enhanced indexing, multi-asset strategies, active quantitative and fundamental active capabilities and alternative investment strategies. Our AUM is currently primarily weighted to indexed strategies. In addition, we provide a breadth of services and solutions, including environmental, social and governance investing, defined benefit and defined contribution and OCIO. State Street Global Advisors is also a provider of ETFs, including the SPDR® ETF brand. While management fees are primarily determined by the values of AUM and the investment strategies employed, management fees reflect other factors as well, including the benchmarks 

specified in the respective management agreements related to performance fees. 

For financial and other information about our lines of business, refer to “Line of Business Information” in this Management's Discussion and Analysis and Note 24 to the consolidated financial statements in this Form 10-K.

This Management's Discussion and Analysis should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements in this Form 10-K. Certain previously reported amounts presented in this Form 10-K have been reclassified to conform to current-period presentation. 

We prepare our consolidated financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions in its application of certain accounting policies that materially affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, equity, revenue and expenses. 

The significant accounting policies that require us to make judgments, estimates and assumptions that are difficult, subjective or complex about matters that are uncertain and may change in subsequent periods include: 

•accounting for fair value measurements; 

•impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets; and 

•contingencies. 

These significant accounting policies require the most subjective or complex judgments, and underlying estimates and assumptions could be subject to revision as new information becomes available. Additional information about these significant accounting policies is included under “Significant Accounting Estimates” in this Management's Discussion and Analysis. 

Certain financial information provided in this Form 10-K, including this Management's Discussion and Analysis, is prepared on both a U.S. GAAP, or reported basis, and a non-GAAP basis, including certain non-GAAP measures used in the calculation of identified regulatory ratios. We measure and compare certain financial information on a non-GAAP basis, including information (such as capital ratios calculated under regulatory standards scheduled to be effective in the future) that management uses in evaluating our business and activities. 

Non-GAAP financial information should be considered in addition to, and not as a substitute for or superior to, financial information prepared in conformity with U.S. GAAP. Any non-GAAP financial information presented in this Form 10-K, including this Management’s Discussion and Analysis, is reconciled 

 State Street Corporation | 55
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION

AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

to its most directly comparable currently applicable regulatory ratio or U.S. GAAP-basis measure.

We further believe that our presentation of fully taxable-equivalent NII, a non-GAAP measure, which reports non-taxable revenue, such as interest income associated with tax-exempt investment securities, on a fully taxable-equivalent basis, facilitates an investor's understanding and analysis of our underlying financial performance and trends.

This Management's Discussion and Analysis contains statements that are considered "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of U.S. securities laws. Forward-looking statements include statements about our goals and expectations regarding our business, financial and capital condition, results of operations, strategies, financial portfolio performance, dividend and stock purchase programs, expected outcomes of legal proceedings, market growth, acquisitions, joint ventures and divestitures and new technologies, services and opportunities, as well as industry, regulatory, economic and market trends, initiatives and developments, the business environment and other matters that do not relate strictly to historical facts. These forward-looking statements involve certain risks and uncertainties which could cause actual results to differ materially. We undertake no obligation to revise the forward-looking statements contained in this Management's Discussion and Analysis to reflect events after the time we file this Form 10-K with the SEC. Additional information about forward-looking statements and related risks and uncertainties is provided in "Risk Factors" in this Form 10-K.

We provide additional disclosures required by applicable bank regulatory standards, including supplemental qualitative and quantitative information with respect to regulatory capital (including market risk associated with our trading activities) and the liquidity coverage ratio, summary results of semi-annual State Street-run stress tests which we conduct under the Dodd-Frank Act and resolution plan disclosures required under the Dodd-Frank Act. These additional disclosures are accessible on the “Investor Relations” section of our corporate website at www.statestreet.com. 

We have included our website address in this report as an inactive textual reference only. Information on our website is not incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K.

We use acronyms and other defined terms for certain business terms and abbreviations, as defined on the acronyms list and glossary in this Form 10-K.

OVERVIEW OF FINANCIAL RESULTS

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) The new revenue recognition standard contributed approximately $272 million in total revenue and total expenses for 2018, compared to 2017, including approximately $190 million in management fees, $58 million in foreign exchange trading services and $24 million across other revenue lines, and expenses contributed approximately $183 million in other expenses, $59 million in transaction processing and $30 million across other expense line items.

(2) Approximately $15 million of swap costs in 1Q18 were reclassified from processing fees and other revenue within fee revenue to net interest income to conform to current presentation. 

(3) Charles River Development contributed approximately $121 million and $57 million in total revenue and total expenses, respectively, in the fourth quarter of 2018, including approximately $116 million in processing fees and other revenue and $5 million in other revenue lines, and expenses contributed approximately $28 million in compensation and employee benefits, $18 million in amortization of other intangible assets and $11 million in other expense lines.

(4) Additional information about our preferred stock dividends is provided in Note 15 to the consolidated financial statements in this Form 10-K.

(5) Represents the portion of net income available to common equity allocated to participating securities, composed of unvested and fully vested SERP shares and fully vested deferred director stock awards, which are equity-based awards that contain non-forfeitable rights to dividends, and are considered to participate with the common stock in undistributed earnings.

The following “Financial Results and Highlights” section provides information related to significant events, as well as highlights of our consolidated financial results for the year ended December 31, 2018 presented in Table 1: Overview of Financial Results. More detailed information about our consolidated financial results, including comparisons of our financial results for the year ended December 31, 2018 to those for the year ended December 31, 2017, is provided under “Consolidated Results of Operations,” "Line of Business Information" and "Capital" which follows these sections, as well as in our consolidated financial statements in this Form 10-K. In this Management’s 

 State Street Corporation | 56
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION

AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Discussion and Analysis, where we describe the effects of changes in foreign exchange rates, those effects are determined by applying applicable weighted average foreign exchange rates from the relevant 2017 period to the relevant 2018 period results.

Financial Results and Highlights[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

◦2018 notable items included:

▪Repositioning charges of approximately $300 million;

▪Legal and related expenses of approximately $50 million; and

▪Acquisition and restructuring costs primarily related to Charles River Development of approximately $24 million.

◦2017 notable items included:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

▪Acquisition and restructuring costs related to GEAM and Beacon of approximately $266 million.

•2018 revenues were impacted by unfavorable market conditions and fee compression. In light of challenging market and industry headwinds, we have launched a new expense program designed to reduce costs.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•On October 1, 2018, we completed our acquisition of Charles River Development, a provider of investment management front office 

tools and solutions, for an all cash purchase price of approximately $2.6 billion. We funded the acquisition with a July 2018 issuance of common stock of approximately $1.15 billion, a September 2018 issuance of preferred stock of approximately $500 million and the suspension of approximately $950 million of share repurchases in 2018.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•We have resumed our common stock purchase program in the first quarter of 2019 and may repurchase up to $600 million through June 30, 2019 under the 2018 Program.

Revenue[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

 State Street Corporation | 57
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION

AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Expenses[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

AUC/A and AUM[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Capital[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•In connection with our acquisition of Charles River Development, we did not repurchase any common stock under the common stock purchase plan approved by our Board in June 2018 (the 2018 Program), nor did we repurchase any common stock under the 2017 Program in the quarter ended June 30, 2018. We have resumed our common stock purchase program in the first quarter of 2019 and may repurchase up to $600 million through June 30, 2019 under the 2018 Program.

•In July 2018, we completed a public offering of approximately 13.24 million shares of our common stock. The offering price was $86.93 per share and net proceeds totaled approximately $1.15 billion.

•In September 2018, we issued 500,000 depositary shares each representing a 1/100th ownership interest in a share of our Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series H, without par value per share, with a liquidation preference of $100,000 per share (equivalent to $1,000 per depositary share) and an initial dividend rate of 5.625% per annum. The net proceeds were approximately $500 million.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

 State Street Corporation | 58
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION

AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

CONSOLIDATED RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

This section discusses our consolidated results of operations for 2018 compared to 2017, as well as 2017 compared to 2016, and should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and accompanying condensed notes to the consolidated financial statements in this Form 10-K.

Total Revenue

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) The new revenue recognition standard contributed approximately $272 million in total revenue for 2018, compared to 2017, including approximately $190 million in management fees, $58 million in foreign exchange trading services and $24 million across other revenue lines.

(2) Charles River Development contributed approximately $121 million in total revenue for the fourth quarter of 2018, including approximately $116 million in processing fees and other revenue and $5 million in other revenue lines.

nm Not meaningful

Fee Revenue

Table 2: Total Revenue, provides the breakout of fee revenue for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016.

Servicing and management fees collectively made up approximately 78% of the total fee revenue in 2018, 2017 and 2016. 

Servicing Fee Revenue

Generally, our servicing fee revenues are affected by several factors including changes in market valuations, client activity and asset flows, net new business and the manner in which we price our services. We provide a range of services to our clients, including core custody services, accounting, reporting and administration and middle office services, and the 

nature and mix of services provided affects our servicing fees. The basis for fees will differ across regions and clients. In general, approximately 55% of our servicing fee revenues have been variable due to changes in asset valuations including changes in daily average valuations of AUC/A; another 15% of our servicing fees are impacted by the volume of activity in the funds we serve; and the remaining 30% of our servicing fees tend not to be variable in nature nor impacted by market fluctuations or values. 

Changes in Market Valuations

Our servicing fee revenue is impacted by both our levels of and the geographic and product mix of our AUC/A. Increases or decreases in market valuations have a corresponding impact on the level of our AUC/A and servicing fee revenues, though the degree of impact will vary depending on asset types and classes and geography of assets held within our clients’ portfolios.

Over the past five years, including the year ended December 31, 2018, we estimate that worldwide market valuations impacted our servicing fee revenues by approximately (2)% to 5% annually and approximately 2% in 2018. See Table 3: Daily, Month-End and Year-End Equity Indices for selected indices. While the specific indices presented are indicative of general market trends, the asset types and classes relevant to individual client portfolios can and do differ, and the performance of associated relevant indices and of client portfolios can therefore differ from the performance of the indices presented. In addition, our asset classifications may differ from those industry classifications presented.

We estimate, using relevant information as of December 31, 2018 and assuming that all other factors remain constant, that:

•A 10% increase or decrease in worldwide equity valuations, on a weighted average basis, over the relevant periods for which our servicing fees are calculated, would result in a corresponding change in our total servicing fee revenues, on average and over time, of approximately 3%; and

• A 10% increase or decrease in worldwide fixed income valuations, on a weighted average basis, over the relevant periods for which our servicing fees are calculated, would result in a corresponding change in our total servicing fee revenues, on average and over time, of approximately 1%.

 State Street Corporation | 59
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION

AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) The index names listed in the table are service marks of their respective owners.

NA Not applicable

Client Activity and Asset Flows

Client activity and asset flows are impacted by the number of transactions we execute on behalf of our clients, including FX settlements, equity and derivative trades and wire transfer activity, as well as actions by our clients to change the asset class in which their assets are invested based on their risk acceptance tolerance. Industry trends, such as client redemptions out of hedge funds, can also impact our servicing fee revenues.

Over the past five years, including the year ended December 31, 2018, we estimate that client activity and asset flows, together, impacted our servicing fee revenues by approximately (1%) to 2% annually and approximately 1% in 2018. See Table 4: Industry Asset Flows for selected asset flow information. While the asset flows presented are indicative of general market trends, the asset types and classes relevant to individual client portfolios can and do differ, and our flows may differ from those market trends. In addition, our asset classifications may differ from those industry classifications presented.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Industry data is provided for illustrative purposes only and is not intended to reflect the Company's activity or its clients' activity.

(2) Source: Investment Company Institute. Investment Company Institute (ICI) data includes funds not registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940. Mutual fund data represents estimates of net new cash flow, which is new sales minus redemptions combined with net exchanges, while ETF data represents net issuance, which is gross issuance less gross redemptions. Data for mutual funds that invest primarily in other mutual funds and ETFs that invest primarily in other ETFs were excluded from the series. ICI classifies mutual funds and ETFs based on language in the fund prospectus.

(3) The long-term fund flows reported by ICI are composed of North America Market flows mainly in Equities, Hybrids and Fixed-Income Asset Classes. The long-term fund flows reported by Broadridge are composed of EMEA Market flows mainly in Equities, Fixed-Income and Multi Asset Classes.

(4) Source: © Copyright 2018, Broadridge Financial Solutions, Inc. Funds of funds have been excluded from Broadridge data (to avoid double counting). Therefore, a market total is the sum of all the investment categories excluding the three funds of funds categories (in-house, ex-house and hedge). ETFs are included in Broadridge’s database on mutual funds, but this excludes exchange-traded commodity products that are not mutual funds.

Pricing

The industry in which we operate has historically faced pricing pressure, and our servicing fee revenues are also affected by such pressures today. On average, over the past 5 years, including the year ended December 31, 2018, we estimate that pricing pressure with respect to existing clients have impacted our servicing fees by approximately (2%) annually, with the impact ranging from (1%) to (4%) in any given year and during the year ended December 31, 2018, the impact was at the higher end of that range. Pricing concessions can be a part of a contract renegotiation with a client including terms that may benefit us, such as extending the terms of our relationship with the client, expanding the scope of services that we provide or reducing our dependency on manual processes through the standardization of the services we provide. The timing of the impact of additional revenue generated by such additional services, and the amount of revenue generated, may differ from the impact of pricing concessions on existing services due to the necessary time required to onboard those new services and the nature of those services. These same market pressures also impact the fees we negotiate when we win business from new clients.

 State Street Corporation | 60
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION

AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Net New Business

Over the past five years, including the year ended December 31, 2018, net new business, which includes business both won and lost, has affected our servicing fee revenues by approximately 2% on average with a range of 1% to 3% annually and approximately 1% in 2018. New business can include: custody; product and participant level accounting; daily valuation and administration; record-keeping; cash management; foreign exchange, brokerage and other trading services; securities finance; and other services. Revenues associated with new servicing mandates may vary based on the breadth of services provided, the time required to install the assets, and the types of assets installed. 

Management Fee Revenue

Management fees generally are affected by changes in month-end valuations of AUM. Management fees for certain components of managed assets, such as ETFs, mutual funds and UCITS, are affected by daily average valuations of AUM. Management fee revenue is more sensitive to market valuations than servicing fee revenue, as a higher proportion of the underlying services provided, and the associated management fees earned, are dependent on equity and fixed-income security valuations. Additional factors, such as the relative mix of assets managed, may have a significant effect on our management fee revenue. While certain management fees are directly determined by the values of AUM and the investment strategies employed, management fees may reflect other factors, including performance fee arrangements, as well as our relationship pricing for clients. 

Asset-based management fees for actively managed products are generally charged at a higher percentage of AUM than for passive products. Actively managed products may also include performance fee arrangements which are recorded when the fee is earned, based on predetermined benchmarks associated with the applicable account's performance. 

In light of the above, we estimate, using relevant information as of December 31, 2018 and assuming that all other factors remain constant, including the impact of business won and lost and client flows, that:

•A 10% increase or decrease in worldwide equity valuations, on a weighted average basis, over the relevant periods for which our management fees are calculated, would result in a corresponding change in our total management fee revenues, on average and over time, of approximately 5%; and

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Daily averages, month-end averages and year-end indices demonstrate worldwide changes in equity and debt markets that affect our management fee revenue. Year-end indices affect the values of AUM as of those dates. See Table 3: Daily, Month-End and Year-End Equity Indices for selected indices.

Additional information about fee revenue is provided under "Line of Business Information" included in this Management's Discussion and Analysis.

 State Street Corporation | 61
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION

AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Net Interest Income

See Table 2: Total Revenue, for the breakout of interest income and interest expense for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016. NII was $2,671 million for 2018, compared to $2,304 million and $2,084 million for 2017 and 2016, respectively.

NII is defined as interest income earned on interest-earning assets less interest expense incurred on interest-bearing liabilities. Interest-earning assets, which principally consist of investment securities, interest-bearing deposits with banks, resale agreements, loans and leases and other liquid assets, are financed primarily by client deposits, short-term borrowings and long-term debt.

NIM represents the relationship between annualized fully taxable-equivalent NII and average total interest-earning assets for the period. It is calculated by dividing fully taxable-equivalent NII by average interest-earning assets. Revenue that is exempt from income taxes, mainly earned from certain investment securities (state and political subdivisions), is adjusted to a fully taxable-equivalent basis using the U.S. federal and state statutory income tax rates.

See Table 5: Average Balances and Interest Rates - Fully Taxable-Equivalent Basis, for the breakout of NII on a FTE basis for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016. NII on a FTE basis increased in 2018 compared to 2017, primarily due to higher U.S. interest rates and a continued focus on disciplined liability pricing.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Rates earned/paid on interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities include the impact of hedge activities associated with our asset and liability management activities where applicable.

(2) Reflects the impact of balance sheet netting under enforceable netting agreements of approximately $36 billion, $31 billion and $30 billion for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively. Excluding the impact of netting, the average interest rates would be approximately 0.87%, 0.79% and 0.43% for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively.

(3) Average rate includes the impact of FX swap costs of approximately $106 million, $141 million and $27 million for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively. Average rates for total interest-bearing deposits excluding the impact of FX swap costs were 0.20%, 0.02% and 0.04% for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively.

(4) Total deposits averaged $161.4 billion for 2018, compared to $163.8 billion and $170.5 billion for 2017 and 2016, respectively.

 State Street Corporation | 62
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION

AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Changes in the components of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities are discussed in more detail below. Additional information about the components of interest income and interest expense is provided in Note 17 to the consolidated financial statements in this Form 10-K.

Average total interest-earning assets were $185.64 billion in 2018 compared to $191.24 billion in 2017. The decrease is largely driven by lower client deposits, which includes both interest-bearing and non-interest-bearing deposits and securities sold under repurchase agreements.

Interest-bearing deposits with banks averaged $54.33 billion in 2018 compared to $47.51 billion in 2017. These deposits primarily reflect our maintenance of cash balances at the Federal Reserve, the ECB and other non-U.S. central banks.

Securities purchased under resale agreements averaged $2.90 billion in 2018 compared to $2.13 billion in 2017. This reflects the impact of balance sheet netting under enforceable netting agreements of approximately $36 billion and $31 billion for 2018 and 2017, respectively. We maintain an agreement with the Fixed Income Clearing Corporation (FICC), a clearing organization that enables us to net all securities sold under repurchase agreements against those purchased under resale agreements with counterparties that are also members of the clearing organization. The increase in 2018 compared to 2017 is primarily due to the expansion of our program with the FICC and new client activity.

Investment securities averaged $88.07 billion in 2018 compared to $95.78 billion in 2017. The decrease in average investment securities was primarily driven by our investment repositioning strategy to prioritize capital efficient client lending while managing OCI sensitivity. We sold approximately $26 billion of securities, primarily non-HQLA, during 2018, with a significant portion of the proceeds being reinvested in HQLA, such as MBS and interest-bearing deposits with banks.

Loans and leases averaged $23.57 billion in 2018 compared to $21.92 billion in 2017. The increase in average loans and leases was primarily driven by higher levels of mutual fund lending and commercial real estate loans, as part of our effort to expand our commercial and real estate loan program. Loans and leases also includes U.S. and non-U.S. overdrafts, which provide liquidity to clients in support of investment activities.

Average other interest-earning assets, largely associated with our enhanced custody business, decreased to $15.71 billion in 2018 from $22.88 billion in 2017, primarily driven by a reduction in the level of cash collateral posted. Enhanced custody is our securities financing business where we act as principal with respect to our custody clients and generate 

securities finance revenue. The NII earned on these transactions is generally lower than the interest earned on other alternative investments.

Aggregate average U.S. and non-U.S. interest-bearing deposits increased to $125.58 billion in 2018 from $122.56 billion in 2017. The increase was primarily driven by a gradual shift from non-interest-bearing deposits to interest-bearing deposits. Future deposit levels will be influenced by the underlying asset servicing business, client deposit behavior and market conditions, including the general levels of U.S. and non-U.S. interest rates.

Average other short-term borrowings, largely associated with our tax-exempt investment program, increased to $1.33 billion in 2018 from $1.31 billion in 2017.

Average long-term debt was $10.69 billion in 2018 compared to $11.60 billion in 2017. These amounts reflect issuances and maturities of senior debt during the respective periods, including the issuance of $1.0 billion of senior debt in December 2018.

Average other interest-bearing liabilities were $4.96 billion in 2018 compared to $4.61 billion in 2017. Other interest-bearing liabilities primarily reflect our level of cash collateral received from clients in connection with our enhanced custody business, which is presented on a net basis where we have enforceable netting agreements.

Several factors could affect future levels of NII and NIM, including the volume and mix of client deposits and funding sources; central bank actions; balance sheet management activities; changes in the level and slope of U.S. and non-U.S. interest rates; revised or proposed regulatory capital or liquidity standards, or interpretations of those standards; the yields earned on securities purchased compared to the yields earned on securities sold or matured and changes in the type and amount of credit or other loans we extend.

Based on market conditions and other factors, including regulatory standards, we continue to reinvest the majority of the proceeds from pay-downs and maturities of investment securities in highly-rated U.S. and non-U.S. securities, such as U.S. Treasury and agency securities, sovereign debt securities and federal agency MBS. The pace at which we reinvest and the types of investment securities purchased will depend on the impact of market conditions, the implementation of regulatory standards, including interpretation of those standards and other factors over time. We expect these factors and the levels of global interest rates to impact our reinvestment program and future levels of NII and NIM.

 State Street Corporation | 63
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION

AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Provision for Loan Losses

We recorded a provision for loan losses of $15 million in 2018 compared to $2 million and $10 million in 2017 and 2016, respectively. The provision increased in 2018 compared to 2017, primarily due to a higher volume of loans to non-investment grade borrowers composed of senior secured loans that we purchased in connection with our participation in loan syndications in the non-investment grade lending market. Additional information about these senior secured loans is provided under “Loans and Leases” in "Financial Condition" in this Management's Discussion and Analysis and in Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements in this Form 10-K.

Expenses

Table 6: Expenses, provides the breakout of expenses for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

  (1)  Charles River Development contributed approximately $57 million in total expenses for the fourth quarter of 2018, including approximately $28 million in compensation and employee benefits, $18 million in amortization of other intangible assets and $11 million in other expense lines.

 (2) The new revenue recognition standard contributed approximately $272 million in total expenses for 2018, compared to 2017, including approximately $183 million in other expenses, $59 million in transaction processing and $30 million across other expense line items.

nm Not meaningful

Compensation and employee benefits expenses increased 9% in 2018 compared to 2017, primarily due to repositioning charges of $259 million in 2018, or two-thirds of the 9% increase, as described below, as well as annual merit increases, higher investments to support new business and approximately $28 million from Charles River Development, partially offset by net Beacon savings and lower performance based incentive compensation.

Compensation and employee benefits expenses increased 1% in 2017, compared to 2016, primarily due to increased costs to support new business, annual merit and performance based incentive compensation increases, partially offset by net Beacon savings. In December 2016, we recorded a pre-tax charge of $249 million ($161 million after tax) associated with an amendment of the terms of outstanding, previously issued, deferred cash-settled incentive compensation awards for certain employees to remove continued service requirements, thereby accelerating the future expense that would have been recognized over the remaining term of the awards had the continued service requirement not been removed.

Headcount increased 10% in 2018 compared to 2017, primarily driven by growth in our low cost locations and our acquisition of Charles River Development. Headcount in high cost locations fell in 2018 compared to 2017, primarily due to reductions from Beacon, partially offset by increases resulting from the Charles River Development acquisition.

Information systems and communications expenses increased 14% in 2018 compared to 2017, and 6% in 2017 compared to 2016. Both increases were primarily related to technology infrastructure enhancements as well as additional investments to support growth, regulatory initiatives and Beacon-related investments.

Transaction processing services expenses increased 12% in 2018 compared to 2017, reflecting the adoption of the new revenue recognition standard and higher client volumes. Transaction processing services expenses increased 5% in 2017 compared to 2016, primarily related to higher client volumes.

Occupancy expenses increased 9% in 2018 compared to 2017, primarily due to repositioning charges of approximately $41 million in 2018, partially offset by net Beacon savings. Occupancy expenses increased 5% in 2017 compared to 2016, primarily due to the GEAM acquisition and higher investments to support new business.

Amortization of other intangible assets increased 6% in 2018 compared to 2017, primarily due to contributions from Charles River Development of approximately $18 million and accelerated amortization associated with a business exit of approximately $16 million. Amortization of other intangible assets increased 3% in 2017 compared to 2016, primarily due to GEAM intangible asset amortization.

Other expenses increased 27% in 2018, compared to 2017, reflecting the adoption of the new revenue recognition standard which contributed approximately $183 million as well as higher legal and related expenses, partially offset by net Beacon savings. Other expenses decreased 4% in 2017 

 State Street Corporation | 64
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION

AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

compared to 2016, primarily due to lower professional services costs.

As a systemically important financial institution, we are subject to enhanced supervision and prudential standards. Our status as a G-SIB has also resulted in heightened prudential and conduct expectations of our U.S. and international regulators with respect to our capital and liquidity management and our compliance and risk oversight programs. These heightened expectations have increased our regulatory compliance costs, including personnel, technology and systems, as well as significant additional implementation and related costs to enhance our regulatory compliance programs. Regulatory compliance requirements are anticipated to remain at least at the elevated levels we have experienced over the past several years.

Acquisition Costs

We recorded approximately $31 million of acquisition costs in 2018 related to our acquisition of Charles River Development on October 1, 2018. In 2017, we recorded approximately $21 million of acquisition costs primarily related to our acquisition of the GEAM business on July 1, 2016. As we integrate Charles River Development into our business, we expect to incur a total of approximately $200 million, including the $31 million in 2018, of acquisition costs, including merger and integration costs, through 2021. For further information on our acquisition of Charles River Development, refer to Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements in this Form 10-K.

Restructuring and Repositioning Charges

Repositioning Charges 

In 2018, we initiated a new expense program to accelerate efforts to become a higher-performing organization and help navigate challenging market and industry conditions. Through increased resource discipline, process re-engineering and automation, we expect to realize $350 million in gross expense savings in 2019, consisting primarily of compensation and benefits expenses savings. As part of that program, expenses for 2018 included a repositioning charge of $300 million, including $259 million of compensation and employee benefits and $41 million of occupancy costs. 

Beacon

In 2018, we released $7 million of restructuring accruals related to Beacon. In 2017, we recorded restructuring charges of $245 million primarily related to Beacon. In aggregate, we have recorded restructuring charges of approximately $380 million related to Beacon, including $293 million in severance costs and $87 million in real estate actions, information technology application rationalization and other restructuring.

The following table presents aggregate activity for the periods indicated.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Income Tax Expense

Income tax expense (benefit) was $400 million in 2018, compared to $722 million and $(22) million in 2017 and 2016, respectively. Our effective tax rate for 2018 was 13.3%, compared to 24.9% and (1.0)% in 2017 and 2016, respectively. The 2018 income tax expense included an additional deferred tax benefit of $32 million related to adjustments from the TCJA provisional estimate recorded in 2017. The 2017 income tax expense included a one-time estimated tax expense of $250 million for the provisional impact of the enactment of the TCJA. The 2016 benefit included a reduction in accrued tax expense attributable to retained foreign earnings and tax benefits from capital actions involving our overseas affiliates.

Additional information regarding income tax expense, including unrecognized tax benefits, and tax contingencies are provided in Notes 13 and 22 to the consolidated financial statements in this Form 10-K.

 State Street Corporation | 65
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION

AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

LINE OF BUSINESS INFORMATION

Our operations are organized into two lines of business: Investment Servicing and Investment Management, which are defined based on products and services provided. The results of operations for these lines of business are not necessarily comparable with those of other companies, including companies in the financial services industry.

Investment Servicing provides services for institutional clients, including mutual funds, collective investment funds and other investment pools, corporate and public retirement plans, insurance companies, investment managers, foundations and endowments worldwide. Products include: custody; product- and participant-level accounting; daily pricing and administration; master trust and master custody; record-keeping; cash management; foreign exchange, brokerage and other trading services; securities finance; our enhanced custody product, which integrates principal securities lending and custody; deposit and short-term investment facilities; loans and lease financing; investment manager and alternative investment manager operations outsourcing; and performance, risk and compliance analytics to support institutional investors. New products and services resulting from our acquisition of Charles River Development on October 1, 2018 include: portfolio modeling and construction; trade order management; investment risk and compliance; and wealth management solutions.

Investment Management, through State Street Global Advisors, provides a broad range of investment management strategies and products for our clients. Our investment management strategies and products span the risk/reward spectrum, including core and enhanced indexing, multi-asset strategies, active quantitative and fundamental active capabilities and alternative investment strategies. Our AUM is currently primarily weighted to indexed strategies. In addition, we provide a breadth of services and solutions, including environmental, social and governance investing, defined benefit and defined contribution and OCIO. State Street Global Advisors is also a provider of ETFs, including the SPDR® ETF brand. While management fees are primarily determined by the values of AUM and the investment strategies employed, management fees reflect other factors as well, including the benchmarks specified in the respective management agreements related to performance fees. 

For information about our two lines of business, as well as the revenues, expenses and capital allocation methodologies associated with them, refer to Note 24 to the consolidated financial statements in this Form 10-K.

Investment Servicing

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Charles River Development contributed approximately $121 million and $57 million in total revenue and total expenses, respectively, for the fourth quarter of 2018, including approximately $116 million in processing fees and other and $5 million across other revenue lines, and expenses contributed approximately $28 million in compensation and employee benefits, $18 million in amortization of other intangible assets and $11 million in other expense lines.

nm Not meaningful

Servicing Fees

Servicing fees increased 1% in 2018 compared to 2017, primarily due to market appreciation and net new business, largely offset by challenging industry conditions, including fee pressure.

Servicing fees increased 6% in 2017 compared to 2016, primarily due to market appreciation and net new business, partially offset by continued hedge fund outflows and the impact of the businesses we exited in 2017. Servicing fees in 2016 included a revenue reduction of $48 million from reimbursements related to the manner in which we invoiced certain expenses to our clients.

Servicing fees generated outside the U.S. were approximately 47% of total servicing fees in 2018 compared to approximately 45% and 42% in 2017 and 2016, respectively.

 State Street Corporation | 66
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION

AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Geographic mix is generally based on the domicile of the entity servicing the funds and is not necessarily representative of the underlying asset mix.

Asset servicing mandates newly announced in 2018 totaled approximately $1.9 trillion, which includes a small number of large client mandates announced in the first quarter of 2018. Servicing assets remaining to be installed in future periods totaled approximately $385 billion as of December 31, 2018, which will be reflected in AUC/A in future periods after installation and will generate servicing fee revenue in subsequent periods. The full revenue impact of such mandates will be realized over several quarters as the assets are installed and additional services are added over that period. 

New asset servicing mandates and servicing assets remaining to be installed in future periods exclude certain new business which has been contracted, but for which the client has not yet provided permission to publicly disclose and the expected installation date extends beyond one quarter. These excluded assets, which from time to time may be significant, will be included in new asset servicing mandates and reflected in servicing assets remaining to be installed in the period in which the client provides its permission. Servicing mandates and servicing assets remaining to be installed in future periods are presented on a gross basis and therefore also do not include the impact of clients who have notified us during the period of their intent to terminate or reduce their relationship with us, which may from time to time be significant. 

With respect to these new servicing mandates, once installed we may provide various services, including, accounting, bank loan servicing, compliance reporting and monitoring, custody, depository banking services, foreign exchange, fund administration, hedge fund servicing, middle office outsourcing, performance and analytics, private equity administration, real estate administration, securities finance, transfer agency and wealth management services. Revenues associated with new servicing mandates may vary based on the breadth of services provided and the timing of installation, and the types of assets. 

For additional information about the impact of worldwide equity and fixed-income valuations on our fee revenue, as well as other key drivers of our servicing fee revenue, refer to "Fee Revenue" in "Consolidated Results of Operations" included in this Management's Discussion and Analysis.

As a result of a decision to diversify providers, one of our large clients has moved a portion of its assets, largely common trust funds, to another service provider. We remain a significant service provider to this client. The transition, which began in 2018 and is largely complete, represents approximately $1 trillion in assets with respect to which we no longer derive revenue post-transition.

Foreign Exchange Trading Services

Foreign exchange trading services revenue, as presented in Table 8: Investment Servicing Line of Business Results, increased 7% in 2018 compared to 

 State Street Corporation | 67
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION

AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

2017, primarily due to higher FX client volumes and volatility. Foreign exchange trading services is composed of revenue generated by FX trading, as well as revenue generated by brokerage and other trading services. FX trading and brokerage and other trading services represented approximately 60% and 40%, respectively, of our total foreign exchange trading services revenue in both 2018 and 2017.

We primarily earn FX trading revenue by acting as a principal market-maker through both "direct sales and trading” and “indirect foreign exchange trading.” 

•Direct sales and trading: Represent FX transactions at negotiated rates with clients and investment managers that contact our trading desk directly. These principal market-making activities include transactions for funds serviced by third party custodians or prime brokers, as well as those funds under custody with us.

•Indirect FX trading: Represent FX transactions with clients or their investment managers routed to our FX desk through our asset-servicing operation, and to all of which, we are the funds' custodian. We execute indirect FX trades as a principal at rates disclosed to our clients.

Our FX trading revenue is influenced by multiple factors, including: the volume and type of client FX transactions and related spreads; currency volatility, reflecting market conditions; and our management of exchange rate, interest rate and other market risks associated with our foreign exchange activities. The relative impact of these factors on our total FX trading revenues often differs from period to period. For example, assuming all other factors remain constant, increases or decreases in volumes or bid-offer spreads across product mix tend to result in increases or decreases, as the case may be, in client-related FX revenue. 

Our clients that utilize indirect FX trading can, in addition to executing their FX transactions through dealers not affiliated with us, transition from indirect FX trading to either direct sales and trading execution, including our “Street FX” service, or to one of our electronic trading platforms. Street FX, in which we continue to act as a principal market-maker, enables our clients to define their FX execution strategy and automate the FX trade execution process, both for funds under custody with us as well as those under custody at another bank.

We also earn foreign exchange trading services revenue through "electronic FX services" and "other trading, transition management and brokerage revenue." 

•Electronic FX services: Our clients may choose to execute FX transactions through one of our 

electronic trading platforms. These transactions generate revenue through a “click” fee.

•Other trading, transition management and brokerage revenue: As our clients look to us to enhance and preserve portfolio values, they may choose to utilize our Transition or Currency Management capabilities or transact with our Equity Trade execution group. These transactions generate revenue via commissions charged for trades transacted during the management of these portfolios.

Our transition management revenue has been adversely affected by compliance issues in our U.K. business during 2010 and 2011, including settlements with the U.K. FCA in 2014 and the DOJ and SEC in 2017, including a deferred prosecution agreement. The reputational and regulatory impact of those compliance issues continues and may continue to adversely affect our results in future periods. 

Securities Finance

Our securities finance business consists of three components: 

(1) an agency lending program for State Street Global Advisors managed investment funds with a broad range of investment objectives, which we refer to as the State Street Global Advisors lending funds; 

(2) an agency lending program for third-party investment managers and asset owners, which we refer to as the agency lending funds; and 

(3) security lending transactions which we enter into as principal, which we refer to as our enhanced custody business.

Securities finance revenue earned from our agency lending activities, which is composed of our split of both the spreads related to cash collateral and the fees related to non-cash collateral, is principally a function of the volume of securities on loan, the interest rate spreads and fees earned on the underlying collateral and our share of the fee split.

As principal, our enhanced custody business borrows securities from the lending client or other market participants and then lends such securities to the subsequent borrower, either our client or a broker/dealer. We act as principal when the lending client is unable to, or elects not to, transact directly with the market and execute the transaction and furnish the securities. In our role as principal, we provide support to the transaction through our credit rating. While we source a significant proportion of the securities furnished by us in our role as principal from third parties, we have the ability to source securities through assets under custody from clients who have designated us as an eligible borrower.

 State Street Corporation | 68
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION

AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Securities finance revenue, as presented in Table 8: Investment Servicing Line of Business Results, decreased 10% in 2018 compared to 2017, primarily due to certain balance sheet repositioning efforts within our enhanced custody business. Securities finance revenue increased 8% in 2017 compared to 2016, primarily as a result of higher revenue in our enhanced custody business.

Market influences may continue to affect client demand for securities finance, and as a result our revenue from, and the profitability of, our securities lending activities in future periods. In addition, the constantly evolving regulatory environment, including revised or proposed capital and liquidity standards, interpretations of those standards, and our own balance sheet management activities, may influence modifications to the way in which we deliver our agency lending or enhanced custody businesses, the volume of our securities lending activity and related revenue and profitability in future periods.

Processing Fees and Other

Processing fees and other revenue includes diverse types of fees and revenue, including fees from our structured products business, fees from software licensing and maintenance, equity income from our joint venture investments, gains and losses on sales of other assets and amortization of our tax-advantaged investments.

Processing fees and other revenue, presented in Table 8: Investment Servicing Line of Business Results, increased 23% in 2018 compared to 2017, and reflects approximately $116 million from Charles River Development in 2018.

Processing fees and other revenue increased 102% in 2017 compared to 2016, primarily due to pre-tax gains in 2017 from the disposition of certain joint venture interests and the sale of an equity trading platform.

Expenses

Total expenses for Investment Servicing increased 5% in 2018 compared to 2017, primarily due to higher technology costs, higher investments to support new business, annual merit increases and $57 million of expenses from Charles River Development, partially offset by net Beacon savings and lower performance based incentive compensation.

Additional information about expenses is provided under "Expenses" in "Consolidated Results of Operations" included in this Management's Discussion and Analysis.

Investment Management

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) The new revenue recognition standard contributed approximately $248 million in Investment Management total revenue, including approximately $190 million in management fees and $58 million in foreign exchange trading services, and $248 million in Investment Management total expenses for 2018 compared to 2017. 

(2) Includes revenues from distributing and marketing activities for US mutual funds and ETFs associated with State Street Global Advisors.

nm Not meaningful 

Management Fees

Management fees increased 15%, or $235 million, in 2018 compared to 2017, reflecting  higher average global equity markets during 2018. The new revenue recognition standard contributed approximately $190 million to management fee revenue in 2018 compared to 2017.

Management fees increased 25% in 2017 compared to 2016, primarily due to the full year of the acquired GEAM business in 2017 compared to a half year in 2016, higher global equity markets and higher revenue yielding ETF inflows.

Management fees generated outside the U.S. were approximately 27% of total management fees in 2018, compared to approximately 28% and 32% in 2017 and 2016, respectively.

 State Street Corporation | 69
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION

AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Includes both floating- and constant-net-asset-value portfolios held in commingled structures or separate accounts.

(2) Includes real estate investment trusts, currency and commodities, including SPDR® Gold Shares ETF and SPDR® Long Dollar Gold Trust ETF. We are not the investment manager for the SPDR® Gold Shares ETF and SPDR® Long Dollar Gold Trust ETF, but act as the marketing agent. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) ETFs are a component of AUM presented in the preceding table.

(2) Includes real estate investment trusts, currency and commodities, including SPDR® Gold Shares ETF and SPDR® Long Dollar Gold Trust ETF. We are not the investment manager for the SPDR® Gold Shares ETF and SPDR® Long Dollar Gold Trust ETF, but act as the marketing agent. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Geographic mix is based on client location or fund management location.

 State Street Corporation | 70
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION

AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

  (1) Includes both floating- and constant-net-asset-value portfolios held in commingled structures or separate accounts.

(2) Includes real estate investment trusts, currency and commodities, including SPDR® Gold Shares ETF and SPDR® Long Dollar Gold Trust ETF. We are not the investment manager for the SPDR® Gold Shares ETF and SPDR® Long Dollar Gold Trust ETF, but act as the marketing agent. 

(3) Amounts represent long-term portfolios, excluding ETFs.

(4) Includes AUM acquired as part of the acquisition of the GEAM business on July 1, 2016.

The preceding table does not include approximately $37 billion of new asset management business which was awarded but not installed as of December 31, 2018. New business will be reflected in AUM in future periods after installation, and will generate management fee revenue in subsequent periods. Total AUM as of December 31, 2018 included managed assets lost but not liquidated. Lost business occurs from time to time and it is difficult to predict the timing of client behavior in transitioning these assets as the timing can vary significantly. 

Expenses 

Total expenses for Investment Management increased 20% in 2018 compared to 2017, reflecting the impact from the new revenue recognition standard which contributed approximately $248 million to Investment Management expenses in 2018.

Additional information about expenses is provided under "Expenses" in "Consolidated Results of Operations" included in this Management's Discussion and Analysis in this Form 10-K. 

 State Street Corporation | 71
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION

AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

FINANCIAL CONDITION

The structure of our consolidated statement of condition is primarily driven by the liabilities generated by our Investment Servicing and Investment Management lines of business. Our clients' needs and our operating objectives determine balance sheet volume, mix and currency denomination. As our clients execute their worldwide cash management and investment activities, they utilize deposits and short-term investments that constitute the majority of our liabilities. These liabilities are generally in the form of interest-bearing transaction account deposits, which are denominated in a variety of currencies; non-interest-bearing demand deposits; and repurchase agreements, which generally serve as short-term investment alternatives for our clients.

Deposits and other liabilities resulting from client initiated transactions are invested in assets that generally have contractual maturities significantly longer than our liabilities; however, we evaluate the operational nature of our deposits and seek to maintain appropriate short-term liquidity of those liabilities that are not operational in nature and maintain longer-termed assets for our operational deposits. Our assets consist primarily of securities held in our AFS or HTM portfolios and short-duration financial instruments, such as interest-bearing deposits with banks and securities purchased under resale agreements. The actual mix of assets is determined by the characteristics of the client liabilities and our desire to maintain a well-diversified portfolio of high-quality assets.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Additional information about our average statement of condition, primarily our interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities, is provided in "Net Interest Income" included in this Management's Discussion and Analysis.

(2) Total deposits averaged $161.4 billion for 2018, compared to $163.8 billion and $170.5 billion for 2017 and 2016, respectively.

 State Street Corporation | 72
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION

AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Investment Securities

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Primarily comprised of securities guaranteed by the federal government with respect to at least 97% of defaulted principal and accrued interest on the underlying loans.

(2) As described in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements in this Form 10-K, upon adoption of ASU 2016-01 in 2018, we reclassified money-market funds and equity securities classified as AFS to held at fair value through profit and loss in other assets.

(3) Includes securities at amortized cost or fair value on the date of transfer from AFS.

Additional information about our investment securities portfolio is provided in Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements in this Form 10-K.

We manage our investment securities portfolio to align with the interest rate and duration characteristics of our client liabilities and in the context of the overall structure of our consolidated statement of condition, in consideration of the global interest rate environment. We consider a well-diversified, high-credit quality investment securities portfolio to be an important element in the management of our consolidated statement of condition.

Average duration of our investment securities portfolio increased to 3.1 years as of December 31, 2018, compared to 2.7 years as of December 31, 2017. The increase in securities duration reflects a shift towards a strategy where the investment portfolio will target less credit exposure and more HQLA interest rate exposure. 

In 2018, $1.2 billion of HTM securities, primarily consisting of MBS and CMBS, were transferred to AFS at book value and sold at a pre-tax loss of approximately $36 million, due to our election to make a one-time transfer of securities in connection with the adoption of ASU 2017-12. For additional information on this new standard, refer to Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements in this Form 10-K.

In 2018, we sold approximately $26 billion of non-HQLA securities, primarily ABS and municipal bonds, resulting in a net pre-tax gain of approximately $9 million. A significant portion of the sales have been reinvested in HQLA and such investments will continue to occur over time with a portion likely to either be held in cash or cash equivalents or used to fund client lending activities. 

In 2017, we sold $12.2 billion of AFS securities, primarily agency MBS and U.S. treasury securities in our investment portfolio, to position for the then existing interest rate environment resulting in a pre-tax loss of $39 million.

In 2018 and 2017, $2.1 billion and $496 million, respectively, of agency MBS, previously classified as AFS, were transferred to HTM. This transfer reflects our intent to hold these securities until their maturity. These securities were transferred at fair value, which included a net unrealized loss of $53 million and $2.8 million as of December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively, within accumulated other comprehensive loss which will be accreted into interest income over the remaining life of the transferred security (ranging from approximately 10 to 42 years).

Approximately 90% of the carrying value of the portfolio was rated “AAA” or “AA” as of both December 31, 2018 and 2017.

 State Street Corporation | 73
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION

AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Includes U.S. Treasury and federal agency securities that are split-rated, “AAA” by Moody’s Investors Service and “AA+” by Standard & Poor’s and also includes Agency MBS securities which are not explicitly rated but which have an explicit or assumed guarantee from the U.S. government.

As of December 31, 2018 and 2017, the investment portfolio was diversified with respect to asset class composition. The following table presents the composition of these asset classes. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Non-U.S. Debt Securities 

Approximately 27% of the aggregate carrying value of our investment securities portfolio was non-U.S. debt securities as of December 31, 2018, compared to approximately 29% as of December 31, 2017.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Consists entirely of supranational bonds.

(2) Included approximately $78 million as of December 31, 2018, related to supranational bonds. Included approximately $37 million as of December 31, 2017, related to Portugal, which was related to MBS and auto loans. 

(3) Included approximately $61 million and $75 million as of December 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively, related to Italy and Portugal, all of which were related to MBS. 

Approximately 74% and 80% of the aggregate carrying value of these non-U.S. debt securities was rated “AAA” or “AA” as of December 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively. The majority of these securities comprised senior positions within the security structures; these positions have a level of protection provided through subordination and other forms of credit protection. As of December 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, approximately 31% and 61%, respectively, of the aggregate carrying value of these non-U.S. debt securities was floating-rate.

 State Street Corporation | 74
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION

AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

As of December 31, 2018, our non-U.S. debt securities had an average market-to-book ratio of 100.1%, and an aggregate pre-tax net unrealized gain of approximately $37 million, composed of gross unrealized gains of $118 million and gross unrealized losses of $81 million. These unrealized amounts included:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

As of December 31, 2018, the underlying collateral for non-U.S. MBS and ABS primarily included U.K., Australian, Italian and Dutch mortgages as well as U.K. and Eurozone consumer ABS. The securities listed under “Canada” were composed of Canadian government securities and corporate debt and covered bonds. The securities listed under “France” were composed of sovereign bonds and corporate debt and covered bonds. The securities listed under “Japan” were substantially composed of Japanese government securities. 

Municipal Obligations

We carried approximately $1.92 billion of municipal securities classified as state and political subdivisions in our investment securities portfolio as of December 31, 2018 as shown in Table 18: Carrying Values of Investment Securities, all of which were classified as AFS. As of the same date, we also provided approximately $9.43 billion of credit and liquidity facilities to municipal issuers.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

    (1) Represented 5% or more of our aggregate municipal credit exposure of approximately $11.35 billion and $18.47 billion across our businesses as of December 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively.

(2) Includes municipal loans which are also presented within Table 24: U.S. and Non-U.S. Loans and Leases.

Our aggregate municipal securities exposure presented in Table 22: State and Municipal Obligors, was concentrated primarily with highly-rated counterparties, with approximately 81% of the obligors rated “AAA” or “AA” as of December 31, 2018. As of that date, approximately 25% and 75% of our aggregate municipal securities exposure was associated with general obligation and revenue bonds, respectively. The portfolios are also diversified geographically, with the states that represent our largest exposures widely dispersed across the U.S.

Additional information with respect to our assessment of OTTI of our municipal securities is provided in Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements in this Form 10-K. 

 State Street Corporation | 75
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION

AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) The maturities of MBS, ABS and collateralized mortgage obligations are based on expected principal payments.

(2) Yields were calculated on a fully taxable-equivalent basis, using applicable statutory tax rates (21% as of December 31, 2018).

 State Street Corporation | 76
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION

AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Impairment

Impairment exists when the fair value of an individual security is below its amortized cost basis. Impairment of a security is further assessed to determine whether such impairment is other-than-temporary. For AFS and HTM debt securities, we record impairment in our consolidated statement of income when management intends to sell (or may be required to sell) the securities before they recover in value, or when management expects the present value of cash flows expected to be collected from the securities to be less than the amortized cost of the impaired security (a credit loss).

We conduct periodic reviews of individual securities to assess whether OTTI exists. Our assessment of OTTI involves an evaluation of economic and security-specific factors. Such factors are based on estimates, derived by management, which contemplate current market conditions and security-specific performance. To the extent that market conditions are worse than management's expectations or due to idiosyncratic bond performance, OTTI could increase, in particular the credit-related component that would be recorded in our consolidated statement of income. Additional information with respect to OTTI, net impairment losses and gross unrealized losses is provided in Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements in this Form 10-K.

Our evaluation of potential OTTI of structured credit securities with collateral in the U.K. and continental Europe takes into account the outcome from the Brexit referendum and other geopolitical events, and assumes no disruption of payments on these securities.

Loans and Leases

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) We wound down our lease financing business in 2018.

Total loans and leases as of December 31, 2018 increased compared to December 31, 2017, primarily due to the expansion of the commercial real estate loan portfolio and increase in non-U.S. commercial and financial loans.

As of December 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, our investment in senior secured loans totaled approximately $4.4 billion and $3.5 billion, respectively. In addition, we had binding unfunded commitments as of December 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017 of $238 million and $279 million, respectively, to participate in such syndications. Additional information about these unfunded commitments is provided in Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements in this Form 10-K.

These senior secured loans, which are primarily rated “speculative” under our internal risk-rating framework (refer to Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements in this Form 10-K), are externally rated “BBB,” “BB” or “B,” with approximately 90% and 89% of the loans rated “BB” or “B” as of December 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively. Our investment strategy involves generally limiting our investment to larger, more liquid credits underwritten by major global financial institutions, applying our internal credit analysis process to each potential investment and diversifying our exposure by counterparty and industry segment. However, these loans have significant exposure to credit losses relative to higher-rated loans in our portfolio. 

Loans to municipalities included in the commercial and financial segment were $0.9 billion and $2.1 billion as of December 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively. 

Additional information about all of our loan and leases segments, as well as underlying classes, is provided in Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements in this Form 10-K.

No loans were modified in troubled debt restructurings for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

 State Street Corporation | 77
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION

AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) The provision for loan and lease losses is primarily related to commercial and financial loans.

We recorded a provision for loan losses of $15 million in 2018 compared to $2 million and $10 million in 2017 and 2016, respectively. The provision increased in 2018 compared to 2017, primarily due to a higher volume of loans to non-investment grade borrowers composed of senior secured loans that we purchased in connection with our participation in loan syndications in the non-investment grade lending market. The charge-offs of $2 million recorded in 2018 were associated with loan sales of senior secured loans to non-investment grade institutional borrowers.

As of December 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, approximately $60 million and $47 million, respectively, of our allowance for loan and lease losses was related to senior secured loans included in the commercial and financial segment. As this portfolio grows and matures, our allowance for loan and lease losses related to these loans may increase through additional provisions for credit losses.

Cross-Border Outstandings

Cross-border outstandings are amounts payable to us by non-U.S. counterparties which are denominated in U.S. dollars or other non-local currency, as well as non-U.S. local currency claims not funded by local currency liabilities. Our cross-border outstandings consist primarily of deposits with banks; loans and lease financing, including short-duration advances; investment securities; amounts related to foreign exchange and interest rate contracts; and securities finance.  In addition to credit risk, cross-border outstandings have the risk that, as a result of political or economic conditions in a country, borrowers may be unable to meet their contractual repayment obligations of principal and/or interest when due because of the unavailability of, or restrictions on, foreign exchange needed by borrowers to repay their obligations.

As market and economic conditions change, the major independent credit rating agencies may downgrade U.S. and non-U.S. financial institutions and sovereign issuers which have been, and may in the future be, significant counterparties to us, or whose financial instruments serve as collateral on which we rely for credit risk mitigation purposes, and may do so again in the future. As a result, we may be exposed to increased counterparty risk, leading to negative ratings volatility. 

The cross-border outstandings presented in Table 28: Cross-Border Outstandings, represented approximately 28%, 26% and 28% of our consolidated total assets as of December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Cross-border outstandings included countries in which we do business, and which amounted to at least 1% of our consolidated total assets as of the dates indicated.

As of both December 31, 2018 and 2017, there were no countries whose aggregate cross-border outstandings amounted to between 0.75% and 1% of our consolidated assets. As of December 31, 2016, aggregate cross-border outstandings in countries which amounted to between 0.75% and 1% of our consolidated assets totaled approximately $1.84 billion and $2.38 billion in France and the Netherlands, respectively.

 State Street Corporation | 78
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION

AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Risk Management

General

In the normal course of our global business activities, we are exposed to a variety of risks, some inherent in the financial services industry, others more specific to our business activities. Our risk management framework focuses on material risks, which include the following:

•credit and counterparty risk;

•liquidity risk, funding and management; 

•operational risk;

•information technology risk;

•market risk associated with our trading activities;

•market risk associated with our non-trading activities, which we refer to as asset-and-liability management, and which consists primarily of interest rate risk; 

•strategic risk; 

•model risk; and 

•reputational, fiduciary and business conduct risk. 

Many of these risks, as well as certain factors underlying each of these risks that could affect our businesses and our consolidated financial statements, are discussed in detail under "Risk Factors" in this Form 10-K.

The scope of our business requires that we balance these risks with a comprehensive and well-integrated risk management function. The identification, assessment, monitoring, mitigation and reporting of risks are essential to our financial performance and successful management of our businesses. These risks, if not effectively managed, can result in losses to us as well as erosion of our capital and damage to our reputation. Our approach, including Board and senior management oversight and a system of policies, procedures, limits, risk measurement and monitoring and internal controls, allows for an assessment of risks within a framework for evaluating opportunities for the prudent use of capital that appropriately balances risk and return. 

Our objective is to optimize our return while operating at a prudent level of risk. In support of this objective, we have instituted a risk appetite framework that aligns our business strategy and financial objectives with the level of risk that we are willing to incur. 

Our risk management is based on the following major goals:

•A culture of risk awareness that extends across all of our business activities;

•The identification, classification and quantification of our material risks;

•The establishment of our risk appetite and associated limits and policies, and our compliance with these limits;

•The establishment of a risk management structure at the “top of the house” that enables the control and coordination of risk-taking across the business lines;

•The implementation of stress testing practices and a dynamic risk-assessment capability; 

•A direct link between risk and strategic-decision making processes and incentive compensation practices; and

•The overall flexibility to adapt to the ever-changing business and market conditions.

Our risk appetite framework outlines the quantitative limits and qualitative goals that define our risk appetite, as well as the responsibilities for measuring and monitoring risk against limits, and for reporting, escalating, approving and addressing exceptions. Our risk appetite framework is established by ERM, a corporate risk oversight group, in conjunction with the MRAC and the RC of the Board. The Board formally reviews and approves our risk appetite statement annually, or more frequently as required. 

The risk appetite framework describes the level and types of risk that we are willing to accommodate in executing our business strategy, and also serves as a guide in setting risk limits across our business units. In addition to our risk appetite framework, we use stress testing as another important tool in our risk management practice. Additional information with respect to our stress testing process and practices is provided under “Capital” in this Management's Discussion and Analysis.

Disclosures about our management of significant risks can be found on the following pages in this Management's Discussion and Analysis.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

 State Street Corporation | 79
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION

AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Governance and Structure

We have an approach to risk management that involves all levels of management, from the Board and its committees, including its E&A Committee, RC, the ECC and TOPS, to each business unit and each employee. We allocate responsibility for risk oversight so that risk/return decisions are made at an appropriate level, and are subject to robust and effective review and challenge. Risk management is the responsibility of each employee, and is implemented through three lines of defense: the business units, which own and manage the risks inherent in their business, are considered the first line of defense; ERM and other support functions, such as Compliance, Finance and Vendor Management, provide the second line of defense; and Corporate Audit, which assesses the effectiveness of the first two lines of defense. 

The responsibilities for effective review and challenge reside with senior managers, management oversight committees, Corporate Audit and, ultimately, the Board and its committees. While we believe that our risk management program is effective in managing the risks in our businesses, internal and external factors may create risks that cannot always be identified or anticipated.

Corporate-level risk committees provide focused oversight, and establish corporate standards and policies for specific risks, including credit, sovereign exposure, market, liquidity, operational, information technology as well as new business products, regulatory compliance and ethics, vendor risk and model risks. These committees have been delegated the responsibility to develop recommendations and remediation strategies to address issues that affect or have the potential to affect us.

We maintain a risk governance committee structure which serves as the formal governance mechanism through which we seek to undertake the consistent identification, management and mitigation of various risks facing us in connection with its business activities. This governance structure is enhanced and integrated through multi-disciplinary involvement, particularly through ERM. The following chart presents this structure.

 Management Risk Governance Committee Structure

 Executive Management Committees:    

 Management Risk and Capital Committee

(MRAC) Business Conduct Risk Committee

(BCRC) Technology and Operational Risk Committee

(TORC)

 Risk Committees:      

 Asset-Liability Committee (ALCO) Credit Risk and Policy Committee

(CRPC) Fiduciary Review Committee Operational Risk Committee Technology Risk Committee

 Trading and Market Risk Committee (TMRC) Basel Oversight Committee 

(BOC) New Business and Product Approval Committee Global Transitions Oversight Committee Executive Information Security Steering Committee

 Recovery and Resolution Planning Executive Review Board Model Risk Committee 

(MRC) Compliance and Ethics Committee    

 CCAR Steering Committee State Street Global Advisors Risk Committee Legal Entity Oversight Committee    

 Country Risk Committee   Conduct Standards Committee    

 State Street Corporation | 80
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION

AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Enterprise Risk Management

The goal of ERM is to ensure that risks are proactively identified, well-understood and prudently managed in support of our business strategy. ERM provides risk oversight, support and coordination to allow for the consistent identification, measurement and management of risks across business units separate from the business units' activities, and is responsible for the formulation and maintenance of corporate-wide risk management policies and guidelines. In addition, ERM establishes and reviews limits and, in collaboration with business unit management, monitors key risks. Ultimately, ERM works to validate that risk-taking occurs within the risk appetite statement approved by the Board and conforms to associated risk policies, limits and guidelines.

The CRO is responsible for our risk management globally, leads ERM and has a dual reporting line to our CEO and the Board’s RC. ERM manages its responsibilities globally through a three-dimensional organization structure: 

•“Vertical” business unit-aligned risk groups that support business managers with risk management, measurement and monitoring activities; 

•“Horizontal” risk groups that monitor the risks that cross all of our business units (for example, credit and operational risk); and

•Risk oversight for international activities, which combines intersecting “Verticals” and “Horizontals” through a hub and spoke model to provide important regional and legal entity perspectives to the global risk framework.

Sitting on top of this three-dimensional organization structure is a centralized group responsible for the aggregation of risk exposures across the vertical, horizontal and regional dimensions, for consolidated reporting, for setting the corporate-level risk appetite framework and associated limits and policies, and for dynamic risk assessment across our business.

Board Committees

The Board has four committees which assist it in discharging its responsibilities with respect to risk management: the RC, the E&A Committee, the ECC and the TOPS. 

The RC is responsible for oversight related to the operation of our global risk management framework, including policies and procedures establishing risk management governance and processes and risk control infrastructure for our global operations. The RC is responsible for reviewing and discussing with management our assessment and management of all risks applicable to our operations, including credit, market, interest rate, liquidity, operational, regulatory 

and business risks, as well as compliance and reputational risk and related policies.

 In addition, the RC provides oversight of capital policies and capital planning, resolution planning and monitors capital adequacy in relation to risk. The RC is also responsible for discharging the duties and obligations of the Board under applicable Basel and other regulatory requirements. 

The E&A Committee oversees management's operation of our comprehensive system of internal controls covering the integrity of our consolidated financial statements and reports, compliance with laws, regulations and corporate policies. The E&A Committee acts on behalf of the Board in monitoring and overseeing the performance of Corporate Audit and in reviewing certain communications with banking regulators. The E&A Committee has direct responsibility for the appointment, compensation, retention, evaluation and oversight of the work of our independent registered public accounting firm, including sole authority for the establishment of pre-approval policies and procedures for all audit engagements and any non-audit engagements.

The ECC has direct responsibility for the oversight of all compensation plans, policies and programs in which executive officers participate and incentive, retirement, welfare as well as equity plans in which certain of our other employees participate. In addition, the ECC oversees the alignment of our incentive compensation arrangements with our safety and soundness, including the integration of risk management objectives, and related policies, arrangements and control processes consistent with applicable related regulatory rules and guidance.

The TOPS leads and assists in the Board’s oversight of technology and operational risk management and the role of these risks in executing our strategy and supporting our global business requirements. The TOPS reviews strategic initiatives from a technology and operational risk perspective and reviews and approves technology-related risk matters. 

Executive Management Committees

MRAC is the senior management decision-making body for risk and capital issues, and oversees our financial risks, our consolidated statement of condition, and our capital adequacy, liquidity and recovery and resolution planning. Its responsibilities include: 

•The approval of the policies of our global risk, capital and liquidity management frameworks, including our risk appetite framework; 

•The monitoring and assessment of our capital adequacy based on internal policies and regulatory requirements; 

 State Street Corporation | 81
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION

AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

•The oversight of our firm-wide risk identification, model risk governance, stress testing and Recovery and Resolution Plan programs; and

•The ongoing monitoring and review of risks undertaken within the businesses, and our senior management oversight and approval of risk strategies and tactics. 

MRAC, is co-chaired by our CRO and CFO, who regularly present to the RC on developments in the risk environment and performance trends in our key business areas.

BCRC provides additional risk governance and leadership, by overseeing our business practices in terms of our compliance with laws, regulations and our standards of business conduct, our commitments to clients and others with whom we do business, and potential reputational risks. Management considers adherence to high ethical standards to be critical to the success of our business and to our reputation. The BCRC is co-chaired by our CCO and our Chief Legal Officer.

TORC oversees and assesses the effectiveness of corporate-wide technology and operational risk management programs, to manage and control technology and operational risk consistently across the organization. TORC is co-chaired by the CAO and the Chief Risk Officer. 

Risk Committees

The following risk committees, under the oversight of the respective executive management committees, have focused responsibilities for oversight of specific areas of risk management:

Management Risk and Capital Committee

•ALCO is the senior corporate oversight and decision-making body for balance sheet strategy, Global Treasury business activities and risk management for interest rate risk, liquidity risk and non-trading market risk. ALCO’s roles and responsibilities are designed to be complementary to, and in coordination with the MRAC, which approves the corporate risk appetite and associated balance sheet strategy; 

•CRPC has primary responsibility for the oversight and review of credit and counterparty risk across business units, as well as oversight, review and approval of the credit risk policies and guidelines; the Committee consists of senior executives within ERM, and reviews policies and guidelines related to all aspects of our business which give rise to credit risk; our business units are also represented on the CRPC; credit risk policies and guidelines are reviewed periodically, but at least annually;

•TMRC reviews the effectiveness of, and approves, the market risk framework at least annually; it is the senior oversight and decision-making committee for risk management within our global markets businesses; the TMRC is responsible for the formulation of guidelines, strategies and workflows with respect to the measurement, monitoring and control of our trading market risk, and also approves market risk tolerance limits, collateral and margin policies and trading authorities; the TMRC meets regularly to monitor the management of our trading market risk activities;

•BOC provides oversight and governance over Basel related regulatory requirements, assesses compliance with respect to Basel regulations and approves all material methodologies and changes, policies and reporting;

•The Recovery and Resolution Planning Executive Review Board oversees the development of recovery and resolution plans as required by banking regulators; 

•MRC monitors the overall level of model risk and provides oversight of the model governance process pertaining to financial models, including the validation of key models and the ongoing monitoring of model performance. The MRC may also, as appropriate, mandate remedial actions and compensating controls to be applied to models to address modeling deficiencies as well as other issues identified; 

•The CCAR Steering Committee provides primary supervision of the stress tests performed in conformity with the Federal Reserve's CCAR process and the Dodd-Frank Act, and is responsible for the overall management, review, and approval of all material assumptions, methodologies, and results of each stress scenario;[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•The Country Risk Committee oversees the identification, assessment, monitoring, reporting and mitigation, where necessary, of country risks.

 State Street Corporation | 82
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION

AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Business Conduct Risk Committee

•The Fiduciary Review Committee reviews and assesses the fiduciary risk management programs of those units in which we serve in a fiduciary capacity; 

•The New Business and Product Approval Committee provides oversight of the evaluation of the risk inherent in proposed new products or services and new business, and extensions of existing products or services, evaluations including economic justification, material risk, compliance, regulatory and legal considerations, and capital and liquidity analyses;

•The Compliance and Ethics Committee provides review and oversight of our compliance programs, including its culture of compliance and high standards of ethical behavior;

•The Legal Entity Oversight Committee establishes standards with respect to the governance of our legal entities, monitors adherence to those standards, and oversees the ongoing evaluation of our legal entity structure, including the formation, maintenance and dissolution of legal entities; and

•The Conduct Standards Committee provides oversight of our enforcement of employee conduct standards.

Technology and Operational Risk Committee

•The Operational Risk Committee, along with the support of regional business or entity-specific working groups and committees, is responsible for oversight of our operational risk programs, including determining that the implementation of those programs is designed to identify, manage and control operational risk in an effective and consistent manner across the firm;

•The Technology Risk Committee is responsible for the global oversight, review and monitoring of operational, legal and regulatory compliance and reputational risk that may result in a significant change to our Information Technology risk profile or a material financial loss or reputational impact to global technology services. The Committee serves as a forum to provide regular reporting to TORC and escalate technology risk and control issues to TORC, as appropriate;

•The Executive Information Security Steering Committee provides direction for the Enterprise Information Security posture and program, including cyber security protections, provides enterprise-wide oversight and assessment of 

the effectiveness of all Information Security Programs to promote that controls are measured and managed, and serves as an escalation point for cyber-security issues; and

•The Global Transitions Oversight Committee is responsible for establishing a framework to monitor and oversee transitions between and among our legal entities against our resolvability principles, to monitor compliance with that framework to support optimization of our global operating footprint through increased consistency, transparency and sharing of best practices among our legal entities, and to serve as a forum for review and discussion of issues impacting internal transitions among our legal entities.

Credit Risk Management

Core Policies and Principles

We define credit risk as the risk of financial loss if a counterparty, borrower or obligor, collectively referred to as a counterparty, is either unable or unwilling to repay borrowings or settle a transaction in accordance with underlying contractual terms. We assume credit risk in our traditional non-trading lending activities, such as loans and contingent commitments, in our investment securities portfolio, where recourse to a counterparty exists, and in our direct and indirect trading activities, such as principal securities lending and foreign exchange and indemnified agency securities lending. We also assume credit risk in our day-to-day treasury and securities and other settlement operations, in the form of deposit placements and other cash balances, with central banks or private sector institutions. 

We distinguish between three major types of credit risk: 

•Default risk - the risk that a counterparty fails to meet its contractual payment obligations;

•Country risk - the risk that we may suffer a loss, in any given country, due to any of the following reasons: deterioration of economic conditions, political and social upheaval, nationalization and appropriation of assets, government repudiation of indebtedness, exchange controls and disruptive currency depreciation or devaluation; and 

•Settlement risk - the risk that the settlement or clearance of transactions will fail, which arises whenever the exchange of cash, securities and/or other assets is not simultaneous.

The acceptance of credit risk by us is governed by corporate policies and guidelines, which include standardized procedures applied across the entire organization. These policies and guidelines include specific requirements related to each counterparty's 

 State Street Corporation | 83
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION

AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

risk profile; the markets served; counterparty, industry and country concentrations; and regulatory compliance. These policies and procedures also implement a number of core principles, which include the following:

•We measure and consolidate credit risks to each counterparty, or group of counterparties, in accordance with a “one-obligor” principle that aggregates risks across our business units;

•ERM reviews and approves all extensions of credit, or material changes to extensions of credit (such as changes in term, collateral structure or covenants), in accordance with assigned credit-approval authorities; 

•Credit-approval authorities are assigned to individuals according to their qualifications, experience and training, and these authorities are periodically reviewed. Our largest exposures require approval by the Credit Committee, a sub-committee of the CRPC. With respect to small and low-risk extensions of credit to certain types of counterparties, approval authority is granted to individuals outside of ERM;

•We seek to avoid or limit undue concentrations of risk. Counterparty (or groups of counterparties), industry, country and product-specific concentrations of risk are subject to frequent review and approval in accordance with our risk appetite;

•We determine the creditworthiness of counterparties through a risk assessment, including the use of internal risk-rating methodologies; 

•We seek to review all extensions of credit and the creditworthiness of counterparties at least annually. The nature and extent of these reviews are determined by the size, nature and term of the extensions of credit and the creditworthiness of the counterparty; and

•We subject all corporate policies and guidelines to annual review as an integral part of our periodic assessment of our risk appetite.

Our corporate policies and guidelines require that the business units which engage in activities that give rise to credit and counterparty risk comply with procedures that promote the extension of credit for legitimate business purposes; are consistent with the maintenance of proper credit standards; limit credit-related losses; and are consistent with our goal of maintaining a strong financial condition.

Structure and Organization

The Credit Risk group within ERM is responsible for the assessment, approval and monitoring of credit 

risk across our business. The group is managed centrally, has dedicated teams in a number of locations worldwide across our businesses, and is responsible for related policies and procedures, and for our internal credit-rating systems and methodologies. In addition, the group, in conjunction with the business units, establishes measurements and limits to control the amount of credit risk accepted across its various business activities, both at the portfolio level and for each individual counterparty or group of counterparties, to individual industries, and also to counterparties by product and country of risk. These measurements and limits are reviewed periodically, but at least annually. 

In conjunction with other groups in ERM, the Credit Risk group is jointly responsible for the design, implementation and oversight of our credit risk measurement and management systems, including data and assessment systems, quantification systems and the reporting framework. 

Various key committees are responsible for the oversight of credit risk and associated credit risk policies, systems and models. All credit-related activities are governed by our risk appetite framework and our credit risk guidelines, which define our general philosophy with respect to credit risk and the manner in which we control, manage and monitor such risks. 

The previously described CRPC (refer to "Risk Committees") has primary responsibility for the oversight, review and approval of the credit risk guidelines and policies. Credit risk guidelines and policies are reviewed periodically, but at least annually.

The Credit Committee, a sub-committee of the CRPC, has responsibility for assigning credit authority and approving the largest and higher-risk extensions of credit to individual counterparties or groups of counterparties. 

CRPC provides periodic updates to MRAC and the Board's RC.

Credit Ratings 

We perform initial and ongoing reviews to exercise due diligence on the creditworthiness of our counterparties when conducting any business with them or approving any credit limits. 

This due diligence process generally includes the assignment of an internal credit rating, which is determined by the use of internally developed and validated methodologies, scorecards and a 15-grade rating scale. This risk-rating process incorporates the use of risk-rating tools in conjunction with management judgment; qualitative and quantitative inputs are captured in a replicable manner and, following a formal review and approval process, an internal credit rating based on our rating scale is assigned. Credit ratings are reviewed and approved by the Credit Risk group or designees within ERM. To facilitate comparability 

 State Street Corporation | 84
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION

AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

across the portfolio, counterparties within a given sector are rated using a risk-rating tool developed for that sector. 

Our risk-rating methodologies are approved by the CRPC, after completion of internal model validation processes, and are subject to an annual review, including re-validation. 

We generally rate our counterparties individually, although accounts defined by us as low-risk are rated on a pooled basis. We evaluate and rate the credit risk of our counterparties on an ongoing basis.

Risk Parameter Estimates

Our internal risk-rating system seeks to promote a clear and consistent approach to the determination of appropriate credit risk classifications for our credit counterparties and exposures, tracking the changes in risk associated with these counterparties and exposures over time. This capability enhances our ability to more accurately calculate both risk exposures and capital, enabling better strategic decision making across the organization. 

We use credit risk parameter estimates for the following purposes:

•The assessment of the creditworthiness of new counterparties and, in conjunction with our risk appetite statement, the development of appropriate credit limits for our products and services, including loans, foreign exchange, securities finance, placements and repurchase agreements;

•The use of an automated process for limit approvals for certain low-risk counterparties, as defined in our credit risk guidelines, based on the counterparty’s probability-of-default, or PD, rating class; 

•The development of approval authority matrices based on PD; riskier counterparties with higher ratings require higher levels of approval for a comparable PD and limit size compared to less risky counterparties with lower ratings;

•The analysis of risk concentration trends using historical PD and exposure-at-default, or EAD, data; 

•The standardization of rating integrity testing by GCR using rating parameters; 

•The determination of the level of management review of short-duration advances depending on PD; riskier counterparties with higher rating class values generally trigger higher levels of management escalation for comparable short-duration advances compared to less risky counterparties with lower rating-class values;

•The monitoring of credit facility utilization levels using EAD values and the identification of instances where counterparties have exceeded limits; 

•The aggregation and comparison of counterparty exposures with risk appetite levels to determine if businesses are maintaining appropriate risk levels; and

•The determination of our regulatory capital requirements for the AIRB provided in the Basel framework.

Credit Risk Mitigation

We seek to limit our credit exposure and reduce our potential credit losses through various types of risk mitigation. In our day-to-day management of credit risks, we utilize and recognize the following types of risk mitigation.

Collateral

In many parts of our business, we regularly require or agree for collateral to be received from or provided to clients and counterparties in connection with contracts that incur credit risk. In our trading businesses, this collateral is typically in the form of cash and highly-rated securities (government securities and other bonds or equity securities). Credit risks in our non-trading and securities finance businesses are also often secured by bonds and equity securities and by other types of assets. Collateral serves to reduce the risk of loss inherent in an exposure by improving the prospect of recovery in the event of a counterparty default. However, rapidly changing market values of the collateral we hold, unexpected increases in the credit exposure to a client or counterparty, reductions in the value or change in the type of securities held by us, as well as operational errors or errors in the manner in which we seek to exercise our rights, may reduce the risk mitigation effects of collateral or result in other security interests not being effective to reduce potential credit exposure. While collateral is often an alternative source of repayment, it generally does not replace the requirement within our policies and guidelines for high-quality underwriting standards. We also may choose to incur credit exposure without the benefit of collateral or other risk mitigating credits rights. 

Our credit risk guidelines require that the collateral we accept for risk mitigation purposes is of high quality, can be reliably valued and can be liquidated if or when required. Generally, when collateral is of lower quality, more difficult to value or more challenging to liquidate, higher discounts to market values are applied for the purposes of measuring credit risk. For certain less liquid collateral, longer liquidation periods are assumed when determining the credit exposure.

All types of collateral are assessed regularly by ERM, as is the basis on which the collateral is valued. 

 State Street Corporation | 85
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION

AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Our assessment of collateral, including the ability to liquidate collateral in the event of a counterparty default, and also with regard to market values of collateral under a variety of hypothetical market conditions, is an integral component of our assessment of risk and approval of credit limits. We also seek to identify, limit and monitor instances of "wrong-way" risk, where a counterparty’s risk of default is positively correlated with the risk of our collateral eroding in value.

We maintain policies and procedures requiring that documentation used to collateralize a transaction is legal, valid, binding and enforceable in the relevant jurisdictions. We also conduct legal reviews to assess whether our documentation meets these standards on an ongoing basis. 

Netting 

 Netting is a mechanism that allows institutions and counterparties to net offsetting exposures and payment obligations against one another through the use of qualifying master netting agreements. A master netting agreement allows the netting of rights and obligations arising under derivative or other transactions that have been entered into under such an agreement upon the counterparty’s default, resulting in a single net claim owed by, or to, the counterparty. This is commonly referred to as "close-out netting,” and is pursued wherever possible. We may also enter into master agreements that allow for the netting of amounts payable on a given day and in the same currency, reducing our settlement risk. This is commonly referred to as “payment netting,” and is widely used in our foreign exchange activities. 

As with collateral, we have policies and procedures in place to apply close-out and payment netting only to the extent that we have verified legal validity and enforceability of the master agreement. In the case of payment netting, operational constraints may preclude us from reducing settlement risk, notwithstanding the legal right to require the same under the master netting agreement. In the event we become unable, due to operational constraints, actions by regulators, changes in accounting principles, law or regulation (or related interpretations) or other factors, to net some or all of our offsetting exposures and payment obligations under those agreements, we would be required to gross up our assets and liabilities on our statement of condition and our calculation of RWA, accordingly. This would result in a potentially material increase in our regulatory ratios, including LCR, and present increased credit, liquidity, asset-and-liability management and operational risks, some of which could be material.

Guarantees

 A guarantee is a financial instrument that results in credit support being provided by a third party, (i.e., the protection provider) to the underlying obligor (the 

beneficiary of the provided protection) on account of an exposure owing by the obligor. The protection provider may support the underlying exposure either in whole or in part. Support of this kind may take different forms. Typical forms of guarantees provided to us include financial guarantees, letters of credit, bankers’ acceptances, purchase undertaking agreements contracts and insurance.

We have established a review process to evaluate guarantees under the applicable requirements of our policies and Basel III requirements. Governance for this evaluation is covered under policies and procedures that require regular reviews of documentation, jurisdictions and credit quality of protection providers.

Pursuant to the Basel III final rule, we are permitted to reflect the application of credit risk mitigation which may include, for example, guarantees, collateral, netting, secured interests in non-financial assets and credit default swaps. We do not actively use credit default swaps as a risk mitigation tool, although it increasingly applies the recognition of guarantees, collateral and security over non-financial assets to mitigate overall risk within its counterparty credit portfolio. 

Credit Limits 

Central to our philosophy for our management of credit risk is the approval and imposition of credit limits, against which we monitor the actual and potential future credit exposure arising from our business activities with counterparties or groups of counterparties. Credit limits are a reflection of our risk appetite, which may be determined by the creditworthiness of the counterparty, the nature of the risk inherent in the business undertaken with the counterparty, or a combination of relevant credit factors. Our risk appetite for certain sectors and certain countries and geographic regions may also influence the level of risk we are willing to assume to certain counterparties. 

The analysis and approval of credit limits is undertaken in a consistent manner across our businesses, although the nature and extent of the analysis may vary, based on the type, term and magnitude of the risk being assumed. Credit limits and underlying exposures are assessed and measured on both a gross and net basis where appropriate, with net exposure determined by deducting the value of any collateral held. For certain types of risk being assumed, we will also assess and measure exposures under a variety of hypothetical market conditions. Credit limit approvals across our business are undertaken by the Credit Risk group, by individuals to whom credit authority has been delegated, or by the Credit Committee. 

Credit limits are re-evaluated annually, or more frequently as needed, and are revised periodically on prevailing and anticipated market conditions, changes 

 State Street Corporation | 86
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION

AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

in counterparty or country-specific credit ratings and outlook, changes in our risk appetite for certain counterparties, sectors or countries, and enhancements to the measurement of credit utilization.

Reporting 

Ongoing active monitoring and management of our credit risk is an integral part of our credit risk management framework. We maintain management information systems to identify, measure, monitor and report credit risk across businesses and legal entities, enabling ERM and our businesses to have timely access to accurate information on credit limits and exposures. Monitoring is performed along the dimensions of counterparty, industry, country and product-specific risks to facilitate the identification of concentrations of risk and emerging trends. 

Key aspects of this credit risk reporting structure include governance and oversight groups, policies that define standards for the reporting of credit risk, data aggregation and sourcing systems and separate testing of relevant risk reporting functions by Corporate Audit.

The Credit Portfolio Management group routinely assesses the composition of our overall credit risk portfolio for alignment with our stated risk appetite. This assessment includes routine analysis and reporting of the portfolio, monitoring of market-based indicators, the assessment of industry trends and developments and regular reviews of concentrated risks. The Credit Portfolio Management group is also responsible, in conjunction with the business units, for defining the appetite for credit risk in the major sectors in which we have a concentration of business activities. These sector-level risk appetite statements, which include counterparty selection criteria and granular underwriting guidelines, are reviewed periodically and approved by the CRPC.

Monitoring

Regular surveillance of credit and counterparty risks is undertaken by our business units, the Credit Risk group and designees with ERM, allowing for frequent and extensive oversight. This surveillance process includes, but is not limited to, the following components:

•Annual Reviews. A formal review of counterparties is conducted at least annually and includes a thorough review of operating performance, primary risk factors and our internal credit risk rating. This annual review also includes a review of current and proposed credit limits, an assessment of our ongoing risk appetite and verification that supporting legal documentation remains effective.

•Interim Monitoring. Periodic monitoring of our largest and riskiest counterparties is undertaken more frequently, utilizing financial 

information, market indicators and other relevant credit and performance measures. The nature and extent of this interim monitoring is individually tailored to certain counterparties and/or industry sectors to identify material changes to the risk profile of a counterparty (or group of counterparties) and assign an updated internal risk rating in a timely manner.

We maintain an active "watch list" for all counterparties where we have identified a concern that the actual or potential risk of default has increased. The watch list status denotes a concern with some aspect of a counterparty's risk profile that warrants closer monitoring of the counterparty's financial performance and related risk factors. Our ongoing monitoring processes are designed to facilitate the early identification of counterparties whose creditworthiness is deteriorating; any counterparty may be placed on the watch list by ERM at its sole discretion. 

Counterparties that receive an internal risk rating within a certain range on our rating scale are eligible for watch list designation. These risk ratings generally correspond with the non-investment grade or near non-investment grade ratings established by the major independent credit-rating agencies, and also include the regulatory classifications of “Special Mention,” “Substandard,” “Doubtful” and “Loss.” Counterparties whose internal ratings are outside this range may also be placed on the watch list.

The Credit Risk group maintains primary responsibility for our watch list processes, and generates a monthly report of all watch list counterparties. The watch list is formally reviewed at least on a quarterly basis, with participation from senior ERM staff, and representatives from the business units and our corporate finance and legal groups as appropriate. These meetings include a review of individual watch list counterparties, together with credit limits and prevailing exposures, and are focused on actions to contain, reduce or eliminate the risk of loss to us. Identified actions are documented and monitored. 

Controls

GCR provides a separate level of surveillance and oversight over the integrity of our credit risk management processes, including the internal risk-rating system. GCR reviews counterparty credit ratings for all identified sectors on an ongoing basis. GCR is subject to oversight by the CRPC, and provides periodic updates to the Board’s RC. 

Specific activities of GCR include the following:

•Separate and objective assessments of our credit and counterparty exposures to determine the nature and extent of risk undertaken by the business units;

 State Street Corporation | 87
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION

AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

•Periodic credit process and credit product reviews, focusing on and assessing credit analysis, policy compliance, prudent transaction structure and underwriting standards, administration and documentation, risk-rating integrity and relevant trends;

•Identification and monitoring of developing counterparty, market and/or industry sector trends to limit risk of loss and protect capital;

•Regular and formal reporting of reviews, including findings and requisite actions to remedy identified deficiencies;

•Allocation of resources for specialized risk assessments (on an as-needed basis);

•Assessment of the level of the allowance for loan and lease losses and OTTI; and

•Liaison with auditors and regulatory personnel on matters relating to risk rating, reporting and measurement.

Reserve for Credit Losses

We maintain an allowance for loan and lease losses to support our on-balance sheet credit exposures. We also maintain a reserve for unfunded commitments and letters of credit to support our off-balance credit exposure. The two components together represent the reserve for credit losses. Review and evaluation of the adequacy of the reserve for credit losses is ongoing throughout the year, but occurs at least quarterly, and is based, among other factors, on our evaluation of the level of risk in the portfolio, the volume of adversely classified loans, previous loss experience, current trends, and economic conditions and their effect on our counterparties. Additional information about the allowance for loan and lease losses is provided in Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements in this Form 10-K.

Liquidity Risk Management

Our liquidity framework contemplates areas of potential risk based on our activities, size and other appropriate risk-related factors. In managing liquidity risk we employ limits, maintain established metrics and early warning indicators and perform routine stress testing to identify potential liquidity needs. This process involves the evaluation of a combination of internal and external scenarios which assist us in measuring our liquidity position and in identifying potential increases in cash needs or decreases in available sources of cash, as well as the potential impairment of our ability to access the global capital markets.

We manage our liquidity on a global, consolidated basis. We also manage liquidity on a stand-alone basis at our Parent Company, as well as at certain branches and subsidiaries of State Street Bank. State Street Bank generally has access to markets and funding sources limited to banks, such as the federal funds market and 

the Federal Reserve's discount window. The Parent Company is managed to a more conservative liquidity profile, reflecting narrower market access. Additionally, the Parent Company typically holds, or has direct access to, primarily through SSIF (a direct subsidiary of the Parent Company), as discussed in "Supervision and Regulation" in Business in this Form 10-K, enough cash to meet its current debt maturities and cash needs, as well as those projected over the next one-year period. Absent financial distress at the Parent Company, the liquid assets available at SSIF continue to be available to the Parent Company. As of December 31, 2018, the value of our Parent Company's net liquid assets totaled $486 million, compared with $532 million as of December 31, 2017, which amount does not include available liquidity through SSIF. As of December 31, 2018, our Parent Company and State Street Bank have no senior notes or subordinated debentures outstanding that will mature in the next twelve months.

As a SIFI, our liquidity risk management activities are subject to heightened and evolving regulatory requirements, including interpretations of those requirements, under specific U.S. and international regulations and also resulting from published and unpublished guidance, supervisory activities, such as stress tests, resolution planning, examinations and other regulatory interactions. Satisfaction of these requirements could, in some cases, result in changes in the composition of our investment portfolio, reduced NII or NIM, a reduction in the level of certain business activities or modifications to the way in which we deliver our products and services. If we fail to meet regulatory requirements to the satisfaction of our regulators, we could receive negative regulatory stress test results, incur a resolution plan deficiency or determination of a non-credible resolution plan or otherwise receive an adverse regulatory finding. Our efforts to satisfy, or our failure to satisfy, these regulatory requirements could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.

Governance

Global Treasury is responsible for our management of liquidity. This includes the day-to-day management of our global liquidity position, the development and monitoring of early warning indicators, key liquidity risk metrics, the creation and execution of stress tests, the evaluation and implementation of regulatory requirements, the maintenance and execution of our liquidity guidelines and contingency funding plan, and routine management reporting to ALCO, MRAC and the Board's RC.

Global Treasury Risk Management, part of ERM, provides separate oversight over the identification, communication and management of Global Treasury’s risks in support of our business strategy. Global 

 State Street Corporation | 88
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION

AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Treasury Risk Management reports to the CRO. Global Treasury Risk Management’s responsibilities relative to liquidity risk management include the development and review of policies and guidelines; the monitoring of limits related to adherence to the liquidity risk guidelines and associated reporting.

Liquidity Framework

Our liquidity framework contemplates areas of potential risk based on our activities, size and other appropriate risk-related factors. In managing liquidity risk we employ limits, maintain established metrics and early warning indicators, and perform routine stress testing to identify potential liquidity needs. This process involves the evaluation of a combination of internal and external scenarios which assist us in measuring our liquidity position and in identifying potential increases in cash needs or decreases in available sources of cash, as well as the potential impairment of our ability to access the global capital markets.

We manage liquidity according to several principles that are equally important to our overall liquidity risk management framework:

•Structural liquidity management addresses liquidity by monitoring and directing the composition of our consolidated statement of condition. Structural liquidity is measured by metrics such as the percentage of total wholesale funds to consolidated total assets, and the percentage of non-government investment securities to client deposits. In addition, on a regular basis and as described below, our structural liquidity is evaluated under various stress scenarios.

•Tactical liquidity management addresses our day-to-day funding requirements and is largely driven by changes in our primary source of funding, which are client deposits. Fluctuations in client deposits may be supplemented with short-term borrowings, which generally include commercial paper, repurchase agreements, FHLB products and certificates of deposit.

•Stress testing and contingent funding planning are longer-term strategic liquidity risk management practices. Regular and ad hoc liquidity stress testing are performed under various severe but plausible scenarios at the consolidated level and at significant subsidiaries, including State Street Bank. These tests contemplate severe market and events specific to us under various time horizons and severities. Tests contemplate the impact of material changes in key funding sources, credit ratings, additional collateral requirements, contingent uses of funding, systemic shocks to the financial markets and operational failures based on market and 

assumptions specific to us. The stress tests evaluate the required level of funding versus available sources in an adverse environment. As stress testing contemplates potential forward-looking scenarios, results also serve as a trigger to activate specific liquidity stress levels and contingent funding actions.

CFPs are designed to assist senior management with decision-making associated with any contingency funding response to a possible or actual crisis scenario. The CFPs define roles, responsibilities and management actions to be taken in the event of deterioration of our liquidity profile caused by either an event specific to us or a broader disruption in the capital markets. Specific actions are linked to the level of stress indicated by these measures or by management judgment of market conditions.

Liquidity Risk Metrics

In managing our liquidity, we employ early warning indicators and metrics. Early warning indicators are intended to detect situations which may result in a liquidity stress, including changes in our common stock price and the spread on our long-term debt. Additional metrics that are critical to the management of our consolidated statement of condition and monitored as part of our routine liquidity management include measures of our fungible cash position, purchased wholesale funds, unencumbered liquid assets, deposits and the total of investment securities and loans as a percentage of total client deposits.

Asset Liquidity

Central to the management of our liquidity is asset liquidity, which consists primarily of HQLA. HQLA is the amount of liquid assets that qualify for inclusion in the LCR. As a banking organization, we are subject to a minimum LCR under the LCR rule approved by U.S. banking regulators. The LCR is intended to promote the short-term resilience of internationally active banking organizations, like us, to improve the banking industry's ability to absorb shocks arising from market stress over a 30 calendar day period and improve the measurement and management of liquidity risk. The LCR measures an institution’s HQLA against its net cash outflows. HQLA primarily consists of unencumbered cash and certain high quality liquid securities that qualify for inclusion under the LCR rule. The LCR was fully implemented beginning on January 1, 2017. We report LCR to the Federal Reserve daily. For the quarters ended December 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, daily average LCR for the Parent Company was 108% and 112%, respectively. The average HQLA for the Parent Company under the LCR final rule definition was $91.67 billion and $65.35 billion for the quarters ended December 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively.

 State Street Corporation | 89
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION

AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

We maintained average cash balances in excess of regulatory requirements governing deposits with the Federal Reserve of approximately $44.17 billion at the Federal Reserve, the ECB and other non-U.S. central banks as of December 31, 2018, compared to $33.58 billion as of December 31, 2017. The higher levels of average cash balances with central banks was due to normal deposit volatility. The increase in average HQLA for the year ended December 31, 2018, compared to the year ended December 31, 2017, was primarily a result of the sale of approximately $26 billion in non-HQLA securities during the year ended December 31, 2018, with a significant portion of the sales being reinvested into HQLA.

Liquid securities carried in our asset liquidity include securities pledged without corresponding advances from the FRBB, the FHLB, and other non-U.S. central banks. State Street Bank is a member of the FHLB. This membership allows for advances of liquidity in varying terms against high-quality collateral, which helps facilitate asset-and-liability management. As of December 31, 2018, we had approximately $2 billion of outstanding borrowings from the FHLB. As of December 31, 2017, we had no outstanding borrowings from the FHLB.

Access to primary, intra-day and contingent liquidity provided by these utilities is an important source of contingent liquidity with utilization subject to underlying conditions. As of December 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017 we had no outstanding primary credit borrowings from the FRBB discount window or any other central bank facility.

In addition to the securities included in our asset liquidity, we have significant amounts of other unencumbered investment securities. These securities are available sources of liquidity, although not as rapidly deployed as those included in our asset liquidity.

The average fair value of total unencumbered securities was $65.94 billion for the quarter ended December 31, 2018, compared to $66.10 billion for the quarter ended December 31, 2017.

Measures of liquidity include LCR and NSFR, which are described in "Supervision and Regulation" in Business in this Form 10-K.

Uses of Liquidity

Significant uses of our liquidity could result from the following: withdrawals of client deposits; draw-downs by our custody clients of lines of credit; advances to clients to settle securities transactions; or other permitted purposes. Such circumstances would generally arise under stress conditions including deterioration in credit ratings. A recurring use of our liquidity involves our deployment of HQLA from our investment portfolio to post collateral to financial institutions serving as sources of securities under our enhanced custody program.

We had unfunded commitments to extend credit with gross contractual amounts totaling $28.95 billion and $26.49 billion and standby letters of credit totaling $2.99 billion and $3.16 billion as of December 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively. These amounts do not reflect the value of any collateral. As of December 31, 2018, approximately 73% of our unfunded commitments to extend credit and 27% of our standby letters of credit expire within one year. Since many of our commitments are expected to expire or renew without being drawn upon, the gross contractual amounts do not necessarily represent our future cash requirements.

Information about our resolution planning and the impact actions under our resolution plans could have on our liquidity is provided in "Supervision and Regulation" in Business in this Form 10-K.

Funding

Deposits

We provide products and services including custody, accounting, administration, daily pricing, foreign exchange services, cash management, financial asset management, securities finance and investment advisory services. As a provider of these products and services, we generate client deposits, which have generally provided a stable, low-cost source of funds. As a global custodian, clients place deposits with our entities in various currencies. As of both December 31, 2018 and 2017, approximately 60% of our average total deposit balances were denominated in U.S. dollars, approximately 20% in EUR, 10% in GBP and 10% in all other currencies.

Short-Term Funding

Our on-balance sheet liquid assets are also an integral component of our liquidity management strategy. These assets provide liquidity through maturities of the assets, but more importantly, they provide us with the ability to raise funds by pledging the securities as collateral for borrowings or through outright sales. In addition, our access to the global capital markets gives us the ability to source incremental funding from wholesale investors. As discussed earlier under “Asset Liquidity,” State Street Bank's membership in the FHLB allows for advances of liquidity with varying terms against high-quality collateral.

Short-term secured funding also comes in the form of securities lent or sold under agreements to repurchase. These transactions are short-term in nature, generally overnight and are collateralized by high-quality investment securities. These balances were $1.08 billion and $2.84 billion as of December 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively.

 State Street Corporation | 90
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION

AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

State Street Bank currently maintains a line of credit with a financial institution of CAD 1.40 billion, or approximately $1.03 billion, as of December 31, 2018, to support its Canadian securities processing operations. The line of credit has no stated termination date and is cancelable by either party with prior notice. As of December 31, 2018, there was no balance outstanding on this line of credit.

Long-Term Funding

We have the ability to issue debt and equity securities under our current universal shelf registration statement to meet current commitments and business needs, including accommodating the transaction and cash management needs of our clients. In addition, State Street Bank also has current authorization from the Board to issue up to $5 billion in unsecured senior debt and an additional $500 million of subordinated debt.

Agency Credit Ratings

Our ability to maintain consistent access to liquidity is fostered by the maintenance of high investment grade ratings as measured by the major independent credit rating agencies. Factors essential to maintaining high credit ratings include:

•diverse and stable core earnings;

•relative market position;

•strong risk management;

•strong capital ratios;

•diverse liquidity sources, including the global capital markets and client deposits;

•strong liquidity monitoring procedures; and

•preparedness for current or future regulatory developments.

High ratings limit borrowing costs and enhance our liquidity by:

•providing assurance for unsecured funding and depositors;

•increasing the potential market for our debt and improving our ability to offer products;

•serving markets; and 

•engaging in transactions in which clients value high credit ratings.

A downgrade or reduction of our credit ratings could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity by restricting our ability to access the capital markets, which could increase the related cost of funds. In turn, this could cause the sudden and large-scale withdrawal of unsecured deposits by our clients, which could lead to draw-downs of unfunded commitments to extend credit or trigger requirements under securities purchase commitments; or require additional collateral or force terminations of certain trading derivative contracts.

A majority of our derivative contracts have been entered into under bilateral agreements with counterparties who may require us to post collateral or terminate the transactions based on changes in our credit ratings. We assess the impact of these arrangements by determining the collateral that would be required assuming a downgrade by all rating agencies. The additional collateral or termination payments related to our net derivative liabilities under these arrangements that could have been called by counterparties in the event of a downgrade in our credit ratings below levels specified in the agreements is provided in Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements in this Form 10-K. Other funding sources, such as secured financing transactions and other margin requirements, for which there are no explicit triggers, could also be adversely affected.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

 State Street Corporation | 91
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION

AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Contractual Cash Obligations and Other Commitments

The long-term contractual cash obligations included within Table 30: Long-Term Contractual Cash Obligations were recorded in our consolidated statement of condition as of December 31, 2018, except for operating leases and the interest portions of long-term debt and capital leases.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Long-term debt excludes capital lease obligations (presented as a separate line item) and the effect of interest rate swaps. Interest payments were calculated at the stated rate with the exception of floating-rate debt, for which payments were calculated using the indexed rate in effect as of December 31, 2018. 

(2) Additional information about contractual cash obligations related to long-term debt and operating and capital leases is provided in Notes 9 and 20 to the consolidated financial statements in this Form 10-K.

Total contractual cash obligations shown in Table 30: Long-Term Contractual Cash Obligations, do not include:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

    (1) Total amounts committed reflect participations to independent third parties, if any. 

(2) Amounts represent obligations pursuant to legally binding agreements, where we have agreed to purchase products or services with a specific minimum quantity defined at a fixed, minimum or variable price over a specified period of time.

Additional information about the commitments presented in Table 31: Other Commercial Commitments, except for purchase obligations, is provided in Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements in this Form 10-K.

 State Street Corporation | 92
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION

AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Operational Risk Management

Overview

Operational risk is the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people and systems or from external events. Operational risk encompasses fiduciary risk and legal risk. Fiduciary risk is defined as the risk that we fail to properly exercise our fiduciary duties in our provision of products or services to clients. Legal risk is the risk of loss resulting from failure to comply with laws and contractual obligations.

Operational risk is inherent in the performance of investment servicing and investment management activities on behalf of our clients. Whether it be fiduciary risk, risk associated with execution and processing or other types of operational risk, a consistent, transparent and effective operational risk framework is key to identifying, monitoring and managing operational risk. 

We have established an operational risk framework that is based on three major goals:

•Strong, active governance;

•Ownership and accountability; and

•Consistency and transparency.

Governance

Our Board is responsible for the approval and oversight of our overall operational risk framework. It does so through its RC, which reviews our operational risk framework and approves our operational risk policy annually. 

Our operational risk policy establishes our approach to our management of operational risk across our business. The policy identifies the responsibilities of individuals and committees charged with oversight of the management of operational risk, and articulates a broad mandate that supports implementation of the operational risk framework.

ERM and other control groups provide the oversight, validation and verification of the management and measurement of operational risk. 

Executive management actively manages and oversees our operational risk framework through membership on various risk management committees, including MRAC, the BCRC, TORC, the Operational Risk Committee, the Executive Information Security Steering Committee, Business Controls Steering Committee, Compliance and Ethics Committee and the Fiduciary Review Committee, all of which ultimately report to the appropriate committee of the Board.

The Operational Risk Committee, chaired by the global head of Operational Risk and co-chaired by the FLOD Head of Business Controls, provides cross-business oversight of operational risk, operational risk programs and their implementation to identify, measure, manage and control operational risk in an effective and 

consistent manner and reviews and approves operational risk guidelines intended to maintain a consistent implementation of our corporate operational risk policy and framework. 

Ownership and Accountability

We have implemented our operational risk framework to support the broad mandate established by our operational risk policy. This framework represents an integrated set of processes and tools that assists us in the management and measurement of operational risk, including our calculation of required capital and RWA.

The framework takes a comprehensive view and integrates the methods and tools used to manage and measure operational risk. The framework utilizes aspects of the COSO framework and other industry leading practices, and is designed foremost to address our risk management needs while complying with regulatory requirements. The operational risk framework is intended to provide a number of important benefits, including: 

•A common understanding of operational risk management and its supporting processes; 

•The clarification of responsibilities for the management of operational risk across our business;

•The alignment of business priorities with risk management objectives;

•The active management of risk and early identification of emerging risks;

•The consistent application of policies and the collection of data for risk management and measurement; and

•The estimation of our operational risk capital requirement.

The operational risk framework employs a distributed risk management infrastructure executed by ERM groups aligned with the business units, which are responsible for the implementation of the operational risk framework at the business unit level.

As with other risks, senior business unit management is responsible for the day-to-day operational risk management of their respective businesses. It is business unit management's responsibility to provide oversight of the implementation and ongoing execution of the operational risk framework within their respective organizations, as well as coordination and communication with ERM. 

Consistency and Transparency

A number of corporate control functions are directly responsible for implementing and assessing various aspects of our operational risk framework, with 

 State Street Corporation | 93
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION

AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

the overarching goal of consistency and transparency to meet the evolving needs of the business:

•The global head of Operational Risk, a member of the CRO’s executive management team, leads ERM’s corporate ORM group. ORM is responsible for the strategy, evolution and consistent implementation of our operational risk guidelines, framework and supporting tools across our business. ORM reviews and analyzes operational key risk information, events, metrics and indicators at the business unit and corporate level for purposes of risk management, reporting and escalation to the CRO, senior management and governance committees; 

•ERM’s Corporate Risk Analytics group develops and maintains operational risk capital estimation models, and ORM's Capital Analysis group calculates our required capital for operational risk;

•ERM’s MVG independently validates the quantitative models used to measure operational risk, and ORM performs validation checks on the output of the model;

•CIS establishes the framework, policies and related programs to measure, monitor and report on information security risks, including the effectiveness of cyber security program protections. CIS defines and manages the enterprise-wide information security program. CIS coordinates with Information Technology, control functions and business units to support the confidentiality, integrity and availability of corporate information assets. CIS identifies and employs a risk-based methodology consistent with applicable regulatory cyber security requirements and monitors the compliance of our systems with information security policies; and

•Corporate Audit performs separate reviews of the application of operational risk management practices and methodologies utilized across our business.

Our operational risk framework consists of five components, each described below, which provide a working structure that integrates distinct risk programs into a continuous process focused on managing and measuring operational risk in a coordinated and consistent manner. 

Risk Identification and Assessments

The objective of risk identification and assessments is to understand business unit strategy, risk profile and potential exposures. It is achieved through a series of risk assessments across our business using techniques for the identification, assessment and measurement of risk across a spectrum of potential frequency and severity combinations. Three primary risk assessment programs, which occur annually, augmented by other business-specific programs, are the core of this component:

•The risk assessment program seeks to understand the risks associated with day-to-day activities, and the effectiveness of controls intended to manage potential exposures arising from these activities. These risks are typically frequent in nature but generally not severe in terms of exposure; 

•The Material Risk Identification process utilizes a bottom-up approach to identify our most significant risk exposures across all on- and off-balance sheet risk-taking activities. The program is specifically designed to consider risks that could have a material impact irrespective of their likelihood or frequency. This can include risks that may have an impact on longer-term business objectives, such as significant change management activities or long-term strategic initiatives;

•The Scenario Analysis program focuses on the set of risks with the highest severity and most relevance from a capital perspective. These are generally referred to as “tail risks," and serve as important benchmarks for our loss distribution approach model (see below); they also provide inputs into stress testing; and

•Business-specific programs to identify, assess and measure risk, including new business and product review and approval, new client screening, and, as deemed appropriate, targeted risk assessments.

Capital Analysis

The primary measurement tool used is an internally developed loss distribution approach (LDA) model. We use the LDA model to quantify required operational risk capital, from which we calculate RWA related to operational risk. Such required capital and RWA totaled $3.68 billion and $46.06 billion, respectively, as of December 31, 2018, compared to $3.67 billion and $45.82 billion, respectively, as of December 31, 2017; refer to the "Capital" section in "Financial Condition," of this Management's Discussion and Analysis.

 State Street Corporation | 94
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION

AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

The LDA model incorporates the four required operational risk elements described below:

•Internal loss event data is collected from across our business in conformity with our operating loss policy that establishes the requirements for collecting and reporting individual loss events. We categorize the data into seven Basel-defined event types and further subdivide the data by business unit, as deemed appropriate. Each of these loss events are represented in a UOM which is used to estimate a specific amount of capital required for the types of loss events that fall into each specific category. Some UOMs are measured at the corporate level because they are not “business specific,” such as damage to physical assets, where the cause of an event is not primarily driven by the behavior of a single business unit. Internal losses of $500 or greater are captured, analyzed and included in the modeling approach. Loss event data is collected using a corporate-wide data collection tool, which stores the data in a Loss Event Data Repository (LEDR) to support processes related to analysis, management reporting and the calculation of required capital. Internal loss event data provides our frequency and severity information to our capital calculation process for historical loss events experienced by us. Internal loss event data may be incorporated into our LDA model in a future quarter following the realization of the losses, with the timing and categorization dependent on the processes for model updates and, if applicable, model revalidation and regulatory review and related supervisory processes. An individual loss event can have a significant effect on the output of our LDA model and our operational risk RWA under the advanced approaches depending on the severity of the loss event, its categorization among the seven Basel-defined UOMs and the stability of the distributional approach for a particular UOM;

•External loss event data provides information with respect to loss event severity from other financial institutions to inform our capital estimation process of events in similar business units at other banking organizations. This information supplements the data pool available for use in our LDA model. Assessments of the sufficiency of internal data and the relevance of external data are completed before pooling the two data sources for use in our LDA model;

•Scenario analysis workshops are conducted across our business to inform management of the less frequent but most severe, or “tail,” risks 

that the organization faces. The workshops are attended by senior business unit managers, other support and control partners and business-aligned risk management staff. The workshops are designed to capture information about the significant risks and to estimate potential exposures for individual risks should a loss event occur. The results of these workshops are used to make a comparison to our LDA model results to determine that our calculation of required capital considers relevant risk-related information; and

•Business environment and internal control factors are gathered as part of our scenario analysis program to inform the scenario analysis workshop participants of internal loss event data and business-relevant metrics, such as risk assessment program results, along with industry loss event data and case studies where appropriate. Business environment and internal control factors are those characteristics of a bank’s internal and external operating environment that bear an exposure to operational risk. The use of this information indirectly influences our calculation of required capital by providing additional relevant data to workshop participants when reviewing specific UOM risks. 

Monitoring, Reporting and Analytics

The objective of risk monitoring is to proactively monitor the changing business environment and corresponding operational risk exposure. It is achieved through a series of quantitative and qualitative monitoring tools that are designed to allow us to understand changes in the business environment, internal control factors, risk metrics, risk assessments, exposures and operating effectiveness, as well as details of loss events and progress on risk initiatives implemented to mitigate potential risk exposures.

Operational risk reporting is intended to provide transparency, thereby enabling management to manage risk, provide oversight and escalate issues in a timely manner. It is designed to allow the business units, executive management, and the Board's control functions and committees to gain insight into activities that may result in risks and potential exposures. Reports are intended to identify business activities that are experiencing processing issues, whether or not they result in actual loss events. Reporting includes results of monitoring activities, internal and external examinations, regulatory reviews and control assessments. These elements combine in a manner designed to provide a view of potential and emerging risks facing us and information that details its progress on managing risks.

 State Street Corporation | 95
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION

AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Effectiveness and Testing

The objective of effectiveness and testing is to verify that internal controls are designed appropriately, are consistent with corporate and regulatory standards, and are operating effectively. It is achieved through a series of assessments by both internal and external parties, including Corporate Audit, independent registered public accounting firms, business self-assessments and other control function reviews, such as a SOX testing program.

Consistent with our standard model validation process, the operational risk LDA model is subject to a detailed review, overseen by the MRC. In addition, the model is subject to a rigorous internal governance process. All changes to the model or input parameters, and the deployment of model updates, are reviewed and approved by the Operational Risk Committee, which has oversight responsibility for the model, with technical input from the MRC.

Documentation and Guidelines

Documentation and guidelines allow for consistency and repeatability of the various processes that support the operational risk framework across our business. 

Operational risk guidelines document our practices and describe the key elements in a business unit's operational risk management program. The purpose of the guidelines is to set forth and define key operational risk terms, provide further detail on our operational risk programs, and detail the business units' responsibilities to identify, assess, measure, monitor and report operational risk. The guideline supports our operational risk policy.

Data standards have been established to maintain consistent data repositories and systems that are controlled, accurate and available on a timely basis to support operational risk management.

Information Technology Risk Management

Overview and Principles

We define technology risk as the risk associated with the use, ownership, operation, involvement, influence and adoption of information technology. Technology risk includes risks potentially triggered by technology non-compliance with regulatory obligations, information security and privacy incidents, business disruption, technology internal control and process gaps, technology operational events and adoption of new business technologies.

The principal technology risks within our technology risk policy and risk appetite framework include:

•Third party vendor risk;

•Business disruption and technology resiliency risk;

•Cyber and information security risk;

•Technology asset and configuration risk; and

•Technology obsolescence risk.

Governance

Our Board is responsible for the approval and oversight of our overall technology risk framework and program. It does so through its TOPS, which reviews and approves our technology risk policy and appetite framework annually. 

Our technology risk policy establishes our approach to our management of technology risk across our business. The policy identifies the responsibilities of individuals and committees charged with oversight of the management of technology risk and articulates a broad mandate that supports implementation of the technology risk framework.

Risk control functions in the business are responsible for adopting and executing the Enterprise Technology Risk Management (ETRM), technology risk framework and reporting requirements. They do this, in part, by developing and maintaining an inventory of critical applications and supporting infrastructure, as well as identifying, assessing and measuring technology risk utilizing the ETRM framework. They are also responsible for monitoring and evaluating risk on a continual basis using key risk indicators, risk reporting and adopting appropriate risk responses to risk issues. 

The Chief Technology Risk Officer, a member of the CRO’s executive management team, leads the ETRM. ETRM is the separate risk function responsible for the technology risk strategy and appetite, and technology risk framework development and execution. ETRM also performs overall technology risk monitoring and reporting to the Board, and provides a separate view of the technology risk posture to executive leadership. 

We manage technology risks by:

•Coordinating various risk assessment and risk management activities, including ERM operational risk programs;

•Establishing, through TORC and TOPS of the Board, the enterprise level technology risk and cyber risk appetite and limits;

•Producing enterprise level risk reporting, aggregation, dashboards, profiles and risk appetite statements;

•Validating appropriateness of reporting of information technology risks and risk acceptance to senior management risk committees and the Board;

•Promoting a strong technology risk culture through communication;

 State Street Corporation | 96
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION

AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

•Serving as an escalation and challenge point for technology risk policy guidance, expectations and clarifications; 

•Assessing effectiveness of key enterprise information technology risk and internal control remediation programs; and 

•Providing risk oversight, challenge and monitoring for the Global Continuity and Third Party Vendor Management Program, including the collection of risk appetite, metrics and KRIs, and reviewing issue management processes and consistent program adoption.

Cyber-Security Risk Management

Cyber-security risk is managed as part of our overall Information Technology Risk Management as outlined above.

We recognize the significance of cyber-attacks and have taken steps to mitigate the risks associated with them. We have made significant investments in building a mature cyber-security program to leverage people, technology and processes to protect our systems and the data in our care. We have also implemented a program to help us better measure and manage the cyber-security risk we face when we engage with third parties for services.

All employees are required to adhere to our cyber-security policy and standards. Our centralized information security group provides education and training. This training includes a required annual online training class for all employees, multiple simulated phishing attacks and regular information security awareness materials. 

Our business lines employ Information Security Officers to help the business better understand and manage their information security risks, as well as to work with the centralized Information Security team to drive awareness and compliance throughout the business. 

We use independent third parties to perform ethical hacks of key systems to help us better understand the effectiveness of our controls and to better implement more effective controls, and we engage with third parties to conduct reviews of our overall program to help us better align our cyber-security program with what is required of a large financial services organization.

We have an incident response program in place that is designed to enable a well-coordinated response to mitigate the impact of cyber-attacks, recover from the attack and to drive the appropriate level of communication to internal and external stakeholders. 

The TORC assesses and manages the effectiveness of our cyber-security program, which is overseen by the TOPS of our Board. The TOPS receives regular cyber-security updates throughout the 

year and is responsible for reviewing and approving the program on an annual basis. 

Market Risk Management

Market risk is defined by U.S. banking regulators as the risk of loss that could result from broad market movements, such as changes in the general level of interest rates, credit spreads, foreign exchange rates or commodity prices. We are exposed to market risk in both our trading and certain of our non-trading, or asset-and-liability management, activities. 

Information about the market risk associated with our trading activities is provided below under “Trading Activities.” Information about the market risk associated with our non-trading activities, which consists primarily of interest rate risk, is provided below under “Asset-and-Liability Management Activities.”

Trading Activities

In the conduct of our trading activities, we assume market risk, the level of which is a function of our overall risk appetite, business objectives and liquidity needs, our clients' requirements and market volatility and our execution against those factors. 

We engage in trading activities primarily to support our clients' needs and to contribute to our overall corporate earnings and liquidity. In connection with certain of these trading activities, we enter into a variety of derivative financial instruments to support our clients' needs and to manage our interest rate and currency risk. These activities are generally intended to generate foreign exchange trading services revenue and to manage potential earnings volatility. In addition, we provide services related to derivatives in our role as both a manager and a servicer of financial assets.

Our clients use derivatives to manage the financial risks associated with their investment goals and business activities. With the growth of cross-border investing, our clients often enter into foreign exchange forward contracts to convert currency for international investments and to manage the currency risk in their international investment portfolios. As an active participant in the foreign exchange markets, we provide foreign exchange forward and option contracts in support of these client needs, and also act as a dealer in the currency markets. 

As part of our trading activities, we assume positions in the foreign exchange and interest rate markets by buying and selling cash instruments and entering into derivative instruments, including foreign exchange forward contracts, foreign exchange and interest rate options and interest rate swaps, interest rate forward contracts and interest rate futures. As of December 31, 2018, the notional amount of these derivative contracts was $2.26 trillion, of which $2.24 trillion was composed of foreign exchange forward, swap and spot contracts. We seek to match positions 

 State Street Corporation | 97
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION

AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

closely with the objective of minimizing related currency and interest rate risk. All foreign exchange contracts are valued daily at current market rates. 

Governance

Our assumption of market risk in our trading activities is an integral part of our corporate risk appetite. Our Board reviews and oversees our management of market risk, including the approval of key market risk policies and the receipt and review of regular market risk reporting, as well as periodic updates on selected market risk topics. 

The previously described TMRC (refer to "Risk Committees") oversees all market risk-taking activities across our business associated with trading. The TMRC, which reports to MRAC, is composed of members of ERM, our global markets business and our Global Treasury group, as well as our senior executives who manage our trading businesses and other members of management who possess specialized knowledge and expertise. The TMRC meets regularly to monitor the management of our trading market risk activities.

Our business units identify, actively manage and are responsible for the market risks inherent in their businesses. A dedicated market risk management group within ERM, and other groups within ERM, work with those business units to assist them in the identification, assessment, monitoring, management and control of market risk, and assist business unit managers with their market risk management and measurement activities. ERM provides an additional line of oversight, support and coordination designed to promote the consistent identification, measurement and management of market risk across business units, separate from those business units' discrete activities. 

The ERM market risk management group is responsible for the management of corporate-wide market risk, the monitoring of key market risks and the development and maintenance of market risk management policies, guidelines and standards aligned with our corporate risk appetite. This group also establishes and approves market risk tolerance limits and trading authorities based on, but not limited to, measures of notional amounts, sensitivity, VaR and stress. Such limits and authorities are specified in our trading and market risk guidelines which govern our management of trading market risk.

Corporate Audit separately assesses the design and operating effectiveness of the market risk controls within our business units and ERM. Other related responsibilities of Corporate Audit include the periodic review of ERM and business unit compliance with market risk policies, guidelines and corporate standards, as well as relevant regulatory requirements. We are subject to regular monitoring, reviews and supervisory exams of our market risk function by the 

Federal Reserve. In addition, we are regulated by, among others, the SEC, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority and the U.S. Commodities Futures Trading Commission.

Risk Appetite 

Our corporate market risk appetite is specified in policy statements that outline the governance, responsibilities and requirements surrounding the identification, measurement, analysis, management and communication of market risk arising from our trading activities. These policy statements also set forth the market risk control framework to monitor, support, manage and control this portion of our risk appetite. All groups involved in the management and control of market risk associated with trading activities are required to comply with the qualitative and quantitative elements of these policy statements. Our trading market risk control framework is composed of the following components:

•A trading market risk management process led by ERM, separate from the business units' discrete activities; 

•Clearly defined responsibilities and authorities for the primary groups involved in trading market risk management; 

•A trading market risk measurement methodology that captures correlation effects and allows aggregation of market risk across risk types, markets and business lines; 

•Daily monitoring, analysis and reporting of market risk exposures associated with trading activities against market risk limits; 

•A defined limit structure and escalation process in the event of a market risk limit excess; 

•Use of VaR models to measure the one-day market risk exposure of trading positions;

•Use of VaR as a ten-day-based regulatory capital measure of the market risk exposure of trading positions; 

•Use of non-VaR-based limits and other controls; 

•Use of stressed-VaR models, stress-testing analysis and scenario analysis to support the trading market risk measurement and management process by assessing how portfolios and global business lines perform under extreme market conditions; 

•Use of back-testing as a diagnostic tool to assess the accuracy of VaR models and other risk management techniques; and 

•A new product approval process that requires market risk teams to assess trading-related market risks and apply risk tolerance limits to 

 State Street Corporation | 98
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION

AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

proposed new products and business activities. 

We use our CAP to assess our overall capital and liquidity in relation to our risk profile and provide a comprehensive strategy for maintaining appropriate capital and liquidity levels. With respect to market risk associated with trading activities, our risk management and our calculations of regulatory capital are based primarily on our internal VaR models and stress testing analysis. As discussed in detail under “Value-at-Risk” below, VaR is measured daily by ERM. 

The TMRC oversees our market risk exposure in relation to limits established within our risk appetite framework. These limits define threshold levels for VaR- and stressed VaR-based measures and are applicable to all trading positions subject to regulatory capital requirements. These limits are designed to prevent any undue concentration of market risk exposure, in light of the primarily non-proprietary nature of our trading activities. The risk appetite framework and associated limits are reviewed and approved by the Board's RC. 

Covered Positions 

Our trading positions are subject to regulatory market risk capital requirements if they meet the regulatory definition of a “covered position.” A covered position is generally defined by U.S. banking regulators as an on- or off-balance sheet position associated with the organization's trading activities that is free of any restrictions on its tradability, but does not include intangible assets, certain credit derivatives recognized as guarantees and certain equity positions not publicly traded. All FX and commodity positions are considered covered positions, regardless of the accounting treatment they receive. The identification of covered positions for inclusion in our market risk capital framework is governed by our covered positions policy, which outlines the standards we use to determine whether a trading position is a covered position. 

Our covered positions consist primarily of the trading portfolios held by our global markets business. They also arise from certain positions held by our Global Treasury group. These trading positions include products such as foreign exchange spot, foreign exchange forwards, non-deliverable forwards, foreign exchange options, foreign exchange funding swaps, currency futures, financial futures and interest rate futures. New activities are analyzed to determine if the positions arising from such new activities meet the definition of a covered position and conform to our covered positions policy. This documented analysis, including any decisions with respect to market risk treatments, must receive approval from the TMRC. 

We use spot rates, forward points, yield curves and discount factors imported from third-party sources to measure the value of our covered positions, and we use such values to mark our covered positions to market 

on a daily basis. These values are subject to separate validation by us in order to evaluate reasonableness and consistency with market experience. The mark-to-market gain or loss on spot transactions is calculated by applying the spot rate to the foreign currency principal and comparing the resultant base currency amount to the original transaction principal. The mark-to-market gain or loss on a forward foreign exchange contract or forward cash flow contract is determined as the difference between the life-to-date (historical) value of the cash flow and the value of the cash flow at the inception of the transaction. The mark-to-market gain or loss on interest rate swaps is determined by discounting the future cash flows from each leg of the swap transaction.

Value-at-Risk and Stressed VaR

We use a variety of risk measurement tools and methodologies, including VaR, which is an estimate of potential loss for a given period within a stated statistical confidence interval. We use a risk measurement methodology to measure trading-related VaR daily. We have adopted standards for measuring trading-related VaR, and we maintain regulatory capital for market risk associated with our trading activities in conformity with currently applicable bank regulatory market risk requirements. 

We utilize an internal VaR model to calculate our regulatory market risk capital requirements. We use a historical simulation model to calculate daily VaR- and stressed VaR-based measures for our covered positions in conformity with regulatory requirements. Our VaR model seeks to capture identified material risk factors associated with our covered positions, including risks arising from market movements such as changes in foreign exchange rates, interest rates and option-implied volatilities. 

We have adopted standards and guidelines to value our covered positions which govern our VaR- and stressed VaR-based measures. Our regulatory VaR-based measure is calculated based on historical volatilities of market risk factors during a two-year observation period calibrated to a one-tail, 99% confidence interval and a ten-business-day holding period. We also use the same platform to calculate a one-tail, 99% confidence interval, one-business-day VaR for internal risk management purposes. A 99% one-tail confidence interval implies that daily trading losses are not expected to exceed the estimated VaR more than 1% of the time, or less than three business days out of a year. 

Our market risk models, including our VaR model, are subject to change in connection with the governance, validation and back-testing processes described below. These models can change as a result of changes in our business activities, our historical experiences, market forces and events, regulations and 

 State Street Corporation | 99
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION

AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

regulatory interpretations and other factors. In addition, the models are subject to continuing regulatory review and approval. Changes in our models may result in changes in our measurements of our market risk exposures, including VaR, and related measures, including regulatory capital. These changes could result in material changes in those risk measurements and related measures as calculated and compared from period to period.

We calculate a stressed VaR-based measure using the same model we use to calculate VaR, but with model inputs calibrated to historical data from a range of continuous twelve-month periods that reflect significant financial stress. The stressed VaR model is designed to identify the second-worst outcome occurring in the worst continuous one-year rolling period since July 2007. This stressed VaR meets the regulatory requirement as the rolling ten-day period with an outcome that is worse than 99% of other outcomes during that twelve-month period of financial stress. For each portfolio, the stress period is determined algorithmically by seeking the one-year time horizon that produces the largest ten-business-day VaR from within the available historical data. This historical data set includes the financial crisis of 2008, the highly volatile period surrounding the Eurozone sovereign debt crisis and the Standard & Poor's downgrade of U.S. Treasury debt in August 2011. As the historical data set used to determine the stress period expands over time, future market stress events will be incorporated.

Value-at-Risk Measures

VaR measures are based on the most recent two years of historical price movements for instruments and related risk factors to which we have exposure. The instruments in question are limited to foreign exchange spot, forward and options contracts and interest rate contracts, including futures and interest rate swaps. Historically, these instruments have exhibited a higher degree of liquidity relative to other available capital markets instruments. As a result, the VaR measures shown reflect our ability to rapidly adjust exposures in highly dynamic markets. For this reason, risk inventory, in the form of net open positions, across all currencies is typically limited. In addition, long and short positions in major, as well as minor, currencies provide risk offsets that limit our potential downside exposure. 

Our VaR methodology uses a historical simulation approach based on market-observed changes in foreign exchange rates, U.S. and non-U.S. interest rates and implied volatilities, and incorporates the resulting diversification benefits provided from the mix of our trading positions. Our VaR model incorporates approximately 5,000 risk factors and includes correlations among currency, interest rates and other market rates.

All VaR measures are subject to limitations and must be interpreted accordingly. Some, but not all, of the limitations of our VaR methodology include the following:

•Compared to a shorter observation period, a two-year observation period is slower to reflect increases in market volatility (although temporary increases in market volatility will affect the calculation of VaR for a longer period); consequently, in periods of sudden increases in volatility or increasing volatility, in each case relative to the prior two-year period, the calculation of VaR may understate current risk; 

•Compared to a longer observation period, a two-year observation period may not reflect as many past periods of volatility in the markets, because such past volatility is no longer in the observation period; consequently, historical market scenarios of high volatility, even if similar to current or likely future market circumstances, may fall outside the two-year observation period, resulting in a potential understatement of current risk; 

•The VaR-based measure is calibrated to a specified level of confidence and does not indicate the potential magnitude of losses beyond this confidence level; 

•In certain cases, VaR-based measures approximate the impact of changes in risk factors on the values of positions and portfolios; this may happen because the number of inputs included in the VaR model is necessarily limited; for example, yield curve risk factors do not exist for all future dates; 

•The use of historical market information may not be predictive of future events, particularly those that are extreme in nature; this “backward-looking” limitation can cause VaR to understate or overstate risk; 

•The effect of extreme and rare market movements is difficult to estimate; this may result from non-linear risk sensitivities as well as the potential for actual volatility and correlation levels to differ from assumptions implicit in the VaR calculations; and 

•Intra-day risk is not captured. 

 State Street Corporation | 100
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION

AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Stress Testing

We have a corporate-wide stress testing program in place that incorporates an array of techniques to measure the potential loss we could suffer in a hypothetical scenario of adverse economic and financial conditions. We also monitor concentrations of risk such as concentration by branch, risk component, and currency pairs. We conduct stress testing on a daily basis based on selected historical stress events that are relevant to our positions in order to estimate the potential impact to our current portfolio should similar market conditions recur, and we also perform stress testing as part of the Federal Reserve's CCAR process. Stress testing is conducted, analyzed and reported at the corporate, trading desk, division and risk-factor level (for example, exchange risk, interest rate risk and volatility risk). 

Stress testing results and limits are actively monitored on a daily basis by ERM and reported to the TMRC. Limit breaches are addressed by ERM risk managers in conjunction with the business units, escalated as appropriate, and reviewed by the TMRC if material. In addition, we have established several action triggers that prompt immediate review by management and the implementation of a remediation plan. 

 We perform scenario analysis daily based on selected historical stress events that are relevant to our positions in order to estimate the potential impact to our current portfolio should similar market conditions recur. Relevant scenarios are chosen from an inventory of historical financial stresses and applied to our current portfolio. These historical event scenarios involve spot foreign exchange, credit, equity, unforeseen geo-political events and natural disasters, and government and central bank intervention scenarios. Examples of the specific historical scenarios we incorporate in our stress testing program may include the Asian financial crisis of 1997, the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks in the U.S. and the 2008 financial crisis. We continue to update our inventory of historical stress scenarios as new stress conditions emerge in the financial markets. 

As each of the historical stress events is associated with a different time horizon, we normalize results by scaling down the longer horizon events to a ten-day horizon and keeping the shorter horizon events (i.e., events that are shorter than ten days) at their original terms. We also conduct sensitivity analysis daily to calculate the impact of a large predefined shock in a specific risk factor or a group of risk factors on our current portfolio. These predefined shocks include parallel and non-parallel yield curve shifts and foreign exchange spot and volatility surface shifts. In a parallel shift scenario, we apply a constant factor shift across all yield curve tenors. In a non-parallel shift scenario, we apply different shock levels to different tenors of a 

yield curve, rather than shifting the entire curve by a constant amount. Non-parallel shifts include steepening, flattening and butterflies. 

Validation and Back-Testing

We perform frequent back-testing to assess the accuracy of our VaR-based model in estimating loss at the stated confidence level. This back-testing involves the comparison of estimated VaR model outputs to daily, actual profit-and-loss (P&L) outcomes observed from daily market movements. We back-test our VaR model using “clean” P&L, which excludes non-trading revenue such as fees, commissions and NII, as well as estimated revenue from intra-day trading. 

Our VaR definition of trading losses excludes items that are not specific to the price movement of the trading assets and liabilities themselves, such as fees, commissions, changes to reserves and gains or losses from intra-day activity.

We experienced three back-testing exceptions in 2018 and one each in 2017 and 2016. The three back-testing exceptions in 2018 occurred in the last four months of the year when the markets experienced an abrupt increase in volatility. The heightened volatility follows several years of relatively benign market conditions that saw the VIX routinely register as little as 10% or less. Following such periods, it is quite common for VaR models calibrated to the most recent two years of data to underestimate the trading gains or losses that are experienced as volatility trends above levels that were seen more recently. In reference to the 2017 exception, the trading loss that day exceeded the VaR based on the prior day’s closing positions, following the euro’s forward point spike on short tenors driven by thinning liquidity and reduced volumes spurred by banks’ year-end balance sheet preparations. In reference to the 2016 exception, the trading P&L that day exceeded the VaR based on the prior day’s closing positions, following a large depreciation in the U.S. dollar against several major and emerging market currencies, primarily attributable to U.S. GDP growth rate being lower than expected and market reaction to Bank of Japan’s decision to leave the interest rate unchanged.

Our model validation process also evaluates the integrity of our VaR models through the use of regular outcome analysis. This outcome analysis includes back-testing, which compares the VaR model's predictions to actual outcomes using out-of-sample information. Consistent with regulatory guidance, the back-testing compared “clean” P&L, defined above, with the one-day VaR produced by the model. The back-testing was performed for a time period not used for model development. The number of occurrences where “clean” trading-book P&L exceeded the one-day VaR was within our expected VaR tolerance level. 

 State Street Corporation | 101
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION

AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Market Risk Reporting

Our ERM market risk management group is responsible for market risk monitoring and reporting. We use a variety of systems and controlled market feeds from third-party services to compile data for several daily, weekly and monthly management reports. 

The following tables present VaR and stressed VaR associated with our trading activities for covered positions held during the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively, as measured by our VaR methodology. Diversification effect in the tables below represents the difference between total VaR and the sum of the VaRs for each trading activity. This effect arises because the risks present in our trading activities are not perfectly correlated. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The average of our stressed VaR-based measure was approximately $32 million for the year ended December 31, 2018, compared to an average of approximately $28 million for the year ended December 31, 2017.

While the average stressed VaR-based measure increased, the decrease in our stressed VaR-based measure at year end was mainly driven by lower end of day foreign exchange positions and reduced basis risk exposure in Korean Won forward rates as of December 31, 2018 compared to December 31, 2017.

The VaR-based measures presented in the preceding tables are primarily a reflection of the overall level of market volatility and our appetite for taking market risk in our trading activities. Overall levels of volatility have been low both on an absolute basis and relative to the historical information observed at the beginning of the period used for the calculations. Both the ten-day VaR-based measures and the stressed VaR-based measures are based on historical changes observed during rolling ten-day periods for the portfolios as of the close of business each day over the past one-year period. 

We may in the future modify and adjust our models and methodologies used to calculate VaR and stressed VaR, subject to regulatory review and approval, and these modifications and adjustments may result in changes in our VaR-based and stressed VaR-based measures.

The following tables present the VaR and stressed-VaR associated with our trading activities attributable to foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk and volatility risk as of December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. The totals of the VaR-based and stressed VaR-based measures for the three attributes in total exceeded the related total VaR and total stressed VaR presented in the foregoing tables as of each period-end, primarily due to the benefits of diversification across risk types. Diversification effect in the tables below represents the difference between total VaR and the sum of the VaRs for each trading activity. This effect arises because the risks present in our trading activities are not perfectly correlated. 

 State Street Corporation | 102
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION

AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

   (1) For purposes of risk attribution by component, foreign exchange refers only to the risk from market movements in period-end rates. Forwards, futures, options and swaps with maturities greater than period-end have embedded interest rate risk that is captured by the measures used for interest rate risk. Accordingly, the interest rate risk embedded in these foreign exchange instruments is included in the interest rate risk component. 

(2) As of December 31, 2018, we had no ten-day VaR or ten-day stressed VaR associated with volatility risk.

Asset and Liability Management Activities

The primary objective of asset and liability management is to provide sustainable NII under varying economic conditions, while protecting the economic value of the assets and liabilities carried in our consolidated statement of condition from the adverse effects of changes in interest rates. While many market factors affect the level of NII and the economic value of our assets and liabilities, one of the most significant factors is our exposure to movements in interest rates. Most of our NII is earned from the investment of client deposits generated by our businesses. We invest these client deposits in assets that conform generally to the characteristics of our balance sheet liabilities, including the currency composition of our significant non-U.S. dollar denominated client liabilities.

We quantify NII sensitivity using an earnings simulation model that includes our expectations for new business growth, changes in balance sheet mix and investment portfolio positioning. This measure compares our baseline view of our NII over a twelve-month horizon, based on our internal forecast of interest rates, to a wide range of instantaneous and gradual rate shocks. EVE sensitivity is a discounted cash flow model designed to estimate fair value of assets and liabilities under a series of interest rate shocks over a long-term horizon. Each approach is routinely monitored as market conditions change. 

 In the table below, we report the expected change in NII over the next twelve months from +/-100 bps instantaneous and gradual parallel rate shocks. Each scenario assumes no management action is taken to mitigate the adverse effects of interest rate changes on our financial performance. While investment securities balances can fluctuate with the level of rates as 

prepayment assumptions change, our deposit balances remain consistent with the baseline.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

As of December 31, 2018, NII sensitivity remains positioned to benefit from rising interest rates. Compared to December 31, 2017, our asset sensitive positioning to an instantaneous rise in rates is less sensitive, primarily driven by an increase in U.S. client deposit betas as a result of higher market rates.

 State Street Corporation | 103
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION

AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

We also routinely measure NII sensitivity to non-parallel rate shocks to isolate the impact of short-term or long-term market rates. In the up 100 bps instantaneous shock, approximately 70% of the expected benefit stems from the short-end of the yield curve. Additionally, we quantify how much of the change is a result of shifts in U.S. and non-U.S. rates. In the up 100 bps instantaneous shock, approximately 30-40% of the benefit is driven by U.S. rates.

The following table highlights our EVE sensitivity to a +/-200 bps instantaneous rate shock, relative to spot interest rates. Management compares the change in EVE sensitivity against our aggregate tier 1 and tier 2 risk-based capital, calculated in conformity with current applicable regulatory requirements. EVE sensitivity is dependent on the timing of interest and principal cash flows. Also, the measure only evaluates the spot balance sheet and does not include the impact of new business assumptions.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

As of December 31, 2018, EVE sensitivity remains exposed to upward shifts in interest rates. Compared to December 31, 2017, the change in the up 200 bps instantaneous shock was driven by higher U.S. interest rates and a mix shift in client deposits to more floating-rate, reducing deposit duration. The change in the down 200 bps instantaneous shock was primarily due to a modeling enhancement for negative rate currencies. The modeling enhancement allows for interest rate shocks to go below zero for certain currencies, such as Euro, where central banks have allowed negative rates. The December 31, 2017 benefit, which does not reflect the modeling enhancement, in the down 200 bps shock would have increased approximately $1 billion under the new modeling approach.

This update aligns our modeling approaches for negative rates in both EVE and NII sensitivity simulations.

Model Risk Management 

The use of models is widespread throughout the financial services industry, with large and complex organizations relying on sophisticated models to support numerous aspects of their financial decision making. The models contemporaneously represent both a significant advancement in financial management and a source of risk. In large banking organizations like us, model results influence business decisions, and model failure could have a harmful effect on our financial performance. As a result, the Model Risk Management Framework seeks to mitigate our model risk.

Our model risk management program has three principal components: 

•A model risk governance program that defines roles and responsibilities, including the authority to restrict model usage, provides policies and guidance, monitors compliance and reports regularly to the Board on the overall degree of model risk across the corporation; 

•A model development process that focuses on sound design and computational accuracy, and includes activities designed to test for robustness, stability and sensitivity to assumptions; and 

•An independent model validation function designed to verify that models are conceptually sound, computationally accurate, are performing as expected, and are in line with their design objectives.

Governance

Models used in the regulatory capital calculation can only be deployed for use after undergoing a model validation by ERM's Model Risk Management and receiving the result on the validation that allows for use or is permitted to be used by the MRC.

ERM’s Model Risk Management group is responsible for defining the corporate-wide model risk governance framework, and maintains policies and guidelines that achieve the framework’s objectives. The team is responsible for overall model risk governance capabilities, with particular emphasis in the areas of model validation, model risk reporting, model performance monitoring, tracking of new model development status and committee-level review and challenge.

MRC, which is composed of senior staff with technical expertise, reports to MRAC, and provides guidance and oversight to the Model Risk Management function.

Model Development and Usage

Models are developed under standards governing data sourcing, methodology selection and model integrity testing. Model development includes a 

 State Street Corporation | 104
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION

AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

statement of purpose to align development with intended use. It also includes a comparison of alternative approaches to promote a sound modeling approach.

Model developers conduct an assessment of data quality and relevance. The development teams conduct a variety of tests of the accuracy, robustness and stability of each model. 

Model owners submit models to the Model Validation Group for validation on a regular basis, as per existing policy.

Model Validation

MVG is part of Model Risk Management within ERM and performs model validations. MVG is independent, as contemplated by applicable bank regulatory requirements, of both the developers and users of the models. MVG validates models through a review process that assesses the appropriateness, accuracy, and suitability of data inputs, methodologies, assumptions, and processing code. Model validation also encompasses an assessment of model performance, sensitivity, and robustness, as well as a model’s potential limitations given its particular assumptions or deficiencies. Based on the results of its review, MVG issues a model use decision and may require remedial actions and/or compensating controls on model use. MVG also maintains a model risk rating system, which assigns a risk rating to each model based on an assessment of a model's inherent and residual risks. These ratings aid in the understanding and reporting of model risk across the model portfolio, and enable the triaging of needs for remediation. If a model owner disagrees with the results of a validation or any other aspect of model risk, they are permitted to raise the issue with the MRC for resolution.

Strategic Risk Management

We define strategic risk as the current or prospective impact on earnings or capital arising from adverse business decisions, improper implementation of strategic initiatives, or lack of responsiveness to industry-wide changes. Strategic risks are influenced by changes in the competitive environment; decline in market performance or changes in our business activities; and the potential secondary impacts of reputational risks, not already captured as market, interest rate, credit, operational, model or liquidity risks. We incorporate strategic risk into our assessment of our business plans and risk and capital management processes. Active management of strategic risk is an integral component of all aspects of our business.

Separating the effects of a potential material adverse event into operational and strategic risk is sometimes difficult. For instance, the direct financial impact of an unfavorable event in the form of fines or penalties would be classified as an operational risk loss, while the impact on our reputation and consequently 

the potential loss of clients and corresponding decline in revenue would be classified as a strategic risk loss. An additional example of strategic risk is the integration of a major acquisition. Failure to successfully integrate the operations of an acquired business, and the resultant inability to retain clients and the associated revenue, would be classified as a loss due to strategic risk.

Strategic risk is managed with a long-term focus. Techniques for its assessment and management include the development of business plans, which are subject to robust review and challenge from senior management and the Board of Directors, as well as a formal review and approval process for all new business and product proposals. The potential impact of the various elements of strategic risk is difficult to quantify with any degree of precision. We use a combination of historical earnings volatility, scenario analysis, stress-testing and management judgment to help assess the potential effect on us attributable to strategic risk. Management and control of strategic risks are generally the responsibility of the business units, with oversight from the control functions, as part of their overall strategic planning and internal risk management processes.

Capital

Managing our capital involves evaluating whether our actual and projected levels of capital are commensurate with our risk profile, are in compliance with all applicable regulatory requirements and are sufficient to provide us with the financial flexibility to undertake future strategic business initiatives. We assess capital adequacy based on relevant regulatory capital requirements, as well as our own internal capital goals, targets and other relevant metrics.

Framework

Our objective with respect to management of our capital is to maintain a strong capital base in order to provide financial flexibility for our business needs, including funding corporate growth and supporting clients’ cash management needs, and to provide protection against loss to depositors and creditors. We strive to maintain an appropriate level of capital, commensurate with our risk profile, on which an attractive return to shareholders is expected to be realized over both the short and long-term, while protecting our obligations to depositors and creditors and complying with regulatory capital requirements. 

Our capital management focuses on our risk exposures, the regulatory requirements applicable to us with respect to multiple capital measures, the evaluations and resulting credit ratings of the major independent rating agencies, our return on capital at both the consolidated and line-of-business level and our capital position relative to our peers. 

 State Street Corporation | 105
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION

AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Assessment of our overall capital adequacy includes the comparison of capital sources with capital uses, as well as the consideration of the quality and quantity of the various components of capital. The assessment seeks to determine the optimal level of capital and composition of capital instruments to satisfy all constituents of capital, with the lowest overall cost to shareholders. Other factors considered in our assessment of capital adequacy are strategic and contingency planning, stress testing and planned capital actions.

Capital Adequacy Process

Our primary federal banking regulator is the Federal Reserve. Both we and State Street Bank are subject to the minimum regulatory capital requirements established by the Federal Reserve and defined in FDICIA. State Street Bank must exceed the regulatory capital thresholds for “well capitalized” in order for our Parent Company to maintain its status as a financial holding company. Accordingly, one of our primary goals with respect to capital management is to exceed all applicable minimum regulatory capital requirements and to be “well-capitalized” under the PCA guidelines established by the FDIC. Our capital management activities are conducted as part of our corporate-wide CAP and associated Capital Policy and guidelines.

We consider capital adequacy to be a key element of our financial well-being, which affects our ability to attract and maintain client relationships; operate effectively in the global capital markets; and satisfy regulatory, security holder and shareholder needs. Capital is one of several elements that affect our credit ratings and the ratings of our principal subsidiaries.

In conformity with our Capital Policy and guidelines, we strive to achieve and maintain specific internal capital levels, not just at a point in time, but over time and during periods of stress, to account for changes in our strategic direction, evolving economic conditions and financial and market volatility. We have developed and implemented a corporate-wide CAP to assess our overall capital in relation to our risk profile and to provide a comprehensive strategy for maintaining appropriate capital levels. The CAP considers material risks under multiple scenarios, with an emphasis on stress scenarios, and encompasses existing processes and systems used to measure our capital adequacy. 

Capital Contingency Planning

Contingency planning is an integral component of capital management. The objective of contingency planning is to monitor current and forecast levels of select capital, liquidity and other measures that serve as early indicators of a potentially adverse capital or liquidity adequacy situation. These measures are one of the inputs used to set our internal capital adequacy level. We review these measures annually for 

appropriateness and relevance in relation to our financial budget and capital plan.

Stress Testing

We administer a robust business-wide stress-testing program that executes multiple stress tests each year to assess the institution’s capital adequacy and/or future performance under adverse conditions. Our stress testing program is structured around what we determine to be the key risks incurred by us, as assessed through a recurring material risk identification process. The material risk identification process represents a bottom-up approach to identifying the institution’s most significant risk exposures across all on- and off-balance sheet risk-taking activities, including credit, market, liquidity, interest rate, operational, fiduciary, business, reputation and regulatory risks. These key risks serve as an organizing principle for much of our risk management framework, as well as reporting, including the “risk dashboard” provided to the Board. Over the past few years, stress scenarios have included a deep recession in the U.S., a break-up of the Eurozone, a severe recession in China and an oil shock precipitated by turmoil in the Middle East/North Africa region.

In connection with the focus on our key risks, each stress test incorporates idiosyncratic loss events tailored to our unique risk profile and business activities. Due to the nature of our business model and our consolidated statement of condition, our risks differ from those of a traditional commercial bank.

The Federal Reserve requires bank holding companies with total consolidated assets of $50 billion or more, which includes us, to submit a capital plan on an annual basis. The Federal Reserve uses its annual CCAR process, which incorporates hypothetical financial and economic stress scenarios, to review those capital plans and assess whether banking organizations have capital planning processes that account for idiosyncratic risks and provide for sufficient capital to continue operations throughout times of economic and financial stress. As part of its CCAR process, the Federal Reserve assesses each organization’s capital adequacy, capital planning process and plans to distribute capital, such as dividend payments or stock purchase programs. Management and Board risk committees review, challenge and approve CCAR results and assumptions before submission to the Federal Reserve.

Through the evaluation of our capital adequacy and/or future performance under adverse conditions, the stress testing processes provide important insights for capital planning, risk management and strategic decision-making for us. 

 State Street Corporation | 106
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION

AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Governance

In order to support integrated decision making, we have identified three management elements to aid in the compatibility and coordination of our CAP:

•Risk Management - identification, measurement, monitoring and forecasting of different types of risk and their combined impact on capital adequacy;

•Capital Management - determination of optimal capital levels; and

•Business Management - strategic planning, budgeting, forecasting and performance management.

We have a hierarchical structure supporting appropriate committee review of relevant risk and capital information. The ongoing responsibility for capital management rests with our Treasurer. The Capital Management group within Global Treasury is responsible for the Capital Policy and guidelines, development of the Capital Plan, the management of global capital and capital optimization.

MRAC provides oversight of our capital management, our capital adequacy, our internal targets and the expectations of the major independent credit rating agencies. In addition, MRAC approves our balance sheet strategy and related activities. The Board’s RC assists the Board in fulfilling its oversight responsibilities related to the assessment and management of risk and capital. Our Capital Policy is reviewed and approved annually by the Board's RC. 

Global Systemically Important Bank 

We are one among a group of 29 institutions worldwide that have been identified by the FSB and the BCBS as G-SIBs. Our designation as a G-SIB is based on a number of factors, as evaluated by banking regulators, and requires us to maintain an additional capital buffer above the minimum capital ratios set forth in the Basel III final rule. 

We and our depository institution subsidiaries are subject to the current Basel III minimum risk-based capital and leverage ratio guidelines. The Basel III final rule incorporates several multi-year transition provisions for capital components and minimum ratio requirements for CET1 capital, tier 1 capital and total capital. 

Additional information about G-SIBs is provided under “Regulatory Capital Adequacy and Liquidity Standards” in "Supervision and Regulation" in Business in this Form 10-K.

Regulatory Capital

We and State Street Bank, as advanced approaches banking organizations, are subject to the U.S. Basel III framework. Provisions of the Basel III final rule became effective with full implementation on January 1, 2019. We are also subject to the final market risk capital rule issued by U.S. banking regulators effective as of January 2013.

The Basel III final rule provides for two frameworks for monitoring capital adequacy: the “standardized” approach and the “advanced” approaches, applicable to advanced approaches banking organizations, like us. The standardized approach prescribes standardized calculations for credit RWA, including specified risk weights for certain on- and off-balance sheet exposures.

The advanced approaches consist of the AIRB approach used for the calculation of RWA related to credit risk, and the AMA approach used for the calculation of RWA related to operational risk.

The final market risk capital rule requires us to use internal models to calculate daily measures of VaR, that reflect general market risk for certain of our trading positions defined by the rule as “covered positions,” as well as stressed-VaR measures to supplement the VaR measures. The rule also requires a public disclosure composed of qualitative and quantitative information about the market risk associated with our trading activities and our related VaR and stressed-VaR measures. The qualitative and quantitative information required by the rule is provided under "Market Risk" in this Form 10-K.

As required by the Dodd-Frank Act, we and State Street Bank, as advanced approaches banking organizations, are subject to a permanent "capital floor," also referred to as the Collins Amendment, in the assessment of our regulatory capital adequacy, including the capital conservation buffer and countercyclical capital buffer. Our risk-based capital ratios for regulatory assessment purposes are the lower of each ratio calculated under the standardized approach and the advanced approaches.

The requirement for the capital conservation buffer became effective with full implementation on January 1, 2019. Specifically, the final rule limits a banking organization’s ability to make capital distributions and discretionary bonus payments to executive officers if it fails to maintain a CET1 capital conservation buffer of more than 2.5% of total RWA and, if deployed during periods of excessive credit growth, a CET1 countercyclical capital buffer of up to 2.5% of total RWA, above each of the minimum CET1, tier 1, and total risk-based capital ratios. The countercyclical capital buffer is currently set at zero by U.S. banking regulators.

 State Street Corporation | 107
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION

AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

To maintain the status of the Parent Company as a financial holding company, we and our insured depository institution subsidiaries are required to be “well-capitalized” by maintaining capital ratios above the minimum requirements. Effective on January 1, 2015, the “well-capitalized” standard for our banking subsidiaries was revised to reflect the higher capital requirements in the Basel III final rule.

The following table sets forth the transition to full implementation and the minimum risk-based capital ratio requirements under the Basel III final rule. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Minimum ratios shown above do not reflect the countercyclical buffer, currently set at zero by U.S. banking regulators.

(2) As part of the G-SIB Surcharge final rule, the Federal Reserve published estimated G-SIB surcharges for the eight U.S. G-SIBs. The estimated resulting G-SIB surcharge for us is 1.5%. 

(3) Minimum CET1 capital, minimum tier 1 capital and minimum total capital presented include the transitional capital conservation buffer as well as the estimated transitional G-SIB surcharge that were phased-in beginning January 1, 2016 through January 1, 2019 based on an estimated 1.5% surcharge in all periods.

The specific calculation of our and State Street Bank's risk-based capital ratios changed as the provisions of the Basel III final rule related to the numerator (capital) and denominator (RWA) were phased in, and as our RWA calculated using the advanced approaches changed due to changes in methodology. These methodological changes result in differences in our reported capital ratios from one reporting period to the next that are independent of applicable changes to our capital base, our asset composition, our off-balance sheet exposures or our risk profile.

The following table presents the regulatory capital structure and related regulatory capital ratios for us and State Street Bank as of the dates indicated. We are subject to the more stringent of the risk-based capital ratios calculated under the standardized approach and those calculated under the advanced approaches in the assessment of our capital adequacy under applicable bank regulatory standards.

As a result of changes in the methodologies used to calculate our regulatory capital ratios from period to period, as the provisions of the Basel III final rule were phased in, the ratios presented in the table for each period are not directly comparable. Refer to the footnotes following the table.

 State Street Corporation | 108
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION

AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Amounts for us and State Street Bank as of December 31, 2018 consisted of goodwill, net of associated deferred tax liabilities, and 100% of other intangible assets, net of associated deferred tax liabilities. Amounts for us and State Street Bank as of December 31, 2017 consisted of goodwill, net of associated deferred tax liabilities and 80% of other intangible assets, net of associated deferred tax liabilities. Intangible assets, net of associated deferred tax liabilities is phased in as a deduction from capital, in conformity with the Basel III final rule.

(2) Other adjustments within CET1 capital primarily include the overfunded portion of our defined benefit pension plan obligation net of associated deferred tax liabilities, disallowed deferred tax assets, and other required credit risk based deductions.

(3) Includes a CVA which reflects the risk of potential fair value adjustments for credit risk reflected in our valuation of over-the-counter derivative contracts. We used a simple CVA approach in conformity with the Basel III advanced approaches.

(4) Under the current advanced approaches rules and regulatory guidance concerning operational risk models, RWA attributable to operational risk can vary substantially from period-to-period, without direct correlation to the effects of a particular loss event on our results of operations and financial condition and impacting dates and periods that may differ from the dates and periods as of and during which the loss event is reflected in our financial statements, with the timing and categorization dependent on the processes for model updates and, if applicable, model revalidation and regulatory review and related supervisory processes. An individual loss event can have a significant effect on the output of our operational RWA under the advanced approaches depending on the severity of the loss event and its categorization among the seven Basel-defined UOMs. 

(5) Minimum requirements were phased in with full implementation beginning on January 1, 2019; minimum requirements listed are as of December 31, 2018. See Table 38: Basel III Final Rules Transition Arrangements and Minimum Risk-Based Capital Ratios.

(6) Minimum requirements were phased in with full implementation beginning on January 1, 2019; minimum requirements listed are as of December 31, 2017. See Table 38: Basel III Final Rules Transition Arrangements and Minimum Risk-Based Capital Ratios.

NA Not applicable

 State Street Corporation | 109
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION

AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Our CET1 capital decreased $0.6 billion as of December 31, 2018 compared to December 31, 2017 primarily driven by goodwill and intangible assets deduction of $2.2 billion, capital distributions of $1.2 billion from common and preferred stock dividends and common stock repurchases, accumulated other comprehensive loss of $0.4 billion and a $0.3 billion impact from the 2018 phase-in of the deduction of intangible assets (100% in 2018 compared to 80% in 2017), offset by net income of $2.6 billion for the year ended December 31, 2018 and the issuance of common stock of $1.2 billion.

In the same comparative period, our tier 1 capital decreased $0.1 billion and total capital decreased $0.3 billion under both advanced approaches and standardized approach due to the changes in our CET1 capital offset by the issuance of preferred stock of approximately $500 million in the third quarter of 2018. 

The table below presents a roll-forward of CET1 capital, tier 1 capital and total capital for the year ended December 31, 2018 and for the year ended December 31, 2017.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

 State Street Corporation | 110
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION

AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

The following table presents a roll-forward of the Basel III advanced approaches RWA for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Includes assets not in a definable category, cleared transactions, non-material portfolio, other wholesale, cash and due from, and interest-bearing deposits with banks, equity exposures, and 6% credit risk supervisory charge.

As of December 31, 2018, total advanced approaches RWA decreased $3.8 billion compared to December 31, 2017, primarily due to lower credit RWA. The decrease in credit RWA was primarily due to the sale of $26 billion of non-HQLA within the investment securities portfolio in the year ended December 31, 2018 and lower exposure at default on FX contracts, partially offset by increases in all other exposures. 

The following table presents a roll-forward of the Basel III standardized approach RWA for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Standardized approach RWA as of the periods noted above were calculated using our estimates, based on our then current interpretation of the Basel III final rule.

(2) Includes assets not in a definable category, cleared transactions, other wholesale, cash and due from, and interest-bearing deposits with banks and equity exposures.

As of December 31, 2018, total standardized approach RWA decreased $3.9 billion compared to December 31, 2017, primarily due to lower credit RWA. The main drivers of the credit RWA change were the sale of $26 billion of non-HQLA within the investment securities portfolio and decreased repo-style transaction exposures. These decreases were partially offset by higher overdrafts and loans with corporates (both which have a higher prescribed risk weight under the standardized approach), and increases in all other exposures in the year ended December 31, 2018.

The regulatory capital ratios as of December 31, 2018, presented in Table 39: Regulatory Capital Structure and Related Regulatory Capital Ratios, are calculated under the standardized approach and advanced approaches in conformity with the Basel III final rule. The advanced approaches-based ratios reflect calculations and determinations with respect to our capital and related matters as of December 31, 2018, based on our and external data, quantitative formulae, statistical models, historical correlations and assumptions, collectively referred to as “advanced systems,” in effect and used by us for those purposes as of the time we first reported such ratios in a quarterly report on Form 10-Q or an annual report on Form 10-K. Significant components of these advanced systems involve the exercise of judgment by us and our regulators, and our advanced systems may not, individually or collectively, precisely represent or 

 State Street Corporation | 111
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION

AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

calculate the scenarios, circumstances, outputs or other results for which they are designed or intended. 

Our advanced systems are subject to update and periodic revalidation in response to changes in our business activities and our historical experiences, forces and events experienced by the market broadly or by individual financial institutions, changes in regulations and regulatory interpretations and other factors, and are also subject to continuing regulatory review and approval. For example, a significant operational loss experienced by another financial institution, even if we do not experience a related loss, could result in a material change in the output of our advanced systems and a corresponding material change in our risk exposures, our total RWA and our capital ratios compared to prior periods. An operational loss that we experience could also result in a material change in our capital requirements for operational risk under the advanced approaches, depending on the severity of the loss event, its characterization among the seven Basel-defined UOM, and the stability of the distributional approach for a particular UOM, and without direct correlation to the effects of the loss event, or the timing of such effects, on our results of operations.

Due to the influence of changes in these advanced systems, whether resulting from changes in data inputs, regulation or regulatory supervision or interpretation, specific to us or market activities or experiences or other updates or factors, we expect that our advanced systems and our capital ratios calculated in conformity with the Basel III final rule will change and may be volatile over time, and that those latter changes or volatility could be material as calculated and measured from period to period. The full effects of the Basel III final rule on us and State Street Bank are therefore subject to further evaluation and also to further regulatory guidance, action or rule-making.

Regulatory Developments

In April 2018, the FRB issued a proposed rule which would replace the current 2% supplementary leverage ratio buffer for G-SIBs, with a buffer equal to 50% of their G-SIB buffer. This proposal would also make conforming modifications to our TLAC and eligible LTD requirements applicable to G-SIBs. 

In addition, the FRB has issued a separate proposed rule replacing the current 2.5% capital conservation buffer with a firm specific buffer (referred to as the Stress Capital Buffer or SCB), updated annually and tailored to reflect the results of the most recent Federal Reserve’s CCAR supervisory severely adverse scenario stress test. The proposal also introduces a Stress Leverage Buffer (SLB) applicable to the tier 1 leverage ratio. Under the proposal, both the SCB and SLB would become effective October 1, 2019. Changes to the final rules, if and when proposed, may be material and the application of the proposed rule 

involves estimates which cannot reasonably be made at present. Consequently, we have not estimated the impact of the proposed rule.

The EGRRCPA, which was signed into law by the U.S. President in May 2018, includes modifications to the SLR requirements as applied to custody banks. Specifically, the modifications would allow certain central bank deposits to be excluded from the SLR denominator, or total leverage exposure. In addition, the Act may impact our TLAC and LTD requirements as the definition of the supplementary leverage ratio has been modified for custodial banks. Our estimates as to our LTD needs at December 31, 2018, to satisfy TLAC and LTD requirements, are subject to updates based on the changing regulatory landscape and additional regulatory guidance and interpretation. 

Supplementary Leverage Ratio

In 2014, U.S. banking regulators issued final rules implementing an SLR, for certain bank holding companies, like us, and their insured depository institution subsidiaries, like State Street Bank, which we refer to as the SLR final rule. The SLR final rule requires that, as of January 1, 2018, (i) State Street Bank maintain an SLR of at least 6% to be well capitalized under the U.S. banking regulators’ PCA framework and (ii) we maintain an SLR of at least 5% to avoid limitations on capital distributions and discretionary bonus payments. In addition to the SLR, we are subject to a minimum tier 1 leverage ratio of 4%, which differs from the SLR primarily in that the denominator of the tier 1 leverage ratio is only a quarterly average of on-balance sheet assets and does not include any off-balance sheet exposures. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Tier 1 leverage ratio as of December 31, 2018 were calculated in conformity with the Basel III final rule.

 State Street Corporation | 112
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION

AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Capital Actions

Preferred Stock

In September 2018, we issued 500,000 depositary shares, each representing 1/100th ownership interest in a share of our fixed-to-floating rate non-cumulative perpetual preferred stock, Series H, without par value per share, with a liquidation preference of $100,000 per share (equivalent to $1,000 per depositary share), in a public offering. The aggregate proceeds, net of underwriting discounts, commissions and other issuance costs, were approximately $500 million, and were used to fund a portion of our acquisition of Charles River Development on October 1, 2018. Dividends on the Series H Preferred stock are paid semi-annually and commenced on December 15, 2018, with the first dividend paid on a pro-rata basis. 

The following table summarizes selected terms of each of the series of the preferred stock issued and outstanding as of December 31, 2018:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

    (1) On the redemption date, or any dividend declaration date thereafter, the preferred stock and corresponding depositary shares may be redeemed by us, in whole or in part, at the liquidation price per share and liquidation price per depositary share plus any declared and unpaid dividends, without accumulation of any undeclared dividends.

(2) The preferred stock and corresponding depositary shares may be redeemed at our option in whole, but not in part, prior to the redemption date upon the occurrence of a regulatory capital treatment event, as defined in the certificate of designation, at a redemption price equal to the liquidation price per share and liquidation price per depositary share plus any declared and unpaid dividends, without accumulation of any undeclared dividends.

The following table presents the dividends declared for each of the series of preferred stock issued and outstanding for the periods indicated:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

In January 2019, we declared dividends on our Series C, D, E, F and G preferred stock of approximately $1,313, $1,475, $1,500, $2,625 and $1,338, respectively, per share, or approximately $0.33, $0.37, $0.38, $26.25 and $0.33, respectively, per depositary share. These dividends total approximately $6 million, $11 million, $11 million, $20 million and $7 million on our Series C, D, E, F and G preferred stock, respectively, which will be paid in March 2019. 

 State Street Corporation | 113
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION

AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Common Stock

In July 2018, we completed a public offering of approximately 13.24 million shares of our common stock. The offering price was $86.93 per share and net proceeds totaled approximately $1.15 billion, and were used to fund a portion of our acquisition of Charles River Development on October 1, 2018.

In June 2017, our Board approved a common stock purchase program authorizing the purchase of up to $1.4 billion of our common stock through June 30, 2018 (the 2017 Program). In June 2018, the Federal Reserve issued a conditional non-objection to our capital plan submitted as part of the 2018 CCAR submission; and in connection with such capital plan our Board approved a common stock purchase program authorizing the purchase of up to $1.2 billion of our common stock through June 30, 2019 (the 2018 Program). In connection with our acquisition of Charles River Development, we did not repurchase any common stock during either the second quarter of 2018 under the 2017 Program or the third and fourth quarters of 2018 under the 2018 Program. We have resumed our common stock purchase program in the first quarter of 2019 and may repurchase up to $600 million through June 30, 2019 under the 2018 Program. 

 The table below presents the activity under our common stock purchase program during the period indicated:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) During the year ended December 31, 2018, there were no shares repurchased under the 2018 Program. 

The table below presents the dividends declared on common stock for the periods indicated:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Federal and state banking regulations place certain restrictions on dividends paid by subsidiary banks to the parent holding company. In addition, banking regulators have the authority to prohibit bank holding companies from paying dividends. For information concerning limitations on dividends from our subsidiary banks, refer to "Related Stockholder Matters" included under Item 5, Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities, and to Note 15 to the consolidated financial statements in this Form 10-K. Our common stock and preferred stock dividends, including the declaration, timing and amount thereof, are subject to consideration and approval by the Board at the relevant times.

Stock purchases may be made using various types of mechanisms, including open market purchases, accelerated share repurchases or transactions off market and may be made under Rule 10b5-1 trading programs. The timing of stock purchases, types of transactions and number of shares purchased will depend on several factors, including, market conditions and our capital positions, financial performance and investment opportunities. The common stock purchase program does not have specific price targets and may be suspended at any time.

OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS

On behalf of clients enrolled in our securities lending program, we lend securities to banks, broker/dealers and other institutions. In most circumstances, we indemnify our clients for the fair market value of those securities against a failure of the borrower to return such securities. Though these transactions are collateralized, the substantial volume of these activities necessitates detailed credit-based underwriting and monitoring processes. The aggregate amount of indemnified securities on loan totaled $342.34 billion as of December 31, 2018, compared to $381.82 billion as of December 31, 2017. We require the borrower to provide collateral in an amount in excess of 100% of the fair market value of the securities borrowed. We hold the collateral received in connection with these securities lending services as agent, and the collateral is not recorded in our consolidated statement of condition. We revalue the securities on loan and the collateral daily to determine if additional collateral is necessary or if excess collateral is required to be returned to the borrower. We held, as agent, cash and securities totaling $357.89 billion and $400.83 billion as collateral for indemnified securities on loan as of December 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively. 

The cash collateral held by us as agent is invested on behalf of our clients. In certain cases, the cash collateral is invested in third-party repurchase agreements, for which we indemnify the client against 

 State Street Corporation | 114
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION

AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

loss of the principal invested. We require the counterparty to the indemnified repurchase agreement to provide collateral in an amount in excess of 100% of the amount of the repurchase agreement. In our role as agent, the indemnified repurchase agreements and the related collateral held by us are not recorded in our consolidated statement of condition. Of the collateral of $357.89 billion and $400.83 billion, referenced above, $42.61 billion and $61.27 billion was invested in indemnified repurchase agreements as of December 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively. We or our agents held $45.06 billion and $65.27 billion as collateral for indemnified investments in repurchase agreements as of December 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively. 

Additional information about our securities finance activities and other off-balance sheet arrangements is provided in Notes 10, 12 and 14 to the consolidated financial statements in this Form 10-K.

SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES

Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in conformity with U.S. GAAP, and we apply accounting policies that affect the determination of amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements. Additional information on our significant accounting policies, including references to applicable footnotes, is provided in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements in this Form 10-K. 

Certain of our accounting policies, by their nature, require management to make judgments, involving significant estimates and assumptions, about the effects of matters that are inherently uncertain. These estimates and assumptions are based on information available as of the date of the consolidated financial statements, and changes in this information over time could materially affect the amounts of assets, liabilities, equity, revenue and expenses reported in subsequent consolidated financial statements. 

Based on the sensitivity of reported financial statement amounts to the underlying estimates and assumptions, the more significant accounting policies applied by us have been identified by management as those associated with recurring fair value measurements, impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets, and contingencies. These accounting policies require the most subjective or complex judgments, and underlying estimates and assumptions could be most subject to revision as new information becomes available. An understanding of the judgments, estimates and assumptions underlying these accounting policies is essential in order to understand our reported consolidated results of operations and financial condition. 

The following is a discussion of the above-mentioned significant accounting estimates. 

Management has discussed these significant accounting estimates with the E&A Committee of the Board. 

Fair Value Measurements 

We carry certain of our financial assets and liabilities at fair value in our consolidated financial statements on a recurring basis, including trading account assets and liabilities, AFS debt securities, certain equity securities and various types of derivative financial instruments. 

Changes in the fair value of these financial assets and liabilities are recorded either as components of our consolidated statement of income or as components of other comprehensive income within shareholders' equity in our consolidated statement of condition. In addition to those financial assets and liabilities that we carry at fair value in our consolidated financial statements on a recurring basis, we estimate the fair values of other financial assets and liabilities that we carry at amortized cost in our consolidated statement of condition, and we disclose these fair value estimates in the notes to our consolidated financial statements. We estimate the fair values of these financial assets and liabilities using the definition of fair value described below. Additional information with respect to the assets and liabilities carried by us at fair value on a recurring basis is provided in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements in this Form 10-K. 

U.S. GAAP defines fair value as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in the principal or most advantageous market for an asset or liability in an orderly transaction between market participants on the measurement date. When we measure fair value for our financial assets and liabilities, we consider the principal or the most advantageous market in which we would transact; we also consider assumptions that market participants would use when pricing the asset or liability. When possible, we look to active and observable markets to measure the fair value of identical, or similar, financial assets and liabilities. When identical financial assets and liabilities are not traded in active markets, we look to market-observable data for similar assets and liabilities. In some instances, certain assets and liabilities are not actively traded in observable markets; as a result, we use alternate valuation techniques to measure their fair value. 

We categorize the financial assets and liabilities that we carry at fair value in our consolidated statement of condition on a recurring basis based on U.S. GAAP's prescribed three-level valuation hierarchy. The hierarchy gives the highest priority to quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities (level 1) and the lowest priority to valuation methods using significant unobservable inputs (level 3). 

 State Street Corporation | 115
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION

AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

With respect to derivative instruments, we evaluated the fair value impact of the credit risk of our counterparties. We considered such factors as the market-based probability of default by our counterparties, and our current and expected potential future net exposures by remaining maturities, in determining the appropriate measurements of fair value. 

Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets 

Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair value of the net tangible and other intangible assets acquired at the acquisition date. Other intangible assets represent purchased long-lived intangible assets, primarily client relationships, core deposit intangible assets and technology that can be distinguished from goodwill because of contractual rights or because the asset can be exchanged on its own or in combination with a related contract, asset or liability. Other intangible assets are initially measured at their acquisition date fair value, the determination of which requires management judgment. Goodwill is not amortized, while other intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful lives.

Management reviews goodwill for impairment annually or more frequently if circumstances arise or events occur that indicate an impairment of the carrying amount may exist. We begin our review by first assessing qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. Events that may indicate impairment include: significant or adverse changes in the business, economic or political climate; an adverse action or assessment by a regulator; unanticipated competition; and a more-likely-than-not expectation that we will sell or otherwise dispose of a business to which the goodwill or other intangible assets relate. If we conclude from the qualitative assessment of goodwill impairment that it is more likely than not that a reporting unit’s fair value is greater than its carrying amount, quantitative tests are not required. However, if we determine it is more likely than not that a reporting unit’s fair value is less than its carrying amount, then we complete a quantitative assessment to determine if there is goodwill impairment. 

During 2018, we assessed goodwill for impairment using a qualitative assessment. Based on our evaluation of the qualitative factors noted above, we determined that it was more likely than not that the fair value of each of the reporting units exceeded its respective carrying amount.

Other intangible assets are supported by the future cash flows that are directly associated with and expected to arise as a direct result of the use of the intangible asset, less any costs associated with the intangible asset’s eventual disposition. We evaluate other intangible assets for impairment at the lowest level 

for which there are identifiable cash flows that are largely independent of the cash flows from other groups of assets using the following process. First, we routinely assess whether impairment indicators are present. When impairment indicators are identified as being present, we compare the estimated future net undiscounted cash flows of the intangible asset with its carrying value. If the future net undiscounted cash flows are greater than the carrying value, then there is no impairment, but if the intangible asset's net undiscounted cash flows are less than its carrying value, we are required to calculate impairment. An impairment is recognized by writing the intangible asset down to its fair value. We evaluate intangible assets for indicators of impairment on a quarterly basis. There were no impairments taken on other intangible assets in 2018.

Additional information about goodwill and other intangible assets, including information by line of business, is provided in Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements in this Form 10-K. 

Contingencies

Information on significant estimates and judgments related with establishing litigation reserves is discussed in Note 13 of the consolidated financial statements in this Form 10-K.

RECENT ACCOUNTING DEVELOPMENTS

Information with respect to recent accounting developments is provided in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements in this Form 10-K. 

 State Street Corporation | 116

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK