PART I

Item 1. Business.

GENERAL HISTORY AND NARRATIVE DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS

Tiffany & Co. (the "Registrant") is a holding company that operates through Tiffany and Company ("Tiffany") and the Registrant's other subsidiary companies (collectively, the "Company"). Charles Lewis Tiffany founded Tiffany's business in 1837. He incorporated Tiffany in New York in 1868. The Registrant acquired Tiffany in 1984 and completed the initial public offering of the Registrant's Common Stock in 1987. The Registrant, through its subsidiaries, sells jewelry and other items that it manufactures or has made by others to its specifications.

All references to years relate to fiscal years that end on January 31 of the following calendar year.

MAINTENANCE OF THE TIFFANY & CO. BRAND

The TIFFANY & CO. brand (the "Brand") is the single most important asset of Tiffany and, indirectly, of the Company. The strength of the Brand goes beyond trademark rights (see "TRADEMARKS" below) and is derived from consumer perceptions of the Brand. Management monitors the strength of the Brand through focus groups and survey research.

Management believes that consumers associate the Brand with high-quality gemstone jewelry, particularly diamond jewelry; sophisticated style and romance; excellent customer service; an elegant store and online environment; upscale store locations; "classic" product positioning; and distinctive and high-quality packaging materials (most significantly, the TIFFANY & CO. blue box). Tiffany's business plan includes expenses to maintain the strength of the Brand, such as the following:

•Maintaining its position within the high-end of the jewelry market requires Tiffany to invest significantly in diamond and gemstone inventory, which carries a lower overall gross margin; it also causes some consumers to view Tiffany as beyond their price range;

•To provide excellent service, stores must be well staffed with knowledgeable professionals;

•Elegant stores in the best "high street" and luxury mall locations are more expensive and difficult to secure and maintain, but reinforce the Brand's luxury connotations through association with other luxury brands;

•While the "classic" positioning of much of Tiffany's product line supports the Brand and requires sufficient display space in its stores, management's strategic priorities also include the accelerated introduction of new design collections primarily in jewelry, but also in non-jewelry products, which could result in a necessary reallocation of product display space;

•Tiffany's packaging supports consumer expectations with respect to the Brand but is expensive; and

•A significant amount of marketing across print, digital and social media, as well as public relations events are required to both reinforce the Brand's association with luxury, sophistication, style and romance, as well as to market specific products.

All of the foregoing require that management make tradeoffs between business initiatives that might generate incremental sales and earnings and Brand maintenance objectives. This is a dynamic process. To the extent that management deems that product, marketing or distribution initiatives will unduly and negatively affect the strength of the Brand, such initiatives have been and will be curtailed or modified appropriately. At the same time, Brand maintenance suppositions are regularly questioned by management to determine if any tradeoff between sales and earnings is truly worth the positive effect on the Brand. At times, management has determined, and may in the future determine, that the strength of the Brand warranted, or that it will permit, more aggressive and profitable product, marketing or distribution initiatives.

REPORTABLE SEGMENTS

The Company has four reportable segments: (i) Americas, (ii) Asia-Pacific, (iii) Japan and (iv) Europe. All non-reportable segments are included within Other. The Company transacts business within certain of its segments through the following channels: (i) retail, (ii) Internet, (iii) catalog, (iv) business-to-business (products drawn from 

TIFFANY & CO.

K-4
the retail product line and items specially developed for the business market) and (v) wholesale distribution (merchandise sold to independent distributors for resale). The Company's segment information for the fiscal years ended January 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017 is reported in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data - Note O. Segment Information."

Americas

Sales in the Americas represented 44% of worldwide net sales in 2018, while sales in the United States ("U.S.") represented more than 90% of net sales in the Americas. Sales are transacted through the following channels: retail (in the U.S., Canada and Latin America), Internet and catalog (in the U.S. and Canada), business-to-business (in the U.S.) and wholesale distribution (in Latin America and the Caribbean).

Retail sales in the Americas are transacted in 124 Company-operated TIFFANY & CO. stores in (number of stores at January 31, 2019 included in parentheses): the U.S. (93), Canada (13), Mexico (11), Brazil (6) and Chile (1). Included within these totals are 12 Company-operated stores located within various department stores in Canada and Mexico. Included in the U.S. retail stores is the New York Flagship store, which represented less than 10% of worldwide net sales in 2018.

Asia-Pacific

Sales in Asia-Pacific represented 28% of worldwide net sales in 2018, while sales in Greater China represented approximately 60% of net sales in Asia-Pacific. Sales are transacted through the following channels: retail, Internet (in Australia) and wholesale distribution.

Retail sales in Asia-Pacific are transacted in 90 Company-operated TIFFANY & CO. stores in (number of stores at January 31, 2019 included in parentheses): China (33), Korea (15), Australia (11), Hong Kong (10), Taiwan (7), Singapore (5), Macau (4), Malaysia (2), New Zealand (1) and Thailand (2). Included within these totals are 35 Company-operated stores located within various department stores.

Japan

Sales in Japan represented 15% of worldwide net sales in 2018. Sales are transacted through the following channels: retail, Internet, business-to-business and wholesale distribution.

Retail sales in Japan are transacted in 55 Company-operated TIFFANY & CO. stores. Included within this total are 52 stores located within department stores, generating approximately 75% of net sales in Japan. There are four large department store groups in Japan. The Company operates TIFFANY & CO. stores in locations controlled by these groups as follows (number of locations at January 31, 2019 included in parentheses): Isetan Mitsukoshi Ltd. (16), J. Front Retailing Co., Ltd. (Daimaru and Matsuzakaya department stores) (8), Takashimaya Co., Ltd. (8) and Seven & i Holding Co., Ltd. (Sogo and Seibu department stores) (5). The Company also operates 15 stores in other department stores. 

Europe

Sales in Europe represented 11% of worldwide net sales in 2018, while sales in the United Kingdom ("U.K.") represented approximately 40% of net sales in Europe. Sales are transacted through the following channels: retail, Internet and wholesale distribution.

Retail sales in Europe are transacted in 47 Company-operated TIFFANY & CO. stores in (number of stores at January 31, 2019 included in parentheses): the U.K. (11), Italy (9), Germany (7), France (5), Spain (3), Switzerland (3), the Netherlands (2), Russia (2), Austria (1), Belgium (1), the Czech Republic (1), Denmark (1) and Ireland (1). Included within these totals are 11 Company-operated stores located within various department stores. The Company currently operates e-commerce enabled websites within the following countries: U.K., Austria, Belgium, France, Germany, Ireland, Italy, the Netherlands and Spain.

TIFFANY & CO.

K-5
Other

Other consists of all non-reportable segments, including: (i) retail sales transacted in five Company-operated TIFFANY & CO. stores in the United Arab Emirates ("U.A.E.") and wholesale distribution in the Emerging Markets region; (ii) wholesale sales of diamonds (see "PRODUCT SUPPLY CHAIN – Supply of Diamonds" below); and (iii) licensing agreements.

Licensing Agreements. The Company receives earnings from a licensing agreement with Luxottica Group S.p.A., for the development, production and distribution of TIFFANY & CO. brand eyewear, and from a licensing agreement with Coty Inc., for the development, production and distribution of TIFFANY & CO. brand fragrance products. The earnings received from these licensing agreements represented less than 1% of worldwide net sales in 2018.

Retail Distribution Base

Management regularly evaluates opportunities to optimize its retail store base. This includes evaluating potential markets for new TIFFANY & CO. stores, as well as the renovation, relocation, or closure of existing stores. Considerations include the characteristics of the markets to be served, consumer demand and the proximity of other luxury brands and existing TIFFANY & CO. locations. Management recognizes that over-saturation of any market could diminish the distinctive appeal of the Brand, but believes that there are a number of opportunities remaining in new and existing markets that will meet the requirements for a TIFFANY & CO. location in the future.

The following chart details the number of TIFFANY & CO. retail locations operated by the Company since 2014:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

As part of the Company's long-term objectives, management plans to increase gross retail square footage by a low-single-digit percentage, net through the addition of new stores, relocations, renovations and closings.

E-Commerce, Catalog and Phone Orders

The Company currently operates e-commerce enabled websites in 13 countries, as well as informational websites in several additional countries. To a lesser extent, sales are also generated through catalogs that the Company distributes in certain countries as well as orders placed via telephone in certain markets. Sales transacted on those websites, through catalogs or via telephone accounted for 7% of worldwide net sales in 2018, 2017 and 2016. The Company invests in ongoing website enhancements and is evaluating opportunities to expand its e-commerce sites to additional countries. For example, the Company expects to launch an e-commerce enabled website in China in 2019. Management believes that its websites serve an important marketing role in building brand awareness and attracting customers to the Company's stores. In addition, the Company offers a select assortment of its products through third party websites.

Products

The Company's principal product category is jewelry, which represented 92%, 91% and 92% of worldwide net sales in 2018, 2017 and 2016. The Company offers an extensive selection of TIFFANY & CO. brand jewelry at a wide range of prices. Designs are developed by employees, suppliers, independent designers and independent "named" designers (see "MATERIAL DESIGNER LICENSE" below). 

The Company also sells watches, home and accessories products and fragrances, which represented, in total, 7% of worldwide net sales in 2018, 2017 and 2016. The remainder of worldwide net sales was attributable to wholesale sales of diamonds and earnings from third-party licensing agreements.

TIFFANY & CO.

K-6
Sales by Reportable Segment of TIFFANY & CO. Jewelry by Category

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

a) This category includes jewelry in a wide range of prices within the Company's high jewelry and named jewelry collections such as Tiffany Paper Flowers®, Tiffany Victoria®, Tiffany Soleste®, Tiffany Keys, Tiffany T, Tiffany HardWear and Return to Tiffany®, among others. Jewelry in this category is primarily crafted using precious metals (platinum, gold or sterling silver) and may contain diamonds and/or other gemstones.

b) This category includes engagement rings and wedding bands. Most jewelry in this category contains diamonds and is constructed of platinum and/or gold.

c)This category includes only jewelry that is attributed to one of the Company's "named" designers: Elsa Peretti (see "MATERIAL DESIGNER LICENSE" below), Paloma Picasso and Jean Schlumberger. Jewelry in this category is primarily crafted using precious metals (platinum, gold or sterling silver) and may contain diamonds and/or other gemstones.

ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC AND MEDIA RELATIONS

The Company's strategy is to invest in marketing and public relations programs designed to build awareness of the Brand, its heritage and its products, as well as to enhance the Brand’s relevance and association among consumers with quality and luxury. The Company regularly advertises in newspapers and magazines, as well as through digital and social media. Public and media relations activities are also significant to the Company's business. The Company engages in a program of media activities and marketing events to maintain consumer awareness of the Brand and TIFFANY & CO. products. It also publishes its well-known Blue Book to showcase its high-end jewelry. In 2018, 2017 and 2016, the Company spent $394.1 million, $314.9 million and $299.0 million, representing 8.9%, 7.6% and 7.5% of worldwide net sales in those respective years, on advertising, marketing and public and media relations, which include costs for media, production, catalogs, Internet, visual merchandising (in-store and window displays), marketing events and other related items. 

In addition, management believes that the Brand is enhanced by a program of charitable sponsorships, grants and merchandise donations. The Company also periodically makes donations to The Tiffany & Co. Foundation, a private foundation organized to support 501(c)(3) charitable organizations. The efforts of this Foundation are primarily focused on environmental conservation.

TIFFANY & CO.

K-7
TRADEMARKS

The designations TIFFANY ® and TIFFANY & CO.® are the principal trademarks of Tiffany, and also serve as tradenames. Tiffany has obtained and is the proprietor of trademark registrations for TIFFANY and TIFFANY & CO., as well as the TIFFANY BLUE BOX ®, the TIFFANY BLUE BOX design, TIFFANY BLUE ® and the color Tiffany Blue for a variety of product categories and services in the U.S. and in other countries.

Tiffany maintains a program to protect its trademarks and institutes legal action where necessary to prevent others either from registering or using marks which are considered to create a likelihood of confusion with the Company or its products.

Tiffany has been generally successful in such actions and management considers that the Company's worldwide rights in its principal trademarks, TIFFANY and TIFFANY & CO., are strong. However, use of the designation TIFFANY by third parties on related or unrelated goods or services, frequently transient in nature, may not come to the attention of Tiffany or may not rise to a level of concern warranting legal action.

Tiffany actively pursues those who produce or sell counterfeit TIFFANY & CO. goods through civil action and cooperation with criminal law enforcement agencies. However, counterfeit TIFFANY & CO. goods remain available in many markets because it is not possible or cost-effective to eradicate the problem. The cost of enforcement is expected to continue to rise. In recent years, there has been an increase in the availability of counterfeit goods, predominantly silver jewelry, on the Internet and in various markets by street vendors and small retailers. Tiffany pursues infringers through leads generated internally and through a network of investigators, legal counsel, law enforcement and customs authorities worldwide. The Company responds to such infringing activity by taking various actions, including sending cease and desist letters, cooperating with law enforcement in criminal prosecutions, initiating civil proceedings and participating in joint actions and anti-counterfeiting programs with other like-minded third party rights holders.

Despite the general fame of the TIFFANY and TIFFANY & CO. name and mark for the Company's products and services, Tiffany is not the sole person entitled to use the name TIFFANY in every category of use in every country of the world; for example, in some countries, third parties have registered the name TIFFANY in connection with certain product categories (including, in the U.S., the category of bedding and, in certain foreign countries, the categories of food, cosmetics, clothing, paper goods and tobacco products) under circumstances where Tiffany's rights were not sufficiently clear under local law, and/or where management concluded that Tiffany's foreseeable business interests did not warrant the expense of legal action.

MATERIAL DESIGNER LICENSE

Since 1974, Tiffany has been the sole licensee for the intellectual property rights necessary to make and sell jewelry and other products designed by Elsa Peretti and bearing her trademarks. The designs of Ms. Peretti accounted for 8%, 9% and 9% of the Company's worldwide net sales in 2018, 2017 and 2016. 

Tiffany is party to an Amended and Restated Agreement (the "Peretti Agreement") with Ms. Peretti, which largely reflects the long-standing rights and marketing and royalty obligations of the parties. Pursuant to the Peretti Agreement, Ms. Peretti grants Tiffany an exclusive license, in all of the countries in which Peretti-designed jewelry and products are currently sold, to make, have made, advertise and sell these items. Ms. Peretti continues to retain ownership of the copyrights for her designs and her trademarks and remains entitled to exercise approval and consultation rights with respect to important aspects of the promotion, display, manufacture and merchandising of the products made in accordance with her designs. Under and in accordance with the terms set forth in the Peretti Agreement, Tiffany is required to display the licensed products in stores, to devote a portion of its advertising budget to the promotion of the licensed products, to pay royalties to Ms. Peretti for the licensed products sold, to maintain total on-hand and on-order inventory of non-jewelry licensed products (such as tabletop products) at approximately $8.0 million and to take certain actions to protect Ms. Peretti's intellectual property, including to maintain trademark registrations reasonably necessary to sell the licensed products in the markets in which the licensed products are sold by Tiffany.

The Peretti Agreement has a term that expires in 2032 and is binding upon Ms. Peretti, her heirs, estate, trustees and permitted assignees. During the term of the Peretti Agreement, Ms. Peretti may not sell, lease or otherwise dispose of her copyrights and trademarks unless the acquiring party expressly agrees with Tiffany to be bound by the 

TIFFANY & CO.

K-8
provisions of the Peretti Agreement. The Peretti Agreement is terminable by Ms. Peretti only in the event of a material breach by Tiffany (subject to a cure period) or upon a change of control of Tiffany or the Company. It is terminable by Tiffany only in the event of a material breach by Ms. Peretti or following an attempt by Ms. Peretti to revoke the exclusive license (subject, in each case, to a cure period).

PRODUCT SUPPLY CHAIN

The Company's strategic priorities include maintaining substantial control over its product supply chain through internal jewelry manufacturing and direct diamond sourcing. The Company manufactures jewelry in New York, Rhode Island and Kentucky, polishes and performs certain assembly work on jewelry in the Dominican Republic and crafts silver hollowware in Rhode Island. In total, these internal manufacturing facilities produce approximately 60% of the jewelry sold by the Company. The balance, and almost all non-jewelry items, is purchased from third parties. The Company may increase the percentage of internally-manufactured jewelry in the future, but management does not expect that the Company will ever manufacture all of its needs. Factors considered by management in its decision to use third-party manufacturers include access to or mastery of various product-making skills and technology, support for alternative capacity, product cost and the cost of capital investments. To supply its internal manufacturing facilities, the Company processes, cuts and polishes rough diamonds at its facilities outside the U.S. and sources precious metals, rough diamonds, polished diamonds and other gemstones, as well as certain fabricated components, from third parties.

Supply of Diamonds. The Company regularly purchases parcels of rough diamonds for polishing and further processing. The vast majority of diamonds acquired by the Company originate from Botswana, Canada, Namibia, Russia and South Africa. The Company has diamond processing operations in Belgium, Botswana, Cambodia, Mauritius and Vietnam that prepare and/or cut and polish rough diamonds for its use. The Company conducts operations in Botswana through a subsidiary in which local third parties own minority, non-controlling interests, allowing the Company to access rough diamond allocations reserved for local manufacturers. The Company maintains a relationship and has an arrangement with these local third parties; however, if circumstances warrant, the Company could seek to replace its existing local partners or operate without local partners. 

The Company secures supplies of rough diamonds primarily through arrangements with diamond producers and, to a lesser extent, on the secondary market. Most of this supply comes from arrangements in which the Company accesses rough diamonds that are offered for sale (including as a sightholder), although with no contractual purchase obligation for such rough diamonds. A smaller portion of rough diamond purchases is made through agreements in which the Company is required to purchase a minimum volume of rough diamonds (anticipated to be approximately $60.0 million in 2019). All such supply arrangements are generally at the market price prevailing at the time of purchase.

As a result of the manner in which rough diamonds are typically assorted for sale, it is occasionally necessary for the Company to knowingly purchase, as part of a larger assortment, rough diamonds that do not meet the Company's quality standards or assortment needs. The Company seeks to recover its costs related to these diamonds by selling such diamonds to third parties (generally other diamond polishers), which has the effect of modestly reducing the Company's overall gross margins. Any such sales are included in the Other non-reportable segment.

In recent years, an average of approximately 80% (by volume) of the polished diamonds used in the Company's jewelry that are 0.18 carats and larger and individually registered ("individually registered diamonds") has been produced from rough diamonds that the Company has purchased. The balance of the Company's needs for individually registered diamonds is purchased from polishers or polished-diamond dealers generally through purchase orders for fixed quantities. The Company's relationships with polishers and polished-diamond dealers may be terminated at any time by either party, but such a termination would not discharge either party's obligations under unfulfilled purchase orders accepted prior to the termination. It is the Company's intention to continue to supply the substantial majority of its needs for individually registered diamonds, as well as a majority of its needs for melee diamonds of less than 0.18 carats used in the Company's jewelry, by purchasing rough diamonds.

Conflict Diamonds. Media attention has been drawn to the issue of "conflict" diamonds. This term is used to refer to diamonds extracted from war-torn geographic regions and sold by rebel forces to fund insurrection. Allegations have also been made that trading in such diamonds supports terrorist activities. Management believes that it is not possible in most purchasing scenarios to distinguish diamonds produced in conflict regions from diamonds produced in other regions once they have been polished. Therefore, concerned participants in the diamond trade, including the 

TIFFANY & CO.

K-9
Company and nongovernment organizations, seek to exclude "conflict" diamonds, which represent a small fraction of the world's supply, from legitimate trade through an international system of certification and legislation known as the Kimberley Process Certification Scheme. All rough diamonds the Company buys, crossing an international border, must be accompanied by a Kimberley Process certificate and all trades of rough and polished diamonds must conform to a system of warranties that references the aforesaid scheme. It is not expected that such efforts will substantially affect the supply of diamonds. In addition, concerns over human rights abuses in Zimbabwe, Angola and the Democratic Republic of the Congo underscore that the aforementioned system has not deterred the production of diamonds in state-sanctioned mines under poor working conditions. The Company has informed its vendors that it does not intend to purchase Zimbabwean, Angolan or Congolese-produced diamonds. Accordingly, the Company has implemented the Diamond Source Warranty Protocol, which requires vendors to provide a warranty, and a qualified independent audit certificate, that loose polished diamonds were not obtained from Zimbabwean, Angolan or Congolese mines.

Beginning in 2019, as part of its diamond source initiative, the Company will also require its vendors to affirmatively state the region or country of origin of any polished diamonds sold to the Company that are 0.18 carats and larger and individually registered.

Worldwide Availability and Price of Diamonds. The availability and price of diamonds are dependent on a number of factors, including global consumer demand, the political situation in diamond-producing countries, the opening of new mines, the continuance of the prevailing supply and marketing arrangements for rough diamonds and levels of industry liquidity. In recent years, there has been substantial volatility in the prices of both rough and polished diamonds. Prices for rough diamonds do not necessarily reflect current demand for polished diamonds.

In addition, the supply and prices of rough and polished diamonds in the principal world markets have been and continue to be influenced by the Diamond Trading Company ("DTC"), an affiliate of the De Beers Group. Although the DTC's historical ability to control worldwide production has diminished due to its lower share of worldwide production and changing policies in diamond-producing countries, the DTC continues to supply a meaningful portion of the world market for rough, gem-quality diamonds and continues to impact diamond supply through its marketing and advertising initiatives. A significant portion of the diamonds that the Company purchased in 2018 had their source with the DTC.

Sustained interruption in the supply of diamonds, an overabundance of supply or a substantial change in the marketing arrangements described above could adversely affect the Company and the retail jewelry industry as a whole. Changes in the marketing and advertising spending of the DTC and its direct purchasers could affect consumer demand for diamonds.

The Company purchases conflict-free rough and polished diamonds, in highly graded color and clarity ranges. Management does not foresee a shortage of diamonds in these quality ranges in the short term but believes that, unless new mines are developed, rising demand will eventually create such a shortage and lead to higher prices.

Synthetic and Treated Diamonds. Synthetic diamonds (diamonds manufactured but not naturally occurring) and treated diamonds (naturally occurring diamonds subject to treatment processes, such as irradiation) are produced in growing quantities. Although significant questions remain as to the ability of producers to generate synthetic and/or treated diamonds economically within a full range of sizes and natural diamond colors, and as to consumer acceptance of these diamonds, such diamonds are becoming a larger factor in the market. Should synthetic and/or treated diamonds be offered in significant quantities, the supply of and prices for natural diamonds may be affected. The Company does not produce and does not intend to purchase or sell such diamonds.

Purchases of Precious Metals and Other Polished Gemstones. Precious metals and other polished gemstones used in making jewelry are purchased from a variety of sources for use in the Company's internal manufacturing operations and/or for use by third-party manufacturers contracted to supply Tiffany merchandise. The silver, gold and platinum sourced directly by the Company principally come from two sources: (i) in-ground, large-scale deposits of metals, primarily in the U.S., that meet the Company's standards for responsible mining and (ii) metals from recycled sources. While the Company may supply precious metals to a manufacturer, it cannot determine, in all circumstances, whether the finished goods provided by such manufacturer were actually produced with Company-supplied precious metals.

TIFFANY & CO.

K-10
The Company generally enters into purchase orders for fixed quantities with precious metals and other polished gemstone vendors. Purchases are generally made at prevailing market prices, which have, with respect to precious metals, experienced substantial volatility in recent years. These relationships may be terminated at any time by either party; such termination would not discharge either party's obligations under unfulfilled purchase orders accepted prior to the termination. The Company believes that there are numerous alternative sources for other polished gemstones and precious metals and that the loss of any single supplier would not have a material adverse effect on its operations.

Finished Jewelry. Finished jewelry is purchased from approximately 40 manufacturers. However, the Company does not enter into long-term supply arrangements with its finished goods vendors. The Company does enter into merchandise vendor agreements with nearly all of its finished goods vendors. The merchandise vendor agreements establish non-price terms by which the Company may purchase and by which vendors may sell finished goods to the Company. These terms include payment terms, shipping procedures, product quality requirements, merchandise specifications and vendor social responsibility requirements. The Company generally enters into purchase orders for fixed quantities of merchandise with its vendors. These relationships may be terminated at any time by either party; such termination would not discharge either party's obligations under unfulfilled purchase orders accepted prior to termination. The Company actively seeks alternative sources for its best-selling jewelry items to mitigate any potential disruptions in supply. However, due to the craftsmanship involved in a small number of designs, the Company may have difficulty finding readily available alternative suppliers for those jewelry designs in the short term.

Watches. The Company sells TIFFANY & CO. brand watches, which are designed, produced, marketed and distributed through certain of the Company's subsidiaries. The Company has relationships with approximately 30 component and subassembly vendors to manufacture watches. The terms of the Company's contractual relationships with these vendors are substantially similar to those described under "Finished Jewelry" above. Sales of these TIFFANY & CO. brand watches represented approximately 1% of worldwide net sales in 2018, 2017 and 2016.

COMPETITION

The global jewelry industry is competitively fragmented. The Company encounters significant competition in all product categories. Some competitors specialize in just one area in which the Company is active. Many competitors have established worldwide, national or local reputations for style, quality, expertise and customer service similar to the Company and compete on the basis of that reputation. Certain other jewelers and retailers compete primarily through advertised price promotion. The Company competes on the basis of the Brand's reputation for high-quality products, customer service and distinctive merchandise and does not engage in price promotional advertising.

Competition for engagement jewelry sales is particularly and increasingly intense. The Company's retail prices for diamond jewelry reflect the rarity of the stones it offers and the rigid parameters it exercises with respect to the cut, clarity and other diamond quality factors which increase the beauty of the diamonds, but which also increase the Company's cost. The Company competes in this market by emphasizing quality.

SEASONALITY

As a jeweler and specialty retailer, the Company's business is seasonal in nature, with the fourth quarter typically representing approximately one-third of annual net sales and a higher percentage of annual net earnings. Management expects such seasonality to continue.

EMPLOYEES

As of January 31, 2019, the Company employed an aggregate of approximately 14,200 full-time and part-time persons. Of those employees, approximately 5,900 are employed in the United States.

AVAILABLE INFORMATION

The Company files annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, proxy and information statements and amendments to reports filed or furnished pursuant to Sections 13(a), 14 and 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Copies of these reports and statements may be obtained, free of charge, on the Company's website at https://investor.tiffany.com/financial-information.

TIFFANY & CO.

K-11
Item 1A. Risk Factors.