Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk  

 Foreign Exchange Risk. We are exposed to foreign exchange risk because we have assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses denominated in foreign currencies. These currencies are translated into U.S. dollars at current exchange rates, except for revenues, costs and expenses and net income, which are translated at the average exchange rate for each reporting period. Net exchange gains or losses resulting from the translation of assets and liabilities of our foreign operations, net of tax, are accumulated in a separate section of shareholders’ equity entitled “accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), net.” The amount of other comprehensive (loss) income, net of tax, related to foreign currency translation for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 was:  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Currently, we do not use financial instruments to hedge our exposure to exchange rate changes.  

 The following table presents the carrying value of the net assets of our foreign operations in U.S. dollars at December 31, 2018:  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 We record foreign currency translation adjustments associated with other balance sheet accounts. See “Nonoperating Income (Expense)” under the “Financial Review” Section on pages 24 and 25 of the Annual Report which is incorporated in this document by reference. We maintain several cash accounts denominated in foreign currencies, primarily in US dollars and Euros. As we translate the foreign-denominated cash balances into U.S. dollars, the translated cash balance is adjusted upward or downward depending upon the foreign currency exchange movements. The upward or downward adjustment is recorded as a gain or loss on foreign currency 

 15  

 Table of Contents  

translation in our statements of income. As those cash accounts have increased, the upward or downward adjustments have increased. We recorded a net translation gain of approximately $0.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2018 relating to the translation of foreign denominated balance sheet accounts, most of which were accounts receivable. The balance of the foreign-denominated accounts receivable accounts subject to risk of translation gains or losses at December 31, 2018 was approximately $32.8 million, the majority of which is denominated in U.S. dollars.  

 We provide financing to our international operation in Europe through an intercompany loan that requires the operation to repay the financing in U.S. dollars. The functional currency of each operation is the respective local currency. As we translate the foreign currency denominated financial statements into U.S. dollars, the translated balance of the financing (liability) is adjusted upward or downward to match the U.S. dollar obligation (receivable) on our financial statements. The upward or downward adjustment is recorded as a gain or loss on foreign currency translation in other comprehensive income.   

 The net asset account balance subject to foreign currency exchange rates between the local currencies and the U.S. dollar at December 31, 2018 was $54.2 million.  

 The following table presents the potential effect on income before income taxes of hypothetical shifts in the foreign currency exchange rate between the local currencies and the U.S. dollar of plus or minus 100 basis points, 500 basis points and 1,000 basis points based on the net asset account balance of $54.2 million at December 31, 2018.  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Interest Rate Risk. We are also exposed to interest rate risk associated with the investing of available cash. We invest available cash in conservative short-term instruments and are primarily subject to changes in the short-term interest rates.  

 The following table provides information about our debt obligations that are sensitive to changes in interest rates. The table presents principal cash flows and related weighted average interest rates by expected maturity dates. The information is presented in U.S. dollar equivalents, which is our reporting currency. The debt obligation’s actual cash flows are denominated in U.S. dollars.   

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data