Item 7A.Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk

We are exposed to market risk from changes in certain commodity prices, foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. All of these market risks arise in the normal course of business, as we do not engage in speculative trading activities. In order to manage the risk arising from these exposures, we utilize a variety of commodity, foreign exchange and interest rate forward contracts, options and swaps. A discussion of our accounting policies for derivative instruments and further disclosures are provided in note 15 to the consolidated financial statements.

Commodity Price Risk

We are exposed to changes in the prices of refined fuels, principally jet-A, diesel and unleaded gasoline, as well as changes in the price of natural gas and other alternative fuels. Currently, the fuel surcharges that we apply to our domestic and international package and LTL services are the primary means of reducing the risk of adverse fuel price changes. In order to mitigate the impact of fuel surcharges imposed on us by outside carriers, we regularly adjust the rates we charge for our freight brokerage, inter-modal and truckload services. The majority of our contracts for fuel purchases utilize index-based pricing formulas plus or minus a fixed locational/supplier differential. While many of the indices are aligned, each index may fluctuate at a different pace, driving variability in the prices paid for fuel. Because of this, our operating results may be affected should the market price of fuel suddenly change by a significant amount or change by amounts that do not result in an adjustment in our fuel surcharges, which can significantly affect our earnings either positively or negatively in the short-term. Additionally, we periodically use a combination of option, forward and futures contracts to provide partial protection from changing fuel and energy prices. As of December 31, 2018 and 2017, however, we had no commodity contracts outstanding.

Foreign Currency Exchange Risk

We have foreign currency risks related to our revenue, operating expenses and financing transactions in currencies other than the local currencies in which we operate. We are exposed to currency risk from the potential changes in functional currency values of our foreign currency-denominated assets, liabilities and cash flows. Our most significant foreign currency exposures relate to the Euro, British Pound Sterling, Canadian Dollar, Chinese Renminbi and Hong Kong Dollar. We use forwards as well as a combination of purchased and written options to hedge forecasted cash flow currency exposures. These derivative instruments generally cover forecasted foreign currency exposures for periods of 12 to 48 months. We also utilize forward contracts to hedge portions of our anticipated cash settlements of intercompany transactions subject to foreign currency remeasurement.

Interest Rate Risk

We have issued debt instruments, including debt associated with capital leases, that accrue expense at fixed and floating rates of interest. We use a combination of interest rate swaps as part of our program to manage the fixed and floating interest rate mix of our total debt portfolio and related overall cost of borrowing. The notional amount, interest payment and maturity dates of the swaps match the terms of the associated debt. We also utilize forward starting swaps and similar instruments to lock in all or a portion of the borrowing cost of anticipated debt issuances. Our floating-rate debt and interest rate swaps subject us to risk resulting from changes in short-term (primarily LIBOR) interest rates.

We also are subject to interest rate risk with respect to our pension and postretirement benefit obligations, as changes in interest rates will effectively increase or decrease our liabilities associated with these benefit plans, which also results in changes to the amount of pension and postretirement benefit expense recognized in future periods.

We have investments in debt securities, as well as cash-equivalent instruments, some of which accrue income at variable rates of interest. Additionally, we hold a portfolio of finance receivables that accrue income at fixed and floating rates of interest.

Sensitivity Analysis

The following analysis provides quantitative information regarding our exposure to foreign currency exchange risk, interest rate risk and equity price risk embedded in our existing financial instruments. We utilize valuation models to evaluate the sensitivity of the fair value of financial instruments with exposure to market risk that assume instantaneous, parallel shifts in exchange rates, interest rate yield curves and commodity and equity prices. For options and instruments with non-linear returns, models appropriate to the instrument are utilized to determine the impact of market shifts.

62

UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

There are certain limitations inherent in the sensitivity analyses presented, primarily due to the assumption that exchange rates change in a parallel fashion and that interest rates change instantaneously. In addition, the analyses are unable to reflect the complex market reactions that normally would arise from the market shifts modeled. While this is our best estimate of the impact of the specified interest rate scenarios, these estimates should not be viewed as forecasts. We adjust the fixed and floating interest rate mix of our interest rate sensitive assets and liabilities in response to changes in market conditions. Additionally, changes in the fair value of foreign currency derivatives and commodity derivatives are offset by changes in the cash flows of the underlying hedged foreign currency and commodity transactions.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) The potential change in fair value from a hypothetical 10% weakening of the U.S. Dollar against local currency exchange rates across all maturities.

(2) The potential change in annual interest expense resulting from a hypothetical 100 basis point increase in short-term interest rates, applied to our variable rate debt and swap instruments (excluding hedges of anticipated debt issuances).

(3) The potential change in interest income resulting from a hypothetical 100 basis point increase in short-term interest rates, applied to our variable rate investment holdings. 

The sensitivity of our pension and postretirement benefit obligations to changes in interest rates is quantified in “Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates”. The sensitivity in the fair value and interest income of our finance receivables due to changes in interest rates was not material as of December 31, 2018 and 2017.

63

Item 8.Financial Statements and Supplementary Data