Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 

Overview 

We operate two reportable segments: a leading lifestyle specialty Retail segment and a Wholesale segment. Our Retail segment consists of our Anthropologie, Bhldn, Free People, Terrain and Urban Outfitters brands and our Food and Beverage division. Our Retail segment consumer products and services are sold directly to our customers through our stores, websites, mobile applications, catalogs, customer contact centers, franchised or third-party operated stores and digital businesses. The Wholesale segment sells through department and specialty stores worldwide, digital businesses and our Retail segment. The Wholesale segment primarily designs, develops and markets young women’s contemporary casual apparel, intimates, FP Movement activewear and shoes under the Free People brand, home goods, including gifts, tabletop and textiles, under the Anthropologie brand and the BDG apparel collection under the Urban Outfitters brand. 

Our fiscal year ends on January 31. All references to our fiscal years refer to the fiscal years ended on January 31 in those years. For example, our fiscal year 2019 ended on January 31, 2019. 

Retail Segment 

Our omni-channel strategy enhances our customers’ brand experience by providing a seamless approach to the customer shopping experience. All available Company-owned shopping channels are fully integrated, including stores, websites, mobile applications, catalogs and customer contact centers. Our investments in areas such as marketing campaigns and technology advancements are designed to generate demand for the omni-channel and not the separate store or digital channels. Store sales are primarily fulfilled from that store’s inventory, but may also be shipped from any of our fulfillment centers or from a different store location if an item is not available at the original store. Digital orders are primarily shipped to our customers through our fulfillment centers, but may also be shipped from any store, or a combination of fulfillment centers and stores depending on the availability of particular items. Digital orders may also be picked up at a store location, and customers may also return certain merchandise purchased through digital channels at store locations. As our customers continue to shop across multiple channels, we have adapted our approach towards meeting this demand. Due to the availability of like product in a variety of shopping channels, we source these products utilizing single SKUs based on the omni-channel demand rather than the demand of the separate channels. These and other technological capabilities allow us to better serve our customers and help us complete sales that otherwise may not have occurred due to out-of-stock positions. We manage and analyze our performance based on a single omni-channel rather than separate channels and believe that the omni-channel results present the most meaningful and appropriate measure of our performance. 

Our comparable Retail segment net sales data is equal to the sum of our comparable store and comparable digital channel net sales. A store is considered to be comparable if it has been open at least 12 full months, unless it was materially expanded or remodeled within that year or was not otherwise operating at its full capacity within that year. A digital channel is considered to be comparable if it has been operational for at least 12 full months. Sales from stores and digital channels that do not fall within the definition of comparable store or channel are considered to be non-comparable. Franchise net sales and the effects of foreign currency translation are also considered non-comparable. 

We monitor customer traffic, average unit selling price, transactions and average units per transaction at our stores, and we monitor customer sessions, average order value, conversion rates and average units per transaction on our websites and mobile applications. We believe that changes in any of these metrics may be caused by a response to our brands’ fashion offerings, our marketing and digital marketing campaigns, circulation of our catalogs and an overall growth in brand recognition. 

Urban Outfitters targets young adults aged 18 to 28 through a unique merchandise mix, compelling store environment, websites and mobile applications and a product offering that includes women’s and men’s fashion apparel, activewear, intimates, footwear, accessories, home goods, electronics and beauty. A large portion of our merchandise is exclusive to Urban Outfitters, consisting of an assortment of product designed internally and designed in collaboration with third-party brands. Urban Outfitters stores are in street locations in large metropolitan areas, select university communities, specialty centers and enclosed malls that accommodate our customers’ propensity not only to shop, but also to congregate with their peers. Urban Outfitters operates websites and mobile applications in North America and Europe that capture the spirit of the brand by offering a similar yet broader selection of merchandise as found in its stores, sells merchandise through franchisee-owned stores in Israel, and partners with a third-party digital marketplace to offer a limited selection of merchandise, which is available in Asia. Urban Outfitters’ North American and European Retail segment net sales accounted for approximately 30.5% and 8.2% of consolidated net sales, respectively, for fiscal 2019, compared to 30.8% and 7.9%, respectively, for fiscal 2018. 

The Anthropologie Group consists of the Anthropologie, Bhldn and Terrain brands. Merchandise at the Anthropologie brand is tailored to sophisticated and contemporary women aged 28 to 45. Product assortment includes women’s casual apparel, accessories, intimates, shoes, home furnishings, a diverse array of gifts and decorative items and beauty and wellness. The Bhldn brand emphasizes every element that contributes to a wedding. The Bhldn brand offers a curated collection of heirloom quality wedding gowns, bridesmaid frocks, party dresses, assorted jewelry, headpieces, footwear, lingerie and decorations. The Terrain brand is designed to appeal to women and men interested in a creative and sophisticated outdoor living and gardening experience. In addition to individual brand stores, we operate expanded format stores that include multiple Anthropologie Group brands, allowing us to present an expanded assortment of  

18 

products in certain categories. Merchandise includes lifestyle home, garden and outdoor living products, antiques, live plants, flowers, wellness products and accessories. Anthropologie Group stores are located in specialty centers, upscale street locations and enclosed malls. The Anthropologie Group operates websites and mobile applications in North America and Europe that capture the spirit of its brands by offering a similar yet broader selection of merchandise as found in its stores, offers catalogs in North America and Europe that market select merchandise, most of which is also available in Anthropologie brand stores, and partners with a third-party digital marketplace to offer a limited selection of merchandise, which is available in Asia. The Anthropologie Group’s North American and European Retail segment net sales accounted for approximately 38.6% and 1.7% of consolidated net sales, respectively, for fiscal 2019, compared to 39.1% and 1.6%, respectively, for fiscal 2018. 

Free People focuses its product offering on private label merchandise targeted to young contemporary women aged 25 to 30 and provides a unique merchandise mix of casual women’s apparel, intimates, FP Movement activewear, shoes, accessories, home products, gifts and beauty and wellness. Free People stores are located in enclosed malls, upscale street locations and specialty centers. Free People operates websites and mobile applications in North America, Europe and Asia that capture the spirit of the brand by offering a similar yet broader selection of merchandise as found in its stores, as well as substantially all of the Free People wholesale offerings. Free People also offers a catalog that markets select merchandise, most of which is also available in our Free People stores, and partners with third-party digital marketplaces to offer a limited selection of merchandise, which is available in Asia. Free People’s North American Retail segment net sales accounted for approximately 11.6% of consolidated net sales for fiscal 2019, compared to approximately 11.3% for fiscal 2018. Free People opened its first European retail stores in fiscal 2019. European Retail segment net sales accounted for less than 1.0% of consolidated net sales for fiscal 2019. 

The Food and Beverage division focuses on a dining experience that provides excellence in food, beverage and service. Three new restaurants were opened in fiscal 2019. The Food and Beverage division net sales accounted for less than 1.0% of consolidated net sales for fiscal 2019 and fiscal 2018. 

Net sales from the Retail segment accounted for approximately 91.2%, 91.3% and 91.9% of total consolidated net sales for fiscal 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively. 

Store data for fiscal 2019 was as follows: 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

(1)  

Franchisee-owned stores are located in Israel. 

We plan to open approximately 24 new Company-owned stores during fiscal 2020, including nine Urban Outfitters stores, three Anthropologie Group stores, ten Free People stores and two Food and Beverage restaurants. We plan to close approximately 13 Company-owned stores during fiscal 2020, including three Urban Outfitters stores, seven Anthropologie Group stores and three Free People stores, all due to lease expirations. We plan to open four Franchisee-owned stores during fiscal 2020, including two Urban Outfitters stores, one Anthropologie store and one Free People store. Within the United States and Canada, we are at or close to our desired maximum store count for the Urban Outfitters, Anthropologie and Free People brands. We plan for future store growth for all  

19 

three brands to come from expansion internationally, which may include opening stores in new and existing markets or entering into additional franchise or joint venture agreements. We plan for future digital channel growth to come from expansion domestically and internationally, including enhancing our presence in third-party digital marketplaces, such as Tmall in China and through our franchise partners. The Company is currently party to a franchise agreement for franchise locations in Israel and in fiscal 2019 signed a second franchise agreement to open stores in other Middle Eastern countries in fiscal 2020. 

Wholesale Segment 

Our Wholesale segment consists of the Free People, Anthropologie and Urban Outfitters brands that sell through approximately 2,200 department and specialty stores worldwide, third-party digital businesses and our Retail segment. The Wholesale segment primarily designs, develops and markets young women’s contemporary casual apparel, intimates, FP Movement activewear and shoes under the Free People brand, home goods, including gifts, tabletop and textiles, under the Anthropologie brand and the BDG apparel collection under the Urban Outfitters brand. The Anthropologie wholesale division was established in fiscal 2018 and the Urban Outfitters wholesale division was established in fiscal 2019. Our Wholesale segment net sales accounted for approximately 8.8% of consolidated net sales for fiscal 2019, compared to 8.7% for fiscal 2018. 

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates 

Our Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States. These generally accepted accounting principles require management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, net sales and expenses during the reporting period. 

Our senior management has reviewed the critical accounting policies and estimates with the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors. Our significant accounting policies are described in Note 2, “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies,” in the Notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We believe that the following discussion addresses our critical accounting policies, which are those that are most important to the portrayal of our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and require management’s most difficult, subjective and complex judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain. If actual results were to differ significantly from estimates made, the reported results could be materially affected. We are not currently aware of any reasonably likely events or circumstances that would cause our actual results to be materially different from our estimates. 

Revenue Recognition 

Merchandise: Merchandise is sold through retail stores, catalogs and the digital sales channel, as well as to wholesale customers and franchise partners. Revenue is recognized when control of the promised goods is transferred to the customer. We have elected to treat shipping and handling as fulfillment activities and not a separate performance obligation. Accordingly, we will recognize revenue for our single performance obligation at the point of sale or at the time of shipment, which is when transfer of control to the customer occurs. Revenue does not include taxes assessed by governmental authorities, including value-added and other sales-related taxes, that are imposed on and concurrent with revenue-producing activities. Revenue is recognized net of estimated customer returns. Retail segment return policies vary by brand, but generally provide for no time limit on returns and the refund to be issued in either the form of original payment or as a gift card. Payment for merchandise is tendered primarily by cash, check, credit card, debit card or gift card. Uncollectible accounts receivable primarily results from unauthorized credit card transactions. We maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts for our Wholesale segment accounts receivable, which we review on a regular basis and believe is sufficient to cover potential credit losses and billing adjustments. Payment terms in our Wholesale segment vary by customer with the most common being a net 30-day policy. 

Food and Beverage: Revenue from restaurant sales and events is recognized upon completion of the service, when we satisfy our single performance obligation. Customer deposits may be received in advance for events, which represents a contract liability until we satisfy our performance obligation. 

Franchise Fees: Revenue from franchise operations primarily relates to merchandise sales to franchisees and royalty fees. Merchandise sales to franchisees are discussed above under Merchandise. Royalty fees are based upon a percentage of franchisee net sales to third party customers and are recognized when such sales occur. 

Gift Cards: We account for a gift card transaction by recording a liability at the time the gift card is issued to the customer in exchange for consideration from the customer. At the time of issuance, we have an open performance obligation for the future delivery of promised goods or services. The liability remains outstanding until the card is redeemed by the customer, at which time we recognize revenue. Over time, a portion of the outstanding gift cards will not be redeemed by the customer which we refer to as “breakage”. Revenue is recognized from breakage over time in proportion to gift card redemptions. Judgment is used in determining the amount of breakage revenue to be recognized and is based on historical gift card redemption patterns. Gift card breakage revenue is included in net sales and is not material. Our gift cards do not expire. 

Customer Loyalty Programs: We maintain a customer loyalty program under our Urban Outfitters brand. Under this program, customers can earn and accumulate points that convert to a reward coupon upon reaching a specified point threshold. Reward coupons  

20 

can be redeemed for merchandise discounts and expire 60 days after issuance. Outstanding reward coupons and points earned through sale activity represent a performance obligation. Revenue is deferred in an amount equal to the standalone selling price, taking into account expected future redemptions, and recognized at the earlier of redemption or expiration. Judgment is used in determining the expected future redemption rates. The redemption and expiration of reward coupons are included in net sales. There are no material accounting policies related to the AnthroPerks customer loyalty program outside of our general revenue recognition practices. 

Sales Return Reserve 

We record a reserve for estimated product returns where the sale has occurred during the period reported, but the return is likely to occur subsequent to the period reported. The reserve for estimated product returns is based on our most recent historical return trends. If the actual return rate is materially different than our estimate, sales returns would be adjusted in the future. Beginning February 1, 2018, with the adoption of the accounting standards update for revenue from contracts with customers, costs of returns are recorded as a current asset rather than net with the sales return reserve liability. As of January 31, 2019 and 2018, reserves for estimated sales returns totaled $52.0 million and $28.9 million, representing 7.7% and 4.4% of total liabilities, respectively. 

Inventory 

We value our inventory, which consists primarily of general consumer merchandise held for sale, at the lower of cost or net realizable value. Cost is determined on the first-in, first-out method and includes the cost of merchandise and import-related costs, including freight, import duties and taxes and agent commissions. A periodic review of inventory is performed in order to determine if inventory is properly stated at the lower of cost or net realizable value. Factors we consider in our review, such as future expected consumer demand and fashion trends, current aging, current and anticipated retail markdowns or wholesale discounts and class or type of inventory, are analyzed to determine estimated net realizable value. Criteria that we consider in our review of aging trends include average selling cycle and seasonality of merchandise, the historical rate at which merchandise has sold below cost during the prior 12 months and the value and nature of merchandise currently held in inventory and priced below original cost. A provision is recorded to reduce the cost of inventory to its estimated net realizable value, if appropriate. Any significant unanticipated changes in the factors noted above could have a significant impact on the value of our inventory and our reported operating results. Our estimates generally have been accurate, and our reserve methods have been applied on a consistent basis. We expect the amount of our provision and related inventory to increase over time as we increase our sales. The majority of inventory at January 31, 2019 and 2018 consisted of finished goods. Raw materials and work-in-process were not material to the overall inventory value. Inventory as of January 31, 2019 and 2018 totaled $370.5 million and $351.4 million, representing 17.1% and 18.0% of total assets, respectively. 

Impairment of Long-lived Assets, Goodwill and Intangible Assets 

We review the carrying values of our long-lived assets annually and periodically whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Events that result in an impairment review include plans to close a retail location, distribution or fulfillment center or a significant decrease in the operating results of a long-lived asset. Our retail locations are reviewed for impairment at the retail location level, which is the lowest level at which individual cash flows can be identified. Newly opened retail locations may take time to generate positive operating and cash flow results. Factors such as store type (e.g., mall versus free-standing), location (e.g., urban area versus college campus or suburb), current marketplace awareness of our brands, local customer demographic data and current fashion trends are all considered in determining the time frame required for a retail location to achieve positive financial results. When events indicate that an asset may be impaired and the estimated undiscounted cash flows are less than the carrying amount of the asset, the impaired asset is adjusted to its estimated fair value and an impairment loss is recorded. Goodwill has been assigned to reporting units for purposes of impairment testing. We evaluate goodwill to determine if the carrying value exceeds the fair value of the reporting unit. In assessing an asset for potential impairment, we make estimates regarding future operating results, cash flows and estimated useful life. We have not made any material changes in the methodology to assess and calculate impairment of long-lived assets in the past three fiscal years. During fiscal 2019, we recorded impairment charges for four retail locations, totaling $3.5 million. During fiscal 2018, we recorded impairment charges for ten retail locations, totaling $11.4 million. During fiscal 2017, we recorded impairment charges for three retail locations, totaling $4.3 million. During our assessment of current and future performance, it was determined that these retail locations would not be able to generate sufficient cash flow over the expected remaining lease term to recover the remaining carrying value of the respective retail location assets. Impairment charges are included in “Cost of sales” in the Consolidated Statements of Income. 

Accounting for Income Taxes 

As part of the process of preparing our Consolidated Financial Statements, we are required to estimate our income taxes in each of the tax jurisdictions in which we operate. This process involves estimating our actual current tax obligations together with assessing temporary differences resulting from differing treatment of certain items for tax and accounting purposes, such as depreciation of property and equipment and valuation of inventories. These temporary differences result in deferred tax assets and liabilities, which are included within our Consolidated Balance Sheets. We then assess the likelihood that our deferred tax assets will be recovered from future taxable income. A valuation allowance is recognized if, based on the weight of available evidence, it is more-likely-than-not that some portion, or all, of the deferred tax asset will not be realized. In making such a determination, we consider all material available positive and negative evidence, including future reversals of existing taxable temporary differences, projected future taxable income,  

21 

tax-planning strategies and results of recent operations. Actual results could differ from this assessment if adequate taxable income is not generated in future periods. Net deferred tax assets as of January 31, 2019 and January 31, 2018 totaled $52.9 million and $46.2 million, respectively, each of which represented 2.4% of total assets. 

To the extent we believe that recovery of a deferred tax asset is at risk, we establish valuation allowances. To the extent we establish valuation allowances or increase the allowances in a period, we record additional income tax expense in the Consolidated Statements of Income. Valuation allowances were $3.9 million as of January 31, 2019 and $9.5 million as of January 31, 2018. Valuation allowances are based on evidence of our ability to generate sufficient taxable income in certain foreign and state jurisdictions. In the future, if enough evidence of our ability to generate sufficient future taxable income in these jurisdictions becomes apparent, we would be required to reduce our valuation allowances, resulting in a reduction in “Income tax expense” in the Consolidated Statements of Income. On a quarterly basis, management evaluates the likelihood that we will realize the deferred tax assets and adjusts the valuation allowances, if appropriate. 

We record uncertain tax positions on the basis of a two-step process whereby (1) we determine whether it is more-likely-than-not that the tax positions will be sustained on the basis of the technical merits of the position and (2) for those tax positions that meet the more-likely-than-not recognition threshold, we recognize the largest amount of tax benefit that is more than 50% likely to be realized upon ultimate settlement with the related tax authority. 

Our tax liability for uncertain tax positions contains uncertainties because we are required to make assumptions and to apply judgment to estimate the exposures associated with our various filing positions. Although we believe that the judgments and estimates discussed herein are reasonable, actual results may differ, and we may be exposed to income tax expenses or benefits that could be material. 

We consider certain earnings of non-U.S. subsidiaries to be indefinitely invested outside the United States on the basis of estimates that future United States cash generation will be sufficient to meet future United States cash needs and our specific plans for reinvestment of those subsidiaries’ earnings. Should we decide to repatriate the foreign earnings, we would need to adjust our income tax provision in the period we determined that the earnings will no longer be indefinitely invested outside the United States. 

The SEC issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 118 (“SAB No. 118”), which allowed registrants to record provisional estimates for the Tax Act during a measurement period not to exceed one year from its enactment date, December 22, 2017. While management has completed its analysis within the applicable measurement period, pursuant to SAB No. 118, we are accounting for the income tax impacts of the provisions of U.S. tax reform based on the interpretation of existing statutory law, including guidance issued by the U.S. Treasury Department and the IRS. During the second half of fiscal 2019, the U.S. Treasury Department and the IRS issued certain proposed regulations addressing new provisions such as Global Intangible Low-Taxed Income, Base Erosion and Anti-abuse Tax, Foreign Tax Credit and the Anti-hybrid Regulations. The Tax Act requires complex computations to be performed that were not previously required by U.S. tax law, significant judgments to be made in interpretation of the provisions of the U.S. Tax Act, significant estimates in calculations, and the preparation and analysis of information not previously relevant or regularly produced. The U.S. Treasury Department, the IRS and other standard-setting bodies will continue to interpret or issue guidance on how provisions of the Tax Act will be applied or otherwise administered. As future guidance is issued, we may make adjustments to amounts that we have previously recorded that may impact our provision for income taxes in the period in which the adjustments are made. 

See Note 9, “Income Taxes,” in the Notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a further description of provisional amounts recorded related to the Tax Act in fiscal 2019 and fiscal 2018. 

Accounting for Contingencies 

From time to time, we are named as a defendant in legal actions arising from our normal business activities. We are required to record a reserve for estimated losses when information available prior to issuance of our financial statements indicates that it is probable that a liability has been incurred at the date of the financial statements and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. Accounting for contingencies arising from contractual disputes or legal proceedings requires management to use its best judgment when estimating an accrual related to such contingencies. As additional information becomes known, our reserves for loss contingencies could fluctuate, thereby creating variability in our results of operations from period to period. Likewise, an actual loss arising from a loss contingency which significantly exceeds our reserve could have a material adverse impact on our operating results for the period in which such actual loss becomes known. We believe that our reserves adequately reflect the anticipated final outcome of any matter currently pending against us and the ultimate settlement of such matters will not materially affect our financial position or results of operations. 

Share-Based Compensation 

Accounting for share-based compensation requires measurement of compensation cost for all share-based awards at fair value on the date of grant and recognition of compensation over the service period. 

We use a Black-Scholes model to determine the fair value of our stock options. This model uses assumptions including the risk-free rate of interest, expected volatility of our stock price and expected life of the awards. A Monte Carlo simulation, which utilizes similar  

22 

assumptions, is used to determine the fair value of performance-based awards. We review our assumptions and the valuations provided by independent third-party valuation advisors in order to determine the fair value of share-based compensation awards at the date of grant. The assumptions used in calculating the fair value of these share-based payment awards represent our best estimates, but these estimates involve inherent uncertainties and the application of judgment. Changes in these assumptions can materially affect the fair value estimate. 

Additionally, we make certain estimates about the number of awards that will become vested under performance-based incentive plans. We record expense for performance-based awards based on our current expectations of the probable number of awards that will ultimately vest. The estimation of awards that will ultimately vest requires judgment, and to the extent actual results or updated estimates differ from our current estimates, such amounts will be recorded as a cumulative adjustment in the period estimates are revised and could be materially different from share-based compensation expense recorded in prior periods. 

Beginning in fiscal 2018, we elected to account for forfeitures as they occur rather than estimate the expected forfeitures. During fiscal 2017, we estimated the expected forfeiture rate and we considered many factors when estimating expected forfeitures, including types of awards and historical experience.  

Results of Operations 

As a Percentage of Net Sales 

The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the percentage of our net sales represented by certain income statement data and the change in certain income statement data from period to period. This table should be read in conjunction with the discussion that follows: 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

(1)  

During fiscal 2018, we recorded an additional $64.7 million in income tax expense related to a one-time charge on foreign earnings and profits and statutory rate changes on deferred taxes in relation to the Tax Act. During fiscal 2019, we recorded an additional $1.2 million in income tax expense to adjust our initial provisional estimates for the Tax Act in our provision for income taxes. 

Fiscal 2019 Compared to Fiscal 2018 

Net sales in fiscal 2019 increased by 9.3% to $4.0 billion, from $3.6 billion in fiscal 2018. The $334.6 million increase was attributable to a $304.5 million, or 9.2%, increase in Retail segment net sales and a $30.1 million, or 9.5%, increase in Wholesale segment net sales. Retail segment net sales for fiscal 2019 accounted for 91.2% of total net sales compared to 91.3% of total net sales during fiscal 2018. 

The growth in our Retail segment net sales during fiscal 2019 was due to an increase of $256.1 million, or 8.2%, in Retail segment comparable net sales, which includes our digital channel, and an increase of $48.4 million in non-comparable net sales, including new store and franchise net sales. Retail segment comparable net sales increased 11.4% at Free People, 8.0% at Urban Outfitters and 7.5% at the Anthropologie Group. The increase in Retail segment comparable net sales was driven by continued growth in the digital channel and positive comparable store net sales. The digital channel net sales increase was driven by increases in average order value, sessions and conversion rate, while units per transaction was flat. Positive comparable store net sales resulted from an increase in average unit selling price, partially offset by decreases in transactions, units per transaction and store traffic. The increase in net sales attributable to non-comparable sales was primarily due to the net impact of opening 36 new stores and restaurants and closing 22 stores and restaurants since the prior comparable period. 

23 

The increase in Wholesale segment net sales during fiscal 2019, as compared to fiscal 2018, was due to an increase of 6.8% for the Free People brand, primarily resulting from an increase in domestic sales to department stores, specialty stores and digital businesses due to growth in several categories, including women’s apparel, intimates and FP Movement activewear. The segment increase was also due to the launch of the Anthropologie home goods wholesale business in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 and the launch of the Urban Outfitters BDG apparel collection wholesale business in fiscal 2019. 

Gross profit percentage in fiscal 2019 increased to 34.1% of net sales, from 32.5% of net sales in fiscal 2018. Gross profit increased to $1.35 billion in fiscal 2019 compared to $1.18 billion in fiscal 2018. The increase in gross profit percentage was primarily driven by lower markdowns at all three brands, leverage in store occupancy cost due to increases in Retail segment comparable net sales and a lower level of impairment costs. 

Total inventory at January 31, 2019 increased by $19.1 million, or 5.4%, to $370.5 million from $351.4 million at January 31, 2018. Comparable Retail segment inventory increased 2.7% at cost. 

Selling, general and administrative expenses increased by $49.8 million, or 5.4%, to $965.4 million, in fiscal 2019, from $915.6 million in fiscal 2018. Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of net sales decreased in fiscal 2019 to 24.4% of net sales, compared to 25.3% of net sales for fiscal 2018. The dollar growth in selling, general and administrative expenses was primarily due to increased direct selling and marketing expenses to support and drive the increase in Retail segment net sales and higher bonus and share-based compensation expense. The leverage for the year ended January 31, 2019 was primarily driven by the net sales growth and further benefited from continued savings associated with the fiscal 2018 store reorganization project and the nonrecurring store reorganization expenses incurred in fiscal 2018. 

Income from operations increased to 9.7% of net sales, or $381.3 million, for fiscal 2019 compared to 7.2%, or $259.9 million, for fiscal 2018. 

Our effective tax rate for fiscal 2019 was 22.7% of income before income taxes compared to 58.6% of income before income taxes in fiscal 2018. The decrease in the effective tax rate was primarily due to a one-time expense related to the Tax Act in fiscal 2018 of $64.7 million, which was nonrecurring, and the decrease in federal corporate income tax rate enacted as part of the Tax Act. See Note 9, “Income Taxes,” in the Notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, for a reconciliation of the statutory U.S. federal income tax rate to our effective tax rate. 

Fiscal 2018 Compared to Fiscal 2017 

Net sales in fiscal 2018 increased by 2.0% to $3.6 billion, from $3.5 billion in fiscal 2017. The $70.2 million increase was attributable to a $42.8 million, or 1.3%, increase in Retail segment net sales and a $27.4 million, or 9.5%, increase in Wholesale segment net sales. Retail segment net sales for fiscal 2018 accounted for 91.3% of total net sales compared to 91.9% of total net sales during fiscal 2017. 

The growth in our Retail segment net sales during fiscal 2018 was due to an increase of $43.6 million in non-comparable net sales, including new store net sales, partially offset by a decrease of $0.8 million in Retail segment comparable net sales, which includes our digital channel. Retail segment comparable net sales increased 4.9% at Free People and 0.5% at Anthropologie Group and decreased 1.8% at Urban Outfitters. The decrease in Retail segment comparable net sales was driven by negative comparable store net sales, which were partially offset by continued growth in the digital channel. Negative comparable store net sales resulted from decreased transactions and average unit selling price, while units per transaction remained flat. Store traffic was also flat, with declines in North America offsetting growth in Europe. The digital channel net sales increase was driven by an increase in sessions and conversion rate, which more than offset a decrease in average order value. The increase in net sales attributable to non-comparable sales was primarily the result of operating 31 net new stores and restaurants in fiscal 2018 that were not in operation for the full comparable period of fiscal 2017. 

The increase in Wholesale segment net sales during fiscal 2018, as compared to fiscal 2017, was primarily due to domestic and international growth at department stores, specialty stores and customer websites. Wholesale sales growth was driven by an increase in units sold that was partially offset by a decrease in average unit selling price. 

Gross profit percentage in fiscal 2018 decreased to 32.5% of net sales, from 35.1% of net sales in fiscal 2017. Gross profit decreased to $1.18 billion in fiscal 2018 compared to $1.24 billion in fiscal 2017. The decline in gross profit rate was driven by deleverage in delivery and logistics expenses, lower initial merchandise markups and higher merchandise markdowns. The deleverage in delivery and logistics expenses was primarily due to the increased penetration of the digital channel and increased international and furniture shipments. Lower initial merchandise markups were primarily due to product mix, and higher merchandise markdowns were primarily due to underperforming product at Anthropologie and Urban Outfitters. Total inventory at January 31, 2018 increased by $12.8 million, or 3.8%, to $351.4 million from $338.6 million at January 31, 2017. The increase in inventory related to a 3.2% increase in comparable Retail segment inventory at cost. 

Selling, general and administrative expenses increased by $9.5 million, or 1.1%, to $915.6 million, in fiscal 2018, from $906.1 million in fiscal 2017. Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of net sales decreased in fiscal 2018 to 25.3%  

24 

of net sales, compared to 25.6% of net sales for fiscal 2017. The leverage was primarily due to the net savings associated with our store reorganization project, partially offset by increased investments in digital marketing. The increase in expense was primarily related to increased investments in digital marketing. 

Income from operations decreased to 7.2% of net sales, or $259.9 million, for fiscal 2018 compared to 9.5%, or $338.5 million, for fiscal 2017. 

Our effective tax rate for fiscal 2018 was 58.6% of income before income taxes compared to 35.5% of income before income taxes in fiscal 2017. The increase in the effective tax rate was primarily due to a one-time expense of $64.7 million, which includes tax expense associated with the deemed repatriation transition tax on our unremitted foreign earnings and the revaluation of our net U.S. deferred tax assets as a result of the lower federal rate. See Note 9, “Income Taxes,” in the Notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, for a reconciliation of the statutory U.S. federal income tax rate to our effective tax rate. 

Liquidity and Capital Resources 

Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities were $694.8 million as of January 31, 2019, as compared to $506.0 million as of January 31, 2018 and $403.5 million as of January 31, 2017. During fiscal 2019, we generated $446.6 million in cash from operations, repurchased $121.4 million in common shares under our share repurchase program and invested $114.9 million in property and equipment. Our working capital was $816.1 million at January 31, 2019 compared to $618.5 million at January 31, 2018 and $528.5 million at January 31, 2017. 

During the last three years, we have satisfied our cash requirements primarily through our cash flow from operating activities. In addition to repurchasing our common shares and repaying long-term debt borrowings, our primary uses of cash have been to open new stores, purchase inventory, fund store operations, invest in our omni-channel capabilities, make digital investments and expand our home offices and fulfillment centers. 

Cash Flows from Operating Activities 

Cash provided by operating activities for fiscal 2019 increased by $143.5 million to $446.6 million from $303.1 million in fiscal 2018. Cash provided by operating activities for fiscal 2018 decreased by $112.2 million from $415.3 million in fiscal 2017. For all periods, our major source of cash from operations was merchandise sales and our primary outflow of cash for operations was for the payment of operational costs. The increase in cash flows from operations in fiscal 2019 was primarily due to higher net income. 

Cash Flows from Investing Activities 

Cash used in investing activities during fiscal 2019 increased by $123.1 million to $244.5 million from $121.4 million in fiscal 2018. Cash used in investing activities during fiscal 2018 decreased by $113.2 million from $234.6 million in fiscal 2017. Cash used in investing activities in fiscal 2019 and 2018 primarily related to purchases of marketable securities and property and equipment, partially offset by the sales and maturities of marketable securities. Cash paid for property and equipment for fiscal 2019, 2018 and 2017 was $114.9 million, $83.8 million and $143.7 million, respectively, which was primarily used to expand our store base. 

Cash Flows from Financing Activities 

Cash used in financing activities during fiscal 2019 decreased by $41.2 million to $118.0 million from $159.2 million in fiscal 2018. Cash used in financing activities during fiscal 2018 decreased by $34.5 million from $193.7 million in fiscal 2017. Cash used in financing activities in fiscal 2019 and 2018 primarily related to $121.4 million and $157.0 million, respectively, of repurchases of our common shares under our share repurchase programs. Cash used in financing activities in fiscal 2017 primarily related to $150.0 million in repayments of long-term debt and $45.8 million of repurchases of our common shares under our share repurchase program. 

Credit Facilities 

On June 29, 2018, we entered into an amended and restated credit agreement (the “Amended Credit Agreement”) that amended our asset-based revolving credit facility with certain lenders, including JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as administrative agent, and J.P. Morgan Chase Bank, N.A. and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as joint lead arrangers and co-book managers. 

The Amended Credit Agreement extended the maturity date of the senior secured revolving credit facility to June 2023 (the “Amended Credit Facility”). The Amended Credit Facility provides for loans and letters of credit up to $350.0 million, subject to a borrowing base that is comprised of our eligible accounts receivable and inventory. The Amended Credit Facility includes a swing-line sub-facility, a multicurrency sub-facility and the option to expand the facility by up to $150.0 million. The funds available under the Amended Credit Facility may be used for working capital and other general corporate purposes. 

The Amended Credit Facility provides for interest on borrowings, at our option, at either (i) adjusted LIBOR, CDOR or EURIBOR plus an applicable margin ranging from 1.125% to 1.375%, or (ii) an adjusted ABR plus an applicable margin ranging from 0.125% to 0.375%, each such applicable margin depending on the level of availability under the Amended Credit Facility. Depending on the type of  

25 

borrowing, interest on the Amended Credit Agreement is payable monthly, quarterly or at the end of the interest period. A commitment fee of 0.20% is payable quarterly on the unused portion of the Amended Credit Facility. 

All obligations under the Amended Credit Facility are unconditionally guaranteed by the Company and certain of its U.S. subsidiaries. The obligations under the Amended Credit Facility are secured by a first-priority security interest in inventory, accounts receivable and certain other assets of the Company and certain of its U.S. subsidiaries. The obligations of URBN Canada Retail, Inc. are secured by a first-priority security interest in its inventory, accounts receivable and certain other assets. The Amended Credit Agreement contains customary representations and warranties, negative and affirmative covenants and provisions relating to events of default. 

As of January 31, 2019, we were in compliance with all terms of the Amended Credit Agreement and there were no borrowings under the Amended Credit Facility. Outstanding stand-by letters of credit, which reduce the funds available under the Amended Credit Facility, were $13.2 million at January 31, 2019. 

Additionally, we have borrowing agreements with two separate financial institutions under which we may borrow an aggregate of $130.0 million for the purposes of trade letter of credit issuances. The availability of any future borrowings under the trade letter of credit facilities is subject to acceptance by the respective financial institutions. As of January 31, 2019, we had $70.9 million in outstanding trade letters of credit, and $59.1 million available for future trade letters of credit under these facilities. 

Capital and Operating Expenditures 

During fiscal 2020, we plan to construct and open approximately 24 new Company-owned retail locations, expand or relocate certain existing retail locations, upgrade our systems, improve and expand our digital capabilities, invest in omni-channel marketing, expand our fulfillment capabilities, invest in new products and markets, purchase inventory for our operating segments at levels appropriate to maintain our planned sales growth and repurchase common shares. We believe that our new store openings, merchandise expansion programs, international growth opportunities and our marketing, social media, website and mobile initiatives are significant contributors to our Retail segment sales growth. During fiscal 2020, we plan to continue our investment in these initiatives for all brands. We anticipate our capital expenditures during fiscal 2020 to be approximately $260 million, a portion of which will be to support new and expanded fulfillment and distribution centers. All fiscal 2020 capital expenditures are expected to be financed by cash flow from operating activities. We believe that our new store investments have the potential to generate positive cash flow within a year. We may also enter into one or more acquisitions or transactions related to the expansion of our brand offerings, including additional franchise and joint venture agreements. We believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents, availability under our current credit facilities and future cash flows provided by operations will be sufficient to fund these initiatives. 

Share Repurchases 

See Note 11, “Shareholders’ Equity,” in the Notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for certain financial information regarding the Company’s share repurchases. 

Contractual Obligations 

The following table summarizes our contractual obligations as of January 31, 2019: 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

(1)  

Includes store operating leases, which generally provide for payment of direct operating costs in addition to rent. The obligation amounts shown above only reflect our future minimum lease payments as the direct operating costs fluctuate over the term of the lease. Additionally, there are 35 locations where a percentage of sales are paid, in lieu of a fixed minimum rent, that are not reflected in the above table. Total rent expense related to these 35 locations was approximately $4,198 for fiscal 2019. It is common for the lease agreements for our European locations to allow for the landlord to adjust the minimum rental due to the current market rates multiple times during the lease term. The table above includes our current contractual payments for these locations. Amounts noted above include commitments for 11 executed leases for new and relocated stores and fulfillment centers not opened as of January 31, 2019 as well as one ground lease with Waterloo Devon, LP, a related party. See Note 15, “Related Party Transactions,” in the Notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information regarding this ground lease. 

(2)  

Includes merchandise commitments, which are cancellable with no or limited recourse available to the vendor until the merchandise shipping date, as well as commitments for products and services, including information technology contracts used in the normal course of business. 

26 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

(4)  

Includes construction contracts with contractors that are fully satisfied upon the completion of construction, which is typically within 12 months. Construction contracts less than one year include $46,926 related to the fulfillment center in Indiana, Pennsylvania. 

Commercial Commitments 

The following table summarizes our commercial commitments as of January 31, 2019: 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

(1)  

Consists primarily of outstanding letter of credit commitments in connection with import inventory purchases. 

(2)  

Consists primarily of stand-by letters of credit for customs, construction and insurance. 

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements 

As of and for the three fiscal years ended January 31, 2019, except for operating leases entered into in the normal course of business, we were not party to any material off-balance sheet arrangements that are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on our financial condition, revenues, expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources. 

Other Matters 

Recent Accounting Pronouncements 

See Note 2, “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies —Recent Accounting Pronouncements,” in the Notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a description of recently adopted and issued accounting pronouncements. 

Seasonality and Quarterly Results 

Our business experiences seasonal fluctuations in net sales and net income, with a more significant portion typically realized in the second half of each year predominantly due to the year-end holiday period. Historically, and consistent with the retail industry, the seasonality also impacts our working capital requirements, particularly with regard to inventory. The following tables set forth our net sales, gross profit, net income and net income per common share (basic and diluted) for each quarter during the last two fiscal years and the amount of such net sales and net income, respectively, as a percentage of annual net sales and annual net income. The unaudited financial information has been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States for interim financial information and with the instructions to Form 10-Q and Article 10 of Regulation S-X. In the opinion of management, all adjustments (consisting of normal recurring accruals) considered necessary for a fair presentation have been included. 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

27 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

(1)  

The sum of the quarterly per share amounts may not equal per share amounts reported for year-to-date periods due to changes in the number of weighted-average shares outstanding and the effects of rounding for each period. 

(2)  

Included in gross profit for the quarter ended January 31, 2019 were $3,544 of impairment charges related to four retail locations. 

(3)  

Included in net income for the quarter ended January 31, 2019 were $3,544 of impairment charges related to four retail locations, ($920) of the income tax impact of the impairment charges and an additional $1,197 in income tax expense to adjust the initial provisional estimates for the Tax Act in the provision for income taxes. 

(4)  

Included in gross profit for the quarter ended January 31, 2018 were $11,410 of impairment charges related to ten retail locations. 

(5)  

Included in net income for the quarter ended January 31, 2018 were $11,410 of impairment charges related to ten retail locations, $2,061 loss on disposal of one restaurant, ($4,450) of the income tax impact of impairment charges and loss on disposal and an additional $64,705 in income tax expense related to a one-time charge on foreign earnings and profits and statutory rate changes on deferred taxes in relation to the Tax Act. 

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk