Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 

We are exposed to the following types of market risks—fluctuations in the purchase price of merchandise, as well as other goods and services, the value of foreign currencies in relation to the U.S. dollar and changes in interest rates. Due to our inventory turnover rate and our historical ability to pass through the impact of any generalized changes in our cost of goods to our customers through pricing adjustments, commodity and other product risks are not expected to be material. We purchase the majority of our merchandise in U.S. dollars, including a majority of the goods for our stores located in Canada and a portion of the goods for our stores located in Europe. 

Our exposure to market risk for changes in foreign currencies is due to our financial statements being presented in U.S. dollars and our international subsidiaries transacting in currencies other than U.S. dollars. Fluctuations in exchange rates in effect during or at the end of the reporting period may affect the value of the reported amounts of revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities. As we expand our international operations, the potential impact of currency fluctuations increases. 

Our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates to our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities and the Credit Facility. As of January 31, 2019 and 2018, our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities consisted primarily of cash on hand and in banks, money market accounts, municipal and pre-refunded municipal bonds rated “BBB” or better, corporate bonds rated “BBB” or better, certificates of deposit and mutual funds. Due to the short average maturity and conservative nature of our investment portfolio, we believe a 100 basis point change in interest rates would not have a material effect on the Consolidated Financial Statements. As the interest rates on a material portion of our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities are variable, a change in interest rates earned on the cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities would impact interest income along with cash flows, but would not impact the fair market value of the related underlying instruments. 

We are exposed to market risks relating to changes in interest rates on outstanding borrowings under our Credit Facility because these borrowings bear interest at variable rates. A 100 basis point change in our applicable interest rate would not have a material impact to interest expense for the year ended January 31, 2019. 

Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data