Item 7:  Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  

Business and Financial Overview  

The Company has two operating segments: WatersTM and TATM. Waters products and services primarily consist of high performance liquid chromatography (“HPLC”), ultra performance liquid chromatography (“UPLCTM” and together with HPLC, referred to as “LC”), mass spectrometry (“MS”) and precision chemistry consumable products and related services. TA products and services primarily consist of thermal analysis, rheometry and calorimetry instrument systems and service sales. The Company’s products are used by pharmaceutical, biochemical, industrial, nutritional safety, environmental, academic and governmental customers. These customers use the Company’s products to detect, identify, monitor and measure the chemical, physical and biological composition of materials and to predict the suitability and stability of fine chemicals, pharmaceuticals, water, polymers, metals and viscous liquids in various industrial, consumer goods and healthcare products.  

The Company’s operating results are as follows for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 (dollars in thousands, except per share data):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 **  Percentage not meaningful  

27   

Table of Contents 

The Company’s net sales increased 5% in 2018 as compared to 2017, and 7% in 2017 as compared to 2016. Foreign currency translation increased sales growth by 1% in both 2018 and 2017. Recent acquisitions did not have an impact on sales growth. Unless otherwise noted, sales growth or decline percentages are presented as compared with the same period in the prior year.  

Instrument system sales increased 2% and 6% in 2018 and 2017, respectively. In 2018, the increase in instrument system sales was primarily driven by an increase in demand for LC and TA’s instrument systems. During 2018, the demand for our LC-MS instrument systems was somewhat unfavorably impacted by the timing of new product introductions, as many of the Company’s new products were not launched until the second half of 2018 or early in 2019. In 2017, the demand for instrument system sales was balanced across our LC-MS and TA instrument systems. Recurring revenues (combined sales of precision chemistry consumables and services) increased 8% and 7% in 2018 and 2017, respectively, as a result of a larger installed base of customers and higher billing demand for service sales.  

Geographically, the Company’s sales growth in both 2018 and 2017 was primarily driven by the 7% and 10% sales growth in Asia, respectively, with double-digit sales growth in China for both years. Europe’s sales grew 4% and 10% in 2018 and 2017, respectively, and benefited from the effect of foreign currency translation, which added 3% and 2% to sales growth, respectively. The Company’s 2018 sales were impacted by lower sales growth in India and Europe, resulting from lower customer demand for our instrument systems. Sales in the Americas grew 3% in 2018 and were flat in 2017. The Americas’ sales growth in 2017 was negatively impacted by natural disasters in the U.S., Mexico and Puerto Rico, as well as weaker customer sentiment in the first half of 2017.  

Sales to pharmaceutical customers grew 5% and 7% in 2018 and 2017, respectively. These increases were driven by the increasing need for global access to prescription drugs and the testing of newer and more complex biologic drugs. Combined sales to industrial customers, which include materials characterization, food, environmental and fine chemical markets, grew 2% and 4% in 2018 and 2017, respectively. The growth in both 2018 and 2017 was driven by recent product introductions and rising global regulatory standards in both food and materials markets. Combined sales to governmental and academic customers increased 8% in both 2018 and 2017. Sales to governmental and academic customers are highly dependent on when institutions receive funding to purchase our instrument systems and, as such, sales growth rates can vary significantly from period to period.  

Operating income was $740 million in 2018, an increase of 12% as compared to 2017. This increase was primarily a result of the effect of higher sales volume achieved in 2018, as well as the effect of approximately $33 million of facility closure, litigation and intellectual property payment charges from 2017 that did not recur in 2018.  

Operating income increased 6% in 2017 as compared to 2016. This increase was primarily a result of the effect of higher sales volume achieved in 2017, which was somewhat offset by the impact of $13 million of severance costs primarily associated with the closure of a facility in Germany and costs associated with providing U.S. employees with an early retirement transition incentive; an $11 million litigation settlement provision and related costs and a $5 million charge relating to a milestone payment for the licensing of certain intellectual property relating to mass spectrometry technologies yet to be commercialized. The change in operating income in 2017 as compared with 2016 was also impacted by $4 million of expense in 2017 related to the acceleration of certain stock awards as compared to $7 million of similar expense in 2016.  

The Company’s effective tax rates were 13.0%, 96.8% and 13.1% for 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively. Net income per diluted share was $7.65, $0.25 and $6.41 in 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively. The Company’s effective tax and net income per diluted share were impacted by the following items:  

   •    In December 2018, the Company settled a pension plan obligation by making lump-sum cash payments and purchasing annuity contracts for participants to permanently extinguish the pension plan’s  

28   

Table of Contents 

     obligations. As a result, the Company recorded a $46 million charge, which consisted of a $6 million cash contribution to the plan and a $40 million non-cash charge related to the reversal of unrecognized actuarial losses recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income in the stockholders’ equity. The $46 million pre-tax charge reduced net income per diluted share by $0.39.  

   •    The significant increase in the provision for income taxes for 2017 was a result of the $550 million estimate for the impact of the enactment of the legislation informally referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the “2017 Tax Act”). The 2017 Tax Act changed the U.S. tax system to a territorial system, including broadening measures requiring the taxation of the Company’s historical unremitted foreign earnings through a deemed repatriation. This provision reduced net income per diluted share by $6.82 in 2017, and the Company’s effective tax rate was 11.0% excluding this $550 million provision. As permitted by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 118, the Company completed its analysis and calculation of the 2017 Tax Act federal and state transition tax liability during 2018, which remained significantly unchanged.  

The Company generated $604 million, $698 million and $643 million of net cash flows from operations in 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively. The decrease in operating cash flow in 2018 was primarily a result of $103 million of income tax payments made in the U.S. relating to the Company’s estimated 2017 transition tax liability and 2018 estimated tax payments, a $15 million litigation settlement payment and $11 million of contributions to certain defined benefit pension plans. Over the next four years, the Company is required to make annual U.S. federal tax payments of approximately $38 million to tax authorities in connection with the Company’s estimated transition tax liabilities of $433 million under the 2017 Tax Act. The remaining 60% of the total liability is required to be paid over a three-year period beginning in 2023. The increase in operating cash flow in 2017 was primarily a result of the increase in sales and operating income.  

Cash flows used in investing activities included capital expenditures related to property, plant, equipment and software capitalization of $96 million, $85 million and $95 million in 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively. In February 2018, the Company’s Board of Directors approved expanding its precision chemistry consumable manufacturing operations in the U.S. The Company anticipates spending an estimated $215 million to build and equip this new state-of-the-art manufacturing facility, which will be paid for with existing cash, investments and available debt capacity. The Company has spent $11 million on this facility through the end of 2018.  

During the past three years, the Company has acquired technology to expand its future sales. In July 2018, the Company acquired the sole intellectual property rights to the Desorption Electrospray Ionization (“DESI”) imaging technology for $30 million in cash and a future contractual obligation to pay a minimum royalty of $3 million over the remaining life of the patent. DESI is a mass spectrometry imaging technique that is used to develop medical therapies. During 2018, the Company made $8 million of investments in unaffiliated companies. In 2017, the Company made a $7 million payment for an investment in a developer of analytical system solutions used to make measurements, predict stability and accelerate product discovery in the routine analytic, process monitoring and quality control release processes for life science and biopharmaceutical markets. In addition, the Company made a milestone payment of $5 million in 2017 to acquire and license intellectual property. In September 2016, the Company acquired Rubotherm GmbH for approximately $6 million in cash.  

During 2018, the Company had net proceeds from the maturity of short-term investments of $1.8 billion. Most of these proceeds were repatriated into the U.S. in 2018, and were taxed at lower income tax rates as a result of the 2017 Tax Act, and used to reduce the Company’s debt by $850 million and fund $1,315 million of share repurchases.  

The Company has conducted a post-tax reform evaluation of its capital allocation strategy and the Company is currently planning to use its existing cash, cash equivalents and investments, cash flow from operations and its available debt capacity to repurchase up to $4 billion of the Company’s common stock over the next two years. The Company is currently planning to increase its outstanding debt balances to approximately 2.5 times the  

29   

Table of Contents 

 Company’s net debt-to-earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization ratio to fund a significant portion of these share repurchases.  

In January 2019, the Company’s Board of Directors authorized the Company to repurchase up to $4 billion of its outstanding common stock over a two-year period. This new program replaced the remaining amounts available under the April 2018 authorization of $3 billion. During 2018, 2017 and 2016, the Company repurchased $1,306 million, $323 million and $318 million of the Company’s outstanding common stock, respectively, under authorized share repurchase programs. The Company believes that it has the financial flexibility to fund these share repurchases given current cash and investment levels and debt borrowing capacity, as well as to invest in research, technology and business acquisitions to further grow the Company’s sales and profits.  

During 2018, the Company entered into $300 million of U.S.-to-Euro interest rate cross-currency swap agreements that hedge the Company’s net investment in its Euro denominated net assets. As a result of entering into these agreements, the Company lowered its net interest expense by $3 million during 2018. The Company anticipates that these swap agreements will lower net interest expense by approximately $9 million annually in 2019 and 2020, and less in 2021 as the three year term of the agreements expire.  

In January 2019, the Company made organizational changes to better align our resources with our growth and innovation strategies, resulting in a worldwide workforce reduction, impacting 1% of the Company’s employees. The Company currently estimates that it will incur approximately $15 million of severance and related costs during 2019.  

Results of Operations  

Sales by Geography  

Geographic sales information is presented below for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 (dollars in thousands):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

In 2018, sales in China increased across all product lines and were driven by double-digit increases in sales to pharmaceutical, governmental and academic customers. The effect of foreign currency translation increased sales in Japan by 2% in 2018 and sales growth was also driven by increased sales to pharmaceutical and industrial customers. The sales decline in the rest of Asia in 2018 was a result of lower customer demand in India and weaker sales to environmental customers in the first quarter of 2018. In 2018, sales growth in Europe was driven by TA’s products and services and recurring revenues to pharmaceutical and industrial customers. In  

30   

Table of Contents 

 addition, the effect of foreign currency translation increased sales in Europe by 3% in 2018. Sales growth in the U.S. in 2018 was driven by recurring revenues and TA instruments. Sales in the rest of the Americas had double-digit sales growth for instrument systems and double-digit sales growth for pharmaceutical customers, which was offset by a decline in sales to industrial customers.  

In 2017, the sales growth in Asia was driven by double-digit increases in China’s sales across all product and customer classes. The increase in Asia Other in 2017 was driven by strong sales in India across all product and customer classes. Japan’s sales in 2017 were flat as the effect of foreign currency decreased sales by 3%. Japan’s sales in 2017 were driven by recurring revenue sales to governmental and academic customers. Europe’s sales in 2017 were balanced across all product lines and driven by sales to pharmaceutical, governmental and academic customers. Sales growth in the U.S. in 2017 was driven by TA instrument system sales and recurring revenues. In 2017, sales to the rest of the world were impacted by a decrease in demand from industrial customers resulting from recent natural disasters.  

Net sales by customer class are presented below for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 (dollars in thousands):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

In 2018, sales to pharmaceutical customers were driven by recurring revenues, with double-digit growth in China, Canada and Latin America. Sales growth for the industrial market in 2018 was driven by TA products and services, and mid-single-digit sales growth in Europe, Japan and India. The increase in sales to governmental and academic customers in 2018 was broad-based across all product classes and geographies, with double-digit growth in China, India and Canada.  

In 2017, the growth within our pharmaceutical market was driven by double-digit growth in China, India and Europe. Sales growth to the industrial market in 2017 was highest in China and India, with modest growth in other regions offset by flat sales in the Americas. The increase in sales to governmental and academic customers in 2017 was broad-based across all geographies, with double-digit growth in Europe and the Americas.  

Waters Products and Services Net Sales  

Net sales for Waters products and services are as follows for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 (dollars in thousands):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Precision chemistry consumables sales increased in both 2018 and 2017 on the uptake in columns and application-specific testing kits. Waters service sales in both 2018 and 2017 benefited from increased sales of  

31   

Table of Contents 

 service plans and higher service demand billings to a higher installed base of customers. The increase in Waters instrument system sales (LC and MS technology-based) in 2018 is primarily attributable to sales of LC systems, while sales growth in 2017 was driven by higher sales of LC-MS systems that incorporate the Company’s tandem quadrupole technologies. The effect of foreign currency translation had a minimal impact on Waters sales in both 2018 and 2017.  

In 2018, Waters sales increased 7% in Asia, 4% in Europe and 2% in the Americas. Waters sales increased 15% in China in 2018 and were broad-based across all product classes, with double-digit increases in sales to pharmaceutical, governmental and academic customers. Waters sales in Japan in 2018 increased 5%, with the effect of foreign currency translation increasing sales 2%. Sales in the rest of Asia declined 2% in 2018, primarily due to lower customer demand in India and a negative 2% impact of foreign currency translation. In the Americas, U.S. sales increased 1% in 2018.  

In 2017, Waters sales increased 10% in both Europe and Asia and were flat in the Americas. Waters sales increased 16% in China and were broad-based across all product and customer classes. Waters sales in Japan decreased 1%, primarily due to foreign currency translation, which decreased sales by 3%. Waters sales in the rest of Asia increased 8% and were driven by recurring revenues across all customer classes.  

TA Product and Services Net Sales  

Net sales for TA products and services are as follows for the years ended December 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017 (dollars in thousands):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

TA’s instrument system sales were broad-based across all product classes in 2018, while 2017 instrument system sales grew primarily from the Discovery product line of thermal instrument systems. In addition, TA’s rheology instrument systems saw strong performance across the entire range of products in the portfolio in 2017, driven by the Discovery Hybrid Rheometer and Rubber Rheometer instrument systems. TA service sales increased in both 2018 and 2017 due to sales of service plans and billings to a higher installed base of customers. The effect of foreign currency translation and recent acquisitions had a minimal impact on TA’s sales in both 2018 and 2017.  

In 2018, TA sales increased 9% in the Americas, 8% in Europe and 5% in Asia. TA sales in the U.S. increased 9% in 2018, while sales in the rest of the Americas increased 8%. TA’s sales in Asia were driven by double-digit sales growth in India and 8% sales growth in China, which was offset by declines in Japan.  

In 2017, TA sales increased 14% in Asia, 11% in Europe and 5% in the Americas. TA achieved double-digit sales growth in Asia, with the exception of Japan, where a 5% sales growth included a 2% negative impact of foreign currency translation. TA sales in the U.S. in 2017 increased 8%, while sales in the rest of the Americas declined after strong sales in the prior year.  

Cost of Sales  

The increases in cost of sales for both 2018 and 2017 were consistent with the increase in sales volumes. The effect of foreign currency translation had a minimal impact on cost of sales in both 2018 and 2017.  

Cost of sales is affected by many factors, including, but not limited to, foreign currency translation, product mix, product costs of instrument systems and amortization of software platforms. At current foreign currency exchange rates, the Company expects that the impact of foreign currency translation may decrease sales and gross profit during 2019.  

32   

Table of Contents 

Selling and Administrative Expenses  

Selling and administrative expenses decreased 1% in 2018 and increased 6% in 2017. The decrease in 2018 was primarily due to the impact of $13 million of severance costs incurred in 2017 in connection with the closure of a facility in Germany and an early retirement transition incentive program. The effect of foreign currency translation increased selling and administrative expenses by 3% in 2017 and had a minimal impact in 2018. In addition, selling and administrative expenses in both 2018 and 2017 were impacted by headcount additions and higher merit compensation costs, as well as $1 million and $4 million, respectively, of stock compensation expense related to the modification of certain stock awards upon the retirement of senior executives.  

As a percentage of net sales, selling and administrative expenses were 22.2%, 23.6% and 23.6% for 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively.  

Research and Development Expenses  

Research and development expenses increased 8% and 6% in 2018 and 2017, respectively. Research and development expenses in both 2018 and 2017 were impacted by additional headcount, merit compensation and costs associated with new products and the development of new technology initiatives. In addition, the effect of foreign currency translation reduced research and development expenses by 4% in 2017, primarily due to the weakening of the British pound on the Company’s U.K.-based research and development expenses. Foreign currency translation had a minimal impact on research and development costs in 2018.  

Litigation Settlement  

In the second quarter of 2017, the Company incurred an $11 million litigation provision related to the issuance of a verdict in a patent litigation case. In the first quarter of 2018, the Company resolved the case with a final settlement that resulted in a gain of $2 million.  

Acquired In-Process Research and Development  

During 2017, the Company incurred charges of $5 million for acquired in-process research and development related to milestone payments associated with a licensing arrangement for certain intellectual property relating to mass spectrometry technologies yet to be commercialized and for which there was no future alternative use as of the acquisition date. These licensing arrangements are significantly related to new, biologically-focused applications, as well as other applications, and require the Company to make additional future payments of up to $7 million if certain milestones are achieved, as well as royalties on future net sales. These future payments may be significant and occur over multiple years.  

Interest Expense, Net  

The decrease in net interest expense in 2018 was primarily attributable to the Company using cash, cash equivalents and investment balances recently repatriated into the U.S. to reduce its debt by $850 million during the 2018, as well as higher yields on investments. The Company is currently planning to increase its outstanding debt balances in the future and, as a result, the Company is expecting its net interest expense to increase by an estimated $25 million in 2019 at current interest rates.  

In 2018, the Company entered into three-year U.S.-to-Euro interest rate cross-currency swap agreements with a notional value of $300 million that hedges the Company’s net investment in its Euro denominated net assets. The difference between the interest rate received and paid under the interest rate cross-currency swap agreement is recorded as interest income. During 2018, the Company recorded $3 million of interest income related to these agreements. This interest rate cross-currency swap agreement is estimated to generate $9 million of interest income annually over a three-year period.  

33   

Table of Contents 

Provision for Income Taxes  

The four principal jurisdictions in which the Company manufactures are the U.S., Ireland, the U.K. and Singapore, where the statutory tax rates were 21%, 12.5%, 19% and 17%, respectively, as of December 31, 2018. The Company has a contractual tax rate in Singapore of 0% on qualifying activities in Singapore through March 2021, based upon the achievement of certain contractual milestones, which the Company expects to continue to meet. The effect of applying the contractual tax rate rather than the statutory tax rate to income from qualifying activities in Singapore increased the Company’s net income in 2018, 2017 and 2016 by $28 million, $25 million and $23 million, respectively, and increased the Company’s net income per diluted share by $0.36, $0.31 and $0.29, respectively.  

The Company’s effective tax rates were 13.0%, 96.8% and 13.1% in 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively, and were impacted by the following:  

   •    In December 2017, the U.S. enacted legislation informally referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the “2017 Tax Act”). For the year ended December 31, 2017 the Company accrued a $550 million tax provision related to the 2017 Tax Act. The $550 million expense consisted of $490 million related to the federal transition tax, $40 million for state income taxes and foreign withholding taxes and $20 million for the revaluation of the Company’s deferred tax assets and liabilities at the new federal tax rate of 21%. This provision reduced net income per diluted share by $6.82 in 2017, and the Company’s effective tax rate was 11.0% excluding this $550 million provision.  

   •    During 2018, the Internal Revenue Service issued proposed regulations on the federal transition tax and various other aspects of the Tax Reform law. The Company finalized its analysis of the transition tax and related liabilities, including uncertain tax positions, in the fourth quarter of 2018 pursuant to U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 118. As a result of the new guidance issued and additional work to complete the calculation of its federal transition tax, the Company reduced its provisional accrual for federal, state and foreign taxes by net $24 million during 2018. In addition, the Company also assessed its uncertain tax positions related to these taxes and accrued income tax reserves of $18 million during 2018. The net favorable impact to the 2018 provision for income taxes is $6 million.  

   •    The provision for income taxes for 2018 includes a $7 million expense related to the 2017 Tax Act. This additional tax results from the change in foreign currency exchange rates on the earnings taxed on December 31, 2017 under 2017 Tax Act as compared with the foreign currency exchange rates on the date of distribution of assets into the U.S. We do not expect this expense to recur in future periods.  

   •    The 2018 effective income tax rate of 13.0% was impacted by the reduction in the U.S. federal income tax rate from 35% to 21% as a result of the 2017 Tax Act, which decreased the Company’s effective tax rate by 2.0 percentage points as compared to 2017. The 2017 Tax act also added a new Global Intangible Low-Taxed Income (GILTI) tax, which increased the Company’s 2018 effective tax rate by approximately 2.0 percentage points.  

   •    After the completion of the Company’s review of its capital allocation strategy in the fourth quarter of 2018, the Company determined that it will provide income taxes on all future foreign earnings from 2018 forward. As a result, this change added 0.6 percentage points to the 2018 effective tax rate as compared to 2017.  

   •    In addition, the reduction in the U.S. federal income tax rate from 35% to 21% as a result of the 2017 Tax Act also reduced the 2018 tax benefit on stock compensation. The Company recorded a tax benefit on stock-based compensation in 2018 and 2017 that decreased income tax expense by $9 million and $20 million, respectively, and added $0.11 and $0.24 to net income per diluted share, respectively.  

   •    The difference between the 2017 and 2016 effective tax rates can be attributed primarily to the 2016 provision for income taxes including a $3 million tax benefit (0.7 percentage points) related to the release of a valuation allowance on certain net operating loss carryforwards.  

34   

Table of Contents 

The remaining differences between effective tax rates can primarily be attributed to differences in the proportionate amounts of pre-tax income recognized in jurisdictions with different effective tax rates.  

The Company’s effective tax rate is influenced by many significant factors, including, but not limited to, the wide range of income tax rates in jurisdictions in which the Company operates; sales volumes and profit levels in each tax jurisdiction; changes in tax laws, tax rates and policies; the outcome of various ongoing tax audit examinations; and the impact of foreign currency transactions and translation. In addition, upon completion of the Company’s review of its capital allocation strategy in the fourth quarter of 2018, the Company has determined that it will provide income taxes on all future foreign earnings. The Company estimates that this will increase the Company’s effective income tax rate by approximately one percentage point in the future. However, the Company will continue to be permanently reinvested in relation to the cumulative historical outside basis difference that is not related to earnings. As a result of variability in these factors, the Company’s effective tax rates in the future may not be similar to the effective tax rates for the current or prior years, or for previously forecasted periods.  

Liquidity and Capital Resources  

Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (in thousands):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Cash Flow from Operating Activities  

Net cash provided by operating activities was $604 million, $698 million and $643 million in 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively. The changes within net cash provided by operating activities include the following significant changes in the sources and uses of net cash provided by operating activities, aside from the changes in net income:  

   •    The changes in accounts receivable were primarily attributable to timing of payments made by customers and timing of sales. Days sales outstanding was 74 days at December 31, 2018 and 71 days at both December 31, 2017 and 2016.  

35   

Table of Contents 

   •    The changes in inventory were primarily attributable to anticipated annual increases in sales volumes, as well as new product launches.  

   •    The changes in accounts payable and other current liabilities were the result of timing of payments to vendors. In addition, the change in 2018 included $103 million of income tax payments made in the U.S. relating to the Company’s estimated 2017 tax reform liability and 2018 estimated income tax payments and a $15 million litigation settlement payment.  

   •    Net cash provided from deferred revenue and customer advances results from annual increases in new service contracts as a higher installed base of customers renew annual service contracts.  

   •    Other changes were attributable to variation in the timing of various provisions, expenditures, prepaid income taxes and accruals in other current assets, other assets, other liabilities, and income tax expenses related to the 2017 Tax Act. In addition, the Company made $11 million of contributions to certain defined benefit pension plans.  

In addition, as a result of the adoption of a new accounting standard related to stock-based compensation, the Company reclassified $14 million of excess tax benefits related to stock-based compensation in 2016 from cash flows from financing activities to cash flows from operating activities.  

Cash Provided By (Used in) Investing Activities  

Net cash provided by investing activities totaled $1,683 million in 2018, while net cash used in investing activities totaled $536 million and $488 million in 2017 and 2016, respectively. Additions to fixed assets and capitalized software were $96 million, $85 million and $95 million in 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively. In February 2018, the Company’s Board of Directors approved expanding its chemistry synthesis operations in the U.S. The Company anticipates spending an estimated $215 million to build and equip this new state-of-the-art manufacturing facility, which will be paid for with existing cash, investments and debt capacity.  

During 2018, 2017 and 2016, the Company purchased $1.0 billion, $3.0 billion and $2.4 billion of investments, respectively, while $2.8 billion, $2.5 billion and $2.0 billion of investments matured, respectively. Most of the proceeds received in 2018 were repatriated into the U.S. at lower income tax rates as a result of the 2017 Tax Act and used to reduce the Company’s debt by $850 million and fund the Company’s share repurchase program.  

Asset and business acquisitions, net of cash acquired, were $31 million and $6 million during 2018 and 2016, respectively. There were no business acquisitions in 2017. During 2018, the Company made $8 million of investments in unaffiliated companies. During 2017, the Company made a $7 million payment for an investment in a developer of analytical system solutions used to make measurements, predict stability and accelerate product discovery in the routine analytic, process monitoring and quality control release processes for life science and biopharmaceutical markets. During 2017, the Company made payments of $5 million to acquire and license intellectual property relating to mass spectrometry technologies yet to be commercialized. In 2016, the Company sold an equity investment for $4 million.  

Cash Used in Financing Activities  

In November 2017, the Company entered into a credit agreement (the “2017 Credit Agreement”), which provides for a $1.5 billion revolving facility and a $300 million term loan. The revolving facility and term loan both mature on November 30, 2022 and require no scheduled prepayments before that date.  

The interest rates applicable to the 2017 Credit Agreement are, at the Company’s option, equal to either the alternate base rate (which is a rate per annum equal to the greatest of (a) the prime rate in effect on such day, (b) the Federal Reserve Bank of New York Rate on such day plus 1/2 of 1% per annum and (c) the adjusted  

36   

Table of Contents 

 LIBO rate on such day (or if such day is not a business day, the immediately preceding business day) for a deposit in U.S. dollars with a maturity of one month plus 1% per annum) or the applicable 1, 2, 3 or 6 month adjusted LIBO rate or EURIBO rate for Euro-denominated loans, in each case, plus an interest rate margin based upon the Company’s leverage ratio, which can range between 0 and 12.5 basis points for alternate base rate loans and between 80 and 112.5 basis points for LIBO rate or EURIBO rate loans. The facility fee on the 2017 Credit Agreement ranges between 7.5 and 25 basis points per annum, based on the leverage ratio, of the amount of the revolving facility commitments and the outstanding term loan. The 2017 Credit Agreement requires that the Company comply with an interest coverage ratio test of not less than 3.50:1 as of the end of any fiscal quarter for any period of four consecutive fiscal quarters and a leverage ratio test of not more than 3.50:1 as of the end of any fiscal quarter. In addition, the 2017 Credit Agreement includes negative covenants, affirmative covenants, representations and warranties and events of default that are customary for investment grade credit facilities.  

Interest on the Company’s fixed rate senior unsecured notes is payable semi-annually each year. Interest on the floating rate senior unsecured notes is payable quarterly. The Company may prepay all or some of the senior unsecured notes at any time in an amount not less than 10% of the aggregate principal amount outstanding, plus the applicable make-whole amount or prepayment premium for Series H and J senior unsecured notes. In the event of a change in control of the Company (as defined in the note purchase agreement), the Company may be required to prepay the senior unsecured notes at a price equal to 100% of the principal amount thereof, plus accrued and unpaid interest. These senior unsecured notes require that the Company comply with an interest coverage ratio test of not less than 3.50:1 for any period of four consecutive fiscal quarters and a leverage ratio test of not more than 3.50:1 as of the end of any fiscal quarter. In addition, these senior unsecured notes include customary negative covenants, affirmative covenants, representations and warranties and events of default.  

During 2018, the Company’s net debt borrowings decreased by $850 million, using cash repatriated under the 2017 Tax Act. During 2017 and 2016, the Company’s net debt borrowings increased $170 million and $160 million, respectively. As of December 31, 2018, the Company had a total of $1.1 billion in outstanding debt, which consisted of $560 million in outstanding senior unsecured notes, $300 million borrowed under a term loan and $290 million borrowed under a revolving credit facility, with both the term loan and revolving credit facilities under the 2017 Credit Agreement. As of December 31, 2018, the Company had a total amount available to borrow under the 2017 Credit Agreement of $1,208 million after outstanding letters of credit. As of December 31, 2018, the Company was in compliance with all debt covenants.  

During 2018, the Company entered into $300 million of U.S.-to-Euro interest rate cross-currency swap agreements that hedge the Company’s net investment in its Euro denominated net assets. As a result of entering into these agreements, the Company anticipates lowering net interest expense by approximately $9 million annually over the three-year term of the agreements.  

In January 2019, the Company’s Board of Directors authorized the Company to repurchase up to $4 billion of its outstanding common stock over a two-year period. This new program replaced the remaining amounts available under the April 2018 authorization of $3 billion. During 2018, 2017 and 2016, the Company repurchased 6.8 million, 1.8 million and 2.3 million shares of the Company’s outstanding common stock at a cost of $1,306 million, $323 million and $318 million, respectively, under the April 2018 authorization and other previously announced programs. In addition, the Company repurchased $10 million, $10 million and $8 million of common stock related to the vesting of restricted stock units during the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively.  

The Company received $52 million, $98 million and $62 million of proceeds from the exercise of stock options and the purchase of shares pursuant to the Company’s employee stock purchase plan in 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively.  

The Company had cash, cash equivalents and investments of $1,735 million as of December 31, 2018. The majority of the Company’s cash, cash equivalents and investments are generated from foreign operations, with  

37   

Table of Contents 

 $471 million held by foreign subsidiaries at December 31, 2018, of which $251 million was held in currencies other than U.S. dollars. The Company believes it has sufficient levels of cash flow and access to its existing cash, cash equivalents and investments to fund operations and capital expenditures, service debt interest, finance potential acquisitions and continue the authorized stock repurchase program in the U.S. These cash requirements are managed by the Company’s cash flow from operations, its existing cash, cash equivalents and investments, and the use of the Company’s revolving credit facility.  

Management believes, as of the date of this report, that the Company’s financial position, along with expected future cash flows from earnings based on historical trends and the ability to raise funds from external sources and the borrowing capacity from existing, committed credit facilities, will be sufficient to service debt and fund working capital and capital spending requirements, authorized share repurchase amounts and potential acquisitions for at least the next twelve months. The Company has conducted a post-tax reform evaluation of its capital allocation strategy and the Company is currently planning to use its existing cash, cash equivalents and investments, cash flow from operations and its available debt capacity to repurchase up to $4 billion of the Company’s common stock over the next two years. The Company is currently planning to increase its outstanding debt balances to approximately 2.5 times the Company’s net debt-to-earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization ratio to fund a significant portion of these share repurchases. In addition, as of December 31, 2018, the Company has determined that it will provide income taxes on all future foreign earnings and reverse its historical assertion that its foreign earnings were permanently invested. However, the Company will continue to be permanently reinvested in relation to the cumulative historical outside basis difference that is not related to the unremitted earnings. There have been no other significant changes to the Company’s financial position.  

Contractual Obligations and Commercial Commitments  

The following is a summary of the Company’s known contractual obligations as of December 31, 2018 (in thousands):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1)  Does not include normal purchases made in the ordinary course of business and uncertain tax positions discussed below.  

 2)  The interest rates applicable to the 2017 Credit Agreement are, at the Company’s option, equal to either the alternate base rate (which is a rate per annum equal to the greatest of (a) the prime rate in effect on such day, (b) the Federal Reserve Bank of New York Rate on such day plus 1/2 of 1% per annum and (c) the adjusted LIBO rate on such day (or if such day is not a business day, the immediately preceding business day) for a deposit in U.S. dollars with a maturity of one month plus 1% per annum) or the applicable 1, 2, 3 or 6 month adjusted LIBO rate or EURIBO rate for Euro-denominated loans, in each case, plus an interest rate margin based upon the Company’s leverage ratio, which can range between 0 and 12.5 basis points for alternate base rate loans and between 80 and 112.5 basis points for LIBO rate or EURIBO rate loans. The facility fee on the 2017 Credit Agreement ranges between 7.5 and 25 basis points per annum, based on the leverage ratio, of the amount of the revolving facility commitments and the outstanding term loan. The 2017 Credit Agreement requires that the Company comply with an interest coverage ratio test of not less than 3.50:1 as  

38   

Table of Contents 

    of the end of any fiscal quarter for any period of four consecutive fiscal quarters and a leverage ratio test of not more than 3.50:1 as of the end of any fiscal quarter. In addition, the 2017 Credit Agreement includes negative covenants, affirmative covenants, representations and warranties and events of default that are customary for investment grade credit facilities. As of December 31, 2018, the Company was in compliance with all such covenants.  

The following is a summary of the Company’s known commercial commitments as of December 31, 2018 (in thousands):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

From time to time, the Company and its subsidiaries are involved in various litigation matters arising in the ordinary course of business. The Company believes it has meritorious arguments in its current litigation matters and believes any outcome, either individually or in the aggregate, will not be material to the Company’s financial position or results of operations.  

The Company has long-term liabilities for deferred employee compensation, including pension and supplemental executive retirement plans. The payments related to the supplemental retirement plan are not included above since they are dependent upon when the employee retires or leaves the Company and whether the employee elects lump-sum or annuity payments. During fiscal year 2019, the Company expects to contribute approximately $3 million to $6 million to the Company’s defined benefit plans.  

The Company has contingent consideration for an earnout pertaining to its July 2014 acquisition of the net assets of Medimass Research, Development and Service Kft. (“Medimass”). The earnout payments are not included above since they are dependent upon many factors that cannot be predicted with any certainty. The estimated fair value of the contingent consideration as of December 31, 2018 is $2 million.  

The Company licenses certain technology and software from third parties. Future minimum license fees payable under existing license agreements as of December 31, 2018 are immaterial. The Company enters into licensing arrangements with third parties that require future milestone or royalty payments contingent upon future events. Upon the achievement of certain milestones in existing agreements, the Company could make additional future payments of up to $7 million, as well as royalties on future net sales. It is not possible to predict with reasonable certainty whether these milestones will be achieved or the timing for achievement. As a result, these potential payments are not included in the table above.  

The Company accounts for its uncertain tax positions in accordance with the accounting standards for income taxes, which require financial statement reporting of the expected future tax consequences of uncertain tax positions on the presumption that all concerned tax authorities possess full knowledge of those tax positions, as well as all of the pertinent facts and circumstances, but prohibit any discounting of unrecognized tax benefits associated with those positions for the time value of money. The Company classified interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits as a component of the provision for income taxes. If all of the Company’s unrecognized tax benefits accrued as of December 31, 2018 were to become recognizable in the future, the Company would record a total reduction of approximately $26 million in its income tax provision.  

With limited exceptions, the Company is no longer subject to tax audit examinations in significant jurisdictions for the years ended on or before December 31, 2013. However, carryforward tax attributes that were generated in years beginning on or before January 1, 2014 may still be adjusted upon examination by tax authorities if the attributes are utilized. The Company continuously monitors the lapsing of statutes of limitations on potential tax assessments for related changes in the measurement of unrecognized tax benefits, related net interest and penalties, and deferred tax assets and liabilities.  

39   

Table of Contents 

As of December 31, 2018, the Company expects to record additional reductions in the measurement of its unrecognized tax benefits and related net interest and penalties of approximately $1 million within the next twelve months due to potential tax audit settlements and the lapsing of statutes of limitations on potential tax assessments. The Company does not expect to record any other material reductions in the measurement of its unrecognized tax benefits within the next twelve months.  

The Company has not paid any dividends and has no plans, at this time, to pay any dividends in the future.  

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements  

The Company has not created, and is not party to, any special-purpose or off-balance sheet entities for the purpose of raising capital, incurring debt or operating parts of its business that are not consolidated (to the extent of the Company’s ownership interest therein) into the consolidated financial statements. The Company has not entered into any transactions with unconsolidated entities whereby it has subordinated retained interests, derivative instruments or other contingent arrangements that expose the Company to material continuing risks, contingent liabilities or any other obligation under a variable interest in an unconsolidated entity that provides financing, liquidity, market risk or credit risk support to the Company.  

The Company enters into standard indemnification agreements in its ordinary course of business. Pursuant to these agreements, the Company indemnifies, holds harmless and agrees to reimburse the indemnified party for losses suffered or incurred by the indemnified party, generally the Company’s business partners or customers, in connection with patent, copyright or other intellectual property infringement claims by any third party with respect to its current products, as well as claims relating to property damage or personal injury resulting from the performance of services by the Company or its subcontractors. The maximum potential amount of future payments the Company could be required to make under these indemnification agreements is unlimited. Historically, the Company’s costs to defend lawsuits or settle claims relating to such indemnity agreements have been minimal and management accordingly believes the estimated fair value of these agreements is immaterial.  

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates  

Summary  

The preparation of consolidated financial statements requires the Company to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent liabilities. Critical accounting policies are those that are central to the presentation of the Company’s financial condition and results of operations that require management to make estimates about matters that are highly uncertain and that would have a material impact on the Company’s results of operations given changes in the estimate that are reasonably likely to occur from period to period or use of different estimates that reasonably could have been used in the current period. On an ongoing basis, the Company evaluates its policies and estimates. The Company bases its estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual amounts may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. There are other items within the Company’s consolidated financial statements that require estimation, but are not deemed critical as defined above. Changes in estimates used in these and other items could potentially have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.  

Revenue Recognition  

The Company adopted new accounting guidance regarding the recognition of revenue from contracts with customers as of January 1, 2018 and applied the modified-retrospective method. The Company elected the practical expedient and only evaluated the contracts that were considered incomplete as of January 1, 2018 when quantifying the cumulative effect adjustment under the modified retrospective method. Ultimately, the Company  

40   

Table of Contents 

 determined that there was not a significant change in the timing or pattern of revenue recognition for the Company’s products and services. The adoption of this standard did not have a material impact on the Company’s financial position, results of operations or cash flows and, as such, did not require any adjustments to information reported in the prior year. The revenue recognition policies described below were effective as of January 1, 2018.  

The Company recognizes revenue upon transfer of control of promised products and services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration the Company expects to receive in exchange for those products or services. The Company generally enters into contracts that include a combination of products and services. Revenue is allocated to distinct performance obligations and is recognized net of allowances for returns and discounts.  

The Company recognizes revenue on product sales at the time control of the product transfers to the customer. In substantially all of the Company’s arrangements, title of the product transfers at shipping point and, as a result, the Company determined control transfers at the point of shipment. In more limited cases, there are destination-based shipping terms and, thus, control is deemed to transfer when the products arrive at the customer site. All incremental costs of obtaining a contract are expensed as and when incurred if the expected amortization period of the asset that would have been recognized is one year or less. Shipping and handling costs are included as a component of cost of sales. In situations where the control of the goods transfers prior to the completion of the Company’s obligation to ship the products to its customers, the Company has elected the practical expedient to account for the shipping services as a fulfillment cost. Accordingly, such costs are recognized when control of the related goods is transferred to the customer. In more rare situations, the Company has revenue associated with products that contain specific customer acceptance criteria and the related revenue is not recognized before the customer acceptance criteria are satisfied. The Company elected to exclude from the measurement of the transaction price all taxes assessed by a governmental authority that are both imposed on and concurrent with specific revenue-producing transactions and collected by the Company from a customer.  

Generally, the Company’s contracts for products include a performance obligation related to installation. The Company has determined that the installation represents a distinct performance obligation and revenue is recognized separately upon the completion of installation. The Company determines the amount of the transaction price to allocate to the installation service based on the standalone selling price of the product and the service, which requires judgment. The Company determines relative standalone selling price of installation based upon a number of factors, including hourly service billing rates and estimated installation hours. In developing these estimates, the Company considers past history, competition, billing rates of current services and other factors.  

The Company has sales from standalone software, which is included in instrument systems revenue. These arrangements typically include software licenses and maintenance contracts, both of which the Company has determined are distinct performance obligations. The Company determines the amount of the transaction price to allocate to the license and maintenance contract based on the relative standalone selling price of each performance obligation. Software license revenue is recognized at the point in time when control has been transferred to the customer. The revenue allocated to the software maintenance contract is recognized on a straight-line basis over the maintenance period, which is the contractual term of the contract, as a time-based measure of progress best reflects the Company’s performance in satisfying this obligation. Unspecified rights to software upgrades are typically sold as part of the maintenance contract on a when-and-if-available basis.  

Payment terms and conditions vary among the Company’s revenue streams, although terms generally include a requirement of payment within 30 to 60 days of product shipment. Prior to providing payment terms to customers, an evaluation of the customer’s credit risk is performed. Returns and customer credits are infrequent and insignificant and are recorded as a reduction to sales. Rights of return are not included in sales arrangements and, therefore, there is minimal variable consideration included in the transaction price of our products.  

41   

Table of Contents 

Service revenue includes (i) service and software maintenance contracts and (ii) service calls (time and materials). Instrument service contracts and software maintenance contracts are typically annual contracts, which are billed at the beginning of the contract or maintenance period. The amount of the service and software maintenance contract is recognized on a straight-line basis to revenue over the maintenance service period, which is the contractual term of the contract, as a time-based measure of progress best reflects the Company’s performance in satisfying this obligation. There are no deferred costs associated with the service contract, as the cost of the service is recorded when the service is performed. Service calls are recognized to revenue at the time a service is performed.  

The Company’s deferred revenue liabilities at December 31, 2018 was $204 million on the consolidated balance sheets consists of the obligation on instrument service contracts and customer payments received in advance, prior to transfer of control of the instrument. The Company records deferred revenue primarily related to its service contracts, where consideration is billable at the beginning of the service period.  

Loss Provisions on Accounts Receivable and Inventory  

The Company maintains allowances for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of its customers to make required payments. If the financial condition of the Company’s customers were to deteriorate, resulting in an impairment of their ability to make payments, additional allowances may be required. The Company does not request collateral from its customers, but collectibility is enhanced through the use of credit card payments and letters of credit. The Company assesses collectibility based on a number of factors, including, but not limited to, past transaction history with the customer, the credit-worthiness of the customer, industry trends and the macro-economic environment. Historically, the Company has not experienced significant bad debt losses. Sales returns and allowances are estimates of future product returns related to current period revenue. Material differences may result in the amount and timing of revenue for any period if management made different judgments or utilized different estimates for sales returns and allowances for doubtful accounts. The Company’s accounts receivable balance at December 31, 2018 was $568 million, net of allowances for doubtful accounts of $8 million.  

The Company values all of its inventories at the lower of cost or net realizable value on a first-in, first-out basis (“FIFO”). The Company estimates revisions to its inventory valuations based on technical obsolescence, historical demand, projections of future demand, including that in the Company’s current backlog of orders, and industry and market conditions. If actual future demand or market conditions are less favorable than those projected by management, additional write-downs may be required. The Company’s inventory balance at December 31, 2018 was recorded at its net realizable value of $292 million, which is net of write-downs of $23 million.  

Long-Lived Assets, Intangible Assets and Goodwill  

The Company assesses the impairment of identifiable intangibles, long-lived assets and goodwill whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Factors the Company considers important which could trigger impairment include, but are not limited to, the following:  

   •    significant underperformance relative to historical or projected future operating results, particularly as it pertains to capitalized software and patent costs;  

   •    significant negative industry or economic trends, competitive products and technologies; and  

   •    significant changes or developments in strategic technological collaborations or legal matters which affect the Company’s capitalized patents, purchased technology, trademarks and intellectual properties, such as licenses.  

When the Company determines that the carrying value of an individual intangible asset, long-lived asset or goodwill may not be recoverable based upon the existence of one or more of the above indicators, an estimate of  

42   

Table of Contents 

 undiscounted future cash flows produced by that intangible asset, long-lived asset or goodwill, including its eventual residual value, is compared to the carrying value to determine whether impairment exists. In the event that such cash flows are not expected to be sufficient to recover the carrying amount of the asset, the asset is written-down to its estimated fair value. Net intangible assets, long-lived assets and goodwill amounted to $247 million, $343 million and $356 million, respectively, as of December 31, 2018.  

The Company performs annual impairment reviews of its goodwill on January 1 of each year. For goodwill impairment review purposes, the Company has two reporting units: Waters and TA. The Company currently does not expect to record an impairment charge in the foreseeable future; however, there can be no assurance that, at the time future reviews are completed, a material impairment charge will not be recorded. The factors that could cause a material goodwill impairment charge in the future include, but are not limited to, the following:  

   •    significant decline in the Company’s projected revenue, earnings or cash flows;  

   •    significant adverse change in legal factors or business climate;  

   •    significant decline in the Company’s stock price or the stock price of comparable companies;  

   •    adverse action or assessment by a regulator; and  

   •    unanticipated competition.  

Income Taxes  

As part of the process of preparing the consolidated financial statements, the Company is required to estimate its income taxes in each of the jurisdictions in which it operates. This process involves the Company estimating its income taxes, taking into account the amount, timing and character of taxable income, tax deductions and credits and assessing changes in tax laws, regulations, agreements and treaties. Differing treatment of items for tax and accounting purposes, such as depreciation, amortization and inventory reserves, result in deferred tax assets and liabilities, which are included within the consolidated balance sheets. In the event that actual results differ from these estimates, or the Company adjusts these estimates in future periods, such changes could materially impact the Company’s financial position and results of operations.  

The accounting standards for income taxes require that a company continually evaluate the necessity of establishing or changing a valuation allowance for deferred tax assets depending on whether it is more likely than not that the actual benefit of those assets will be realized in future periods.  

Uncertain Tax Positions  

The Company accounts for its uncertain tax return positions in accordance with the accounting standards for income taxes, which require financial statement reporting of the expected future tax consequences of uncertain tax positions on the presumption that all concerned tax authorities possess full knowledge of those tax positions, as well as all of the pertinent facts and circumstances, but prohibit any discounting of unrecognized tax benefits associated with those positions for the time value of money. The Company classified interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits as a component of the provision for income taxes. At December 31, 2018, the Company had unrecognized tax benefits of $27 million.  

The Company has been granted a 0% contractual tax rate in Singapore that requires the achievement of certain operational and financial milestones that the Company expects to meet, to the extent not already achieved, by December 31, 2020 and maintain through at least March 31, 2021. As part of the Company’s determination of uncertain tax positions, the Company regularly assesses its progress against these operational and financial milestone targets to determine whether the milestones can be reasonably achieved. These milestones were negotiated with the Singaporean tax authorities and established based on the Company’s historical financial performance; the anticipated customer end-market demand, particularly in certain regions in the world, and the Company’s anticipated future operating plans. These assessments require significant judgments and estimates  

43   

Table of Contents 

 about the Company’s ability to meet the milestone targets for the following types of objectives: reaching and maintaining annual revenue and business spending targets; meeting capital expenditures targets; attaining and sustaining employment targets; and establishing a local research and development and service center. The Company regularly monitors its actual and forecasted sales and operating results against these milestones and the Company makes the determination as to whether the future forecasted financial results are most likely to be achieved. These milestones are very similar in nature to the previous Singaporean tax holiday contractual agreements that the Company successfully completed. These milestones are not required to be met until December 21, 2020, at the earliest, which gives the Company sufficient time to make any necessary adjustments to its operating plans to achieve the milestones.  

Currently, the Company has determined that it is more likely than not to realize the contractual tax rate in Singapore of 0% and has not recognized an uncertain tax position in its balance sheet related to the achievement of the contractual milestones in Singapore. However, these milestones can be significantly influenced by the business climate in Singapore and the Company’s overall financial performance and, in the event that the Company determines that the milestone targets are not expected to be met, the Company would no longer be able to record a tax benefit at a 0% contractual tax rate on income earned in Singapore from and after the April 1, 2016 start date of the contract period. At such time, the Company would record an income tax charge on the affected Singapore income earned back to April 1, 2016 at the Singapore statutory tax rate(s) (currently 17%), with a corresponding income tax liability recorded on the balance sheet. For the year ended 2018, the effect of applying the contractual tax rate rather than the statutory tax rate to income from qualifying activities in Singapore increased the Company’s net income and net income per diluted share by $28 million and $0.36, respectively.  

Warranty  

Product warranties are recorded at the time revenue is recognized for certain product shipments. While the Company engages in extensive product quality programs and processes, including actively monitoring and evaluating the quality of its component suppliers, the Company’s warranty obligation is affected by product failure rates, material usage and service delivery costs incurred in correcting a product failure. Should actual product failure rates, material usage or service delivery costs differ from the Company’s previous estimates, revisions to the estimated warranty liability would be required. At December 31, 2018, the Company’s warranty liability was $12 million.  

Litigation  

As described in Part I, Item 3, Legal Proceedings, of this Form 10-K, the Company is a party to various pending litigation matters. With respect to each pending claim, management determines whether it can reasonably estimate whether a loss is probable and, if so, the probable range of that loss. If and when management has determined, with respect to a particular claim, both that a loss is probable and that it can reasonably estimate the range of that loss, the Company records a charge equal to either its best estimate of that loss or the lowest amount in that probable range of loss. The Company will disclose additional exposures when the range of loss is subject to considerable uncertainty.  

Pension and Other Retirement Benefits  

Assumptions used in determining projected benefit obligations and the fair values of plan assets for the Company’s pension plans and other retirement benefits are evaluated periodically by management. Changes in assumptions are based on relevant Company data. Critical assumptions, such as the discount rate used to measure the benefit obligations and the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets, are evaluated and updated annually. The Company has assumed that the weighted-average expected long-term rate of return on plan assets will be 4.35% for its U.S. benefit plans and 2.75% for its non-U.S. benefit plans.  

At the end of each year, the Company determines the discount rate that reflects the current rate at which the pension liabilities could be effectively settled. The Company utilized Milliman’s Bond Matching model to  

44   

Table of Contents 

 determine the discount rate for its U.S. benefit plans. The Company determined the discount rate for its non-U.S. benefit plans based on the analysis of the Mercer Pension Discount Curve for high quality investments as of December 31, 2018 that best matched the timing of the plan’s future cash flows for the period to maturity of the pension benefits. Once the interest rates were determined, the plan’s cash flow was discounted at the spot interest rate back to the measurement date. At December 31, 2018, the Company determined the weighted-average discount rate to be 4.40% for the U.S. benefit plans and 1.95% for the non-U.S. benefits plans.  

A one-quarter percentage point increase in the assumed long-term rate of return would decrease the Company’s net periodic benefit cost by less than $1 million. A one-quarter percentage point increase in the discount rate would decrease the Company’s net periodic benefit cost by less than $1 million.  

Stock-based Compensation  

The accounting standards for stock-based compensation require that all share-based payments to employees be recognized in the statements of operations based on their fair values. The Company has used the Black-Scholes option pricing model and Monte Carlo simulation model to determine the fair value of its stock option awards and performance stock unit awards, respectively. Under the fair-value recognition provisions of this statement, share-based compensation cost is measured at the grant date based on the value of the award and is recognized as expense over the vesting period. Determining the fair value of share-based awards at the grant date requires judgment, including estimating stock price volatility and employee stock option exercise behaviors. If actual results differ significantly from these estimates, stock-based compensation expense and the Company’s results of operations could be materially impacted. As stock-based compensation expense recognized in the consolidated statements of operations is based on awards that ultimately are expected to vest, the amount of the expense has been reduced for estimated forfeitures. These accounting standards require forfeitures to be estimated at the time of grant and revised, if necessary, in subsequent periods if actual forfeitures differ from those estimates. Forfeitures are estimated based on historical experience. If factors change and the Company employs different assumptions in the application of these accounting standards, the compensation expense that the Company records in future periods may differ significantly from what the Company has recorded in the current period. The Company recognizes the expense using the straight-line attribution method.  

As of December 31, 2018, unrecognized compensation costs and related weighted-average lives over which the costs will be amortized were as follows (in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Business Combinations and Asset Acquisitions  

The Company accounts for business acquisitions under the accounting standards for business combinations. The results of each acquisition are included in the Company’s consolidated results as of the acquisition date and the purchase price of an acquisition is allocated to tangible and intangible assets and assumed liabilities based on their estimated fair values. Any excess of the fair value consideration transferred over the estimated fair values of the net assets acquired is recognized as goodwill. Acquired in-process research and development (“IPR&D”) included in a business combination is capitalized as an indefinite-lived intangible asset. Development costs incurred after the acquisition are expensed as incurred and acquired IPR&D is tested for impairment annually until completion of the acquired programs. Upon commercialization, this indefinite-lived intangible asset is then accounted for as a finite-lived intangible asset and amortized on a straight-line basis over its estimated useful life,  

45   

Table of Contents 

 subject to periodic impairment reviews. If the research and development project is abandoned, the indefinite-lived asset is charged to expense. Legal costs, due diligence costs, business valuation costs and all other business acquisition costs are expensed when incurred.  

The Company also acquires intellectual property through licensing arrangements. These arrangements often require upfront payments and may include additional milestone or royalty payments, contingent upon certain future events. IPR&D acquired in an asset acquisition (as opposed to a business combination) is expensed immediately unless there is an alternative future use. Subsequent payments made for the achievement of milestones are evaluated to determine whether they have an alternative future use or should be expensed. Payments made to third parties subsequent to commercialization are capitalized and amortized over the remaining useful life of the related asset, and are classified as intangible assets.  

Contingent Consideration  

In addition to the initial cash consideration paid to acquire Medimass, the Company is obligated to make additional earnout payments based on a royalty due on future sales of products containing the REIMS technology. In accordance with the accounting standards for business combinations, the Company determines the fair value of the liability for contingent consideration at each reporting date using a probability-weighted discounted cash flow model. Subsequent changes in the fair value of the contingent consideration liability are recorded in the results of operations. The fair value of the contingent consideration liability associated with future earnout payments is based on several factors, including estimated future results and a discount rate reflective of the Company’s creditworthiness. A change in any of these unobservable inputs can significantly change the fair value of the contingent consideration. Although there is no contractual limit, total future undiscounted contingent consideration payments were estimated to be $2 million as of December 31, 2018, based on the Company’s best estimate, as the earnout is based on future sales of certain products through 2034.  

Recent Accounting Standard Changes and Developments  

Information regarding recent accounting standard changes and developments is incorporated by reference from Part II, Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, of this document and should be considered an integral part of this Item 7. See Note 2 in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for recently adopted and issued accounting standards.  

Item 7A: Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk