ITEM 7.MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

GAAP to NON-GAAP RECONCILIATIONS

This Form 10-K presents non-GAAP financial measures, in addition to GAAP financial measures, to provide investors with additional information. The adjustments to reconcile from the applicable GAAP financial measures to the non-GAAP financial measures are presented in the following schedules. The Bank considers these adjustments to be relevant to ongoing operating results and provide a meaningful base for period-to-period and company-to-company comparisons. These non-GAAP financial measures are used by management to assess the performance and financial position of the Bank and for presentations of Bank performance to investors. The Bank further believes that presenting these non-GAAP financial measures will permit investors to assess the performance of the Bank on the same basis as that applied by management.

Non-GAAP financial measures have inherent limitations and are not required to be uniformly applied by individual entities. Although non-GAAP financial measures are frequently used by stakeholders to evaluate a company, they have limitations as an analytical tool and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for analysis of results reported under GAAP. The following are the non-GAAP financial measures presented in this Form 10-K and a discussion of why management and investors use these non-GAAP measures.

Return on Average Tangible Common Equity (“ROTCE”) – this schedule also includes “net earnings applicable to common shareholders, excluding the effects of the adjustments, net of tax” and “average tangible common equity.” ROTCE is a non-GAAP financial measure that management believes provides useful information about the Bank’s use of shareholders’ equity. Management believes the use of ratios that utilize tangible equity provides additional useful information about performance because they present measures of those assets that can generate income.

Schedule 1 

RETURN ON AVERAGE TANGIBLE COMMON EQUITY (NON-GAAP) – ANNUAL

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Tangible Equity Ratio, Tangible Common Equity Ratio, and Tangible Book Value per Common Share – this schedule also includes “tangible equity,” “tangible common equity,” and “tangible assets.” Tangible equity ratio, tangible common equity ratio, and tangible book value per common share are non-GAAP financial measures that management believes provide additional useful information about the levels of tangible assets and tangible equity between each other and in relation to outstanding shares of common stock. Management believes the use of ratios that utilize tangible equity provides additional useful information about capital adequacy because they present measures of those assets that can generate income.

Schedule 2

TANGIBLE EQUITY (NON-GAAP) AND TANGIBLE COMMON EQUITY (NON-GAAP)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Efficiency Ratio – this schedule also includes “adjusted noninterest expense,” “taxable-equivalent net interest income,” “adjusted taxable-equivalent revenue,” “pre-provision net revenue (“PPNR”),” and “adjusted PPNR.” The methodology of determining the efficiency ratio may differ among companies. Management makes adjustments to exclude certain items as identified in the subsequent schedule which it believes allows for more consistent comparability among periods. Management believes the efficiency ratio provides useful information regarding the cost of generating revenue. Adjusted noninterest expense provides a measure as to how well the Bank is managing its expenses, and adjusted PPNR enables management and others to assess the Bank’s ability to generate capital to cover credit losses through a credit cycle. Taxable-equivalent net interest income allows management to assess the comparability of revenue arising from both taxable and tax-exempt sources.

Schedule 3

EFFICIENCY RATIO

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

27
ZIONS BANCORPORATION, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

Bank Overview

Zions Bancorporation, National Association and its subsidiaries (collectively “Zions Bancorporation, N.A.,” “the Bank,” “we,” “our,” “us”) together comprise a $69 billion commercial bank headquartered in Salt Lake City, Utah. [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•The Bank is consistently ranked among the best banks in the country to work with by its small and middle-market customers, as measured by the Greenwich Associates annual survey. Since the inception of the awards in 2009, only five other U.S. banks have consistently received as many Greenwich Excellence Awards as Zions Bancorporation, N.A.

•The Bank consistently wins awards for the best bank within its geography. Examples include the best bank awards given by local newspapers, business journals, or similar publications in Nevada, Arizona, and California: Orange County (five consecutive years) and San Diego County (eight consecutive years).

•The Bank’s objectives include:

◦Continuing revenue growth (net interest income plus noninterest income) in excess of noninterest expense—so-called positive operating leverage—which should result in annual PPNR growth in the high-single digit rate and further improvement to the efficiency ratio;

◦Improving profitability ratios. Improved operating efficiency coupled with low credit costs as experienced in 2018 should lead to improved profitability ratios, such as the returns on assets and equity.

◦Maintaining or increasing capital distributions due to stronger earnings and a lower risk profile than seen in prior years.

• The long-term strategy of the Bank to achieve these objectives includes the following:

◦Continuing to execute on our community bank business model by doing business on a “local” basis, with significant local decision making for customer-facing elements of our business including product offerings, marketing, and pricing. We believe our scale gives us superior access to capital markets, more robust treasury management, and other product capabilities than smaller community banks. We also believe that our model provides a meaningful competitive advantage and an opportunity for growth over larger national banks whose loan and deposit products are often homogeneous. We are actively engaged in community events and charitable efforts designed to give back to the people within our communities. In 2018, we believe this local, customized approach led to a strong showing with commercial customers as reflected in the Greenwich Awards referenced earlier, as well as a loan growth rate of 4% for the year;

◦Maintaining a strong approach to risk management, having meaningfully improved our operational, credit, and financial risk management in the past several years;

◦Continuing to invest in a diverse team of knowledgeable and experienced bankers, known for their integrity. We are committed to building our employees’ capabilities, so they can become trusted partners of our customers and leaders in their communities; and

◦Continuing to invest in technology. Looking forward for the next several years, we believe that digital delivery of products, including mobile banking, online banking and having a core processing system that is robust and prevents outages, is critical to remaining competitive. We have rolled out a wide range of improvements and additions to our customer interfaces including a redesigned website, mobile applications, and an upgraded treasury internet banking platform for our commercial customers.

•During the past several years we have taken significant actions to improve the Bank’s risk profile, which include:

◦The reduction of an above-average concentration in CRE loans. CRE loans as a percentage of total loans has declined from 35% at December 31, 2007 to 24% at December 31, 2018;

◦Numerous changes made to the credit administration organization and processes to facilitate improved data collection on loans and monitoring of potential default and loss risk; 

28
ZIONS BANCORPORATION, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

◦The significant increase of liquidity and flexibility to reposition the securities portfolio with the purchase of moderate duration securities with limited duration extension risk; i.e., management has generally purchased securities that within the context of a rising interest rate environment would not experience interest rate related losses;

◦The addition of five members to the Board of Directors during the past five years that have strong financial and risk management experience;

◦The replacement and upgrade of management information and accounting systems to allow for a more complete view of the Bank’s risks and opportunities; and

◦The ongoing evaluation and classification of all known risks into approximately sixty unique risk categories, which are regularly monitored and reported in a process that flows from line-level employees through executive management to the Board of Directors;

•We have also taken significant actions to improve the Bank’s efficiency during the past several years, which include the streamlining or elimination of redundant or inefficient processes, and the reduction of unnecessary complexity in product types. We intend to continue improving our efficiency by creating value through the adoption of common practices, automation, and simplification of our front, middle and back-office processes.

•We believe we have achieved even greater operating efficiencies than currently reflected in our financial statements, since our profitability has improved while at the same time investing a substantial amount to upgrade and replace core systems and applications. We announced in 2013 that we had started a project to replace our core loan and deposit banking systems (“Core Transformation Project”). We successfully implemented the first phase of the TCS BαNCS® core servicing system in mid-2017, replacing our consumer lending system. The second phase of the Core Transformation Project, which replaces the Bank’s primary commercial lending systems, was deployed in the February of 2019 and we are in the process of finalizing the full implementation. The replacement of the deposit system is expected to be the third phase of the Core Transformation Project, and is still in the preliminary stages of development. As of December 31, 2018, the Bank had $196 million of capitalized expenses associated with the Core Transformation Project. BαNCS® is a real time, parameter-driven servicing system that will provide long-term benefits to the Bank by improving accessibility and functionality, allowing our bankers to better serve customers.

•As part of our ongoing simplification and efficiency efforts, on September 30, 2018, the Bank completed the merger of Zions Bancorporation, its former bank holding company, with, and into, the Bank formerly known as ZB, N.A., in order to further reduce organizational complexity. The restructuring eliminated the bank holding company structure and associated regulatory framework, and resulted in ZB, N.A. being renamed Zions Bancorporation, National Association and becoming the top-level entity within our corporate structure. The merger eliminates duplicative regulatory efforts, leaving the OCC as the Bank’s primary regulator. As a result of the merger and the Financial Stability Oversight Council’s action on September 12, 2018, the Bank is no longer considered a systemically important financial institution under the Dodd-Frank Act. See “Capital Management” on page 69 for more information regarding the merger. In December 2015, the Bank consolidated its various banking charters into a single charter. 

•In May 2018, the Crapo Bill was signed into law, reducing regulatory requirements for many banking institutions and exempting the Bank from the capital planning actions as required by the Dodd-Frank Act.

•With the improvement in profitability and our risk profile, the Bank’s capital stress test results have markedly improved during the past few years, and as such, we have increased the return on- and of-capital to shareholders, including increasing the common dividend from $0.16 per share in 2014 to $1.04 per share in 2018. Additionally, we repurchased $670 million of common stock during 2018, which is 7% of common stock outstanding as of December 31, 2017. We believe we are carrying excess capital, informed primarily by our stress test results, and have indicated that we intend to reduce our capital ratios to levels more consistent with our significantly reduced risk profile. The magnitude, timing and form of capital return will be determined by the Board.

29
ZIONS BANCORPORATION, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Executive Summary

The Bank reported net earnings applicable to common shareholders for 2018 of $850 million or $4.08 per diluted common share compared with $550 million or $2.60 per diluted common share for 2017. Although a reduction in the statutory tax rate contributed significantly to the improved earnings, adjusted PPNR increased by $141 million, or 14%, to $1.1 billion. The increase in adjusted PPNR was primarily the result of increased interest income due to loan growth and continued expense control. Additionally, net income was positively impacted by improving credit quality, as discussed in more detail below. The Bank’s efficiency ratio improved to 59.6% in 2018 from 62.3% in 2017. We expect to achieve a high single-digit rate of growth in PPNR during the next several years without assuming the benefit of further benchmark interest rate increases and continue to strive for improvements to our efficiency ratio going forward.

The Bank’s net interest margin (“NIM”) expanded 16 basis points (“bps”) for the full year of 2018 versus 2017, which was largely attributable to the favorable effects of higher interest rates on our moderately “asset sensitive” balance sheet – where asset yields repriced faster and/or to a greater degree than liabilities (see Schedule 6). 

Asset quality improved considerably in 2018, reflecting strong improvements in the oil and gas-related portfolio and generally stable to moderate improvements in other loan portfolios. Relative to 2017, total criticized, classified, and nonaccrual loans declined by 37%, 38%, and 39%, respectively. Net loan recoveries, expressed as a percentage of average loans held for investment, improved to net recoveries of 0.04% in 2018 from net charge-offs of 0.17% in 2017, largely the result of loan recoveries in the oil and gas portfolio.

Specifically for 2018 relative to 2017, the improved financial performance reflects:

•Moderate net interest income growth resulting from loan growth and a generally stable securities portfolio, combined with the benefit of rising benchmark interest rates on a balance sheet that consists of assets that generally reprice faster and to a greater degree than the liabilities.

•Modest adjusted noninterest income growth due to continued focus on this source of revenue; we experienced notable successes such as generating strong growth in trust and wealth management income, increasing loan syndication arrangement fees, and arranging interest rate hedges for our loan customers. 

•A slight increase in noninterest expense while we remain focused on expense controls and continue to invest in technology and simplification initiatives. We delivered on our commitment to limit adjusted noninterest expense growth in 2018 to increase only slightly relative to our 2017 results. Adjusted noninterest expense increased $31 million in 2018, or 2%, to $1.7 billion in 2018. [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Net earnings applicable to common shareholders increased by 55% over the prior year, and earnings per diluted share increased by 57%, a slightly stronger rate of growth than net earnings due to the repurchase of 12.9 million shares of Bank common stock during 2018.

Areas Experiencing Challenges in 2018 

Although loan growth was generally consistent with the targeted levels we had established for 2018, we experienced increased competition during the year. Some of this competition came from non-bank financial institutions such as debt funds, debt capital markets, and covenant-light structures. Additionally, some larger customers elected to refinance loans through the issuance of debt in the capital markets – an option that is not readily available to most of our customers. 

Loan growth of $1.9 billion, or 4%, exceeded deposit growth of $1.5 billion, or 3%, in 2018. Consequently, we relied more on wholesale funding to finance incremental balance sheet growth, increasing our funding cost. 

Noninterest income from customer-related fees increased 3% in 2018 from the prior year period, which was less than the targeted growth goal. We experienced strength in corporate investment services and wealth management 

30
ZIONS BANCORPORATION, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

income, loan syndication fees and bankcard fees. This growth was partially offset by declines in mortgage-related fees and deposit service charges.

Focus for 2019

In 2019, we are focused on the ongoing initiatives related to Bank profitability and returns on- and of-equity. Major areas of emphasis include the following:

•Achieve positive operating leverage

◦Achieve broad-based loan growth (i.e. low- to mid-single digit growth rate) within acceptable concentration limits

◦Achieve similar or improve upon growth rates in noninterest income, emphasizing customer-related fee income

◦Achieve greater sales volumes and revenue growth through enhanced use of data

◦Manage noninterest expense growth linked to revenue growth, profitability and digital delivery strategies

•Target high single-digit annual percentage growth rate for PPNR

•Demonstrate reduced volatility in financial performance than previously experienced

•Implement technology upgrade and digital strategies, automation and simplification of front, middle and bank office processes

•Increase the return on- and of- capital

◦Maintain top quartile credit risk profile and superior risk management posture leading to increasing returns of capital

◦Moderately increase financial leverage through the reduction of surplus common equity as informed by stress testing

Schedule 4

KEY DRIVERS OF PERFORMANCE

2018 COMPARED TO 2017

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

1 Includes the following income statement line items: service charges and fees on deposit accounts, other service charges, commissions and fees, wealth management and trust income, loan sales and servicing income and capital markets and foreign exchange income.

2 Includes loans held for sale.

31
ZIONS BANCORPORATION, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

Net Interest Income

Net interest income is the difference between interest earned on interest-earning assets and interest paid on interest-bearing liabilities and is more than three-quarters of our revenue. Net interest income is derived from both the volume of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities and the net yield earned on the assets and paid on the liabilities.

Net interest income improved by $165 million during 2018 compared with 2017 to $2.2 billion, an increase of 8%. For 2018, taxable-equivalent net interest income was $2.3 billion, compared with $2.1 billion and $1.9 billion, in 2017 and 2016, respectively. The tax rate used for calculating all taxable-equivalent adjustments was 21% for 2018 and 35% for all prior periods. The increase over 2017, and the previous increase over 2016, were driven by several factors, including average loan growth, noninterest-bearing deposit stability, disciplined deposit pricing and increases in benchmark interest rates. The increase from 2016 to 2017 was further impacted by a larger average securities portfolio balance. We are not assuming any further increases in benchmark rates in our forecasts. However, because of loan growth and the benefit of our noninterest-bearing deposits, we expect net interest income to increase at a moderate pace in 2019 when compared with 2018.

Net Interest Margin and Interest Rate Spreads in 2018 vs. 2017

The NIM was 3.61% and 3.45% for 2018 and 2017, respectively. When comparing 2018 with 2017, changes in asset mix resulted in higher average loans, lower average securities and money market investments, and higher average interest-bearing deposits and wholesale borrowings balances to fund overall balance sheet growth. A significant source of NIM expansion is the increasing value of noninterest-bearing demand deposit accounts in the rising interest rate environment. Expansion of NIM reflects a higher loan yield with only a moderate increase in funding costs. Funding balance sheet growth with wholesale borrowings reduced spreads and negatively impacted NIM, although it was accretive to net interest income. The NIM was also positively impacted by increases in the federal funds target rate during 2018. Average interest-earning assets increased $1.6 billion from 2017, with average rates improving 35 bps. Average interest-bearing liabilities increased $1.5 billion and average rates also increased 35 bps over the same period.

The average balance of our investment securities portfolio decreased $0.1 billion, while year-end balances decreased $0.5 billion. Our average lending portfolio increased $1.9 billion to $45.4 billion, an increase of 4%. The net earning asset growth was funded through a mix of deposits and wholesale borrowings.

Interest expense increased $124 million compared to 2017 results, attributable to both an increase in the cost and quantity of deposits and wholesale funding. Interest expense on deposits increased $76 million on $29.4 billion of average interest-bearing deposits.

The increase in the average loan portfolio was due to growth in 1-4 family residential, commercial and industrial, and municipal lending. Yields on average balances increased by 43 bps, 45 bps, and 20 bps in the commercial, CRE and consumer portfolios, respectively. Much of the consumer growth was in consumer 1-4 family residential, where our yields are generally lower than on commercial loans. The federal funds target rate increased nine times beginning in the fourth quarter of 2015, which has had a positive impact on NIM and spreads, as our earning assets generally reprice more quickly than our funding sources. A portion of our variable-rate loans were not affected by these changes primarily due to longer reset frequency, or because a substantial portion of our earning assets are tied to longer-term rates indices, which rates were impacted by a relatively flat yield curve for much of 2018. Additionally, NIM benefited from FDIC-supported loans by 1 and 3 bps in 2018 and 2017, respectively. We expect moderate to strong growth in 1-4 family, municipal, commercial and industrial, and owner-occupied loans and stable-to-moderate growth in CRE and oil and gas-related loans.

Average noninterest-bearing demand deposits provided us with low-cost funding and comprised 45% of average total deposits, which totaled $53.2 billion in 2018, compared with 46% of average total deposits, which totaled $52.2 billion, for 2017. Average interest-bearing deposits increased 3% in 2018, compared with 2017. Over the past 12 months the Federal Reserve has increased the overnight benchmark federal funds rate by 100 bps, while the rate 

32
ZIONS BANCORPORATION, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

paid on the Bank’s interest-bearing deposits increased 25 bps, implying a deposit beta of 25%. We have been selectively increasing deposit pricing in certain markets and with certain clients, but we have not generally experienced significant pressure to broadly increase deposit rates. Although we consider a wide variety of sources when determining our funding needs, we benefit from access to deposits from a significant number of small to mid-sized business customers, which provide us with a low cost of funds and have a positive impact on our NIM. Including wholesale borrowings, the rate paid on interest-bearing liabilities increased 35 bps. 

The average balance of long-term debt increased $118 million compared with 2017, while the average rate decreased 58 bps. During the third quarter 2018, the Bank issued a $500 million senior note with an interest rate of 3.5%. Overall interest expense on long-term debt increased $4 million. The Bank has used short-term Federal Home Loan Bank (“FHLB”) borrowings to fund some of its balance sheet growth during the past couple of years. Average short-term debt grew $0.5 billion and the rate paid increased 88 bps. Further changes in short-term borrowings will be driven by balancing changes in deposits and loans as we do not foresee significant increases in investment security balances.

The spread on average interest-bearing funds was 3.28% in 2018 and 3.27% in 2017, respectively. The spread on average interest-bearing funds for these periods was affected by the same factors that had an impact on the NIM.

Interest rate spreads and margin are impacted by the mix of assets we hold, the composition of our loan and securities portfolios and the type of funding used. We expect the yield of the loan portfolio to increase somewhat due to the effects of rising interest rates in 2018, partially offset by a continued modest change in the mix of the portfolio (increasing concentration in lower-yielding residential mortgages), as well as reduced income from higher-yielding loans purchased from the FDIC in 2009.

Our estimates of the Bank’s interest rate risk position are highly dependent upon a number of assumptions regarding the repricing behavior of various deposit and loan types in response to changes in both short-term and long-term interest rates, balance sheet composition, and other modeling assumptions, as well as the actions of competitors and customers in response to those changes. Although the federal funds target rate has increased 225 bps since the fourth quarter of 2015, we have not experienced significant migration of our noninterest-bearing deposits which we attribute to the operating nature of many of our deposit accounts. Further detail on interest rate risk is discussed in “Interest Rate and Market Risk Management” on page 62. 

Refer to the “Liquidity Risk Management” section beginning on page 65 for more information on how we manage liquidity risk.

Net Interest Margin and Interest Rate Spreads in 2017 vs. 2016

The NIM was 3.45% and 3.37% for 2017 and 2016, respectively. Compared with 2016, changes in asset mix resulted in higher securities and loan balances, lower balances in money market investments, and higher balances of wholesale borrowings to fund overall balance sheet growth. Moving funds from money market investments to loans and securities had a positive impact on NIM. The NIM was also positively impacted by several increases in short-term interest rates. Average interest-earning assets increased $4.7 billion from 2016, with average rates improving 14 bps. Average interest-bearing liabilities increased $3.6 billion and average rates increased 8 bps over the same period.

The average loan portfolio increased $1.4 billion, or 3% from 2016, with the majority of growth coming from 1-4 family residential, commercial and industrial, and municipal lending. Yields on average balances increased overall, buoyed by increases of 16 bps and 26 bps in the commercial and CRE portfolios, respectively; yields on average consumer balances were relatively flat during 2017. Additionally, NIM benefited from FDIC-supported loans by approximately 3 bps and 4 bps in 2017 and 2016, respectively.

Average available-for-sale (“AFS”) securities balances increased $5.4 billion during 2017 and yields were also up 17 bps due to the effect of rising interest rates on variable-rate securities, moderation in the amount of prepayments on agency-guaranteed, mortgage-backed securities, and investment in products providing a higher yield than the 

33
ZIONS BANCORPORATION, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

average portfolio. The purchases were funded by using lower-yielding average money market investments, which were reduced by $2.1 billion, and wholesale borrowing from the FHLB. 

Average noninterest-bearing demand deposits provided us with low-cost funding and comprised 45.6% of average total deposits, which totaled $52.2 billion in 2017, compared with 44.4% of average total deposits, which totaled $50.6 billion, for 2016. Average interest-bearing deposits increased only 1% in 2017, compared with 2016. The average balance of long-term debt decreased $286 million compared with 2016 and the average rate increased 61 bps in the current year while interest expense decreased $13 million from 2016. The rate increased because the remaining debt was at a higher average rate than the rate on debt that matured and was available to be called.

The spread on average interest-bearing funds was 3.27% and 3.23% for 2017 and 2016, respectively. The spread on average interest-bearing funds for these periods was affected by the same factors that had an impact on the NIM. Refer to the “Liquidity Risk Management” section beginning on page 65 for more information on how we manage liquidity risk.

34
ZIONS BANCORPORATION, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

Schedule 5

AVERAGE BALANCE SHEETS, YIELDS AND RATES

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

1 Taxable-equivalent rates used where applicable. See “GAAP to Non-GAAP Reconciliations” on page 27 for more information regarding taxable-equivalent net interest income.

2 Net of unearned income and fees, net of related costs. Loans include nonaccrual and restructured loans.

35
ZIONS BANCORPORATION, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

36
ZIONS BANCORPORATION, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

Schedule 6 analyzes the year-to-year changes in net interest income on a fully taxable-equivalent basis for the years indicated. For purposes of calculating the yields in these schedules, the average loan balances also include the principal amounts of nonaccrual and restructured loans. However, interest received on nonaccrual loans is included in income only to the extent that cash payments have been received and not applied to principal reductions. In addition, interest on restructured loans is generally accrued at reduced rates.

Schedule 6 

ANALYSIS OF INTEREST CHANGES DUE TO VOLUME AND RATE 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

1 Taxable-equivalent rates used where applicable.

2 Net of unearned income and fees, net of related costs. Loans include nonaccrual and restructured loans.

In the analysis of interest changes due to volume and rate, changes due to the volume/rate variance are allocated to volume with the following exceptions: when volume and rate both increase, the variance is allocated proportionately to both volume and rate; when the rate increases and volume decreases, the variance is allocated to rate.

Provision for Credit Losses

The provision for credit losses is the combination of both the provision for loan losses and the provision for unfunded lending commitments. The provision for loan losses is the amount of expense that, in our judgment, is required to maintain the ALLL at an adequate level based on the inherent risks in the loan portfolio. The provision for unfunded lending commitments is used to maintain the reserve for unfunded lending commitments (“RULC”) at an adequate level based on the inherent risks associated with such commitments. In determining adequate levels of the ALLL and RULC, we perform periodic evaluations of our various loan portfolios, the levels of actual charge-offs, credit quality trends, and external factors. See Note 6 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and 

37
ZIONS BANCORPORATION, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

“Credit Risk Management” on page 52 for more information on how we determine the appropriate level for the ALLL and the RULC.

The provision for loan losses was $(39) million in 2018, compared with $24 million in 2017. Credit quality was strong throughout 2018, with continued significant improvement in the oil and gas-related portfolio. Classified and nonaccrual loans in the total portfolio declined by $435 million and $162 million, respectively. Net recoveries totaled $16 million in 2018, compared with $73 million in net charge-offs in 2017. These improvements in both credit quality and net charge-offs resulted in the lower provision.

The provision for unfunded lending commitments was $(1) million in 2018, compared with $(7) million in 2017. The change in the provision in 2018 from 2017 was primarily due to increased unfunded lending commitments, partially offset by credit quality improvements in the oil and gas-related portfolio. The negative provision in 2017 was primarily due to improved credit quality assessments related to obligations for credits outside the oil and gas-related portfolio, along with declining oil and gas-related exposure. From quarter to quarter, the provision for unfunded lending commitments may be subject to sizable fluctuations due to changes in the timing and volume of loan commitments, originations, fundings, and changes in credit quality.

The allowance for credit losses (“ACL”), which is the combination of both the ALLL and the RULC, decreased by $24 million during 2018. Strong credit quality in 2018, highlighted by improvement in the oil and gas-related portfolio, was responsible for much of this reduction. Further, increasing non-oil and gas-related commercial and industrial and 1-4 family residential mortgage exposure, also improved the risk profile of the total portfolio.

Noninterest Income

Noninterest income represents revenues we earn for products and services that have no associated interest rate or yield. Noninterest income accounted for 18% and 20% of total revenue during 2018 and 2017, respectively. For 2018, noninterest income was $552 million compared with $544 million in 2017 and $516 million in 2016.

During 2018, we experienced strength in corporate investment services and wealth management income, loan syndication fees, bankcard fees and merchant account fees while experiencing declines in deposit-related service charges and mortgage-related fees. The improvement in corporate investment services income was primarily due to increases in the revenue share received from the higher balances in money market mutual funds. Rising interest rates resulted in improved returns for money market mutual funds, thus driving the increase in balances. Deposit service charge income experienced slight resistance due, in part, to rising interest rates as discussed below. Rising interest rates also adversely impacted mortgage banking activity.

We believe a subtotal of customer-related fees provides a better view of income over which we have more direct control. It excludes items such as dividends, insurance-related income, mark-to-market adjustments on certain derivatives, and securities gains and losses.

38
ZIONS BANCORPORATION, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

Schedule 7 presents a comparison of the major components of noninterest income for the past three years.

Schedule 7 

NONINTEREST INCOME 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Service charges and fees on deposit accounts decreased by $5 million, or 3%, during 2018 and has been static or slightly decreasing for the last several years. A primary driver of the decline in service charges and fees was softening of high transaction volume customers. A secondary driver of this decline could be attributed to rising interest rates, which may influence increases in the earning credit rate due to customer expectations. The earnings credit rate (ECR) is a daily calculation of soft dollar credit that a bank pays on customer’s noninterest-bearing deposits on Account Analysis. This credit can be used to offset service charges on a customer’s analyzed account. As the ECR increases, customers offset more of their deposit service charges, thus the potential softening in noninterest income.

Other service charges, commissions and fees, which are comprised of automated teller machine (“ATM”) fees, insurance commissions, bankcard merchant fees, debit and credit card interchange fees, cash management fees, and other miscellaneous fees, increased by $11 million, or 5%, compared with 2017. The increase relates mainly to higher credit card interchange fees and exchange and other fees. In 2017 other service charges, commissions and fees increased by $9 million compared with 2016. The increase was primarily a result of the same items mentioned previously.

Wealth management and trust income increased by $9 million, or 21%. The change was due to trust income, with improvement in both corporate and personal trust revenue due to platform and product simplifications. Wealth management and trust income increased $5 million between 2017 and 2016 for the same reasons.

Securities gains, net, decreased $13 million during 2018 as a result of $13 million of increases in the market value of the Bank’s Small Business Investment Company (“SBIC”) investments in 2017 that did not reoccur to the same magnitude in 2018. Securities gains, net in 2017 increased from 2016 as a result of higher increases in the market values of the Bank’s SBIC investments.

Dividends and other investment income increased $16 million between 2017 and 2016, primarily due to $14 million of gains across many of our cost and equity method investments.

Loan sales and servicing income decreased $10 million between 2017 and 2016. During 2017, we ceased selling servicing-released mortgage loans to Freddie Mac, and therefore no longer received the associated servicing premiums for doing so, which decreased income by $11 million. In general, servicing income increased slightly in 2017. We also had particularly large valuation gains during 2016 on agricultural loan servicing assets accounted for at fair value, which did not repeat to the same extent in 2017.

39
ZIONS BANCORPORATION, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

Noninterest Expense

As mentioned previously, we delivered on our commitment to limit adjusted noninterest expense growth in 2018 to increase only slightly relative to our 2017 results. Both noninterest expense and adjusted noninterest expense were $1.7 billion in 2018 compared to $1.6 billion in both 2017 and 2016. Noninterest expense increased $29 million, or 2%, and adjusted noninterest expense increased $31 million, also 2%, in 2018. (see “GAAP to Non-GAAP Reconciliations” on page 27 for more information regarding the calculation of adjusted noninterest expense).

We have developed a culture that continually seeks to streamline and make more simple and efficient the processes required to operate. To this end, in 2018 we successfully completed the merger of the holding company with and into the bank subsidiary. The consolidation of our seven bank charters at the end of 2015 almost entirely eliminated the need for the holding company; the consolidation of the holding company into the bank reduced duplicative regulatory examinations and certain regulatory requirements. The Bank remains focused on expense control efforts, while continuing to invest in technology initiatives. 

Schedule 8 presents a comparison of the major components of noninterest expense for the past three years.

Schedule 8 

NONINTEREST EXPENSE

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Salaries and employee benefits increased by $64 million, or 6%, in 2018, compared with 2017. Salaries and employee benefits increased primarily due to a $29 million increase in base salaries resulting from salary increases related to the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, merit increases and increased headcount, and a $19 million increase in incentive compensation, of which $7 million relates to the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. The remaining $16 million increase was primarily a result of an $8 million increase in the Bank’s medical plans and a $7 million increase in the Bank’s contribution to the employee 401(k) plan, as a result of improved financial performance, including the profit sharing contribution which increased to 2.5% of eligible compensation in 2018 from 1.75% in 2017. Our investment in major systems projects has led to headcount increases in more highly compensated roles.

Salaries and employee benefits increased by $28 million, or 3%, in 2017, compared with 2016. Base salaries were up in 2017, as employee salary expense rose roughly in line with inflation. Employee bonuses were up, partially due to lower incentive compensation for management in 2016 and larger commission expense in 2017. Benefits expense increased $11 million, or 8%, in 2017, primarily due to higher costs in the Bank’s medical plans and an increase in profit sharing expense.

40
ZIONS BANCORPORATION, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

Schedule 9 

SALARIES AND EMPLOYEE BENEFITS

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Occupancy expense was up $3 million, or 2%, in 2018 primarily due to increased property taxes and depreciation expense, partially offset by increased rental income. Occupancy expense was up $4 million in 2017 when compared to 2016. We placed a newly constructed office building into operation during the first quarter of 2017 and increased rental income from higher occupancies of leased space began in the latter-half of 2017 and 2018.

Furniture and equipment expense decreased $4 million, or 3%, in 2018 primarily from decreased maintenance expense, partially offset by increased amortization of capitalized software. Furniture and equipment expense increased $5 million in 2017 mainly due to increased amortization expense. During 2017, we successfully implemented the first phase of the TCS BαNCS® core servicing system. The second phase of the Core Transformation Project, which replaces the Bank’s primary commercial lending systems, was deployed in the February of 2019 and we are in the process of finalizing the full implementation.

The provision for unfunded lending commitments was $(1) million in 2018 compared to $(7) million in 2017 and $(10) million in 2016, and is discussed previously in the Provision for Credit Losses section.

Professional and legal services decreased $5 million from 2017 to $52 million in 2018. The decrease was primarily a result of lower consulting fees related to our simplification and technology initiatives.

FDIC premiums were $50 million, $53 million, and $40 million, in 2018, 2017, and 2016, respectively. The decrease in 2018 is primarily due to the elimination of the FDIC surcharge for large banks because the required Deposit Insurance Fund reserve ratio has been met. The increase during 2017 when compared to 2016 was due to higher deposit bases and the FDIC’s increase in deposit insurance assessments that occurred in the third quarter of 2016. This increase during 2017 was somewhat offset by a reduction in the Bank’s overall rate resulting from the consolidation of the individual bank charters.

Other noninterest expense was $197 million in 2018, compared with $231 million in 2017. This decrease was primarily due to the one-time $12 million charitable contribution made at the end of 2017 and a decrease in employee and operational expenses resulting from the Bank’s simplification and efficiencies initiatives.

In October 2018, the Bank decided to terminate its pension plan subject to obtaining necessary regulatory approval. Completion of this termination is expected in early 2020. Plan participant benefits will not be disadvantaged because of this decision. At the time of final liquidation additional noninterest expense will be recognized for pension amounts remaining in other comprehensive income (“OCI”), as well as expense related to purchasing annuities for participants who elect that distribution method. As of December 31, 2018, the pension plan was overfunded by $19 million, compared with $14 million as of December 31, 2017. The qualified pension OCI balance at December 31, 2018 was a $27 million loss before adjusting for tax effects. The expense related to purchasing annuities is highly dependent on individual participant elections between lump-sum distribution options 

41
ZIONS BANCORPORATION, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

and an annuity option, in addition to market competitiveness in the annuity bid process. The current estimate of this expense is $5 million to $15 million, and is subject to change depending upon the previously mentioned factors.

Income Taxes

Income tax expense was $259 million in 2018, $344 million in 2017, and $236 million in 2016. Our effective income tax rates were 22.7% in 2018, 36.8% in 2017, and 33.5% in 2016. The income tax rates for all tax years were reduced by nontaxable municipal interest income and nontaxable income from certain bank-owned life insurance. The income tax rate for 2018 was positively impacted by the decrease in the corporate federal income tax rate to 21% from 35% due to the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, which was effective January 1, 2018. This rate benefit was partially reduced by the non-deductibility of FDIC premiums, certain executive compensation and other fringe benefits as enacted by the new tax law.

The tax rate for 2017 was also impacted by a one-time $18 million benefit to tax expense related to the reevaluation of state tax positions, an excess tax benefit of $9 million from the implementation of new accounting guidance related to share-based compensation, and an estimated net DTA write-off of $47 million through income tax expense associated with the decrease in the federal income tax rate from the passage of new legislation.

The Bank continued to invest in technology initiatives and increased investment in municipal securities during 2018, 2017, and 2016, generating tax credits and nontaxable income that benefited the tax rate each year.

We had a net DTA balance of $130 million at December 31, 2018, compared with $93 million at December 31, 2017. The increase in the net DTA resulted primarily from the increase in accrued compensation and unrealized losses in OCI related to securities, and the decrease in deferred tax liabilities related to the deferred gain on a prior period debt exchange. Net charge-offs exceeding the provision for loan losses, an increase in deferred loan fees and accelerated tax deductions on certain technology initiatives and depreciable property during 2018 offset some of the overall increase in DTA. We did not record any additional valuation allowance for GAAP purposes as of December 31, 2018.

Note 19 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements discloses more information about the Bank’s evaluation of its DTA, including any potential additional valuation allowances, and the impact of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act on the Bank.

Preferred Stock Dividends and Redemption

In 2018 preferred stock dividends were $34 million, a decrease of $6 million from $40 million in 2017. In 2017 preferred stock dividends decreased by $8 million from 2016. We completed tender offers of $144 million of Series F, and $118 million of Series I, J, and G in the second quarters of 2017, and 2016, respectively. Preferred dividends are expected to be $34 million for 2019. See further details in Note 13 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

BUSINESS SEGMENT RESULTS

We manage our operations and prepare management reports and other information with a primary focus on geographical area. Our banking operations are managed under their own individual brand names, including Zions Bank, Amegy Bank, California Bank & Trust, National Bank of Arizona (“NBAZ”), Nevada State Bank (“NSB”), Vectra Bank Colorado (“Vectra”), and The Commerce Bank of Washington (“TCBW”). Performance assessment and resource allocation are based upon this geographical structure. Most of the lending and other decisions affecting customers are made at the local level. The accounting policies of the individual segments are the same as those of the Bank. We allocate the cost of centrally provided services to the business segments based upon estimated or actual usage of those services. We also use an internal Funds Transfer Pricing (“FTP”) allocation system to report results of operations for business segments. This process is continually refined. The operating segment identified as “Other” includes certain nonbank financial service subsidiaries, centralized back-office functions, and eliminations of transactions between segments. See Note 21 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on the Other segment.

42
ZIONS BANCORPORATION, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

During 2018, our banking operations experienced improved financial performance when compared with 2017. Common areas of financial performance experienced at various levels of the segments include:

•increased loan balances across all geographies;

•improvements in credit quality resulted in reductions of the provision for loan losses; and

•growth in customer deposit balances across almost all segments.

Schedule 10 shows selected financial information for our business segments. Ratios are calculated based on amounts in thousands.

Schedule 10 

SELECTED SEGMENT INFORMATION

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

43
ZIONS BANCORPORATION, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Zions Bank 

Zions Bank is headquartered in Salt Lake City, Utah, and is primarily responsible for conducting operations in Utah, Idaho, and Wyoming. If it were a separately chartered bank, it would be the largest full-service commercial bank in Utah and the 4th largest in Idaho, as measured by domestic deposits in these states. 

Zions Bank’s income before income taxes increased by $35 million, or 10%, during 2018. The loan portfolio increased by $518 million during 2018, which consisted of an increase of $354 million in commercial loans and increases of $51 million and $113 million in CRE and consumer loans, respectively. The ratio of allowance for loan losses to net loans and leases increased to 1.07% at December 31, 2018 from 1.04% at December 31, 2017. Nonperforming lending-related assets declined 17% from the prior year due primarily to decreases in nonaccrual loans in the commercial owner-occupied portfolio. Deposits remained stable from 2017 to 2018.

Amegy Bank

Amegy Bank is headquartered in Houston, Texas. If it were a separately chartered bank, it would be the 9th largest full-service commercial bank in Texas as measured by domestic deposits in the state. 

Amegy’s income before income taxes increased by $143 million, or 60%, during 2018. The increase in income before income taxes is mainly due to a $100 million decrease in the provision for loan losses. Amegy has been able to achieve loan portfolio growth, resulting in a $100 million increase from the prior year. During 2018, commercial and CRE loans decreased by $42 million and $244 million, respectively, while consumer loans increased by $386 million. The credit quality of Amegy’s loan portfolio improved during 2018, mainly due to improvements in the oil and gas-related portfolio; the ratio of the ALLL to net loans and leases decreased to 1.67% at December 31, 2018 from 2.24% a year earlier. During 2018, nonperforming lending-related assets decreased $161 million, or 68%. Deposits increased by 5% from 2017 to 2018.

44
ZIONS BANCORPORATION, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

California Bank & Trust

California Bank & Trust is headquartered in San Diego, California. If it were a separately chartered bank, it would be the 15th largest full-service commercial bank in California as measured by domestic deposits. Its core business is built on relationship banking by providing commercial, real estate and consumer lending, depository services, international banking, cash management, and community development services.

CB&T’s income before income taxes increased by $35 million, or 13%, during 2018 primarily from an increase in net interest income due to loan growth. CB&T’s loan portfolio increased by $596 million in 2018 from the prior year. During 2018, CRE, commercial, and consumer loans increased by $43 million, $507 million, and $46 million, respectively. The credit quality of CB&T’s loan portfolio continues to be strong as the ratio of the ALLL to net loans for 2018 was 0.79%. Deposits decreased by 1% from 2017 to 2018.

National Bank of Arizona

National Bank of Arizona is headquartered in Phoenix, Arizona. If it were a separately chartered bank, it would be the 5th largest full-service commercial bank in Arizona as measured by domestic deposits in the state.

NBAZ’s income before income taxes increased by $6 million, or 6%, during 2018 due to increased net interest income from loan growth and improved fee revenue. The loan portfolio increased during 2018 by $232 million, composed of increases in commercial, consumer, and CRE loans of $70 million, $54 million, and $108 million, respectively. The credit quality of NBAZ’s loan portfolio remained strong, the ratio of ALLL to net loans and leases being 0.76% in 2018. Deposits increased by 3% from 2017 to 2018.

Nevada State Bank

Nevada State Bank is headquartered in Las Vegas, Nevada. If it were a separately chartered bank, it would be the 4th largest full-service commercial bank in Nevada as measured by domestic deposits in the state. NSB focuses on serving small and mid-sized businesses as well as retail consumers, with an emphasis on relationship banking.

In 2018, NSB’s income before income taxes increased by $5 million, or 12%. NSB’s loans increased by $146 million during 2018, including increases of $96 million in commercial loans, $43 million in CRE loans, and $7 million in consumer loans. The credit quality of NSB’s loan portfolio remained strong, and the ratio of the ALLL to net loans and leases was 0.61% at December 31, 2018. Deposits increased by 2% from 2017 to 2018.

Vectra Bank Colorado

Vectra Bank Colorado is headquartered in Denver, Colorado. If it were a separately a chartered bank, it would be the 11th largest full-service commercial bank in Colorado as measured by domestic deposits in the state.

In 2018, Vectra’s income before income taxes increased by $1 million, or 2%. During 2018, total loans increased by $249 million, including $123 million in commercial loans, $67 million in consumer loans, and $59 million in CRE loans. The credit quality of Vectra’s loan portfolio was strong, and the ratio of ALLL to net loans and leases was 0.99% at December 31, 2018. Deposits increased by 2% from 2017 to 2018.

The Commerce Bank of Washington

The Commerce Bank of Washington is headquartered in Seattle, Washington. It operates in Washington under The Commerce Bank of Washington name and in Portland, Oregon, under The Commerce Bank of Oregon name. Its business strategy focuses on serving the financial needs of commercial businesses, including professional services firms. TCBW has been successful in serving the greater Seattle/Puget Sound and Portland regions without requiring extensive investments in a traditional branch network. It has been innovative in effectively utilizing couriers, bank by mail, remote deposit image capture, and other technologies.

TCBW’s income before income taxes increased $7 million, or 24%, during 2018. The loan portfolio increased by $60 million, including increases of $94 million in commercial loans and $25 million in consumer loans, partially 

45
ZIONS BANCORPORATION, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

offset by a decrease of $59 million in CRE loans. Nonperforming lending-related assets decreased $2 million, and the ratio of ALLL to net loans and leases was at 0.98% in 2018. Deposits increased by 6% from 2017 to 2018.

BALANCE SHEET ANALYSIS

Interest-Earning Assets

Interest-earning assets are those assets that have interest rates or yields associated with them. One of our goals is to maintain a high level of interest-earning assets relative to total assets while keeping nonearning assets at a minimum. Interest-earning assets consist of money market investments, securities, loans, and leases.

Schedule 5, which we referenced in our discussion of net interest income, includes the average balances of our interest-earning assets, the amount of revenue generated by them, and their respective yields. Another goal is to maintain a higher-yielding mix of interest-earning assets, such as loans, relative to lower-yielding assets, while maintaining adequate levels of highly liquid assets. As a result of this goal we redeployed funds from lower-yielding money market investments, in addition to using wholesale borrowings, to purchase agency securities.

Average interest-earning assets were $62.4 billion in 2018 compared with $60.9 billion in the previous year. Average interest-earning assets as a percentage of total average assets were 94% in both 2018 and 2017.

Average loans were $45.4 billion in 2018 and $43.5 billion in 2017. Average loans as a percentage of total average assets were 68% in 2018 compared with 67% in 2017.

Average money market investments, consisting of interest-bearing deposits and federal funds sold and security resell agreements, decreased by 12% to $1.4 billion in 2018 compared with $1.5 billion in 2017. Average securities decreased by 1% from 2017. Average total deposits increased by 2%; average total loans also increased by 4% in 2018 when compared with 2017.

AVERAGE OUTSTANDING LOANS AND DEPOSITS 

(at December 31)

Investment Securities Portfolio

We invest in securities to actively manage liquidity and interest rate risk, in addition to generating revenue for the Bank. Refer to the “Liquidity Risk Management” section on page 65 for additional information on management of liquidity and funding. The following schedule presents a profile of our investment securities portfolio. The 

46
ZIONS BANCORPORATION, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

amortized cost amounts represent the original cost of the investments, adjusted for related accumulated amortization or accretion of any yield adjustments, and for impairment losses, including credit-related impairment. The estimated fair value measurement levels and methodology are discussed in Note 3 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

Schedule 11 

INVESTMENT SECURITIES PORTFOLIO

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The amortized cost of investment securities at December 31, 2018 decreased by 2% from the balance at December 31, 2017.

The investment securities portfolio includes $438 million of net premium that is distributed across various asset classes as illustrated in the preceding schedule. Premium amortization for 2018 was approximately $129 million, compared with approximately $125 million in 2017, reducing the yield on securities in those years by 92 bps in both 2018 and 2017. For more information on the accounting for premiums and discounts for investment securities see Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

As of December 31, 2018, under the GAAP fair value accounting hierarchy, 0.3% of the $14.7 billion fair value of the AFS securities portfolio was valued at Level 1, 99.7% was valued at Level 2, and there was no Level 3 AFS securities. At December 31, 2017, 1% of the $15.2 billion fair value of AFS securities portfolio was valued at Level 1, 99% was valued at Level 2, and there were no Level 3 AFS securities. See Note 3 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of fair value accounting.

Schedule 12 presents the maturities of the different types of investments that we owned and the corresponding average yields as of December 31, 2018 based on amortized cost. Expected maturities, rather than contractual maturities, are shown for SBA securities, agency guaranteed mortgage-backed securities, and certain agency and municipal securities. See “Liquidity Risk Management” on page 65 and Notes 1, 5 and 7 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information about our investment securities and their management.

47
ZIONS BANCORPORATION, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

Schedule 12 

MATURITIES AND AVERAGE YIELDS ON SECURITIES

At December 31, 2018

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

1 Taxable-equivalent rates used where applicable. 

Exposure to State and Local Governments

We provide multiple products and services to state and local governments (referred to collectively as “municipalities”), including deposit services, loans, and investment banking services, and we invest in securities issued by the municipalities.

Schedule 13 summarizes our exposure to state and local municipalities:

Schedule 13 

MUNICIPALITIES

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

At December 31, 2018, one municipal loan with a balance of $1 million was on nonaccrual. A significant amount of the municipal loan and lease portfolio is secured by real estate and equipment, and 75% of the outstanding credits were originated by CB&T, Zions Bank, and Vectra. See Note 6 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information about the credit quality of these municipal loans. 

48
ZIONS BANCORPORATION, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

Foreign Exposure and Operations

Our credit exposure to foreign sovereign risks and total foreign credit exposure is not significant. We also do not have significant foreign exposure to derivative counterparties. We had no foreign deposits at December 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017.

Loans Held for Sale

Loans held for sale were $93 million at December 31, 2018, compared with $44 million at December 31, 2017, and are generally consumer mortgage and small business loans to be sold in the secondary market. As of December 31, 2018, the majority of the loans held for sale consisted primarily of a small amount of commercial loans.

Loan Portfolio

As of December 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, net loans and leases accounted for 68% of total assets. Schedule 14 presents our loans outstanding by type of loan as of the five most recent year-ends. The schedule also includes a maturity profile for the loans that were outstanding as of December 31, 2018. However, while this schedule reflects the contractual maturity and repricing characteristics of these loans, in a small number of cases, we have hedged the repricing characteristics of our variable-rate loans as more fully described in “Interest Rate Risk” on page 62.

Schedule 14 

LOAN PORTFOLIO BY TYPE AND MATURITY

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

As of December 31, 2018, net loans and leases were $47 billion, reflecting a 4% increase from the prior year. The increase is primarily attributable to new loan originations.

49
ZIONS BANCORPORATION, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

Loan portfolio growth during 2018 was widespread across loan products and geographies with particular strength in consumer 1-4 family residential, commercial and industrial, municipal, and commercial owner-occupied loans. The growth in the loan portfolio was primarily at CB&T and Zions Bank.

Of the significant increases within the portfolio, consumer 1-4 family residential loans increased $514 million, commercial and industrial loans increased $510 million, municipal loans increased $390 million, and commercial owner-occupied loans increased $373 million. The impact of these increases was partially offset by a decrease of $164 million in our CRE term portfolio.

We expect moderate total loan and lease growth during 2019, primarily in consumer 1-4 family residential, municipal, commercial and industrial, and commercial owner-occupied (non-NRE). We expect stable to moderate growth in oil and gas and CRE loans, partially offset by a moderate decline in the National Real Estate (“NRE”) loan portfolio.

Loans serviced for the benefit of others increased to $3.9 billion during 2018 from $3.7 billion in 2017. 

Other Noninterest-Bearing Investments

During 2018, the Bank increased its short-term borrowings with the FHLB by $900 million. This increase required a further investment in FHLB activity stock, which consequently increased by $36 million during the year. Aside from this increase, other noninterest-bearing investments remained relatively stable as set forth in the following schedule. Schedule 15 summarizes our other noninterest-bearing investments.

Schedule 15 

OTHER NONINTEREST-BEARING INVESTMENTS

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Premises, Equipment and Software, Net

Net premises, equipment, and software increased $30 million, or 3%, from the prior year. The Bank continues to capitalize certain costs related to its technology initiatives, which has resulted in associated depreciation of approximately $2 million per quarter following the successful implementation, in 2017, of the first phase of our Core Transformation Project that replaced the Bank’s primary consumer lending systems. The second phase of the Core Transformation Project, which replaces the Bank’s primary commercial lending systems, was deployed in the February of 2019 and we are in the process of finalizing the full implementation. The replacement of the deposit system is expected to be the third phase of the Core Transformation Project, and is still in the preliminary stages of development. The total core replacement project spend amount is comprised of both capitalized amounts and amounts that are expensed as incurred. The useful life for most of the capitalized costs is 10 years. The following schedule shows the total amount of costs capitalized by phase for the Core Transformation Project.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

50
ZIONS BANCORPORATION, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

Deposits

Deposits, both interest-bearing and noninterest-bearing, are a primary source of funding for the Bank. Average total deposits increased by 2% during 2018, compared with 2017, with average interest-bearing deposits increasing by 3% and average noninterest-bearing deposits increasing by 0.2%. The average interest rate paid for interest-bearing deposits was 25 bps higher in 2018 compared with 2017.

Demand, savings, and money market deposits were 92% and 94% of total deposits at December 31, 2018, and December 31, 2017, respectively. At December 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, total deposits included $2.2 billion and $1.6 billion, respectively, of brokered deposits.

See Notes 11 and 12 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and “Liquidity Risk Management” on page 65 for additional information on funding and borrowed funds.

RISK ELEMENTS 

Since risk is inherent in substantially all of the Bank’s operations, management of risk is an integral part of its operations and is also a key determinant of its overall performance. The Board of Directors has appointed a Risk Oversight Committee (“ROC”) that consists of appointed Board members who oversee the Bank’s risk management processes. The ROC meets on a regular basis to monitor and review Enterprise Risk Management (“ERM”) policies and activities. As required by its charter, the ROC performs oversight for various ERM activities and approves ERM policies and activities as detailed in the ROC charter.

Management applies various strategies to reduce the risks to which the Bank’s operations are exposed, including credit, interest rate and market, liquidity, and operational risks. These risks are overseen by the various management committees of which the Enterprise Risk Management Committee is the focal point for the monitoring and review of enterprise risk. 

Credit Risk Management

Credit risk is the possibility of loss from the failure of a borrower, guarantor, or another obligor to fully perform under the terms of a credit-related contract. Credit risk arises primarily from our lending activities, as well as from off-balance sheet credit instruments.

The Board of Directors, through the ROC, is responsible for approving the overall credit policies relating to the management of the credit risk of the Bank. In addition, the ROC oversees and monitors adherence to key credit policies and the credit risk appetite as defined in the Risk Appetite Framework. Additionally, the Board has established the Credit Risk Committee, chaired by the Chief Credit Officer and consisting of members of management, to which it has delegated the responsibility for managing credit risk for the Bank and approving changes to the Bank’s credit policies.

Centralized oversight of credit risk is provided through credit policies, credit risk management, and credit examination functions. Our credit policies place emphasis on strong underwriting standards and early detection of potential problem credits in order to develop and implement action plans on a timely basis to mitigate any potential losses. These formal credit policies and procedures provide the Bank with a framework for consistent underwriting and a basis for sound credit decisions at the local banking affiliate level. Credit examinations related to the ACL are reported to both the Audit Committee and the ROC.

Our credit risk management function is separate from the lending function and strengthens control over, and the independent evaluation of, credit activities. In addition, we have a well-defined set of standards for evaluating our loan portfolio, and we utilize a comprehensive loan risk-grading system to determine the risk potential in the portfolio. Furthermore, the internal credit examination department, which is independent of the lending function, periodically conducts examinations of the Bank’s lending departments and credit activities. These examinations are designed to review credit quality, adequacy of documentation, appropriate loan risk-grading administration, and compliance with credit policies. New, expanded, or modified products and services, as well as new lines of business, are approved by the New Initiative Review Committee.

51
ZIONS BANCORPORATION, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

Our credit risk management strategy includes diversification of our loan portfolio. We attempt to avoid the risk of an undue concentration of credits in a particular collateral type or with an individual customer or counterparty. Generally, our loan portfolio is well diversified; however, due to the nature of our geographical footprint, there are certain significant concentrations primarily in CRE and oil and gas-related lending. We have adopted and adhere to concentration limits on leveraged lending, municipal lending, oil and gas-related lending, and various types of CRE lending, particularly construction and land development lending. All of these limits are continually monitored and revised as necessary. The recent growth in construction and land development loan commitments is within the established concentration limits. Our business activity is primarily with customers located within the geographical footprint of our banking affiliates.

As we continue to monitor our concentration risk, the composition of our loan portfolio has slightly changed. Total commercial loans were 52% of the total portfolio, compared with 51% at December 31, 2017. CRE loans declined to 24% of the total portfolio, compared with 25% at December 31, 2017. Consumer loans remained at 24% of the total loan portfolio at December 31, 2018 and 2017.

Schedule 16 

LOAN PORTFOLIO DIVERSIFICATION 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Government Agency Guaranteed Loans

We participate in various guaranteed lending programs sponsored by U.S. government agencies, such as the SBA, Federal Housing Authority, Veterans’ Administration, Export-Import Bank of the U.S., and the U.S. Department of Agriculture. As of December 31, 2018, the principal balance of these loans was $560 million, and the guaranteed portion of these loans was $425 million. Most of these loans were guaranteed by the SBA.

52
ZIONS BANCORPORATION, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

The following schedule presents the composition of government agency guaranteed loans.

Schedule 17 

GOVERNMENT GUARANTEES

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Commercial Lending

The following schedule provides selected information regarding lending concentrations to certain industries in our commercial lending portfolio.

Schedule 18 

COMMERCIAL LENDING BY INDUSTRY GROUP

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

1 At December 31, 2018 and 2017, 83% and 84% of retail trade consists of motor vehicle and parts dealers, gas stations, grocery stores, building material suppliers, and direct-to-consumer retailers, respectively. 

2 Includes primarily utilities, power, and renewable energy.

3 No other industry group exceeds 3.5%.

Commercial Real Estate Loans 

Selected information indicative of credit quality regarding our CRE loan portfolio is presented in the following schedule.

Schedule 19

COMMERCIAL REAL ESTATE PORTFOLIO BY LOAN TYPE AND COLLATERAL LOCATION

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

1 No other geography exceeds $89 million for all three loan types.

2 Delinquency rates include nonaccrual loans.

53
ZIONS BANCORPORATION, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

Approximately 13% of the CRE term loans consist of mini-perm loans as of December 31, 2018. For such loans, construction has been completed and the project has stabilized to a level that supports the granting of a mini-perm loan in accordance with our underwriting standards. Mini-perm loans generally have initial maturities of three to five years. The remaining 87% of CRE loans are term loans with initial maturities generally of 5 to 20 years. The stabilization criteria for a project to qualify for a term loan differ by product type and include criteria related to the cash flow generated by the project, loan-to-value ratio, and occupancy rates.

Approximately $134 million, or 9%, of the commercial construction and land development portfolio at December 31, 2018 consists of acquisition and development loans. Most of these acquisition and development loans are secured by specific retail, apartment, office, or other projects.

Underwriting on commercial properties is primarily based on the economic viability of the project with heavy consideration given to the creditworthiness and experience of the sponsor. We generally require that the owner’s equity be injected prior to bank advances. Remargining requirements (required equity infusions upon a decline in value or cash flow of the collateral) are often included in the loan agreement along with guarantees of the sponsor. Recognizing that debt is paid via cash flow, the projected cash flows of the project are critical in the underwriting because these determine the ultimate value of the property and its ability to service debt. Therefore, in most projects (with the exception of multifamily and hospitality construction projects), we require substantial pre-leasing/leasing in our underwriting and we generally require a minimum projected stabilized debt service coverage ratio of 1.20 or higher, depending on the project asset class. 

Within the residential construction and development sector, many of the requirements previously mentioned, such as creditworthiness and experience of the developer, up-front injection of the developer’s equity, principal curtailment requirements, and the viability of the project are also important in underwriting a residential development loan. Significant consideration is given to the forecasted market acceptance of the product, location, strength of the developer, and the ability of the developer to stay within budget. Progress inspections by qualified independent inspectors are routinely performed before disbursements are made.

Real estate appraisals are ordered in accordance with regulatory guidelines and are validated independently of the loan officer and the borrower, generally by our internal appraisal review function, which is staffed by licensed appraisers. In some cases, reports from automated valuation services are used or internal evaluations are performed. A new appraisal or evaluation is required when a loan deteriorates to a certain level of credit weakness.

Advance rates (i.e., loan commitments) will vary based on the viability of the project and the creditworthiness of the sponsor, but our guidelines generally limit advances to 50% for raw land, 65% for land development, 65% for finished commercial lots, 75% for finished residential lots, 80% for pre-sold homes, 75% for models and homes not under contract, and 75% for commercial properties. Exceptions may be granted on a case-by-case basis.

Loan agreements require regular financial information on the project and the sponsor in addition to lease schedules, rent rolls and, on construction projects, independent progress inspection reports. The receipt of this financial information is monitored, and calculations are made to determine adherence to the covenants set forth in the loan agreement.

The existence of a guarantee that improves the likelihood of repayment is taken into consideration when analyzing CRE loans for impairment. If the support of the guarantor is quantifiable and documented, it is included in the potential cash flows and liquidity available for debt repayment, and our impairment methodology takes this repayment source into consideration. 

When we modify or extend a loan, we also give consideration to whether the borrower is in financial difficulty, and whether we have granted a concession. In determining if an interest rate concession has been granted, we consider whether the interest rate on the modified loan is equivalent to current market rates for new debt with similar risk characteristics. If the rate in the modification is less than current market rates, it may indicate that a concession was granted and impairment exists. However, if additional collateral is obtained, or if a guarantor exists who has the 

54
ZIONS BANCORPORATION, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

capacity and willingness to support the loan on an extended basis, we also consider the nature and amount of the additional collateral and guarantees in the ultimate determination of whether a concession has been granted.

In general, we obtain and consider updated financial information for the guarantor as part of our determination to extend a loan. The quality and frequency of financial reporting collected and analyzed varies depending on the contractual requirements for reporting, the size of the transaction, and the strength of the guarantor.

Complete underwriting of the guarantor includes, but is not limited to, an analysis of the guarantor’s current financial statements, leverage, liquidity, global cash flow, global debt service coverage, contingent liabilities, etc. The assessment also includes a qualitative analysis of the guarantor’s willingness to perform in the event of a problem and demonstrated history of performing in similar situations. Additional analysis may include personal financial statements, tax returns, liquidity (brokerage) confirmations, and other reports, as appropriate.

A qualitative assessment is performed on a case-by-case basis to evaluate the guarantor’s experience, performance track record, reputation, and willingness to work with us. We also utilize market information sources, rating, and scoring services in our assessment. This qualitative analysis coupled with a documented quantitative ability to support the loan may result in a higher-quality internal loan grade, which may reduce the level of allowance we estimate. Previous documentation of the guarantor’s financial ability to support the loan is discounted if there is any indication of a lack of willingness by the guarantor to support the loan.

In the event of default, we evaluate the pursuit of any and all appropriate potential sources of repayment, which may come from multiple sources, including the guarantee. A number of factors are considered when deciding whether or not to pursue a guarantor, including, but not limited to, the value and liquidity of other sources of repayment (collateral), the financial strength and liquidity of the guarantor, possible statutory limitations (e.g., single action rule on real estate) and the overall cost of pursuing a guarantee compared with the ultimate amount we may be able to recover. In other instances, the guarantor may voluntarily support a loan without any formal pursuit of remedies.

A decrease in oil and gas prices could potentially produce an adverse impact on our CRE loan portfolio within Texas. However, based upon generally strong equity and cash flow coverage levels, and sponsor support for the various properties, we do not expect a material amount of losses within this portfolio in 2019. Our largest CRE credit exposures in Texas are to the multi-family, office, and retail sectors. At December 31, 2018, the CRE loan portfolio mix in Texas was 71% commercial term, 17% commercial construction, 10% residential construction, and 2% land development.

Consumer Loans

We have mainly been an originator of first and second mortgages, generally considered to be of prime quality. We generally hold variable-rate loans in our portfolio and sell “conforming” fixed-rate loans to third parties, including Federal National Mortgage Association and Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation, for which we make representations and warranties that the loans meet certain underwriting and collateral documentation standards.

We are engaged in Home Equity Credit Line (“HECL”) lending. At December 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, our HECL portfolio totaled $2.9 billion and $2.8 billion, respectively. The following schedule describes the composition of our HECL portfolio by lien status.

Schedule 20

HECL PORTFOLIO BY LIEN STATUS

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

55
ZIONS BANCORPORATION, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

At December 31, 2018, loans representing less than 1% of the outstanding balance in the HECL portfolio were estimated to have combined loan-to-value ratios (“CLTV”) above 100%. An estimated CLTV ratio is the ratio of our loan plus any prior lien amounts divided by the estimated current collateral-value. At origination, underwriting standards for the HECL portfolio generally include a maximum 80% CLTV with high credit scores at origination.

Approximately 89% of our HECL portfolio is still in the draw period, and approximately 18% of those loans are scheduled to begin amortizing within the next five years. We regularly analyze the risk of borrower default in the event of a loan becoming fully amortizing and the risk of higher interest rates. The analysis indicates that the risk of loss from this factor is minimal in the current economic environment. The ratio of net charge-offs to average balances at year-end 2018 and 2017 for the HECL portfolio was (0.02)%. See Note 6 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the credit quality of this portfolio.

Nonperforming Assets

Nonperforming assets as a percentage of loans and leases and other real estate owned (“OREO”) decreased to 0.55% at December 31, 2018, compared with 0.93% at December 31, 2017.

Total nonaccrual loans at December 31, 2018 decreased to $252 million from $414 million at December 31, 2017, primarily in the commercial and industrial loan portfolio. However, nonaccrual loans slightly increased in the commercial real estate term loan portfolio. The largest total decrease in nonaccrual loans occurred at Amegy, mainly due to improvements in the oil and gas-related portfolio.

The balance of nonaccrual loans can decrease due to paydowns, charge-offs, and the return of loans to accrual status under certain conditions. If a nonaccrual loan is refinanced or restructured, the new note is immediately placed on nonaccrual. If a restructured loan performs under the new terms for at least a period of six months, the loan can be considered for return to accrual status. See “Restructured Loans” following for more information. Bank policy does not allow for the conversion of nonaccrual construction and land development loans to CRE term loans. See Note 6 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on nonaccrual loans.

56
ZIONS BANCORPORATION, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

The following schedule presents our nonperforming assets:

Schedule 21

NONPERFORMING ASSETS

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

1 Includes loans held for sale.

Restructured Loans

Troubled debt restructurings (“TDRs”) are loans that have been modified to accommodate a borrower who is experiencing financial difficulties, and for whom we have granted a concession that we would not otherwise consider. TDRs decreased $24 million, or 11%, during 2018, primarily due to payments and payoffs. Commercial loans may be modified to provide the borrower more time to complete the project, to achieve a higher lease-up percentage, to sell the property, or for other reasons. Consumer loan TDRs represent loan modifications in which a concession has been granted to the borrower who is unable to refinance the loan with another lender, or who is experiencing economic hardship. Such consumer loan TDRs may include first-lien residential mortgage loans and home equity loans.

57
ZIONS BANCORPORATION, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

If the restructured loan performs for at least six months according to the modified terms, and an analysis of the customer’s financial condition indicates that we are reasonably assured of repayment of the modified principal and interest, the loan may be returned to accrual status. The borrower’s payment performance prior to and following the restructuring is taken into account to determine whether a loan should be returned to accrual status.

Schedule 22 

ACCRUING AND NONACCRUING TROUBLED DEBT RESTRUCTURED LOANS

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

In the periods following the calendar year in which a loan was restructured, a loan may no longer be reported as a TDR if it is on accrual, is in compliance with its modified terms, and yields a market rate (as determined and documented at the time of the modification or restructure). See Note 6 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding TDRs.

Schedule 23

TROUBLED DEBT RESTRUCTURED LOANS ROLLFORWARD

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Allowance for Credit Losses

In analyzing the adequacy of the ALLL, we utilize a comprehensive loan grading system to determine the risk potential in the portfolio and also consider the results of independent internal credit reviews. To determine the adequacy of the allowance, our loan and lease portfolio is broken into segments based on loan type.

58
ZIONS BANCORPORATION, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

The following schedule shows the changes in the allowance for loan losses and a summary of loan loss experience:

Schedule 24

SUMMARY OF LOAN LOSS EXPERIENCE

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Schedule 25

ALLOCATION OF THE ALLOWANCE FOR LOAN LOSSES

At December 31,

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The total ALLL decreased by $23 million during 2018, primarily as a result of continued credit quality improvements in the total loan portfolio.

The RULC represents a reserve for potential losses associated with off-balance sheet commitments and standby letters of credit. The reserve is separately shown in the balance sheet and any related increases or decreases in the 

59
ZIONS BANCORPORATION, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

reserve are shown separately in the statement of income. At December 31, 2018, the reserve decreased by $1 million, compared with December 31, 2017, also as a result of credit quality improvements in the total loan portfolio.

See Note 6 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information related to the ACL and credit trends experienced in each portfolio segment.

Interest Rate and Market Risk Management 

Interest rate and market risk are managed centrally. Interest rate risk is the potential for reduced net interest income and other rate sensitive income resulting from adverse changes in the level of interest rates. Market risk is the potential for loss arising from adverse changes in the fair value of fixed income securities, equity securities, other earning assets, and derivative financial instruments as a result of changes in interest rates or other factors. As a financial institution that engages in transactions involving an array of financial products, we are exposed to both interest rate risk and market risk.

The Bank’s Board of Directors is responsible for approving the overall policies relating to the management of the financial risk of the Bank, including interest rate and market risk management. The Board has established ALCO consisting of members of management, to which it has delegated the responsibility of managing interest rate and market risk for the Bank. ALCO establishes and periodically revises policy limits and reviews with the ROC the limits and limit exceptions reported by management.

Interest Rate Risk

Interest rate risk is one of the most significant risks to which we are regularly exposed. In general, our goal in managing interest rate risk is to manage the balance sheet to reduce net income volatility due to changes in interest rates.

Over the course of the last year, we have maintained a moderate level of asset-sensitivity as the market rates seemed more likely to increase than to decrease. As risks shifted at the end of the year to be more balanced between higher or lower rates in the future, ALCO has undertaken strategies to reduce the level of asset sensitivity, such as entering into rate floor agreements and increasing the use of interest rate swaps designated as cash flow hedges to synthetically convert floating-rate assets to fixed-rate. We anticipate moving towards a less asset-sensitive interest rate risk position over the course of 2019.

Interest Rate Risk Measurement

We monitor interest rate risk through the use of two complementary measurement methods: net interest income simulation, or Earnings at Risk (“EaR”), and Economic Value of Equity at Risk (“EVE”). EaR analyzes the expected change in near term (one year) net interest income in response to changes in interest rates. In the EVE method, we measure the expected changes in the fair value of equity in response to changes in interest rates.

EaR is an estimate of the change in total net interest income that would be recognized under different rate environments over a one-year period. EaR is measured simulating net interest income under several different scenarios including parallel and nonparallel interest rate shifts across the yield curve, taking into account deposit repricing assumptions and estimates of the possible exercise of embedded options within the portfolio (e.g., a borrower’s ability to refinance a loan under a lower-rate environment). Our policy contains a trigger for a 10% decline in rate-sensitive income as well as a risk capacity of a 13% decline if rates were to immediately rise or fall in parallel by 200 bps. As of December 31, 2018 the EaR declined by 12% for a 200 bps decline in rates. This trigger violation informed our decision to move to a less asset-sensitive position throughout 2019.

EVE is calculated as the fair value of all assets minus the fair value of liabilities. We measure changes in the dollar amount of EVE for parallel shifts in interest rates. Due to embedded optionality and asymmetric rate risk, changes in EVE can be useful in quantifying risks not apparent for small rate changes. Examples of such risks may include out-of-the-money interest rate caps (or limits) on loans, which have little effect under small rate movements but may become important if large rate changes were to occur, or substantial prepayment deceleration for low-rate mortgages 

60
ZIONS BANCORPORATION, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

in a higher-rate environment. Our policy contains a trigger for an 8% decline in EVE as well as a risk capacity of a 10% decline if rates were to immediately rise or fall in parallel by 200 bps. Exceptions to the EVE limits are subject to notification and approval by the ROC.

Estimating the impact on net interest income and EVE requires that we assess a number of variables and make various assumptions in managing our exposure to changes in interest rates. The assessments address deposit withdrawals and deposit product migration (e.g., customers moving money from checking accounts to certificates of deposit), competitive pricing (e.g., existing loans and deposits are assumed to roll into new loans and deposits at similar spreads relative to benchmark interest rates), loan and security prepayments, and the effects of other similar embedded options. As a result of uncertainty about the maturity and repricing characteristics of both deposits and loans, we also calculate the sensitivity of EaR and EVE results to key assumptions. As most of our liabilities are comprised of indeterminate maturity and managed rate deposits, the modeled results are highly sensitive to the assumptions used for these deposits, such as checking, savings and money market accounts, and also to prepayment assumptions used for loans with prepayment options. We use historical regression analysis as a guide for setting such assumptions; however, due to the current low interest rate environment, which has little historical precedent, estimated deposit behavior may not reflect actual future results. Additionally, competition for funding in the marketplace has and may again result in changes to deposit pricing on interest-bearing accounts that are greater or less than changes in benchmark interest rates such as LIBOR or the federal funds rate.

Under most rising interest rate environments, we would expect some customers to move balances from demand deposits to interest-bearing accounts such as money market, savings, or certificates of deposit. The models are particularly sensitive to the assumption about the rate of such migration.

In addition, we assume certain correlation rates, often referred to as a “deposit beta,” of interest-bearing deposits, wherein the rates paid to customers change at a different pace when compared to changes in benchmark interest rates. Generally, certificates of deposit are assumed to have a high correlation rate, while interest-on-checking accounts are assumed to have a lower correlation rate. Actual results may differ materially due to factors including competitive pricing, money supply, credit worthiness of the Bank, and so forth; however, we use our historical experience as well as industry data to inform our assumptions. 

The aforementioned migration and correlation assumptions result in deposit durations presented in Schedule 26.

Schedule 26 

DEPOSIT ASSUMPTIONS

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

As of the dates indicated and incorporating the assumptions previously described, the following schedule shows EaR, or percentage change in net interest income, based on a static balance sheet size, in the first year after the interest rate change if interest rates were to sustain immediate parallel changes ranging from -100 bps to +300 bps.

61
ZIONS BANCORPORATION, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

Schedule 27 

INCOME SIMULATION – CHANGE IN NET INTEREST INCOME

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

1 Assumes rates cannot go below zero in the negative rate shift.

For non-maturity interest-bearing deposits, the weighted average modeled beta is 46%. If the weighted average deposit beta increased to 56% it would decrease the EaR in the +200bp shock from 5.1% to 2.8%.

The EaR analysis focuses on parallel rate shocks across the term structure of rates. The yield curve typically does not move in a parallel manner. During the past year, an increase in short-term rates has led to a flatter yield curve as longer-term rates have not increased at the same pace as short-term rates. If we consider a flattening rate shock where the short-term rate moves +200bp but the ten-year rate only moves +30bp, the increase in earnings is 43% lower over 12 months compared with the parallel +200bp rate shock.

For comparative purposes, the December 31, 2017 measures as presented in the following schedule.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

1 Assumes rates cannot go below zero in the negative rate shift.

The asset-sensitivity as measured by EaR increased slightly year-over-year due to changes in the investment securities and funding compositions.

Schedule 28

CHANGES IN ECONOMIC VALUE OF EQUITY

As of the dates indicated, the following schedule shows our estimated percentage change in EVE under parallel interest rate changes ranging from -100 bps to +300 bps. For non-maturity interest-bearing deposits, the weighted average modeled beta is 46%. If the weighted average deposit beta increased to 56% it would decrease the EVE in the +200bp shock from -5.6% to -7.7%.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

1 Assumes rates cannot go below zero in the negative rate shift.

For comparative purposes, the December 31, 2017 measures are presented in the following schedule. The changes in EVE measures from December 31, 2017 are driven by increases in interest rates which increase the expected life of certain assets and decrease the expected life of certain liabilities.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

1 Assumes rates cannot go below zero in the negative rate shift.

62
ZIONS BANCORPORATION, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

Our focus on business banking also plays a significant role in determining the nature of the Bank’s asset-liability management posture. At December 31, 2018, $20.4 billion of the Bank’s commercial lending and CRE loan balances were scheduled to reprice in the next six months. Of these variable-rate loans approximately 98% are tied to either the prime rate or LIBOR. For these variable-rate loans we have executed $688 million of cash flow hedges by receiving fixed rates on interest rate swaps. Additionally, asset-sensitivity is reduced due to $48 million of variable-rate loans being priced at floored rates at December 31, 2018, which were above the “index plus spread” rate by an average of 74 bps. At December 31, 2018, we also had $3.3 billion of variable-rate consumer loans scheduled to reprice in the next six months. Of these variable-rate consumer loans approximately $9 million were priced at floored rates, which were above the “index plus spread” rate by an average of 81 bps.

See Notes 3 and 7 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding derivative instruments. 

Market Risk – Fixed Income

We engage in the underwriting and trading of municipal securities. This trading activity exposes us to a risk of loss arising from adverse changes in the prices of these fixed income securities.

At December 31, 2018, we had a relatively small amount, $106 million, of trading assets and $85 million of securities sold, not yet purchased, compared with $148 million and $95 million, respectively, at December 31, 2017.

We are exposed to market risk through changes in fair value. We are also exposed to market risk for interest rate swaps used to hedge interest rate risk. Changes in the fair value of AFS securities and in interest rate swaps that qualify as cash flow hedges are included in AOCI for each financial reporting period. During 2018, the after-tax change in AOCI attributable to AFS securities decreased by $114 million, due largely to changes in the interest rate environment, compared with a $22 million decrease in the same prior year period. 

Market Risk – Equity Investments

Through our equity investment activities, we own equity securities that are publicly-traded. In addition, we own equity securities in companies and governmental entities, e.g., Federal Reserve Bank and an FHLB, that are not publicly-traded. The accounting for equity investments may use the cost, fair value, equity, or full consolidation methods of accounting, depending on our ownership position and degree of involvement in influencing the investees’ affairs. Regardless of the accounting method, the value of our investment is subject to fluctuation. Because the fair value of these securities may fall below our investment costs, we are exposed to the possibility of loss. Equity investments in private and public companies are approved, monitored, and evaluated by the Bank’s Equity Investments Committee consisting of members of management.

We hold both direct and indirect investments in predominantly pre-public companies, primarily through various SBIC venture capital funds. Our equity exposure to these investments was approximately $132 million and $127 million at December 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively. On occasion, some of the companies within our SBIC investments may issue an initial public offering. In this case, the fund is generally subject to a lockout period before liquidating the investment, which can introduce additional market risk. 

Liquidity Risk Management

Overview

Liquidity refers to our capacity to meet our cash and collateral obligations and to manage both expected and unexpected cash flows without adversely impacting the operations or financial strength of the Bank. Sources of liquidity include both traditional forms of funding, such as deposits, borrowings, and equity and unencumbered assets, such as marketable loans and securities.

Since liquidity risk is closely linked to both credit risk and market risk, many of the previously discussed risk control mechanisms also apply to the monitoring and management of liquidity risk. We manage our liquidity to provide adequate funds for our customers’ credit needs, capital plan actions, anticipated financial and contractual obligations, which include withdrawals by depositors, debt and capital service requirements, and lease obligations.

63
ZIONS BANCORPORATION, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

Overseeing liquidity management is the responsibility of ALCO, which implements a Board-approved corporate Liquidity and Funding Policy. This policy addresses monitoring and maintaining adequate liquidity, diversifying funding positions, and anticipating future funding needs. The policy also includes liquidity ratio guidelines, such as a 30-day liquidity coverage ratio, that are used to monitor the liquidity positions of the Bank as well as various stress test and liquid asset measurements for the Bank.

The management of liquidity and funding is performed by the Treasury Department under the direction of the Corporate Treasurer, with oversight by ALCO. The Treasurer is responsible for recommending changes to existing funding plans, as well as to the Bank’s Liquidity Policy. These recommendations must be submitted for approval to ALCO, and changes to the Policy also must be approved by the Bank’s ERMC and the Board of Directors. The Bank has adopted policy limits that govern liquidity risk. The policy requires the Bank to maintain a buffer of highly liquid assets sufficient to cover cash outflows in the event of a severe liquidity crisis. Throughout 2018 and as of December 31, 2018, the Bank complied with this policy.

Liquidity Regulation

Upon passage of the Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief, and Consumer Protection Act, the Bank is no longer subject to the Enhanced Prudential Standards for liquidity management (Reg. YY). However, the Bank continues to perform liquidity stress tests and assess its portfolio of highly liquid assets (sufficient to cover 30-day funding needs under the stress scenarios). Although the Bank is no longer subject to the regulations of the Final LCR Rule, it exceeds the regulatory requirements that mandates a buffer of securities and other liquid assets to cover 70% of 30-day cash outflows under the assumptions mandated therein.

Liquidity Management Actions

The Bank’s consolidated cash, interest-bearing deposits held as investments, and security resell agreements was $2.4 billion at December 31, 2018 compared to $1.6 billion at December 31, 2017. During 2018 the primary sources of cash were from (1) a net increase in deposits, (2) net cash provided by operating activities, (3) short-term borrowings, (4) a net decrease in investment securities, and (5) the issuance of long-term debt. The primary uses of cash during the same period were primarily from (1) loan originations, (2) repurchases of our common stock, and (3) dividends on common and preferred stock.

The Bank’s loan to total deposit ratio has remained consistent and was 86% at December 31, 2018 compared with 85% at December 31, 2017. The Bank’s core deposits, consisting of noninterest-bearing demand deposits, savings and money market deposits, and time deposits under $250,000, was $51.2 billion at December 31, 2018 compared with $50.7 billion at December 31, 2017.

Total deposits were $54.1 billion at December 31, 2018, compared with $52.6 billion at December 31, 2017. The increase during 2018 was a result of a $1.2 billion and $0.5 billion increase in time deposits and savings and money market, respectively, partially offset by a $241 million decrease in noninterest-bearing deposits.

During 2018, the Bank issued a $500 million senior note with an interest rate of 3.5% and a maturity date of August 27, 2021. At December 31, 2018, maturities of our long-term senior and subordinated debt ranged from August 2021 to September 2028. Also, during 2018, the Bank called and redeemed $162 million of 5.65% subordinated notes maturing November 15, 2023.

The Bank’s cash payments for interest, reflected in operating expenses, increased to $237 million during 2018 from $118 million during 2017 primarily due to an increase in deposits, short-term borrowings, and long-term debt and an increase in interest rates. Additionally, the Bank paid approximately $236 million of total dividends on preferred stock and common stock during 2018 compared with $129 million during 2017. Dividends paid per common share have increased gradually from $0.12 in the third quarter of 2017 to $0.30 in the fourth quarter of 2018. In February 2019, the Board approved a quarterly common dividend of $0.30 per share.

General financial market and economic conditions impact our access to, and cost of, external financing. Access to funding markets for the Bank is also directly affected by the credit ratings received from various rating agencies. 

64
ZIONS BANCORPORATION, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

The ratings not only influence the costs associated with the borrowings, but can also influence the sources of the borrowings. All of the credit rating agencies rate the Bank’s debt at an investment-grade level. The Bank’s credit ratings have continued to improve during 2018 and are presented in the following schedule.

CREDIT RATINGS

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The FHLB system and Federal Reserve Banks have been and are a source of back-up liquidity, and from time to time, have been a significant source of funding. Zions Bancorporation, N.A. is a member of the FHLB of Des Moines. The FHLB allows member banks to borrow against their eligible loans and securities to satisfy liquidity and funding requirements. The Bank is required to invest in FHLB and Federal Reserve stock to maintain their borrowing capacity.

At December 31, 2018, the amount available for additional FHLB and Federal Reserve borrowings was approximately $13.8 billion, compared with $14.7 billion at December 31, 2017. Loans with a carrying value of approximately $22.6 billion at December 31, 2018 have been pledged at the FHLB of Des Moines and the Federal Reserve as collateral for current and potential borrowings compared with $25.6 billion at December 31, 2017. At December 31, 2018, we had $4.5 billion of short-term FHLB borrowings outstanding and no long-term FHLB or Federal Reserve borrowings outstanding, compared with $3.6 billion of short-term FHLB borrowings and no long-term FHLB or Federal Reserve borrowings outstanding at December 31, 2017. At December 31, 2018, our total investment in FHLB and Federal Reserve stock was $190 million and $139 million, respectively, compared with $154 million and $184 million at December 31, 2017.

Our investment activities can provide or use cash, depending on the asset-liability management posture taken. During 2018, held-to-maturity (“HTM”) and AFS investment securities’ activities resulted in a net decrease in investment securities and a net $130 million increase in cash, compared with a net $2.2 billion decrease in cash for 2017. 

Maturing balances in the Bank’s loan portfolios also provide additional flexibility in managing cash flows. Lending activity during 2018 resulted in a net cash outflow of $1.9 billion compared with a net cash outflow of $2.1 billion during 2017.

During 2018, we paid income taxes of $207 million, compared to $246 million during 2017.

We may also, from time to time, issue additional preferred stock, senior or subordinated notes or other forms of capital or debt instruments, depending on our capital, funding, asset-liability management or other needs as market conditions warrant and subject to any required regulatory approvals. Management believes that the sources of available liquidity are adequate to meet all reasonably foreseeable short-term and intermediate-term demands.

65
ZIONS BANCORPORATION, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

Contractual Obligations

Schedule 29 summarizes our contractual obligations at December 31, 2018.

Schedule 29 

CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

1 Indeterminable maturity deposits include noninterest-bearing demand, savings and money market. Unrecognized tax benefits also have an indeterminable maturity.

2 Commitments to make venture and other noninterest-bearing investments do not have defined maturity dates. They have therefore been considered due on demand, maturing in one year or less.

In addition to the commitments specifically noted in Schedule 29, we enter into a number of contractual commitments in the ordinary course of business. These include software licensing and maintenance, telecommunications services, facilities maintenance and equipment servicing, supplies purchasing, and other goods and services used in the operation of our business. Some of these contracts are renewable or cancelable at least annually, and in certain cases, to secure favorable pricing concessions, we have committed to contracts that may extend to several years.

We also enter into derivative contracts under which we are required either to receive or pay cash, depending on changes in interest rates. These contracts are carried at fair value on the balance sheet with the fair value representing the net present value of the expected future cash receipts and payments based on market rates of interest. The fair value of the contracts changes daily as interest rates change. See Note 7 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on derivative contracts.

Operational Risk Management

Operational risk is the risk to current or anticipated earnings or capital arising from inadequate or failed internal processes or systems, human errors or misconduct, or adverse external events. In our ongoing efforts to identify and manage operational risk, we have an ERM department whose responsibility is to help employees, management and the Board of Directors to assess, understand, measure, manage, and monitor risk in accordance with our Risk Appetite Framework. We have documented both controls and the Control Self-Assessment related to financial reporting under the 2013 framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (“COSO”) and the FDICIA.

To manage and minimize our operational risk, we have in place transactional documentation requirements; systems and procedures to monitor transactions and positions; systems and procedures to detect and mitigate attempts to commit fraud, penetrate our systems or telecommunications, access customer data, and/or deny normal access to 

66
ZIONS BANCORPORATION, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

those systems to our legitimate customers; regulatory compliance reviews; and periodic reviews by the Bank’s Compliance Risk Management, Internal Audit and Credit Examination departments. Reconciliation procedures have been established to ensure that data processing systems consistently and accurately capture critical data. In addition, the Data Governance department has key governance surrounding data integrity and availability oversight. Further, we have key programs and procedures to maintain contingency and business continuity plans for operational support in the event of natural or other disasters. We also mitigate certain operational risks through the purchase of insurance, including errors and omissions and professional liability insurance.

We are continually improving our oversight of operational risk, including enhancement of risk identification, risk and control self-assessments, and antifraud measures, which are reported on a regular basis to enterprise management committees. The Operational Risk Committee reports to the ERMC, which reports to the ROC. Key measures have been established to increase oversight by ERM and Operational Risk Management through the strengthening of new initiative reviews, enhancements to the Enterprise Procurement and Third Party Risk Management framework, enhancements to the Business Continuity and Disaster Recovery programs and Enterprise Security programs, and the establishment of Fraud Risk Oversight, Incident Response Oversight and Technology Project Oversight programs. Significant enhancements have also been made to governance, technology, and reporting, including the establishment of Policy and Committee Governance programs, the implementation of a governance, risk and control solution, and the creation of an Enterprise Risk Profile and an Operational Risk Profile along with business line risk profiles. In addition, the establishment of an Enterprise Exam Management department has standardized our response and reporting, and increased our effectiveness and efficiencies with regulatory examinations, communications and issues management.

The number and sophistication of attempts to disrupt or penetrate our critical systems, sometimes referred to as hacking, cyber fraud, cyber attacks, cyber terrorism, or other similar names, also continue to grow. Given the importance and increasing sophistication of cyber attacks, the Bank has designated cyber risk a level one risk in its risk taxonomy, which places it at the highest level of oversight with its other top risks.

CAPITAL MANAGEMENT

Overview

The Board of Directors is responsible for approving the policies associated with capital management. The Board has established the Capital Management Committee (“CMC”), chaired by the Chief Financial Officer and consisting of members of management, whose primary responsibility is to recommend and administer the approved capital policies that govern the capital management of the Bank. Other major CMC responsibilities include:

•Setting overall capital targets within the Board-approved capital policy, monitoring performance compared to the Bank’s Capital Policy limits, and recommending changes to capital including dividends, common stock repurchases, subordinated debt, and changes in major strategies to maintain the Bank at well-capitalized levels;

•Maintaining an adequate capital cushion to withstand adverse stress events while continuing to meet the borrowing needs of its customers, and to provide reasonable assurance of continued access to wholesale funding, consistent with fiduciary responsibilities to depositors and bondholders; and

•Reviewing agency ratings of the Bank.

The Bank has a fundamental financial objective to consistently produce superior risk-adjusted returns on its shareholders’ capital. We believe that a strong capital position is vital to continued profitability and to promoting depositor and investor confidence. Specifically, it is the policy of the Bank to:

•Maintain sufficient capital to support current needs;

•Maintain an adequate capital cushion to withstand future adverse stress events while continuing to meet borrowing needs of its customers; and

•Meet fiduciary responsibilities to depositors and bondholders while managing capital distributions to shareholders through dividends and repurchases of common stock so as to be consistent with Federal Reserve guidelines SR 09-04 and 12 U.S.C §§ 56 and 60.

67
ZIONS BANCORPORATION, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

Merger of Bank Holding Company into Bank

On September 30, 2018, the Bank completed the merger of Zions Bancorporation, its former bank holding company, with, and into the Bank, formerly known as ZB, N.A. in order to reduce organizational complexity. The restructuring eliminated the bank holding company structure and associated regulatory framework, and resulted in ZB, N.A. being renamed Zions Bancorporation, National Association and becoming the top-level entity within our corporate structure. The Bank’s primary regulator is now the OCC. The Bank continues to be subject to examinations by the CFPB with respect to consumer financial regulations. Under the National Bank Act and OCC regulations, certain capital transaction may be subject to the approval of the OCC. 

Stress Testing

As a result of the Financial Stability Oversight Council’s action on September 12, 2018 and the merger of the holding company into the Bank on September 30, 2018, the Bank is no longer considered a systemically important financial institution under the Dodd-Frank Act. The Bank expects to have greater flexibility in the active management of shareholders’ equity. The Bank expects to continue to utilize stress testing as the primary mechanism to inform its decisions on the appropriate level of capital, based upon actual and hypothetically-stressed economic conditions. Therefore, the timing and amount of capital actions will be subject to various factors, including the Bank's financial performance and prevailing and anticipated economic conditions.

Capital Management Actions

During 2018, the Bank repurchased 12.9 million shares of common stock for $670 million at an average price of $51.77 per share. In February 2019, the Bank announced that the Board approved a plan to repurchase $275 million of common stock during the first quarter of 2019. The timing and amount of additional common share repurchases will be subject to various factors, including the Bank's financial performance, business needs, prevailing economic conditions, and OCC approval. Shares may be repurchased occasionally in the open market, through privately negotiated transactions, utilizing Rule 10b5-1 plans or otherwise. 

The Bank paid common dividends of $202 million, or $1.04 per share, during 2018 compared to $89 million, $0.44 per share, during 2017. In February 2019, the Board of Directors declared a quarterly dividend of 0.30 per common share payable on February 21, 2019 to shareholders of record on February 14, 2019. We paid dividends on preferred stock of $34 million during 2018 compared with $40 million during 2017. See Note 8 for additional detail about capital management transactions during 2018.

Total shareholders’ equity decreased slightly and was $7.6 billion at December 31, 2018 compared with $7.7 billion at December 31, 2017. This decrease was primarily a result of (1) $670 million from repurchases of Bank common stock, (2) $236 million from common and preferred dividends paid and (3) $111 million from a decrease in the fair value of our AFS securities due largely to changes in the interest rate environment. These decreases were partially offset by net income of $884 million.

During 2018 and 2017, the market price of our common stock was higher than the exercise price of common stock warrants on our common stock and had a dilutive effect upon earnings per share. Weighted average diluted shares decreased by 3.2 million compared with 2017, primarily due to share repurchases, partially offset by the dilutive impact of an increased common share price on warrants that have been outstanding since 2008 (Troubled Asset Relief Program or “TARP” warrants - NASDAQ: ZIONZ) and 2010 (NASDAQ: ZIONW) and employee equity grants. During 2018, 1.8 million shares of common stock were issued from the cashless exercise of 5.8 million ZIONZ common stock warrants which expired on November 14, 2018. As of December 31, 2018, the Bank had 29.3 million ZIONW warrants outstanding with an exercise price of $34.82 which expire on May 22, 2020.

The following schedule presents the diluted shares from the remaining common stock warrants at various Zions Bancorporation, N.A. common stock market prices as of February 8, 2019, excluding the effect of changes in exercise cost and warrant share multiplier from the future payment of common stock dividends.

68
ZIONS BANCORPORATION, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

IMPACT OF COMMON STOCK WARRANTS

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

See Note 13 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on our common stock warrants.

Basel III

In 2013, the FRB, FDIC, and OCC published final rules (the “Basel III Capital Rules”) establishing a new comprehensive capital framework for U.S. banking organizations. The rules implemented the Basel Committee’s December 2010 framework, commonly referred to as Basel III, for strengthening international capital standards as well as certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act. The Basel III capital rules became effective for the Bank on January 1, 2015 and were subject to phase-in periods for certain of their components. In November 2017, the FRB, FDIC and OCC published a final rule that extended the 2017 transition provisions for certain U.S. Basel III capital rules for non-advanced approaches banks, such as the Bank. Effective January 1, 2018, the final rule retains the 2017 Basel III transitional treatment of certain DTAs and mortgage servicing assets, among others. A detailed discussion of Basel III requirements, including implications for the Bank, is contained on page 9 in “Capital Standards – Basel Framework” under Part 1, Item 1 in our 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K.

We met all capital adequacy requirements under the Basel III Capital Rules based upon phase-in rules as of December 31, 2018, and believe that we would meet all capital adequacy requirements on a fully phased-in basis if such requirements were currently effective.

Capital Ratios 

Banking organizations are required by capital regulations to maintain adequate levels of capital as measured by several regulatory capital ratios. Zions will continue to utilize stress testing as its primary mechanism to inform its decisions on the appropriate level of capital, based upon actual and hypothetically-stressed economic conditions. The following schedule shows the Bank’s capital and performance ratios as of December 31, 2018, December 31, 2017 and December 31, 2016. 

69
ZIONS BANCORPORATION, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

CAPITAL RATIOS AND CAPITAL DISTRIBUTIONS

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

1 See “GAAP to Non-GAAP Reconciliations” on page 5 for more information regarding these ratios.

2 Based on the applicable phase-in periods.

At December 31, 2018, Basel III regulatory tier 1 risk-based capital and total risk-based capital was $6.8 billion and $7.4 billion, respectively, compared with $6.8 billion and $7.6 billion, respectively, at December 31, 2017.

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND SIGNIFICANT ESTIMATES

Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contains a summary of the Bank’s significant accounting policies. Discussed below are certain significant accounting policies that we consider critical to the Bank’s financial statements. These critical accounting policies were selected because the amounts affected by them are significant to the financial statements. Any changes to these amounts, including changes in estimates, may also be significant to the financial statements. We believe that an understanding of these policies, along with the related estimates we are required to make in recording the financial transactions of the Bank, is important to have a complete picture of the Bank’s financial condition. In addition, in arriving at these estimates, we are required to make complex and subjective judgments, many of which include a high degree of uncertainty. The following discussion of these critical accounting policies includes the significant estimates related to these policies. We have discussed each of these accounting policies and the related estimates with the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors.

We have included, where applicable in this document, sensitivity schedules and other examples to demonstrate the impact of the changes in estimates made for various financial transactions. The sensitivities in these schedules and examples are hypothetical and should be viewed with caution. Changes in estimates are based on variations in assumptions and are not subject to simple extrapolation, as the relationship of the change in the assumption to the change in the amount of the estimate may not be linear. In addition, the effect of a variation in one assumption is in reality likely to cause changes in other assumptions, which could potentially magnify or counteract the sensitivities.

Fair Value Estimates 

We measure or monitor many of our assets and liabilities on a fair value basis. Fair value is the price that could be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants. To increase consistency and comparability in fair value measurements, GAAP has established a three-level hierarchy to prioritize the valuation inputs among (1) observable inputs that reflect quoted prices in active markets, (2) inputs 

70
ZIONS BANCORPORATION, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

other than quoted prices with observable market data, and (3) unobservable data such as the Bank’s own data or single dealer nonbinding pricing quotes.

When observable market prices are not available, fair value is estimated using modeling techniques such as discounted cash flow analysis. These modeling techniques use assumptions that market participants would consider in pricing the asset or the liability, including assumptions about the risk inherent in a particular valuation technique, the effect of a restriction on the sale or use of an asset, the life of the asset and applicable growth rate, the risk of nonperformance, and other related assumptions.

The selection and weighting of the various fair value techniques may result in a fair value higher or lower than the carrying value of the item being valued. Considerable judgment may be involved in determining the amount that is most representative of fair value.

For assets and liabilities recorded at fair value, the Bank’s policy is to maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs when developing fair value measurements for those items where there is an active market. In certain cases, when market observable inputs for model-based valuation techniques may not be readily available, the Bank is required to make judgments about the assumptions market participants would use in estimating the fair value of the financial instrument. The models used to determine fair value adjustments are regularly evaluated by management for relevance under current facts and circumstances.

Changes in market conditions may reduce the availability of quoted prices or observable data. For example, reduced liquidity in the capital markets or changes in secondary market activities could result in observable market inputs becoming unavailable. When market data is not available, the Bank uses valuation techniques requiring more management judgment to estimate the appropriate fair value.

Fair value is used on a recurring basis for certain assets and liabilities in which fair value is the primary measure of accounting. Fair value is used on a nonrecurring basis to measure certain assets or liabilities (including HTM securities, loans held for sale, and OREO) for impairment or for disclosure purposes in accordance with current accounting guidance. 

Impairment analysis also relates to long-lived assets, goodwill, and core deposit and other intangible assets. An impairment loss is recognized if the carrying amount of the asset is not likely to be recoverable and exceeds its fair value. In determining the fair value, management uses models and applies the techniques and assumptions previously discussed.

Investment securities are valued using several methodologies, which depend on the nature of the security, availability of current market information, and other factors. Investment securities in an unrealized loss position are formally reviewed on a quarterly basis for the presence of other-than-temporary impairment (“OTTI”). OTTI is considered to have occurred if the instrument’s fair value is below its amortized cost and (1) we intend to sell the security, or (2) it is “more likely than not” we will be required to sell the security before recovery of its amortized cost basis, or (3) the present value of expected cash flows is not sufficient to recover the entire amortized cost basis. The “more likely than not” criterion is a lower threshold than the “probable” criterion.

Notes 1, 3, 5, 7, and 9 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and the “Investment Securities Portfolio” on page 48 contain further information regarding the use of fair value estimates.

Allowance for Credit Losses

The ACL includes the ALLL and the RULC. The ALLL represents management’s estimate of probable losses believed to be inherent in the loan portfolio. The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance is based on periodic evaluations of the portfolios. This process includes both quantitative and qualitative analyses, as well as a qualitative review of the results. The qualitative review requires a significant amount of judgment, and is described in more detail in Note 6 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

71
ZIONS BANCORPORATION, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

The RULC provides for potential losses associated with off-balance sheet lending commitments and standby letters of credit. The reserve is estimated using the same procedures and methodologies as for the ALLL, plus assumptions regarding the probability and amount of unfunded commitments being drawn.

Although we believe that our processes for determining an appropriate level for the allowance adequately address the various components that could potentially result in credit losses, the processes and their elements include features that may be susceptible to significant change. Any unfavorable differences between the actual outcome of credit-related events and our estimates could require an additional provision for credit losses. As an example, if the probability of default risk grade for all pass-graded commercial and CRE loans was immediately downgraded one grade on our internal risk-grading scale, the quantitatively determined amount of the ALLL at December 31, 2018 would increase by approximately $89 million. This sensitivity analysis is hypothetical and has been provided only to indicate the potential impact that changes in risk grades may have on the allowance estimate.

Although the qualitative process is subjective, it represents the Bank’s best estimate of qualitative factors impacting the determination of the ACL. We believe that given the procedures we follow in determining the ACL, the various components used in the current estimation processes are appropriate.

Note 6 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and “Credit Risk Management” on page 52 contains further information and more specific descriptions of the processes and methodologies used to estimate the ACL.

Accounting for Goodwill 

Goodwill is initially recorded at fair value in the financials of a reporting unit at the time of its acquisition and is subsequently evaluated at least annually for impairment in accordance with current accounting guidance. We perform this test at the beginning of the fourth quarter annually, or more often if events or circumstances indicate that the carrying value of any of our reporting units, inclusive of goodwill, is less than fair value. The goodwill impairment test for a given reporting unit compares its fair value with its carrying value. If the carrying amount, inclusive of goodwill, is more likely than not to exceed its fair value, additional quantitative analysis must be performed to determine the amount, if any, of goodwill impairment. Our reporting units with goodwill are Amegy, CB&T and Zions Bank.

To determine the fair value of a reporting unit, we historically have used a combination of up to three separate quantitative methods: comparable publicly-traded commercial banks in the western and southwestern states (“Market Value”); where applicable, comparable acquisitions of commercial banks in the western and southwestern states (“Transaction Value”); and the discounted present value of management’s estimates of future cash flows. Critical assumptions that are used as part of these calculations include:

•selection of comparable publicly-traded companies based on location, size, and business focus and composition;

•selection of market comparable acquisition transactions based on location, size, business focus and composition, and date of the transaction;

•the discount rate, which is based on the Bank’s estimate of its cost of equity capital;

•the projections of future earnings and cash flows of the reporting unit;

•the relative weight given to the valuations derived by the three methods described; and

•the control premium associated with reporting units. 

We apply a control premium in the Market Value approach to determine the reporting units’ equity values. Control premiums represent the ability of a controlling shareholder to change how the Bank is managed and can cause the fair value of a reporting unit as a whole to exceed its market capitalization. Based on a review of historical bank acquisition transactions within the Bank’s geographic footprint, and a comparison of the target banks’ market values 30 days prior to the announced transaction to the deal value, we have determined that a control premium ranging from 0% to 15% for the reporting units was appropriate.

Since estimates are an integral part of the impairment computations, changes in these estimates could have a significant impact on any calculated impairment amount. Estimates include economic conditions, which impact the 

72
ZIONS BANCORPORATION, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

assumptions related to interest and growth rates, loss rates, and imputed cost of equity capital. The fair value estimates for each reporting unit incorporate current economic and market conditions, including Federal Reserve monetary policy expectations and the impact of legislative and regulatory changes. Additional factors that may significantly affect the estimates include, among others, competitive forces, customer behaviors and attrition, loan losses, changes in growth trends, cost structures and technology, changes in equity market values and merger and acquisition valuations, and changes in industry conditions. 

Weakening in the economic environment, a decline in the performance of the reporting units, or other factors could cause the fair value of one or more of the reporting units to fall below carrying value, resulting in a goodwill impairment charge. Additionally, new legislative or regulatory changes not anticipated in management’s expectations may cause the fair value of one or more of the reporting units to fall below the carrying value, resulting in a goodwill impairment charge. Any impairment charge would not affect the Bank’s regulatory capital ratios, tangible common equity ratio, or liquidity position.

During the fourth quarter of 2017, we performed a full quantitative analysis of the reporting units’ fair value as described above. Our evaluation process determined that the fair values of Amegy, CB&T, and Zions Bank exceeded their carrying values by 35%, 54%, and 78%, respectively. Additionally, we performed a hypothetical sensitivity analysis on the discount rate assumption to evaluate the impact of an adverse change to this assumption. If the discount rate applied to future earnings were increased by 100 bps, the fair values of Amegy, CB&T, and Zions Bank would exceed their carrying values by 33%, 52%, and 72%, respectively.

During the fourth quarter of 2018, we performed our annual goodwill impairment evaluation, effective October 1, 2018. The Bank elected to perform a qualitative analysis to determine if the quantitative analysis performed in prior years as described above was required. The Bank’s qualitative analysis assessed factors related to each reporting unit to determine if it was more likely than not that the carrying value of any reporting unit was greater than the unit’s fair value. The qualitative factors considered in our assessment for each reporting unit included (1) economic, industry and market conditions, (2) regulatory or political developments that could negatively impact operating costs and overall financial performance of any of our specific reporting units, and (3) any changes in management, key personnel, strategy, customers, and any new or evolving litigation.

None of the factors considered in our qualitative assessment gave any indication that the reporting units’ fair values decreased during the 2018 fiscal year. Additionally, as evidenced in the Business Segment Analysis section of the MD&A, each reporting unit’s key performance metrics remained materially unchanged or improved in 2018 compared to 2017. Considering the improved performance of each reporting unit and the lack of any significant concerns being identified in our qualitative assessment, we concluded that it is more likely than not that the fair value of each reporting unit continues to be greater than its carry amount making further quantitative impairment testing unnecessary. As a result, none of our reporting units were subject to goodwill impairment during 2018 or were determined to be at-risk for a potential goodwill impairment in the near future based on information known at this time.

RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS AND DEVELOPMENTS

Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements discusses recently issued accounting pronouncements that we will be required to adopt. Also discussed is our expectation of the impact these new accounting pronouncements will have, to the extent they are material, on our financial condition, results of operations, or liquidity.

ITEM 7A.QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK